PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

REGISTRATION OF DEATHS
(TEMPORARY PROVISIONS)
ACT, No. 58 OF 1998

[Certified on 15th December, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 18, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50


Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 58 of 1998

[Certified on 15th December, 1998]
L. D. — O. 14/98.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGISTRATION OF DEATHS OF PERSONS
REPORTED MISSING ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

WHEREAS severa! persons have died in the course of the |

civil disturbances that took place due to terrorist and
subversive activities in Sri Lanka; and whereas there are
certain practical difficulties impeding the registration of such
deaths under the provisions of the Births and Deaths
Registration Act (Chapter 110):

AND WHEREAS it has now become necessary to make
Provision enabling the registration of such deaths:

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Registration of Deaths
(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 58 of 1998. The provisions
of this Act shall be in operation for a period of two years
from the date of its commencement.

2. Where any person is reported missing and presumed
to be dead as he has not been heard of for a period exceeding
One year by those who would naturally have heard of him had
he been alive, a next of kin of such person if he verily believes
such person to be dead, may, apply in the manner hereinafter
Provided, to register the death of such person under the Births
and Deaths Registration Act (Chapter 110) and to have issued
to him, a Certificate of Death in respect of such person.

3. Every application under this Act to register the death
of a person shall be made either to the Registrar-General or
to the District Registrar of Births and Deaths of the district
in which such person was last residing, and shall be in the
form set out in the Schedule to this Act.

2—N 149RRN—R.550 (98/09)

Short title and
duration of the
Act.

Who may apply
for death
certificates.

Procedure for
application.


Additional
material to be
supplied.

Display of
application.

Objections to
registration.

Registration of
death.

2 Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 58 of 1998

4. Every application under this Act shali be supported
by an affidavit of the applicant setting out the grounds for his
belief that the person whose death is sought to be registered,
is dead, ana siall be accompanied by, a report from the Grama
Niladhari of the Grama Niladhari Division in which the person
whose death is sought to be registered, was last resident,
confirming the fact that such person has not been seen alive
or heard of, for a period of over one year, and any other
evidence in support of such application.

5. Upon receipt of an application under this Act, the
Registrar-General or the District Registrar as the case may be
shall cause a copy of such application to be displayed for a
period of two weeks on the Notice Board kept at his office
and in the office of the Grama Niladhari in whose division
the person whose death is sought to be registered, was last
resident or had his permanent residence.

6. Any person may within one month of the date on which
a copy of an application under this Act is first displayed as
provided for in section 5, forward to the Registrar-General or
the District Registrar, as the case may be, his objections in
writing, to the registration of the death of the person to whom
such application relates, and such objections shall be supported
by an affidavit of the objector and of any other person, setting
out the grounds for their objections.

7. (1) On the expiry of the period of one month allowed
for the forwarding of objections to an application, the
Registrar-General or the District Registrar as the case may
be shall consider the application together with the evidence

- in support of the application and the objections, if any, and

the evidence in support of such objections, and after such
inquiry as he may deem necessary, if satisfied as to the truth
of the matters stated in the application, allow such application
and shall send to the Registrar-General a Certificate under
his hand setting out such of the particulars of the death as are
required to be registered, under the Births and Deaths
Registration Act (Chapter 110) as he has been able to ascertain
after such inquiry as aforesaid.

(2) On receipt of the certificate under subsection (1), the
Registrar-General shall, except in a case where he cancels a
certificate in the exercise of the powers conferred on hum by
section 8, make order directing the appropriate Registrar to


Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions) 3
Act, No. 58 of 1998

ine in the Register of Deaths maintained by such Registrar
a er the Birth and Deaths Registration Act (Chapter 110),
€ particulars specified in such certificate.

aii, On receipt by a Registrar of an order under subsection
nee ee him to enter the particulars relating to a death in
in kas of Deaths maintained by him, under the Births
ater caths Registration Act (Chapter 110), the Registrar shall

hwith enter those particulars in such register and sign the
register in the appropriate place.

ai a thet written order under subsection (2) shall be
ia 2 to the duplicate of the relevant registration entry and
the ¢ sent together with that duplicate, by the Registrar to
R appropriate District Registrar for transmission to the
€gistrar-General for custody in his office. |

nope applicant who is dissatisfied with the decision of
finders rict Registrar refusing to issue a certificate to him
aa ection 7, ora person who has objected under section 6
dissatisfied « of a certificate under this Act and who is
Stich ie with the decision of the District Registrar to issue
sank are icate, may within one month of the notification of
ae refusal or issue, as the case may be, appeal to the

egistrar-General against such refusal or issue, as the case
may be. The Registrar-General may after review of the
material before him, affirm the decision of the District
Registrar or direct the District Registrar to issue a certificate
under section 7 or cancel a certificate issued by that District
Registrar under section 7, as the case may be.

9. (1) Where a Commission appointed under the
Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) or a Special
Presidential Commission of Inquiry established under the
Special Presidential Commissions Law, No. 7 of 1978 finds
that a person has disappeared or is missing, the next of kin of
that person may apply, to the Registrar-General or to the
District Registrar of Births and Deaths of the district in which
that person was last residing, in the form set out in the Schedule
to this Act, to register the death of that person under the Births
and Deaths Registration Act (Chapter 110) and to have issued
to him, a Certificate of Death in respect of that person. Every
such application shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the

Appeal against
refusal to issue
certificate or issue
of certificate.

Special procedure
relating to
registration of
deaths of persons
in respect of
whom there are
findings by a
Commission of
Inquiry or a
Special
Presidential
Commission of
Inquiry.


4 Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 58 of 1998

applicant in terms of section 4 and a certified copy of the
finding of the Commission of Inquiry or Special Presidential
Commission of Inquiry, as the case may be, relating to that
person.

(2) Upon reccipt of an application under subsection (1),
the District Registrar shall, notwithstanding anything to
contrary in the preceding provisions of this Act, forthwith
send to the Registrar-General a certificate under his hand,
setting out the particulars of the death required to be registered
under the Births and Deaths Registration Act (Chapter 110)
as he has been able to ascertain from the application and the
accompanying affidavit and finding.

(3) Upon receipt of a certificate under subsection (2), the
Registrar-General shall make order directing the appropriate
Registrar to register in the Register of Deaths maintained by
such Registrar under the Births and Deaths Registration Act
(Chapter 110), the particulars specified in such certificate.

(4) Upon receipt of an order under subsection (3) directing
him to enter the particulars relating to a death in the Register
of Deaths maintained by him under the Births and Deaths
Registration Act (Chapter 110), the Registrar shall forthwith
enter such particulars in such register and sign the register in
the appropriate place.

(5) Every order made under subsection (3) shall be
attached to the duplicate of the relevant registration entry and
shall be sent together with the duplicate, by the Registrar, to
the appropriate District Registrar for transmission to the
Registrar-General for custody in his office.

(6) Where the application under subsection (1) is made to
the Registrar-General, the provisions of subsections (2) and
(5) shall mutatis mutandis apply as if the reference in those
section to the District Registrar is a reference to the Registrar-
General.
