PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS (SPECIALPROVISIONS) ACT, No. 10 OF 2017

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 21st of July, 2017]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 21, 2017

1Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No. 10 of 2017

2PL 0051852,961 (05/2017)

Short title.

[Certified on 21st of July, 2017]

L. D.O. 56/2015.

AN ACT TO MAKE SPECIAL PROVISIONS TO EXEMPT INTERNALLY DISPLACED

PERSONS FROM CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE REGISTRATION OFELECTORS ACT, NO. 44 OF 1980; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS certain persons have been internally displacedas a result of any actions of a terrorist militant or other groupduring the recent past:

AND WHEREAS the State has formulated a policy to enableinternally displaced persons and their children eligible tovote to exercise their right to franchise in the electoral districtin which their permanent places of residence were situatedprior to being internally displaced:

AND WHEREAS it has now become necessary to makespecial legal provision in order to give effect to such policy:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Registration of Electors(Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 2017.

2.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in theRegistration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980, and subject tothe Article 89 of the Constitution, any citizen of Sri Lanka

(a)who is or had been an internally displaced person;

(b)whose name appeared in the register of electors forany electoral district for any year, until the end ofthe year 2009; and

Internallydisplacedpersons eligibleto be registered.

Preamble.

Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No. 10 of 20172

(c)whose name has not been entered in any register inoperation subsequent to the year 2009,

shall on proof of the matters specified in paragraphs (a), (b)and (c) and on production of a certificate issued by the GramaNiladhari of the area in which he is presently residing to theeffect that he is or had been an internally displaced person,be entitled to the registering officer of the electoral districtwithin which he was permanently resident prior to May 18,2009, to be registered in the register of electors of suchelectoral district.

(2) The application referred to in subsection (1), shall bemade on or before the date specified by the ElectionCommission by notice published in the Gazette and in atleast one newspaper each in the Sinhala, Tamil and Englishlanguages.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theentitlement granted under that subsection shall be extendedto the children of a citizen referred to in subsection (1)

(a)who had not attained the age of eighteen years onthe date on which such citizen became an internallydisplaced person and have attained the age ofeighteen years or more on the date on which therevision commenced in respect of the register inoperation, at the time in which the application ismade;

(b)who are born after such citizen became an internallydisplaced person and have attained the age ofeighteen years or more on the date on which therevision commenced in respect of the register inoperation, at the time in which the application ismade; and

(c)whose name has not been entered in any register inoperation subsequent to the year 2009,

on production of the birth certificate of such child sought tobe registered and a certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari

3Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No. 10 of 2017

SupplementaryRegister.

of the area in which he is presently residing on proof of thematters specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) and (c) above.

3.(1) The registering officer shall prepare a list of namesof persons referred to in section 2 and shall give notice inthe Gazette and in at least one newspaper each in the Sinhala,Tamil and English languages that such list has beencompleted and is open for inspection at all reasonable hoursof the day at the office of the registering officer.

(2) (a) Any person who has applied to be registered in anyregister of electors for any electoral district and whose namehas not appeared in the list referred to in subsection (1) mayappeal in writing to the registering officer within fourteendays of the notice published in the Gazette.

(b) The provisions of subsections (7) to (16) of section 14of the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980 shallmutatis mutandis apply to objections and appeals againstdecisions of the registering officer.

(c) If upon such appeal and inquiry, the registering officerdiscides not to include the name of such appellant in theSupplementary Register referred to in section 4, the aggrievedappellant may appeal to the revising officer within one weekof the decision of the registering officer and the provisionsof subsections (1) to (5) of section 15 of the Registration ofElectors Act, No. 44 of 1980 shall mutatis mutandis apply toan appeal made under this paragraph.

4.The registering officer of each Electoral District shallprepare and certify a Supplementary Register containingthe names of the persons whose names appear in the listprepared under section 3 after inquiry and adjudication ifany, and finalize such Register in terms of that section:

Provided that the registering officer may certify theSupplementary Register during the pendency of an appeal

List of Claims.

Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No. 10 of 20174

to the revising officer and shall thereafter enter in, or expungefrom, such Register, the name of any person in accordancewith the decision of the revising officer on the determinationof such appeal.

5.(1) No person whose name appears in theSupplementary Register shall be entitled to have his nameentered in any other register of electors notwithstandingthat he may be qualified to have his name entered in two ormore registers.

(2) No person shall be entitled to have his name enteredmore than once in the same register, notwithstanding that hemay be qualified to have his name so entered.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, if a personwhose name appears in the Supplementary Register has hisname appearing in any other register of electors and uses hisvote in two or more electoral districts, he shall be guilty ofan offence and shall on conviction before a Magistrate beliable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years orto a fine not exceeding Rupees One Hundred Thousand orto both such imprisonment and fine.

(4) Any person referred to in section 2, who furnishesfalse information or forged documents for any purposereferred to in this Act, shall be guilty of an offence and shallon conviction before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceedingRupees fifty thousand or to both such imprisonment andfine.

6. This Act shall be in force for a period of four yearscommencing from the date of commencement of this Act.

7.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Offences.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Period ofoperation of theAct.

5Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No. 10 of 2017

8.In this Act

Election Commission means the ElectionCommission established under Article 103of the Constitution;

internally displaced person means a citizen ofSri Lanka who was permanently resident inSri Lanka and who was forced or obliged toleave his permanent residence at any timeprior to May 18, 2009, as a result of anyaction of terrorist militant or other group,and continues to permanently reside inSri Lanka outside his original place ofresidence;

registering officer has the same meaning as inthe Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of1980;

Register in operation has the same meaning asin the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of1980;

revising officer has the same meaning as in theRegistration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980.

Interpretation.

Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No. 10 of 20176

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.