CEO
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (HEARING AND
DETERMINATION OF PROCEEDING)
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)

ACT, No. 13 OF 2003

(Certified on 20th March, 2003)

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lahka of March 21, 2003
Price : Rs. 8.25 Postage : Rs. 4.50


Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
[Certified on 20th March, 2003]

L.D.—0. 53/2002

AN ACT ‘TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXPEDITIOUS HEARING AND
DETERMINATION OF APPLICATIONS AND REFERENCES MADE UNDER
rit INDUSTRIAL. DISPUTES ACT AND THE TERMINATION OF
Enar.ovaenvt-oF WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACY; TO AMEND
‘rut: INbustaiat Disputes ACT AND THE TERMINATION OF
Enp.oyMinr OF WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, AND FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO
WHEREAS it has become necessary to ensure an expeditious Preamble.
disposal of applications and references made under the
Industrial Disputes Act and the Termination of Employment
‘of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, in order that parties to
such applications and references may be’ able-to obtain
decisions in respect of the same within a short period of time :

AND WHEREAS to facilitate such expeditious disposal itis
considered desirable to stipulate time frames in respect of the
procedure adopted in the determination of applications made
to labour tribunals and the Commissioner and references made
to an arbitrator, and in respect of the hearing and deciding of
appeals lodged against orders made on such applications :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1. This Act may be cited as the Industrial Disputes (Hearing Short tile and
and Determination of Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, date of operation,
No. 13 of 2003, and shall come into operation on such date as
the Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.

DITTERMINATION OF PROCEEDINGS HEFORE LABOUR TRIBUNALS

2. (1) Upon receipt by alabour tribunal of an application Assistant
under section 319 of the Industrial Disputes Act, it shall be Seertaryto
the duty of the Assistant Secretary of such labour tribunal, if meplcalian Ahi
such application is in due form, to forthwith and in any event employer &e
Dal O16RS6—S.600 (2002/10)


2° Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003

within three working days of the date of receipt of such
application, to forward a Copy thereof to the employer in
respect of whom such application is made, and shall by written
notice require him to transmit within a period of twenty one
days of receipt of such notice, a statement in duplicate, setting
out his answer to the matter to which the application relates.
It shall be the duty of the employer to transmit the statement
required in duplicate to the Assistant Secretary within the
stipulated period.

(2). Within three working days of the date of receipt of
the statement referred to in subsection (1), it shall be the duty
of the Assistant Secretary to forward a copy of the statement
to the applicant and shall by written notice require the
applicant to transmit to him within a period of twentyone days
of receipt of such notice, a statement in duplicate setting out
the applicant’s reply théreto. It shail be the duty of the
applicant to transmit the statement required in duplicate to
the Assistant Secretary within the stipulated period.

(3) It shall be the duty of a labour tribunal not to permit
any extension of the periods referred to in subsection (1) and
(2), except for exceptional reasons to be recorded by the
tribunal. .

(4) On receipt of the statement transmitted by the
applicant under subsection (2), it shall be the duty of the labour
tribunal to forthwith and in any event not later than three
working days after such date of receipt, to fix the application
for hearing and by a notice, inform all parties to the application
of such date.

(5) Where the employer or the applicant as the case may
be, fails to transmit the statement required under subsection
(1) or (2), it shall be the duty of the labour tribunal to forthwith
and in any event not Jater than three working days after the
date of such default, to fix the application for hearing and
inform by noticé all parties to the application of such date.


Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of 3

Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003

3. Where without sufficient cause being shown, a party Tribunal to
to an application before a labour tribunal fails to attend or is proceed in the
not represented at any hearing of such tribunal, the tribunal absence of any
may proceed with the hearing and determination of the matter,"
notwithstanding the absence of such party or any
representative of such party. S

4, Notwithstanding anything in any written law to the Postponement of
contrary. where an application made to a labour tribunal is hearing not
fixed for hearing and notice has been given-to the parties to Permitted.
such application, the labour tribunal shall proceed to hear such
application from day to day until its conclusion, and shall
nol, except for exceptional reasons to be recorded by such
tribunal, permit any postponement of such hearing.

5. (1) Itshall be the duty ofa labour tribunal to whom an Powers and duties
application is made, to make all such inquiries into that of labour tibunals
application and hear all such evidence as the tribunal may i" "80rd 10
consider necessary, and thereafter make such order as may “PPUSMONS:
appear to the tribunal (o be just and equitable, and such order
shall be made not later than four months from the date of the
making of such application,

(2) The order made under subsection (1) shall be
delivered openly in the tribunal.

(3) _ Notice of the date on which an order under subsection
(J) is to be made shall be given by the Assistant Secretary of
the tribunal to all the parties to the application.

(4) Save as provided for in section 310 of the Industrial
Disputes Act, an order made by a labour tribunal shall not be
called in question in any court. we

6. (1) A petition of appeal made under section 31D of Filing, hearing
the Industrial Disputes Act against an order made by a labour a Lele jo
tribunal, shall be filed within a period of thirty days (including 3pptications in
the day on which the order appealed from was made, but ‘evsion made,
excluding Sundays and Public Holidays) of the date of the fhe industrial

a. making of the order from which the appeal is preferred. Disputes Act.


4 Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of

Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003

(2) An appeal preferred or an application in revision
made under section 310 of the Industrial Disputes Act against
any order of a labour tribunal, shall be heard and decided
within four months of the date on which such appeal or
application was filed.

Application for 7. (1) Where an application is made to the Court of
ha orton Appeal under subsection (4) of section 31 of the Industrial
Unpeal from any Disputes Act, for the issue of an order in the nature of a writ
frder made on” of certiorari, prohibition, procedendo or mandamus, against
such application the President of a labour tribunal in respect of an order made
eee Siem y by such President, the Court of Appeal shall hear and decide
and decided such application within four months of the date on which such
sete Oar application is made to the Court of Appeal.

(2) Anappeal preferred to the Supreme Court against an
order made by the Court of Appeal on any application referred
to in subsection (1), shall be made within one month of the
date on which such order is made and the Supreme Court
shall hear and determine,such appeal within four months of
the date on which such appeal is filed in the Supreme Court.

cision on 8. An appeal made to the Supreme Court under section
‘appeals made to 31p0 of the Industrial Disputes Act from an order of a High
bate tees Court established under Article 154° of the Constitution, shall
seetion 3tvo. be heard and decided within four months of the date on which
such appeal is filed in the Supreme Court,
Evidence 9. The provisions of the Evidence Ordinance shall not
Ordinance not'© apply to the conduct of proceedings before a labour tribunal
wonlr. under this Act.
Serving of notice, * 10, The service on any person of a notice, application or
‘pplication &e. other document issued under this Act, shall be effected by
underthis Act. “Hand or by'fegistered post or by affixing such notice,
“application or other document at the entrance of the last known
place of residence of such person.


Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of §

Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
DrsniRMINATION OF APPLICATIONS MADE UNDER THE TERMINATION

or, EMPLOYMENT oF WoRKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT

11. In the exercise of his powers under section 2 of the Order under
Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) a 2 of bt
Act, to grant or refuse approval to an employer to terminate Employment of
the scheduled employment of any workman, it shall be the workmen (Special
duty of the Commissioner to make his order within two Provisions) Act. 10
months of the date of receipt of the application from the «made within
employer. application,

12, Where an application is made to the Commissioner Order under

“her section 6 of the
by a workman for an order under section 6 of the Termination Termination of
‘of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, itshall Employment of

‘ te Workmen
be the duty of the Commissioner to make such order within (Special
two months of the date of receipt of the application from the Provisions) Act.
workman, within two
* months of
application.

13, Ishall be the duty of the Commissioner to make his Orderunder,
order under subsection (1) of section 64 of the Termination ¥vunaton of
‘of Employment of Workman (Special Provisions) Act, relating Employment of.
to the payment of compensation to a workman, within two pronmen sper,
months of the date of receipt of the application from the be made within

ki ‘two months of
aca ° application.

DETERMINATION OF REFERENCES MADE TO AN ARBITRATOR

14, Where an industrial dispute has been referred under An arbitratorto
paragraph (d) of subsection (1) of section 3 or subsection (1) ake ee =
of section 4 of the Industrial Disputes Act to an arbitrator for Ao see
settlement, it shall be the duty of such arbitrator to make his the Industrial
award under section 17 of that Act, within three months of — Disputes Act,
the date of the making of such reference: ~ ° * iwthla tape!

Mju pe oe months of
fyuineey sit to kee Reference.


6 Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
Provided however that it shall be lawful for the arbitrator
to make his award at any time within a further period of two
months, if he is of the opinion that in the interests of an
effective settlement of the dispute, such further period is
2 equited in which event he shall record the reasons therefor.”
APPLICATIONS MADE TO INTERPRET AWARDS OR ORDERS UNDER
Inoustatat Disputes Act
Reference under ‘1S, A reference under section 34 of the Industrial
section Mofthe Disputes Act relating to the interpretation of any award or
Industrial order made by an arbitrator, labour tribunal or an Industrial
Disputes Act 10 © Court as the case may be, may be made within one month of
made within one ;
tnonth ofthe ender the date of the making of such award or order, and it shall be
or award the duty ofthe arbitrator, labour tribunal or the Industrial Court
as the case may be, to which such reference is being made, to
hear and determine such reference within one month of the
date of receipt of such reference.
DererMinarion oF Penoin AcrioN
Pending 16. (1) Where on the date of the coming into operation
proceedings. of this Act, any application made to a labour tribunal under
section 318 of the Industrial Disputes Act, is pending before
such tribunal, it shall be the duty of the tribunal to make all
such inquiries into such application and hear all such evidence
as it may consider necessary, and make, not later than four
months from the date of the coming into operation of this
Act, such order as may appear to the tribunal to be just and
equitable.
(2) “Where on the date, of the coming into operation of
this Aet, any proceedings under sections 2, 6 or 6a of the
‘Termination of Employ nent of Workmen (Special Provisions)
Act, is pending before the Commissioner, it shall be the duty
of the Commissioner to make his order under those sections
as relates to such proceedings, not later than one month from
the date of the coming into operation of this Act.


Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of — 7
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
(3) Where on the date of coming into operation of this
Act, any inquiry is pending before an arbitrator on areference
made under paragraph (d) of subsection (1) of section 3 or
subsection (1) of section 4 of the Industrial Disputes Act, it
shall be the duty of such arbitrator to make his award on such
reference not later than two months from the date of coming
into operation of this Act.
17. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires— Interpretation.
“Commissioner” shall have the same meaning as in the
Industrial Disputes Act ;
“Industrial Disputes Act” means the Industrial Disputes
Act, (Chapter. 131); "
industrial dispute” shall have the same meaning as in
the Industrial Disputes Act ;
“Yabour tribunal” means a labour tribunal established
under section 31 of the Industrial Disputes Act ;
“scheduled employment” and “workmen” shall have
the same meaning as in the Termination of
Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions)
Act; and .
“Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special
Provisions) Act" means the Termination of
Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 45 of 1971
18. In theevent of any inconsistency between the Sinhala Sinhala textto
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. prevail ony of
