PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 15, 2021

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 13th of October, 2021]

REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 22 OF 2021

1Registration of Electors (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 2021

Short title andthe date ofoperation

[Certified on 13th of October, 2021]

L.D.O. 26/2018

AN ACT TO AMEND THE REGISTRATION OF ELECTORSACT, NO. 44 OF 1980

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Registration of Electors(Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 2021 and shall come intooperation on February 1, 2022.

2.Section 3 of the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44of 1980 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment)is hereby amended by the substitution for the words, Thefirst day of June, of the words The first day of February.

3.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(a)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words The first day of June, of the words Thefirst day of February;

(b)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words the first day of June, of the words thefirst day of February; and

(c)in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution forthe words the first day of June, of the words thefirst day of February.

4.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words the first day of June of the words, the first dayof February.

Amendment ofsection 3 of Act,No. 44 of 1980

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment

2Registration of Electors (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 2021

5.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words thirty-first day of January of the wordsthirtieth of September.

6.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 20, and shall have effect as section20A in the principal enactment:

20A. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsection 3, any person who attains the age ofeighteen years on any day

(a)within the period commencing on thefirst day of February in any year andending on the thirty first day of May ofthat year;

(b)within the period commencing on thefirst day of June in any year and endingon the thirtieth day of September ofthat year; and

(c)within the period commencing on thefirst day of October in any year andending on the thirty first day of Januaryof the subsequent year,

shall be qualified to have his name entered orretained in a register as an elector.

(2) Every person qualified to be registeredas an elector under subsection (1) of this sectionmay apply for registration as an elector to theregistering officer of the electoral district inwhich the qualified address of such person interms of subsection (2) of section 4 is situated.

Differentqualifyingdates andsupplementarylists

Insertion of newsection 20A inthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment

3Registration of Electors (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 2021

(3) Every qualified person to be registeredas an elector under subsection (1) shall makesuch application to the registering officer ofthe electoral district in which the qualifiedaddress of such person in terms of subsection(2) of section 4 is situated, along with thefollowing documents:

(a)a copy of the birth certificate of suchperson; or

(b)a copy of the National Identity Card ofsuch person.

(4) Every registering officer of an electoraldistrict shall prepare supplementary listsrespectively of

(a)all persons who have attained theage of eighteen years between the firstday of February of that year and thethirty first day of May of that year, whohave applied for registration;

(b)all persons who have attained the ageof eighteen years between the first dayof June in that year and the thirtiethday of September of that year who haveapplied for registration; and

(c)all persons who have attained theage of eighteen years between the firstday of October in a year and thethirty first day of January of thesubsequent year who have applied forregistration.

4Registration of Electors (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 2021

(5) Every registering officer of eachelectoral district shall give notice within aperiod of two weeks that the respectivesupplementary lists referred to in subsection(4) have been completed, and suchsupplementary lists of copies thereof areavailable for inspection at all reasonable hoursof the day at the office of the registering officeror at such other places in the electoral districtas may be specified in the notice. Every suchnotice shall be published in the Gazette and inat least one newspaper each in Sinhala, Tamiland English Languages.

(6) Every person who claims to have a rightto have his name included in a supplementarylist prepared under this section may apply tothe registering officer of the electoral districtto have his name included in that list. Everysuch application shall be made within a periodof ten days of the publication of the noticerelating to such supplementary list.

(7) A registered elector may object to theinclusion of the name of any person in asupplementary list prepared under this sectionand every such objection shall be made inwriting to the registering officer of the electoraldistrict within a period of ten days of thepublication of the notice relating to suchsupplementary list.

(8) Any provisions of this Act relating todetermination of claims and objections shallmutatis mutandis apply to any claims andobjections under this section.

5Registration of Electors (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 2021

(9) The registering officer of each electoraldistrict shall certify the supplementary listsprepared by him under this sectionimmediately after the claims and objectionshave been adjudicated. Upon suchcertification, the supplementary lists shall beknown as the certified supplementary registerand be attached as an annexure to the electoralregister for that electoral district.

(10) Upon the certification of anysupplementary register under subsection (9) ofsection 20A, the registering officer shall givenotice in the Gazette and in at least onenewspaper in each of the National Languagesthat the register has been certified.

(11)The certified supplementary registerfor any electoral district shall come intooperation on the date of the publication in theGazette of the notice referred to in subsection(10) and subject to such alterations if any, asmay subsequently be made therein inaccordance with subsection (4) of section 15or section 18, such certified supplementaryregister shall continue to be in operation untilsuperseded by the coming into operation ofthe next certified register..

7.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 24, and shall have effect as section24A of the principal enactment:

Insertion of newsection 24A

6Registration of Electors (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 2021

24A. The Election Commission may issuesuch directions as it may consider necessary,to provide for any difficulty or unforeseencircumstances or for the determination oradjustment of any question or matter in relationto the registration of electors under this Act..

8.Section 29 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the definition of the expression of register ofelectors by the substitution for the words for any electoraldistrict ; of the words including the certified supplementaryregister prepared under section 20A for any electoral district..

9.The Schedule to the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in items (2), (3) and (5) (ii) of form A of theSchedule by the substitution for the words andfigures June 1, 19... of the words and figures ofFebruary 1, 20....

(2)in subsections (2), (3) and (5) (ii) of form B of theSchedule by the substitution for the words andfigures June 1, 19... of the words and figures ofFebruary 1, 20....

10.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3, anyperson who attains the age of eighteen years on any datewithin the period from the first day of June 2021 to the dateof commencement of this Act shall be qualified to have suchpersons name entered or retained in the register of electorsas an elector and every such person shall apply for registrationto the registering officer of the electoral district in which thequalified address of such person in terms of subsection (2) ofsection 4 is situated along with the documents specified insubsection (3) of section 20A.

Power of theElectionCommissionto issuedirections

Amendment ofsection 29 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofthe Schedule tothe principalenactment

Supplementarylist for aspecified period

7Registration of Electors (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 2021

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

(2)Every registering officer shall make a supplementarylist for the purpose of subsection (1) and shall mutatismutandis apply the procedure specified in subsections (5)to (11) of section 20A for the preparation of the supplementarylist.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

8Registration of Electors (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 2021

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.