PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
ACT, No. 46 OF 1979

[Certified on 11th July, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 13, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

2 A SSS

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price: Re. 1.30 Postage: 50 cents


Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979
[Certified on 11th July, 1979]
L.D.—O. 25{78.

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN AIRPORTS
AUTHORITY OF Sri LANKA, TO SPECIFY THE POWERS AND
FUNCTIONS OF SUCH AUTHORITY AND TO MAKE PROVISION FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socia-
list Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Airports Authority Act,
No. 46 of 1979, and shall come into operation on such
date (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”) as

the Minister may appoint by Order published in the
Gazette.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE AIRPORTS AUTHORITY AND ITS
CONSTITUTION

2. (1) There shall be established a body called the Air-
ports Authority of Sri Lanka (in this Act referred to as
the “ Authority ”). ,

(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.

(3) The application of the seal of the Authority shall be
authenticated by the signature of the secretary of the
Authority or some other person, authorized by the Autho-
rity, either generally or specially, to act for that purpose.

(4) Any document purporting to be a document duly
executed under the seal of the Authority shall be received
in evidence in any court, tribunal or other institution and
shall, unless the contrary is proved, be deemed to be a
document so executed.

3. (1) The Authority shall consist of five members
appointed by the Minister.

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the members of the
Authority to be the Chairman of the Authority.

(3) The members of the Authority shall be appointed
from among persons who appear to the Minister.to have
had wide experience of, and to have shown capacity in, air

2—1 41906—13,200 (79/05)

Short title
and date of
operation.

‘establishment
of the
Airports
Authority.

Constitution
of the
Authority. ;


Term of
office of
members,

Resignation,
removal and
reappointment
of members.

2 Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979

transport, other forms of transport, industry, commercial or
financial matters, administration, the organizaion of workers
or the representation of the interests of air travellers.

(4) Before appointing a person to be a member of the
Authority the Minister shall satisfy himself that such
person has no financial or other interest as is likely to
affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his functions
as a member of the Authority. The Minister shall also
satisfy himself from time to time that no member of the
Authority has any such interest. Any person who is, or
whom the Minister proposes to appoint to be, a member of
the Authority shall, whenever requested by the Minister
so to do, furnish to him such information as the Minister
considers necessary for the performance by him of his duties
under this subsection.

(5) A Member of Parliament or of any local authority
shall not be eligible for appointment or to continue in office
as a member of the Authority.

4, Every member shall, unless he is earlier removed
from or otherwise vacates or is disqualified from continuing
to hold ioffice, hold office for a period of three years:

Provided that a member appointed in place of a member
shall, unless he is earlier removed from or otherwise
vacates or is disqualified from continuing to hold office, hold
office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.

5. (1) A Member may at any time resign his office by a
letter addressed to the Minister.

(2) Where a member is temporarily unable to discharge
the duties of his office on account of ill health, absence from
Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint
some other person to act in his place.

(3) Where the Minister is satisfied that a member of the
Authority—

(a) has been absent from meetings of the Authority for a
period longer than five consecutive months without
the permission of the Authority, or

(b) has become bankrupt or made an aerengewens with
his creditors, or


Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979 3
(c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness, or

(d) is otherwise unable or unfit to discharge the func-
tions of a member,

he may declare the office of such member to be vacant and
take steps to appoint another member in his place.

(4) The Minister may, if he thinks it expedient to do so,
remove a member from office without assigning any reason,

(5) A member of the Authority shall unless he is removed
from office or is disqualified be eligible for reappointment.

6. The members of the Authority may be remunerated
in such manner and at such rates as the Minister may, in
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance, determine. |

PART II

PROCEEDINGS OF THE AUTHORITY

7. The Authority may make rules not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act for the regulation of procedure
and the transaction of business at meetings.

8. The validity of any proceedings of the Authority shall
not be affected by any vacancy among the members or hy
any defect in the appointment of any member.

9. The quorum for any meeting of the Authority shall be
three members,

10. (1) The Chairman of the Authority shall preside at
every meeting of the Authority at which he is present. In
the absence of the Chairman at any meeting of the
Authority any member elected by the members present shall
preside at auch gs

) The person ss at any vaneating of the Authority
shall, in addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.

Remuneration
of members.

Rules for the

regulation of

procedure and
transaction of
business.

Validity of
proceedings.

Quorum.

Meetings of
the Authority.


Members to
disclose inte-
rest in
contract
proposed to be
made by the
Authority.

Authority
subject to
the direction
and control of
the Minister.

4 Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979

11. A member who is directly or indirectly interested
in a contract made or proposed to be made by the Authority
shall disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the
Authority and that member shall not take part in any
deliberation or decision of the Authority with respect to
such contract. Such member shall withdraw from the
meeting when such matter comes up for deliberation or
decision.

PART II =
THE Avruoriry’s Duties, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS

12. (1) In the exercise, discharge and performance of
its powers, functions and duties, the Authority shall be
subject to the direction and control of the Minister.

(2) The Minister may give to the Authority general or
special directions as to the exercise, discharge and
performance by the Authority of its powers, functions and
duties in relation to matters which appear to him to affect
the national interest.

(3) In time of war, whether actual or imminent, or of
national emergency, the Minister may by order require that
all or any property or rights of or under the control of the
Authority shall be placed at the disposal of the Minister,
and while such order is in force the Minister may give to
the Authority such directions as he thinks fit and it shall
be the duty of the Authority to comply with such directions.

(4) The Minister may give the Authority directions to
do a particular thing which it has power to do or refrain
from doing a particular thing if he considers it appropriate
to give such directions—

(a) in the interests of national security ; or

(b) in connection with any matter appearing to the
Minister to affect the relations of the Republic with
any other country or territory ; or

(c) in order to discharge or facilitate the discharge of
an obligation binding on the Republic by virtue of
its being’a memzer of an international organization
or a party to an international agreement; or _

(d) in order to attain or facilitate the attainment of any
other object the attainment of which is in the
- opinion of the Minister appropriate in view of the


me

Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979 5

fact that the Republic is a member of an inter-
national organization or a party to an international
agreement ; or ;

(e) in order to enable the Republic to become a member
of an international organization or a party to an
international agreement; or

(f) in order to prevent or deal with noise, vibration, pollu-
tion or other disturbance attributable to aircraft
used for the purpose of civil aviation.

(5) Where directions given in pursuance of this section
conflict with the requirements of any provision of this Act
those requirements shall be disregarded and it shall be the
duty of the Authority to comply with such directions and
act in terms thereof.

13. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
supervision, control and administration of the affairs and
business of the Authority shall vest in the Authority.

(2) The Authority may delegate to any member of the
Authority or to any employee of the Authority any of its
powers, functions or duties.

(3) Every person referred to in subsection (2) shall
exercise, discharge or perform the powers, functions or
duties delegated to him subject to the direction and control
of the Authority.

14. (1) It shall be the duty of the Authority to assume
full responsibility for the efficient management of its
airports and to provide all services and facilities as are in
its opinion required, necessary or desirable for their safe
and efficient operation. .

(2) Where the Minister so directs in writing it shall be
the duty of the Authority to provide air navigation services
at any airport.

(3) In giving effect to the provisions of subsections (1)
and (2), the Authority shall have regard to the development
of air transport and to efficiency, economy and safety of
operation and shall act strictly in accordance with directions
given by the Minister and under his control.

15. The Minister may in writing direct the Authority at
any time to establish, acquire or assume the management
of any aerodrome in any part of Sri Lanka as may be
specified in the direction, and it shall be the duty of the
Authority to comply with any such direction.

$—A 41706 (79/05)

Authority
vested with
supervision,
control and
Administra-
tion of its
affairs and
business.

The Autho-

‘rity’s duties.

Minister may
direct Autho-~
rity to
establish
aerodromes.


Authority not
‘to discontinue
use of
aerodromes.

Temporary
closure of
aerodromes.

Authority
to

provide for
consultation.

Functions of
Authority.

6 Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979

16. The Authority shall not without the written consent
of the Minister discontinue the use or divest itself of the
management of any aerodrome.

17. The Authority shall not close temporarily for air
traffic any aerodrome except with the written consent of
the Minister or of the Director of Civil Aviation.

18. In the management and administration of any aero-
drome the Authority shall provide for consultation with
those whose interests may be affected and shall, in doing
so, give effect to any directions given to it by the Minister.

19. (1) Without prejudice to section 14 the Authority
shall—

(a) develop, administer, manage and control the airports
and take adequate measures for the prevention of
hijacking of aircrafts and against other acts of
violence ;

(b) plan, develop, construct and maintain runways
taxiways, aprons, terminal and ancillary buildings
and hangars as are necessary ;

(c) establish warehouses at the airports for the storage
and processing of goods, including refrigeration
and special handling ;

(d) establish warehouses for purposes of customs bonding
and storage of goods and merchandise cf every
description that have been seized, confiscated or
otherwise held by the Government ;

(e) provide facilities for the search of passengers’ bag-
gage and effects ;

(f) provide for postal, currency exchange, insurance,
telephone and other communication facilities for
the use of passengers and other persons at the
airports ; —

(g) establish and maintain restaurants, cocktail bars and
snack bars at the airports ;

(h) maintain rest-rcoms, toilets and other facilities at the
airports ; :

(7) establish and maintain hotels near airports ;

.-(j) establish and maintain cinemas at or near airports
for the use of bona fide passengers and guests ;


Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979 7

(k) provide facilities for receiving, handling, storage or
transhipment of passengers’ baggage and effects ;

(l) provide facilities for receiving, handling and tran-
shipment of cargo of every description ;

(m) provide security arrangements for the safety of
passengers’ baggage and cargo ;

(n) provide facilities for quarantine of persons, animals
and plants ;

(0) make arrangements for passenger facilities at the
airports, including florists, fruiterers, chemists,
travellers’ requisites, hair dressers, porterage and
left luggage halls; |

(p) provide fuli banking facilities ;

(q) regulate and control the plying of vehicles and the
entry into and exit from airports of passengers and
visitors, having due regard to the protocol f functions
of the Government ;

(r) provide facilities for the reception and handling of
special visitors ;

(s) provide necessary transport facilities for passengers
travelling to or from the airports ;

| (t) provide and maintain special areas for passengers,
visitors to the airports, baggage and cargo ;

(u) establish and manage duty-free areas for incoming
and outgoing passengers and let rooms and areas
for the setting up of sales outlets and for the storage
of merchandise ;

(v) establish and manage heliports ;

(w) provide adequate facilities for the exercise of the
regulatory powers of the Government, including
customs, immigration, health and security checks
or may by itself exercise such regulatory powers
of customs, immigration and health, where the
Minister, with the concurrence of the Ministers in
charge of the subjects of customs, immigration and
health, respectively, so directs ;

(x) provide accommodation for all persons engaged in
performing regulatory functions of the Govern-
ment ;


Duty in the
event of an
accident,

Powers
of the
Authority.

8 Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979

(y) provide adequate and efficient fire-fighting and safety
equipment and personnel and carry out regular
drills and exercises and other checks of all firearms
and security equipment ;

(z) collect prescribed fees, rents and taxes.

(2) The Authority shall exercise and discharge the
powers and functions set out in paragraphs (b), (v), (w)
and (y) of subsection (1) strictly in accordance with direc-
tions given by the Minister and under his control.

20. The Authority shall in the event of an accident to
aircraft or interference or damage to navigational aids
immediately bring such matter to the notice of the Director
of Civil Aviation and act only on his instructions. No
attempt shall be made by the Authority to move the
damaged aircraft or to effect repairs to it or to navigational
aids except on written instructions from the Director of
Civil Aviation.

21. (1) For the purpose of discharging its functions
under this Act the Authority may—

(a) acquire and hold any movable or immovable property
and dispose of any movable or immovable property
acquired or held by it so, however, that no such
immovable property shall be so disposed of without
the prior approval of the Minister ;.

(b) approve or assent to or prohibit the construction Of
any building within the area of its authority, having
due regard to safety to aircraft and navigational
facilities. The Authority may also having regard
to the foregoing considerations order demolition or
modification of any building within the area of its
authority and, where such order is not complied
with for a period of twenty-one days after notice
in writing of such order has been given to the owner
or occupier of the building, the Authority may
demolish or modify such building ;

(c) approve or assent to or prohibit the use of any light
or illumination on any building or premises, which
in the opinion of such Authority constitutes a
hazard to navigational facilities or to aircraft using
any airport under its authority. The Authority may
order the removal or modification of any existing
light or illumination and remove or cause to
removed any light or illumination that is not so
removed or modified ; provided that notice in writ-
fmg of such order has been given to the occupier


Airports Authority Act, No. 46'of 1979 9

or owner of any building or premises by the Autho-
rity and the order has not been complied with for
a period of seven days after such notice;

. (d) take all necessary steps to prevent unlawful inte-
ference with navigational aids and facilities and
communication systems ;

(e) provide any services that may be required of the
Authority to salvage any wreck at the cost of the
person requesting such service and, whether
requested or not, to remove any aircraft, vehicle,
goods or persons from its airport after any accident,
provided that the Authority shall be entitled to
charge for such service according to prescribed
rates. The powers’ herein described shall not be
exercised except in consultation with the Director
of Civil Aviation ;

(f) sell by public auction or private arrangements in
compliance with any rules and regulations in that
behalf any wreck or aircraft or vehicle or goods of
any description or animal or plant or anything
capable of being sold to reimburse itself for any
damage caused to any property of the Authority
or to recover any sum due from the owner thereof
in terms of the preceding paragraph ;

(g) determine the terms and conditions of employment
of its officers and servants ;

(h) appoint personnel to maintain order and security in
airports ;

(i) carry on all such financial, commercial, trading and
other operations of business in connection with the
functions of the Authority as the Authority may
think fit;

. (j) train persons employed by the Authority ;

° (k) construct all buildings and obtain equipment
necessary for the Dessonatiedtr of its functions and
duties ;

(l) make provision for the repair and maintenance of all
its: buildings and equipment ;

_ (m) maintain its airports ‘to GOntDEH to internationai

standards ;

(n) establish a provident fund and srovide welfare and
recreational facilities for persons emplayed by the
Authority ;


Authority
may
charge
fees or
rent,

10 Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979

(0) provide welfare and recreational facilities for staff of

| Government Departments, corporations or institu-
tions, engaged in discharging their duties within the
airport ;

(p) delegate to any officer of the Authority any such
function of the Authority as the Authority may
consider necessary so to delegate for the efficient
transaction of business ;

(q) enter into and perform all such contracts as may be
necessary for the performance of the duties and the
exercise of the powers of the Authority ;

(r) make rules relating to—
(i) the appointment, promotion, transfer, remune-
ration, disciplinary control, conduct and the
grant of leave to its officers and servants ;

(ii) the administration of the affairs of the
Authority ;

(s) do anything necessary for, or conducive or incidental
to, carrying out the objectives of the Authority.

(2) The Authority shall exercise the powers or functions
set out in subsection (1) only in consultation with the
Minister. ‘

22. The Authority may—

(1) with the prior approval of the Minister, charge fees
or rent—

(a) for the landing, using or parking of aircraft or
for any other service or facility offered in
connection with aircraft operation by any air-
port or heliport in its charge;

(b) for the use and enjoyment by persons of facili-
ties and other services provided by the
Authority at any airport or heliport ;

(2) having regard to the instructions that the Minister
may give to the Authority from time to time, charge
fees or rent from persons who are afforded any
facility for carrying on any business at any airport
or heliport.


Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979 1t

23. The Authority shall have a lien against any aircraft
vehicle or property in respect of which any service has been
rendered,

24, (1) Tne Authority may, in respect of any aerodrome
owned or managed by it, make rules for regulating the use
and operation of the aerodrome and the conduct of all
persons within the aerodrome, and for 3uch other matters
relating to the performance of its functions and in particular
rules— .

(a) for securing the safety of aircraft, vehicles and
persons using the aerodrome and preventing danger
to the public arising from the use and operation of
the aerodrome ;

(b) for maintaining security in the aerodrome ;

(c) for preventing theft by persons employed at any
aerodrome owned or managed by the Authority ;

(d) for preventing theft from cargo areas designated by
the Authority to be used wholly or mainly for the
storage or handling of cargo in any aerodrome
owned or managed by the Authority.

(e) for preventing obstruction within the aerodrome ;

(f) for regulating vehicular traffic anywhere within the
aerodrome and in particular for imposing speed
limits on vehicles therein and for restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles or their use for
any purpose or in any manner as specified in the
rules ;

(g) for prohibiting the parking of vehicles and carriages
except at places appointed by the Authority ;

(h) for prohibiting or restricting access to any part of
the aerodrome ;

(i) for preserving order within the aerodrome and pre-
venting damage to property therein ;

(j) for regulating or restricting advertising within the
aerodrome ;

(k) for requiring any person, if so requested by an

authorized person, to leave the aerodrome or any

: particular part of it ;

(l) for restricting the area which is to be taken as cons
tituting the aerodrome for the purpose of the rules;

Authority
to have
lien.

Rules.


Grant

to the
Authority
from

the
Consolidated
Fund. |

The Fund
of the
Authority.

Borrowing
powers of
the
Authority.

32 Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979

_'(m) for the purpose of preventing danger to health from
_ aircraft arriving at the airport or departing there-
from ;

(n) for dealing with lost property.

(2) No rule made by the Authority shall have effect until
it is confirmed by the Minister and published in the Gazette.

PART IV
FINANCE

25. As soon as practicable after the coming into operation
of this Act and from time to time thereafter there may be
granted to the Authority by resolution of Parliament from
the Consolidated Fund such sums of money and on such
terms as may be determined by the Minister in charge of
the subject of Finance in consultation with the Minister.

26. (1) The Authority shall have and maintain its own
fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Authority—

(a) the annual embarkation tax received by the Autho-
rity as may be approved by the Minister ;

(b) all sums of money received by the Authority in the
exercise, discharge and performance of its powers,
functions and duties ; and

(c) all donations, gifts or grants from any source what-
soever.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
required ‘to defray any expenditure incurred by the Autho-
rity in the exercise, discharge and performance of its
powers, functions and duties and all such sums of money
as are required to be paid out of such Fund by or under this
Act.

27. The Authority may, with the consent of the Minister
in writing or in accordance with the terms of any general
authority given by him, borrow by way of overdraft or
otherwise, or negotiate or obtain on credit terms such sums
as the Authority may require for meeting the obligations of
the Authority, or for exercising, discharging and perform-
ing its powers, functions and duties under this Act:

Provided, however, that the aggregate of the amounts
outstanding in respect of any loans raised by the Authority


Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979 13

under this section shall not at any time exceed such amount
as may be determined by the Minister.

28. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38
of 1971, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the financial
control and accounts of the Authority.

29. The financial year of the Authority shall be the
period of twelve months commencing on the first day of
January of each year.

PART V
STAFF

30. There may be appointed to the staff of the Authority
such officers and servants as the Authority may deem
necessary. :

31. (1) The provisions of this section shall apply to every
public officer, other than any public officer in a transferable
service of the Government, who was employed in the
Department of Civil Aviation on the day immediately
before the appointed date and the functions of whose office
have been vested in or taken over by the Authority.

(2) Every public officer to whom subsection (1) applies
and who holds a post declared to be pensionable under the
Minutes on Pensions shall, not less than two weeks before
such date as maybe fixed by the Minister by Order
published in the Gazette (hereafter in this section and in
section 32 referred to as the “relevant date”), give notice
in writing to the Director of Civil Aviation, that such public
officer intends on that date—

(a) to leave the public service and to become an employee ~

under the Authority in terms of section 32 (1) ; or

(b) to retire from the public service and to become an
employee of the Authority in terms of section 32
(2) ; or

_ (c) to retire from the public service and not obtain

employment under the Authority.

(3) A notice given to the Director of Civil Aviation under

subsection (2) before the relevant date by a public BuIGED

referred to in that subsection shall be final.

Application
of the
provisions
of Finance
Act, No. 38
of 1971.

Financial
year

of the
Authority.

Staff
of the
Authority,

Notice
required
to be
given by
certain
public
officers
of the
Department
of Civil
Aviation
before the
appointed
date,


14 Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979

(4) Every notice given under paragraph (a) or (b) of
subsection (2) shall be referred by the Director of Civil
Aviation to the Authority. The acceptance of any such notice
shall be entirely within the discretion of the Authority
whose decision thereon shall be final.

Effect of ; 32. (1) Any public officer referred to in subsection (1)
notice under . 3 . 5 :

any of the j of section 31 who gives notice under paragraph (a) of sub-
paragraphs / section (2) of that section before the relevant date and

bt yg? whose notice is accepted by the Authority shall be offered

31 (2). employment under the aathority with effect from that
date, and— si

(a) shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as
any other member of the staff of the Authority
during the period of his employment under the
Authority ;

(b) shall, subject to paragraph (a), be entitled to terms
and conditions of service not less favourable as
respects remuneration, leave, holiday warrants, and
other conditions of service as he was entitled to
immediately before the relevant date during the
period of his employment under the Department
of Civil Aviation ;

(c) shall, so long as he is in the employ of the Authority,
be deemed for the purpose of the Minutes on
Pensions to continue to hold a post in the public
service which has been declared to be pensionable
under the said Minutes and shall be eligible for
the grant of a pension or gratuity as though his
service under the Authority were service under
the Government and the Minister in charge of
the subject of Public Administration may grant
such pension or gratuity in accordance with the
terms of the said Minutes ;

(d) in respect of him, the Authority shall pay out of
the funds of the Authority to the Deputy Secretary
to the Treasury to be credited to the Consolidated
Fund for every complete month of service during
which he is in the employ of the Authority such
sum of the salary received by him in the post he


“Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979 15

holds in the service of the Authority as the Minister

in charge of the subject of Public Administration
may determine ;

(e) shall, notwithstanding anything in the Widows’ and
Orphans’ Pension Fund Ordinance, be deemed to
be a public officer within the meaning of that
Ordinance and for the purpose of the application
of the provisions thereof so long as he remains in
the employ of the Authority ; and

(f) may, at any time during the period of his employ-

| ment under the Authority, opt to be appointed to
the staff of the Authority in terms of subsection
(2) hereof and when such option is exercised—

(i) he shall be eligible for such an award under
the Minutes on Pensions as might have been
made to him if he had been retired from the
public service on the ground of ill health on
the date of his appointment to the staff of
the Authority in accordance with this
section ; and the amount of any such award
made under those Minutes shall not be paid
to him unless his employment on the staff
of the Authority is terminated by retirement
on account of age or ill health or by the
abolition of the office held by him on such
staff or on any other ground approved by
the Minister in charge of the subject of
Public Administration ; and

(ii) in the event of his death after being appointed
to the staff of the Authority in accordance
with this section, such an award as might
have been made in respect of him under those
Minutes if he had died immediately before
his appointment to the staff of the Authority
may be made in respect of him. -

(2) Any public officer referred to in subsection (2) of
section 31 who gives notice under paragraph (b) of that
subsection before the relevant date—

(a) shall be deemed to have retired from the public
service on the relevant date ;

(b) shall be offered employment by the Authority on
such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon
by such officer and the Authority :


16 Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979 ae

Provided, however, that such terms and
conditione shall be not less favourable than the
terms and conditions on which such officer was
employed immediately before the relevant date ;

(c) shall be eligible for such pension or gratuity under
the Minutes on Pensions as would have been
awarded to him had he retired from the public
service on the ground of abolition of office on that
date ;

(d) if he is eligible for a pension and does not exercise
the option under section 2A (1) (i) of the Minutes
on Pensions, he shall not be paid the pension
during the period of his employment under the
Authority ;

(e) if he is eligible for a pension and elects to draw a
gratuity in partial commutation of jone-fourth part
of his pension in accordance with the provisions of
section 2A (1) (i) of the Minutes on Pensions—

(i) such gratuity shall not be paid to him but
shall be credited to his account in a provi-
dent fund of the Authority established under
this Act;

(ii) the remaining three-fourths part of the
pension payable to him under the said
Minutes shall not be paid to him during the
period of his employment by the Authority ;
and

(iii) for the purposes of the computation of the
period of “ten years from the date of his
retirement” referred to in section 2A (1) (ii)
of the said Minutes, the date of his retirement
shall be deemed to be the day following the
last date of his employment under the
Authority ; and —

(f) if he is eligible for a gratuity and not a pension under
the Minutes on Pensions such gratuity shall not
be paid to him but shall be credited to his account
in a provident fund of the Authority established
under this Act.

(3) Any public officer referred to in subsection (2) of
section 31 who gives notice under paragraph (c) of that
subsection before the relevant date shall be deemed to


Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979 17

have retired from the public service on that date and shall
be eligible for such pension or gratuity under the Minutes
on Pensions as would have been awarded to him had he
retired from the public service on the ground of abolition
of office on that date:

Provided, however, that if he is under a bond or agree-
ment to serve the Government for a specified period of
service he shall be liable to be called upon to pay such sum
of money as may be determined by the Government in
respect of the unfulfilled portion of such service.

(4) Any public officer whose notice under paragraph (a)
or (b) of subsection (2) of section 31 is not accepted by
the Authority shall be deemed to have retired from the
public service on the relevant date and shall be eligible
for such pension or gratuity under the Minutes on Pensions
as would have been awarded to him had he retired from
the public service on the ground of abolition of office on
that date.

33. (1) At the request of the Authority any public
officer, other than an officer to whom section 31 applies,
may with the consent of the person who for the time being
has the power to appoint such officer be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Authority for such period as
may be determined by such Authority with like consent,
or be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where a public officer is appointed temporarily to
the staff of the Authority the provisions of subsections (3)
and (5) of section 26 of the State Industrial Corporations
Act, No. 49 of 1957, other than paragraph (a) of subseciion
(3) of section 26, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such
officer.

(3) Where an officer is permanently appointed to the
staff of the Authority the provisions of subsections (4) and
(5) of section 26 of that Act shall apply to, and in relation
to, such officer.

Appointment
of public
officers,

those to
whom
section 31
applies,
to the
staff

of the
Authority.


Protection

Authority
for action
taken
under

this Act.

Members
and

employees
of the
Authority
deemed

to be
public
servants.

Authority
deemed

to bea
scheduled
institution
within the

obligations

o the
Authority
and
modification
of

written
aw.

. Effect of

Minister’s
Order,

18 Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979

34. No civil or criminal proceeding shall be instituted
against any member of the Authority or against any officer
or servant of the Authority appointed for the purposes of
this Act for any act which is in good faith done or purported

~ to be done by him under this Act.

35. All members and employees of the Authority shall
be deemed to be public servants within the meaning and
for the purposes of the Penal Code.

36. The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

PART VI

MISCELLANEOUS

37. From and after the appointed date—

(a) all movable and immovable property of the State
managed and controlled by the Director of Civil
Aviation on the day immediately preceding the
appointed date as may be declared by the Minister
by Order published in the Gazette to vest in the
Authority with effect from a date to be stipulated
in such Order shall accordingly so vest ;

(b) all contracts, rights, obligations and liabilities of the
State or of the Director of Civil Aviation as may
be declared by the Minister by Order published
in the Gazette shall be deemed to be the contracts,
rights, obligations and liabilities of the Authority.

(c) all written law shall be deemed to be modified to
such extent as may be necessary to enable the
Authority to exercise, discharge and perform the
powers, functions and duties conferred on oF
assigned to or imposed on such Authority by or
under this Act.

38. Where the Minister has made an Order in terms of
section 37 no other authority shall unless specifically
authorized to do so in terms of this Act exercise or purport
to exercise any control or power over the airport in
question,


Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979 19

39. (1) Where any land, other than State land, is
required for any of the purposes of the Authority and the
Minister approves of the proposed acquisition, the land
proposed to be acquired shall, for the purpose of the applica-
tion of the Land Acquisition Act, be deemed to be required
for a public purpose and may be acquired under that Act
and transferred to the Authority.

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of land for the
Authority under the Land Acquisition Act shall be paid
by the Authority.

40. The Director of Civil Aviation and officers and
Servants authorized by him shall for the performance of
their duties at all times be afforded free and unrestricted

access to any airport managed or controlled by the
Authority.

41, (1) The Minister may make regulations for the pur-
pose of carrying out the provisions and giving effect to the
principles of this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may make regula-
tions for or in respect of all matters for which regulations
are authorized or required to be made under this Act.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or upon such later date as may
be specified in the regulation.

42. Every rule made by the Authority under section 24
and every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon as
convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Every rule or regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded
as from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice
to anything previously done thereunder. Every rule or
regulation so approved shall be as valid and effectual as
though it were herein enacted.

43. Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this Act or any rule or regulation
made thereunder shall be guilty of an offence and shall
on conviction by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceed-
ing five hundred rupees or to a term of imprisonment not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprison-
ment,

Acquisition
of land

for the
Authority.

Director

access to
airport.

Regulations.

Rules

an
regulations
to be
approved

y
Parliament.

Offences
and
penalties.


20 Airports Authority Act, No. 46 of 1979

anterpreta= 44, In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“aerodrome” means any area of land or water set apart
and used or intended to be used for affording
facilities for the arrival, departure and movement
of aircraft of whatsoever description, including
balloons, gliders and helicopters ;

“aircraft” means all types of aircraft including aero-
planes, balloons, gliders and helicopters ;

“air navigation services” mean and include navigational
aids and navigational facilities ;

“airport” means an aerodrome at which facilities are
provided for the shelter, servicing or repair of air-
craft, for receiving or discharging passengers or
cargo and includes a heliport ;

“air traffic control” means a service provided for the
purpose of—

(a) preventing collisions—

(i) between aircraft, and

(ii) on the manoeuvring area between air-
craft and obstructions ; and

(b) expediting and maintaining an orderly flow of
air traffic ;

“building” includes any structure or erection;

“heliport” means an area either at ground level or —
elevated on a structure used or intended to be
used for the landing and take-off of helicopters ;

“Minister ” means the Minister in charge of the subject of
Aviation ;

“navigational aids” mean visual and non-visual naviga-_
tion aids along an air route, visual and non-visual
aids to approach and landing at aerodroimes, com-
munication services, meteorological services and the
air traffic control service ;

“navigational facilities” mean facilities provided to
permit safe navigation of aircraft and includes
visual and non-visual navigation aids ;

“prescribed ” means prescribed by regulation made under
this Act; and

“Republic” means the Democratic Socialist. Republic of
Sri Lanka.
