PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

DEBITS TAX (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No.5 OF 2003

(Certified on 27th February, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part Il of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 28. 2003

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price : Rs. 10.75 Postage : Rs.4.50


Debits Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2003

[Certified on 27th February. 2003]
L. D.—O. 90/2002.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE Dupris Tax Acr, No. 16 oF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1. This Act may be cited as the Debits Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 5 of 2003.

2. Section 2 of the Debits Tax Act, No. 16 of 2002
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
repealed and the following scction substituted therefor :—

“Imposition 2. Subject to the provisions of section 13,
ofdebits tax. there shall be charged and levied —

(a) onthe total amount of the debits, made
during each calendar month against
each current account maintained at a
commercial bank :

(b) onthe total amount of the debits, made
during each calendar month against
each savings account maintained at a
commercial bank or a specialized bank;
and

(c) on the amount realized on the
encashment of a certificate of deposit
or travelers cheque,

a tax to be called the debits tax at the rate of

onc tenth of one percentum of the total debit
or the amount encashed, as the case may be.”.

3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) of that section
of the following new paragraph :—

“(aa) in the case. of a debit from a savings account
maintained at a commercial bank or a specialised
bank, be paid by the person or persons in whose name
or names the account is maintained:”.

Short title.

Replacement of
section 2 of the
Debits Tax Act.
No. 16 of 2002.

Amendment of
section 3 of the
principal
enactment.


Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 6 of the
principal
enactinent,

2

Debits Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2003

4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) of that section
of the following new paragraph :—

“(aa)

in the case of a debit from a savings account
maintained at a commercial bank or a specialised
bank, commence at the end of the month in which
the debit was made”.

5. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the substitution for the words “current account
transactions” of the words “current account and savings
account transactions”.

6. Scction 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1)

by the substitution for all the words from “Every
commercial bank” to “last working day of cach
month” of the following :—

“(1) Every commercial bank or specialised
bank shall, on the last working day of cach month.
withdraw from every current or savings account
maintained at that bank, a sum equal to the amount
payable as debits tax from that account in respect
of that month, and shall remit such sum to the
Commissioner-General on or before the last
working day of cach succeeding month.”:

in the first proviso to subsection (1) by the
substitution for the words “if the beginning of any
month falls” of the words “if the last day of any
mont falls”;

by the repeal of the second proviso to section (1)
and the substitution therefor of the following
proviso :—

Provided further that, debits tax should not be
withdrawn from a current account or a savings
account if the tax liability of such current account
or savings account during a particular month is less
than rupees twenty.” :


(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

Debits Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2003 3

in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “name or names the current account
is being maintained at the commercial bank” of the
words “name or names the current account or
savings account is being maintained at the
commercial bank or specialised bank”;

in subsection (4) of that section —

(a)

(b)

by the substitution for the words “Where
owing to there being no funds in a current
account or there being an insufficiency of
funds in a current account, the commercial
bank” of the words “Where owing to there
being no funds ina current account or savings
account or there being an insufficiency of
funds in a current account or savings account,
the commercial bank or specialised bank”:
and

by the substitution for the words “in the
preceding month” wherever those words
appear in that subsection of the words “in
respect of that month”;

in the proviso to subsection (4), by the substitution
for the words “commercial bank may differ” of the
words “commercial bank or specialised bank may
defer”; and

in subsection (5) of that section—

(a)

by the substitution for the words “be dcemed
to authorize a commercial bank to refuse to
pay out of the funds in any current account”
of the words “be deemed to authorize a
commercial bank or specialised bank to refuse
to pay out of the funds in any current account
or savings account”: and


Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.

4 Debits Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2003

(b) by the substitution for all the words from “on

the debits made from that account, has to be
paid:” to the end of that subsection of the
words “on the debits made from that account,
has to be paid.”.

7. Section 7 of the principal cnactment is hereby amended
by the substitution for the words “Where the holder of'a current
account” of the words “Where the holder of a current account
or savings account”.

8. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the substitution in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of that
section, for the words “from a current account” of the words
“from a current account or savings account”,

9, Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) —

(a)

(b)

by the substitution for all the words from “A
commercial bank shall.” to “current account
setting out the following :—” of the words "A
commercial bank or specialised bank shall,
when remitting the sums referred to in
subscction (1) of section 6, furnish a statement
to the Commissioner-General in respect of any
current account or savings account maintained
on behalf of a customer, other than a special
current account, setting oul the following :~

by the substitution for paragraph (a) of that
subsection of the following paragraph :—

“(a) the total amount of debits made from all
current accounts and savings accounts
maintained by that bank in respect of that
month;”;


Debits Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2003 5

(c) by the omission of paragraph () of that
subsection ;

(d) in the paragraph (c) of that subsection by the
Substitution for the words “from all current
accounts” of the words “rom all current
accounts and savings accounts”:

(e) in paragraph (¢) of that subsection by the
substitution for the words “in cach current
account” and “relevant current account” of the
words “in each current account and savings
account” and “relevant current account and
Savings account”, respectively ;

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section of the following new subsections :-—

“(1A) A commercial bank shall, when remitting
the sums referred to in subsection (1) of section 6,
furnish a statement to the Commissioner-General
in respect of any special current account setting oul
the total amount of debits from all special current
accounts maintained by that bank in respect of that
month.

(1B) A commercia} bank or specialised bank
shall, at the end of cach month, furnish a statement
to the Commissioner-General setting out the
following details in respect of its own
transactions :—

(a) the total value of the debits in respect of
debits tax liable transactions in a particular
month;

(b) the sums withdrawn as debits tax for a
particular month:

(c) the total value of debits tax exempt
transactions for a particular month.”.


6 Dehits Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2003

Amendment of 10. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 10 ofthe amended as follows -—

principal
enactment,

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution

for the words “Where a commercial bank reports”
and “from a current account maintained” of the
words “Where a commercial bank or specialised
bank reports” and “from a current account or savings
account maintained”.

(2) in subsection (2) of that’ section by tne subsutution
for paragraph (a) of the-following paragraph :—

(a)

the total amount of the debits made from a
current account or a savings account
maintained at that commercial bank or
specialised bank, in-any month; or”.

Amendment of Hl. Sction 13 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 13 of the amended as follows :—

principal

SIDES (1) in subsection (1) of that section —

(a)

(b)

(¢)

in paragraph (a) thereof, by the substitution
for the words “any current account

maintained” of the words “any current account
or savings account maintamed”;

in paragraph ()) thereol, by the substitution
forall the words from “debits made trom any”
to “is solely for the purpose of making— of
the words “debits made from any current
account being a special account, opened by
any person in a commercial bank for the
purpose of making —

in paragraph (¢) thereol.—
(i) by the substitution for all the words from

“debils made from any” to “is solely for
the purpose of making—” of the words


Debits Tax (Amendment) Act. No. 3 of 2003 7

“debits made from any current account
being a special account opened by any
person specified hereunder in a
commercial bank for the purpose of
making—" :

(ii) by the substitution for sub-paragraph (111)
of the. following new sub-paragraphs :—

“(iii)

(ila)

payments in relation to the purchase
of stock issued in terms of the
Registered Stocks and Securities
Ordinance (Chapter 420) made by
any person or body of persons, at
the issue of such registered stock ;

payments in relation to the purchase
of securities issued in terms of the
Registered Stocks and Securities
Ordinince (Chapter 420) and
treasury bills issued in terms of the
Local Treasury Bills Ordinance
(Chapter 417). by any person or
body of persons, at the issue of such
securitics or bills :

(iii) in sub-paragraph (Vil) thereol—

(i)

(ii)

by the substitution for the words
“by another commercial bank” of
the words “by such bank, another
commercial bank":

by the substitution for the words “or
other financial intermediary” of the
words “or any other entity engaged
in financial intermediation
activity”:


8

Debits Tax (Amendment) Act. No. 5 af 2003

(iti)

(iv)

in sub-paragraph (vii) (¢) thereol
by the substitution for the words
“financial intermediaries” or
“financial intermediary” wherever
it appears. of the words “any other
entity engaged in financial
intermediation activity”;

by the addition immediately after
sub-paragraph (viii) of paragraph
(ce) of that subsection of the
following proviso :—

“Provided that) the exempt
transactions referred to in
paragraphs () and (c) of subsection
(1) shall be routed through a single
special current account, A separate
declaration shall be made for each
exempt activity and a single
undertaking shall be provided to the
effect that such account shall be
used only for debit tax exempt
activities. ”:

(d) in paragraph (d) thereof—

(i)

(ii)

by the substitution for the words “from
any current account” of the words “from
any current account or savings account”:

by the substitution for sub-paragraph (1)
thercol of the following :—

“(i)

debits made from such account kept
in'a commercial bank or specialised
bank that represent transfer of funds
in the name of the same account
holder from one current account to
another, or from a current account


Debits Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2003 y

lo a savings account, or from a
savings account lo a current
account, or from one savings
avcountto another, within the same
commercial bank or specialised
bank or between different
commercial banks or specialised
banks”;

(2) in subsection (2) of that section—

(at)

(b)

by the substitution for the words “commercial
bank” and “any current account” of the words
“commercial bank or specialised bank” and
“any current account or savings account”; and

by the addition immediately after the first
proviso to that subsection of the following :—

“Provided further, that in cases where banks
are able to identify the exempt debits specified
in sub-paragraphs (i). (ii) and (iii) of paragraph
(d) of subsection (1), the bank may exempt
the debit without a declaration from the
account holder as is required above and refrain
from collecting debits tax on the same. No
bank shall be indemnified against any error
made by the granting of any such exemption.
Any bank who so makes an error in the
sranting of an exemption shall be liable to a
penalty of rupees ten thousand in respect of
each such exemption wrongfully granted.”.

(3) in subsection (5) of that section by the substitution
for the words “current account” of the words “current
account or Savings account”.


10 Debits Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2003

Insertion of new 12. The following new section is hereby inserted
section I4ain the immediately after section 14 of-the principal enactment and

principal . nue offeet ae eect om me &
enscnneni. shall have effect as section 144 of that enactment :—
“Commissioner — 144. The Commissioner-General may
or Deputy authorize 2 C Seen Beauty
Commissioner *Uthorize any Commissioner or any Deputy
lo exercise and Commissioner appointed in terms of the
perform provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38
powers &€. 9 -9()00, to exercise, perform and discharge any
power, duty or function which is conferred or
imposed on, or assigned to, the Commissioner-
General, by or under the provisions of this Act.”.
Amendment of 13. Section 15S of the principal enactment is hereby
section 15 of the amended by the substitution for the marginal note to that
principal er Kate feted
enactment. section of the following :—
“Offences.”.
Amendment of 14. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 19ofthe amended as follows :-—
principal
enaciment.

(1) by the substitution in the definition of the expression
“debit” for the words “current account” wherever
such words appear in that definition, of the words
“current account or savings account” and for the
words “commercial bank” of the words “commercial
bank or specialised bank”: and

(2) by the substitution for the definition of the expression
“savings account” of the following definition :—
“savings account” means any account (other than
a foreign currency account or a fixed or term
deposit account) which is maintained at a
licensed commercial bank or a licensed
specialised bank, and which qualifies for
interest, respective of whether such interest
is paid or not”.


Debits Tax (Amendment) Act, No. S of 2003 |

15. The amendments made to the principal enactment by
the provisions of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to
have come into effect on January 1, 2003,

16. (1) Any licensed commercial bank or licensed
specialised bank, which collects or remits debits tax from any
savings account as provided for in section 6, during the period
commencing on January 1. 2003 and the date of the coming
into operation of this Act, shall be deemed to have acted with
due authority and is hereby indemnified from any civil or
criminal prosecution in respect of such collection.

(2) Any licensed commercial bank or licensed specialised

bank, which collects from any person debits tax in excess of

the amount he was liable to pay in respect of debits from a
savings acount maintained by him at any licensed commercial
bank or licensed specialised bank. or which collects from any
person debits tax on any such debits made from a savings
account maintained by him ina bank as are exempt from debits
tax by or under section 13. is hereby indemnified against civil
or criminal prosecution in respect of such collection from and
after the period commencing January |, 2003 and the date on
which a refund of such amount is made or the date on which
such amount is remitted to the Commissioner-General, as the
case may be.’.

17. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of the Act the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Retrospective
effect.

Indemnity for
collection of
debits tax from
savings accounts.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs, 885 (Local). Rs. 1.180
(Foreign), Payable to the SuPikiNTENDENT, GOVERNMENT Puntications Bureau, No, 32,
Transworks House, Lotus Roan, Cotompo OL before [Sth December cach year in’ respect

of the year following.
