PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FINANCE ACT, No. 11 OF 2004

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 28th October, 2004]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 16.25Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 29, 2004

Finance Act, No. 11 of 20041

[Certified on 28th October, 2004]

L. D.O. 24/2004.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE IMPOSITION OF CERTAIN CHARGES

AND LEVIES CONSEQUENTIAL TO THE 2004 BUDGET PROPOSALS; AND TO

PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No. 11 of2004.

PART I

IMPOSITION OF AN ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE

2.(1) An Economic Service Charge (hereinafter referredto as the Service Charge) shall, subject to the provisions ofthis Act, be chargeable from every person and everypartnership for each year of assessment commencing on orafter April, 1, 2004 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as therelevant year of assessment) in respect of every part of theliable turnover of such person or partnership for that relevantyear of assessment, at the rate specified in the Schedule tothis Act :

Provided that no Service Charge shall be charged fromany person or partnership being a BOI enterprise, for therelevant year of assessment commencing on April 1, 2004 .

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theService Charge chargeable from any person or partnershipfor any relevant year of assessment shall be charged if andonly if, the liable turnover of such person or partnership forthat relevant year of assessment exceeds rupees fiftymillion :

Provided that the Service Charge chargeable from anyperson or partnership for any relevant year of assessmentshall in no case exceed rupees fifty million.

Short title.

Imposition of anEconomicService Charge.

2H 022757-10,275 (2004/08)

Finance Act, No. 11 of 20042

(3) In this section

liable turnover in relation to any person or partnershipand to any relevant year of assessment means, theaggregate turnover of every trade, business, professionor vocation other than any trade, business, professionor vocation the commercial operations of whichcommenced, whether by such person or partnershipor by any other person or partnership, on a date whichfalls within the period of thirty-six monthsimmediately preceding the first day of that relevantyear of assessment, carried on or exercised by suchperson or partnership as the case may be, in Sri Lankawhether directly or through an agent or more thanone agent, being the turnover for the year ofassessment immediately preceding that relevant yearof assessment ; and

turnover in relation to any trade, business, profession orvocation and to any year of assessment means thetotal amount receivable, whether actually receivedor not, from every transaction entered into in thatyear of assessment in the course of such trade, business,profession or vocation carried on or exercised by suchperson or partnership, after deducting therefrom

(i)any sum included in such total amount being asum which represents the value added tax inrespect of that transaction, provided that theperson or partnership who or which carries onor exercises such trade, business, profession orvocation is at the time of such transactionregistered under section 10 of the Value AddedTax Act, No. 14 of 2002 ;

(ii)the total proceeds from the disposal of anycapital asset in respect of which an allowancefor depreciation has been granted under section23 of the Inland Revenue Act ; and

Finance Act, No. 11 of 20043

(iii)the amount of any bad debt incurred by thattrade, business, profession or vocation duringthat year of assessment, being an amount whichhad been included in the liable turnover of suchtrade, business, profession or vocation of anyprevious year of assessment,

increased by the amount of any sum received during thatyear of assessment on account of any bad debt written off orallowed in any previous year of assessment.

Provided that

(a)in the case of a bank, the receipts of such bank byway of, or on account of, interest, discounts,dividends, exchange, service charges, commissions,brokerage and any other income derived by the bankin the course of its business shall be deemed to beincluded in the turnover of such bank ; and

(b)in the case of a person carrying on insurancebusiness, insurance premia received, or receivablein respect of,

(i)life insurance ; and

(ii)insurance against damages or destruction bystrike, riot, civil commotion, or acts ofterrorism and paid into the ConsolidatedFund,

shall be deemed not to be included in the turnoverof such insurance business.

3.(1) The amount of any Service Charge paid by anyperson or partnership for any relevant year of assessmentmay be deducted from the relevant income tax payable bythat person or partnership for that relevant year of assessment(hereinafter referred to as the first mentioned relevant yearof assessment).

Service Chargeto be set offfrom relevantincome tax.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 20044

(2) The balance, if any, of such service charge after itsdeduction in accordance with subsection (1) shall bededucted from the relevant income tax payable by such personor partnership for the relevant year of assessment immediatelysucceeding the first mentioned relevant year of assessment(hereinafter referred to as the first succeeding relevant yearof assessment).

(3) The residue if any of the balance, of such servicecharge after its deduction in accordance with subsection (2)shall be deducted from the relevant income tax payable forthe relevant year of assessment immediately succeeding thefirst succeeding relevant year of assessment (hereinafterreferred to as the second succeeding relevant year ofassessment).

(4) In no circumstances shall

(a)the aggregate deduction exceed the amount of suchService Charge ; and

(b)the remaining portion, if any of the residue referredto in subsection (3) after its deduction in accordancewith subsection (3), be deducted from any incometax payable for any relevant year of assessmentsucceeding the second succeeding relevant year ofassessment.

(5) For the purposes of this section and in relation to anyperson or partnership and to any relevant year of assessment,the expression

relevant income tax payable means the sum which bearsto the aggregate statutory income of that person orpartnership for that relevant year of assessment fromevery trade, business, profession or vocation carriedon or exercised by that person or partnership, otherthan any trade, business, profession or vocation thecommercial operations of which commenced, whether

Finance Act, No. 11 of 20045

by such person or partnership or by any other personor partnership, on the date which falls within the periodof thirty six months immediately preceding the firstday of that relevant year of assessment, the sameproportion as the total income tax payable by suchperson or partnership for that relevant year ofassessment bears to the total statutory income of thatperson or partnership for that relevant year ofassessment ; and

total income tax payable means the sum ascertained bythe application of the income tax rate prescribed inthe appropriate Schedule to the Inland Revenue Act,to the taxable income of such person or partnershipfor that relevant year of assessment.

4.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any lawthe portion of the Service Charge referred to in subparagraph(b) of subsection (4) of section 3, shall not be refunded.

5.Every person and every partnership chargeable withthe Service Charge for any relevant year of assessment shall,by communication in writing addressed to the Commissioner-General, give notice of such chargeability, before the firstday of June of that relevant year of assessment. Suchnotification shall disclose the income tax file number or thepersonal identification number as the case may be assignedby the Commissioner-General, to such person or partnership :

Provided that in the case of the relevant year of assessmentcommencing on April 1, 2004 such notice shall be givenwithin a period of thirty days of the date of the coming intooperation of this Act.

6.The Service Charge which any person or partnershipis chargeable with for any relevant year of assessment shall,notwithstanding that no assessment has been made on suchperson or partnership by an Assessor, be paid to theCommissioner-General in the manner specified by him in

Notice ofchargeability.

Service Chargeto be paid infour quarterlyinstalments.

Remaining partof the ServiceCharge not to berefunded.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 20046

four quarterly instalments on or before the thirtieth day ofJune, thirtieth day of September, thirty first day of Decemberand thirty first day of March in that relevant year ofassessment. Each such quarterly instalment shall be onequarter of the Service Charge payable for that relevant yearof assessment :

Provided that any person liable to pay any sum to theCommissioner-General of Inland Revenue for the periodcommencing on or after April 1, 2004 and ending on June 30,2004 and to whom the provisions of the proviso to section 5applies, shall be deemed to have complied with the provisionsof this section if such sum is paid to the Commissioner-General on or before September 30, 2004.

7.Every person and partnership chargeable with theService Charge for any relevant year of assessment shall,whether or not required by an Assessor in that behalf, furnishto an Assessor, on or before the last day of that relevant yearof assessment, a return in such form and containing suchparticulars as may be specified by the Commissioner-General,of his or its, as the case may be, liable turnover. The return foreach instalment shall also show the basis of the calculationof the Service Charge and any other details as specified bythe Commissioner-General under this section.

8.Every person and partnership chargeable with theService Charge shall maintain a record of the transactions ofevery trade, business, profession or vocation carried on orexercised by such person or partnership, in such manner aswould facilitate the reconciliation of the return of liableturnover furnished by such person or partnership undersection 7 of this Act, with such record.

9.Where in the opinion of an Assessor, any person orpartnership who or which being chargeable with the ServiceCharge for any relevant year of assessment

(a)has not paid the Service Charge ; or

Furnishingreturn of liableturnover.

Maintenance ofrecords.

Assessor to makeassessments.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 20047

(b)has paid an amount less than the proper amountwhich such person or such partnership ought to havepaid as Service Charge for such relevant year ofassessment,

such Assessor may assess the amount of the Service Chargewhich, in his opinion, ought to have been paid by suchperson or partnership as the Service Charge for thatrelevant year of assessment and shall by notice in writingrequire such person or partnership to forthwith pay

(a)the amount of the Service Charge so assessed forthat relevant year of assessment, if that person orthat partnership has not paid any Service Charge forthat relevant year of assessment ; or

(b)the difference between the amount of the ServiceCharge so assessed and the amount of the ServiceCharge actually paid by such person or partnershipfor that relevant year of assessment, if such personhas paid any amount as Service Charge for thatrelevant year of assessment.

10.Any instalment or part thereof the service chargenot paid on or before the date specified for the making of thepayment as are required in section 6, shall be deemed to be indefault and any individual, a partner of a partnership, a directoror other principal officer of a company or any other bodycorporate including a public corporation, any member or anofficer of any unincorporated body, which is liable to pay theservice charge which is in default shall be deemed to be adefaulter for the purposes of this Part of this Act.

11. The provision of Chapters XIX, XX, XXI, XXII, XXIII,XXIV, XXV, XXVI, and XXVII of the Inland Revenue Act,relating respectively to the Appeals. Finality of Assessmentsand Penalty for Incorrect Returns, Tax in Default and SumsAdded Thereto. Recovery of Tax, Miscellaneous matters,Repayment, Penalties and Offences, Administration and

Certainprovisions of theInland RevenueAct, No. 38 of2000 to apply.

Service Chargenot paid deemedto be in default.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 20048

General matters shall mutatis mutandis, apply respectivelyto the Appeals, Finality of Assessments and Penalty forIncorrect Returns, Service Charge in default and sums addedthereto, Recovery of Service Charge, Miscellaneous matters,Repayment, Penalties and Offences, Administration andGeneral matters under this Act.

12.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

agent, allowance for depreciation and Assessor,shall have the respective meanings assigned to themin the Inland Revenue Act ;

BOI enterprise means any enterprise with which anagreement has been entered into by the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka under the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 ;

business, capital asset, Commissioner General,disposal shall have the respective meaningsassigned to them in the Inland Revenue Act ;

Commissioner-General and Deputy Commissionershall have the same meaning as in the Inland RevenueAct,

Inland Revenue Act means the Inland Revenue Act, No.38 of 2000 ;

partnership, proceeds and profits or income shallhave the respective meanings assigned to them inthe Inland Revenue Act ;

person includes a company or body of persons but doesnot include any registered society within themeaning of the Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5of 1972.

statutory income, taxable income, trade, and yearof assessment shall have the respective meaningsassigned to them in the Inland Revenue Act.

Interpretation.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 20049

13.(1) The provisions of this Part of this Act shall bedeemed for all purposes to have come into operation on April1, 2004.

(2) Where any amount has been collected by theCommissioner-General as Service Charge in terms of thisPart of the Act during the period commencing from April 1,2004 and ending on the date of commencement of this Act,the Service Charge so collected shall be deemed to havebeen validly charged and levied and the Commissiner-Generalis hereby indemnified from any action civil or criminal inrespect of the collection of such Service Charge.

PART II

IMPOSITION OF CELLULAR MOBILE TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS LEVY

14.There shall be charged and levied from every personusing a cellular mobile telephone, (hereinafter referred to asthe user) for each year commencing on or after January 1,2004 a levy called Cellular Mobile Telephone SubscriberLevy (hereinafter referred to as the levy) at the rate of twoand half per centum calculated on the value of supply ofservices or future services by the mobile telephone operatoras referred to in section 15 to the user of such cellular mobiletelephone in respect of each month :

Provided however, that no organization or individual towhom the provisions of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9of 1996 applies shall be required to pay the levy referred toabove.

For the purposes of this section the value of supplyshall have the same meaning as is assigned to it in the ValueAdded Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002.

15.The levy payable under section 14 shall be collectedby the mobile telephone operators licensed under section 17of the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991

Mode ofcollection oflevy.

Date of Cominginto operation ofthis Part.

Imposition ofCellular MobileTelephoneSubscribersLevy.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200410

and paid to the Telecommunications Regulatory Commissionof Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the Commission)established under the aforesaid Act, within fifteen days fromthe end of each month commencing on or after January 1,2004 along with such details as may be specified by theCommission.

16.The levy, collected by the Commission on behalf ofthe Government in respect of each month in terms of section15, shall be credited within seven days from the receipt of thelevy as provided for in section 15 to the Consolidated Fund.

17.The Secretary to the Treasury may from time to timeissue guidelines in relation to the collection and remittanceof the levy on behalf of the Government.

18.(1) Any Licensed Mobile Telephone Operator whofails to pay the total amount of the levy that is due on thevalue of supply of services provided by such operator, asprovided for in section 14, shall be deemed to be a defaulterand where such defaulter is a body corporate, the Chairmanof the Board of Directors, any director or principal officer ofsuch body corporate shallbe deemed to be a defaulter for thepurposes of this Part of this Act, and such levy as is not paidon or before the due date shall be deemed to be a levy indefault.

(2) The defaulter shall be liable to pay a surcharge inaddition to the levy in default, calculated

(a)at the rate of ten percentum of the amount of suchlevy as is in default for the subsequent period ofone month or part thereof, from the due date for thepayment of the levy under section 15 ; and

(b)at the rate of two percentum of the amount of suchlevy as is in default for each subsequent period ofone month or part thereof, from the due date for thepayment specified in paragraph (a),

which surcharge shall be collected by the Commission.

Commission tocollect levy onbehalf of thegovernment.

SecretaryTreasury to issueguidelines.

Action in casesof failure to paylevy.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200411

(3) The Commission shall take action to recover any levywhich is in dafault for a period of more than three months,along with amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in themanner as is specified hereafter.

(4) The Commission shall cause to be issued on thedefaulter, three weeks prior to the taking of any steps for therecovery of the levy in default along with amount of thesurcharge accrued thereon, a Notice, informing the defaulterof the intention of the Commission to institute proceedingsfor the recovery of the amount of the levy in default and thesurcharge accrued thereon in terms of the provisions of thissection.

(5) Where the Commission issues Notice on the dafaulterin terms of subsection (4) but the amount of the levy in defaultalong with the surchage thereon remains unpaid even thoughthe period of three weeks specified in such Notice has elapsed,the Commission shall under the hand of the Chairman, issueto the Magistrate having jurisdiction over the division inwhich the defaulter resides or is carrying on business, aCertificate containing the name and address of the defaulterand the total sum in default along with a statement to theeffect that the person so named has defaulted in making thepayment as required by this section. Where the defaulter is abody corporate, the Certificate shall contain the name of theChairman, the Board of Directors and of every Director ofsuch body corporate.

(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issuedunder subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulterrequiring him to appear before him on a date to be specifiedand show cause as to why proceedings should not be takenagainst him for the recovery of the amount of the levy indefault along with the surcharge accrued thereon. Where thecause shown appears to the Magistrate to be insufficient soas to explain the reason for the non-payment, the Magistrateshall after recording the same make order for the recovery ofthe amount of the levy in default along with the surchargeaccrued thereon, from the defaulter as if it were a fine imposed

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200412

by the Magistrate.The money so recovered shall be remittedto the Commission, which shall credit the same to theConsolidated Fund.

19.The provisions of this Part of this Act shall be deemedfor all purposes to have come into operation with effect fromJanuary 1, 2004.

20.The amount of the levy charged and collected byany Licensed Mobile Telephone Operator from any user,during the period commencing from January 1, 2004 andending on the date of commencement of this Act, shall bedeemed to have been so validly charged and levied and suchoperator is hereby indemnified from any action civil orcriminal in respect of the collection of such levy.

PART III

IMPOSITION OF INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONSOPERATORS LEVY

21.(1) An International Telecommunications OperatorsLevy (hereinafter to as the operators levy) shall be chargedand levied in respect of the whole number of minutes ofincoming and outgoing international calls during eachcalendar month from every person who obtains a license forcarrying out operations (hereinafter referred to as thelicensee) from the Commission in the manner provided forin this section :

Provided that for the purposes of this section, InternationalTelecommunication Operators shall mean any operatorlicensed under section 17 of the Sri LankaTelecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991 to provideinternational telecommunication services :

Provided further, the operators levy payable for the periodcommencing on March 3, 2003 shall, until regulations madeunder section 26 come into operation, be calculated

(a)at the rate of United States Dollar cents eleven perminute, for the duration of the incoming

Indemnity.

Operation of theprovisions of thisPart.

Imposition ofInternationalTelecommuni-cations OperatorsLevy.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200413

international call and at the rate of Sri Lanka rupeesfour and cents forty per minute for the duration ofthe outgoing international call, during the periodcommencing March 3, 2003 and ending on March31, 2004 ; and

(b)at the rate of United States Dollar cents nine perminute, for the duration of the incominginternational call and at the rate of Sri Lanka rupeesthree and cents ninety per minute for the duration ofthe outgoing international call, during the secondyear commencing on April 1, 2004.

(2) Where any payment is to be converted from UnitedStates Dollars to Sri Lankan rupees for the purpose of effectingpayment, the selling rate of exchange as fixed by the CentralBank of Sri Lanka for the day previous to the day on whichpayment is made, which rate is available on the website ofthe Central Bank of Sri Lanka shall be used. In the event thatpayments are made in respect of previous periods, the averagefor the period of the selling rate shall be used.

22.(1) The operators levy shall be payable with effectfrom March 03, 2003 and shall be calculated on the durationof each incoming and outgoing international call facilitatedby an operator who is a licensee, at such rates as may beprescribed by regulation.

Provided that, the Minister may having regard to

(a)the written representations if any, made to him by amajority of the International TelecommunicationOperators Licensees requesting a review of therates ; or

(b)the prevailing conditions of the domestic andinternational telecommunications market,

from time to time vary the rate set out in any regulation madein terms of this section.

Amount ofoperators levy.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200414

(2) The amount of the operators levy payable for theperiod commencing from March 03, 2003 to March 31, 2004by a licensee, shall be paid to the Commission within a periodof one month from the date of the coming into operation ofthis Act.

(3) The operators levy payable for each monthcommencing from April 01, 2004 shall be paid within thirtyworking days from the end of each month to the Commissionalong with any details as may be specified by theCommission.

(4) Regulations may be made prescribing the manner andmode in which and the purposes for which any levy paid tothe Commission under subsections (2) and (3) shall bedisbursed.

23.The Commission may issue guidelines and othernecessary instructions necessary for the implementation ofthe provisions of this Part of this Act.

24.(1) Any International Telecommunication Operatorwho fails to pay the total amount of the levy that is due onthe value of supply of services provided by such operator, asprovided in section 21, shall be deemed to be a defaulter andwhere such defaulter is a body corporate, the Chairman of theBoard of Directors, any director or principal officer of suchbody corporate shall be deemed to be a defaulter for thepurposes of this Part of this Act, and such levy as is not paidon or before the due date shall be deemed to be a levy indefault.

(2) The defaulter shall be liable to pay a surcharge inaddition to the levy in default, calculated

(a)at the rate of ten percentum of the amount of suchlevy as is in default for a period of one month or partthereof, and

(b)at the rate of two percentum of the amount of suchlevy as is in default for each subsequent period ofone month or part thereof,

which surcharge shall be collected by the Commission.

Commission toissue guidelines.

Action in casesof default inpayment.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200415

(3) The Commission shall take action to recover any levywhich is in default for a period of more than three months,along with amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in themanner as is specified hereafter.

(4) The Commission shall cause to be issued on thedefaulter, three weeks prior to the taking of any steps for therecovery of the levy in default along with amount of thesurcharge accrued thereon, a Notice, informing the defaulterof the intention of the Commission to institute proceedingsfor the recovery of the amount of the levy in default in termsof the provisions of this section.

(5) Where the Commission issues Notice on the defaulterin terms of subsection (4) but the amount in default alongwith the surcharge thereon remains unpaid even though theperiod of three weeks specified in such Notice has elapsed,the Commission shall under the hand of the Chairman, issueto the Magistrate having jurisdiction over the division inwhich the defaulter resides or is carrying on business, aCertificate containing the name and address of the defaulterand the total sum in default along with a statement to theeffect that the person so named has defaulted in making thepayment as required by this section. Where the defaulter is abody corporate, the Certificate shall contain the name of theChairman, the Board of Directors and of every Director ofsuch body corporate.

(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issueunder subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulterrequiring him to appear before him on a date to be specifiedand show cause as to why proceedings should not be takenagainst him for the recovery of the amount of the levy indefault along with the surcharge accrued thereon. Where thecause shown appears to the Magistrate to be insufficient soas to explain the reason for the non-payment, the Magistrateshall after recording the same make order for the recovery ofthe amount of the levy in default along with the surchargeaccrued thereon, from the defaulter as if it were a fine imposed

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200416

by the Magistrate. The money so recovered shall be remittedto the Commission, which shall credit the same to theConsolidated Fund.

25.(1) Every licensee

(a)who contravenes or fails to comply with any of theprovisions of this Part of this Act or any regulationmade thereunder ; or

(b)fails to comply with any direction or order given ormade under this Part ; or

(c)knowingly furnishes or causes to be furnished anyfalse information under any requirement to furnishinformation in terms of this Part,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall upon conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonmentof either description for a term not exceeding six months orto both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Where an offence under this Part of this Act iscommitted by a body of persons, then

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector or officer of that body corporate ; or

(b)if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of thatfirm,

shall be guilty of such offence :

Provided that no such director, officer of that bodycorporare, or partner of that firm shall be deemed to be guiltyof such offence if he proves that such offence was committedwithout his knowledge or that he exercised due diligence toprevent the commission of such offence.

Offences andpenalties.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200417

26.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of giving effect to the principles and provisions ofthis Act and in respect of any matter which is required orauthorized by this Act to be prescribed.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), regulationsmay be made in respect of all or any of the followingmatters:

(a)the manner and mode in which any levy paid to theCommission is to be disbursed ;

(b)the purposes for which any levy paid to theCommission is to be disbursed.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall take effect from the date ofsuch publication or on such later date as may be specifiedtherein.

(4) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall beas soon as convenient be placed before Parliament for itsapproval. Any regulation which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be disapproved with effect from the date ofdisapproval but without prejudice to anything donethereunder.

(5) Notification of the date of disapproval of anyregulation shall be published in the Gazette.

27.(1) The provisions of this Part of this Act shall bedeemed for all purposes to have come in to operation onMarch 03, 2003.

(2) The amount of the levy charged and collected by anyInternational Telecommunication Operator from any user,during the period commencing from March 03, 2003 andending on the date of commencement of this Act, shall bedeemed to have been so validly charged and levied and suchoperator is hereby indemnified from any action civil orcriminal in respect of the collection of such levy.

Date ofoperation of thisPart.

Regulations.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200418

28.For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declaredthat any International Telecommunication Operator to whomthe provisions of this Part applies, shall be deemed to havecomplied with the requirements of paragraph (a) or paragraph(b) as the case may be, of the second proviso to subsection (1)of section 21, if he pays

(a)in respect of the period commencing on March 3,2003 and ending on March 31, 2004, the differencebetween the sum of United States Dollar cents sevenpoint two (7.2) which amount has been actually paidby him and the United States Dollar cents elevenpayable by him in terms of the aforesaid section ;and

(b)in respect of the second year commencing on April1, 2004 up to the date of the coming into operationof this Act, the difference between the sum of UnitedStates Dollar cents five point two (5.2) which amounthas been actually paid by him and the United StatesDollar cents nine payable by him in terms of theaforesaid section..

PART IV

AMENDMENTS TO THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 25 OF 2003

29.Part II of the Finance Act, No. 25 of 2003 is herebyamended in section 11 thereof, by the substitution for thewords to be called the Tourism Development Levy of thewords

to be called the Tourism Development Levy :

Provided however such levy shall not be charged on theturnover of any General Sales Agent licensed under the TouristDevelopment Act, No. 14 of 1968 as a Travel Agent, witheffect from January 1, 2004..

Amendment ofsection 11 ofPart II of theFinance Act, No.25 of 2003.

Avoidance ofdoubts.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200419

30.The provisions of this Part of this Act shall be deemedto have come into operation with effect from January 1, 2004.

31.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

SCHEDULE

[Section2(1)]

Part of the Liable TurnoverRate of the ServiceCharge applicable to that Part

1.Such part of the liable turnover as consistsof the turnover from any trade, business,profession or vocation the profits andincome from which are exempt fromincome tax.

2.Such part of the liable turnover as consistsof the turnover from any trade, business,profession or vocation of any BOIenterprise which had entered into anagreement under section 17 of the Boardof Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of1978.

3.Such part of the liable turnover as consistsof the turnover from any trade, business,profession or vocation the profits andincome from which are chargeable withincome tax at any rate specified in theSixth Schedule to the Inland Revenue Act.

4.Such part of the liable turnover as consistsof the turnover from any trade, business,profession or vocation the profits andincome from which are chargeable withincome tax at any rate other than a ratespecified in the Sixth Schedule to theInalnd Revenue Act.

0.25 percentum

0.25 percentum

0.5 percentum

1.0 percentum

Date ofoperation of thisPart of the Act.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 200420

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.