PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONSACT, No. 19 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th May, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 16.25Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 19, 2006

1Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

[Certified on 19th May, 2006]

LD.O. 8/2004.

AN ACT TO RECOGNIZE AND FACILITATE THE FORMATION OF CONTRACTS,

THE CREATION AND EXCHANGE OF DATA MESSAGES, ELECTRONIC

DOCUMENTS, ELECTRONIC RECORDS AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS IN

ELECTRONIC FORM IN SRI LANKA ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE

APPOINTMENT OF A CERTIFICATION AUTHORITY AND ACCREDITATION OFCERTIFICATION SERVICE PROVIDERS ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Electronic TransactionsAct, No. 19 of 2006.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) of this section shallcome into operation on the date on which this Act is Certifiedas an Act of Parliament and the other provisions shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may appoint, byOrder published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date).

CHAPTER I

GENERAL PROVISIONS

2.The objectivs of the Act shall be

(a)to facilitate domestic and international electroniccommerce by eliminating legal barriers andestablishing legal certainty ;

(b)to encourage the use of reliable forms of electroniccommerce ;

(c)to facilitate electronic filling of documents withGovernment and to promote efficient delivery ofGovernment services by means of reliable forms ofelectronic communications ; and

(d)to promote public confidence in the authenticity,integrity and reliability of data messages, electronicdocuments, electronic records or othercommunications.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Objectives of theAct.

2Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

CHAPTER II

RECOGNITION DATA MESSAGES AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS INELECTRONIC FORM

3.No data message, electronic document, electronicrecord or other communication shall be denied legalrecognition, effect, validity or enforceability on the groundthat it is in electronic form.

4.Notwithstanding the fact that the provisions of writtenlaws for the time being in force in Sri Lanka attach legalvalidity to certain instruments, only if such instruments havebeen reduced to writing, such requirement shall be deemedto be satisfied by a data message, electronic document,electronic record or other communication in electronic formif the information contained therein is accessible so as to beusable for subsequent reference.

5.(1) Where the law requires information to be presentedor retained in its original form, that requirement shall bedeemed to be satisfied by a data message, electronicdocument, electronic record or other communication inelectronic form if there exists a reliable assurance as to theintegrity of the information from the time when it was madeavailable in electronic form and the information containedin the data message, electronic document, electronic recordor other communication is available and can be used forsubsequent reference.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)

(a)the criterion for assessing the integrity ofinformation, is whether such information hasremained complete and unaltered, apart from theaddition of any endorsement or any change whicharises in the normal course of communication,storage or display ; and

(b)the standard for reliability of the assurance shall beassessed having regard to the purpose for which theinformation was generated and all other relevantcircumstances.

Legalrecognition ofelectronicrecords.

Requirement forwriting.

Requirementsfor originalform.

3Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

6.The requirement under any law that information beretained, shall be deemed to be satisfied by the retention inelectronic form of information contained in a data message,electronic document, electronic record or other communicationnotwithstanding the fact that such information was notoriginally generated in electronic form, if

(a)the information in the data message, electronicdocument, electronic record or communication isaccessible so as to be usable for subsequentreference ; and

(b)the data message, electronic document, electronicrecord or communication is retained in the formatin which it was generated, sent or received, or in aformat which can be demonstrated to representaccurately the information generated, sent orreceived ; and

(c)such information, enables the identification of theorigin and destination of the data message,electronic document, electronic record or othercommunication and the date and time when suchinformation was generated, sent or received, isretained :

Provided that the provisions of this section shall not applyto any information, which is automatically generated solelyfor the purpose of enabling an electronic record to bedispatched or received.

7.Where any Act or enactment provides that anyinformation or communication shall be authenticated byaffixing the signature, or that any document should be signedor bear the signature of any person, then, notwithstandinganything contained in such law, such requirement shall bedeemed to be satisfied, if such information or matter isauthenticated by means of an electronic signature.

Explanation. for the purpose of this section, sign with itsgrammatical variations and cognate expressions, shall, withreference to a person mean, the affixing of his hand-writtensignature or any mark on any document and the expression,signature shall be construed accordingly.

Requirements forretention.

Legalrecognition ofelectronicsignatures.

4Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

8.(1) Where any written law for the time being in forcerequires

(a)the filing of any form, application, or any otherdocument with any Government department, office,body or agency owned or controlled by theGovernment or a statutory body in a particularmanner ;

(b)the issue of grant of any license, permit orapproval ; or

(c)the receipt of payment of money, procurement orother transaction to be effected in a particularmanner,

then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained inany other law for the time being in force, such requirementshall be deemed to have been satisfied if such filing, creation,retention, issue, grant, receipt, payment, procurement ortransaction, as the case may be, is effected in the form ofelectronic records as may be specified by the releventMinistry, Government department, Institution, statutory bodyor public corporation or other similar body.

(2) The relevant authority requiring the use of electronicrecords specified in subsection (1), may recommend themaking of regulations for the purpose of authorizing orfacilitating the use of electronic communications orelectronic records, to the Minister in charge of the subject, byspecifying-

(a)the manner and format in which such electronicrecords shall be filed, created, retained or issued ;

(b)where such electronic docments or electronicrecords have to be signed, the type of electronicsignature required ;

Use ofelectronicrecords andelectronicsignatures inGovernmentinstitutions andstatutory bodies.

5Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

(c)the manner and format in which such signature shallbe affixed to the electronic documents or electronicrecords and the identity of, or the criteria which, aCertification Authority or Certification ServiceProvider used by such person filing the documentshould possess ;

(d)the control process and procedures required in orderto secure confidentiality, authenticity and integrityof electronic documents, records, procurements,transactions or payments ;

(e)the manner or method of payment of any fee orcharges for the filing, creation, retention or issue ofany electronic record under paragraph (a) ;

(f)the manner of doing anything which under any suchprovisions is required to be done as evidence inwriting or otherwise using a document, notice orinstrument ;

(g)the manner of doing anything which under any suchprovision, is required to be or which may be, doneby post or other specified means of delivery ;

(h)the doing of anything which under any suchprovision is required to be, or which may be,authorized by a persons signature or seal ;

(i)the making of any statement or declaration whichunder any such provision is required to be madeunder oath ;

(j)the making of any payment that is required to be, orwhich may be, made under any such provision ;

(k)any other matter relating to electronic records orpayments that are presently specified for thecorresponding paper documents.

6Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

9.Where any Act or enactment provides that anyProclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification, orother matter shall be published in the Gazette, then suchrequirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if suchrule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter ispublished in an electronic form of the Gazette.

10.Nothing contained in the preceding sections shallconfer a right upon any person to insist that any Ministry,Government Department, Institution, Statutory Body or PublicCorporation or other similar body should accept or issue, anydocument in the form of electronic records or effect anymonetary transaction in electronic form.

CHAPTER III

ELECTRONIC CONTRACTS

11.In the context of contract formation, unless otherwiseagreed by the parties, an offer and the acceptance of an offermay be expressed in electronic form. A contract shall not bedenied legal validity or enforceability on the sole groundthat it is in electronic form.

12.(1) Unless otherwise agreed as between an originatorand the addressee, a data message, electronic document,electronic record or other communication shall be deemed tobe that of the originator, if it was sent-

(a)by the originator himself ;

(b)by a person who had the authority to act for and onbehalf of the originator in respect of that datamessage, electronic document, electronic record orother communication ; or

(c)by an automated information system programmedby, or on behalf of the originator.

Publication inelectronic formsof Gazette &c.,deemed to bepublication.

No right to insiston records beingin electronicform.

ElectronicContracts.

Attribution ofelectronicrecords.

7Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

(2) Unless otherwise agreed as between the originator andthe addressee, the addressee is to regard a data message,electronic document, electronic record or othercommunication as being that of the originator, and is entitledto act on that assumption, if :

(a)the addressee has no reason to doubt the authenticityof the data message, electronic document, electronicrecord or other communication ; or

(b)there do not exist any circumstances where theaddressee knows, or ought to have known byexercising reasonable care, that the data message,electronic document, electronic record or othercommunication was authentic.

13.(1) Where the originator has not agreed with theaddressee that acknowledgement of receipt be given in aparticular form or by a particular method, such anacknowledgement may be given by-

(a)any data message, electronic document, electronicrecord or other communication by the addressee,automated or otherwise ; or

(b)any conduct of the addressee, sufficient to indicateto the originator that the data message, electronicdocument, electronic record or other communicationhas been received.

(2) Where the originator has stipulated that data message,electronic document, electronic record or othercommunication shall be binding only on receipt of anacknowledgement of receipt of such data message, electronicdocument, electronic record or other communication by him,then, unless acknowledgement has been so received, the datamessage, electronic document, electronic record or othercommunication shall be deemed to have never been sent bythe originator.

Acknowledgementof receipt.

8Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

(3) Where the originator has not stipulated that the datamessage, electronic document, electronic record or othercommunication shall be binding only on receipt of suchacknowledgement of receipt, and the acknowledgement ofreceipt had not been received by the originator within thetime specified or agreed, or if no time has been specified oragreed to, within a reasonable time, then the originatormay give notice to the addressee stating that noacknowledgement of receipt has been received by him, andspecifying a reasonable time by which the acknowledgementof receipt must be received by him and if no acknowledgementof receipt is received within the aforesaid time limit he mayafter giving notice to the addressee, treat the data message,electronic document, electronic record or othercommunication as though it has never been sent.

14.(1) Unless otherwise agreed to between the originatorand the addressee, the dispatch of a data message, electronicdocument, electronic record or other communication occurswhen it enters an information system outside the control ofthe originator,or if the data message, electronic document,electronic record or other communication has not left aninformation system under the control of the originator or ofthe party who sent it on behalf of the originator, the timewhen the data message, electronic document, electronic recordor other communication is received.

(2) Unless otherwise agreed between the originator andthe addressee, the time of receipt of a data message, electronicdocument, electronic record or other communication shallbe determined as follows, namely :

(a)if the addressee has designated an informationsystem for the purpose of receiving data messages,electronic document, electronic record or othercommunications-

(i)receipt occurs at the time when the datamessage, electronic document, electronicrecord or other communication enters thedesignated information system ; or

Time and placeof dispatch andreceipt ofelectronicrecords.

9Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

(ii)if the data message, electronic document,electronic record or other communication issent to an information system of the addresseethat is not the designated information system,receipt occurs at the time when the datamessage, electronic document, electronicrecord or other communication is retrievedby the addressee.

(b)if the addressee has not designated an informationsystem along with specified timings, receipt occurswhen the data message, electronic document,electronic record or other communication enters aninformation system of the addressee.

(3) Unless otherwise agreed between the originator andthe addressee, the data message, electronic document,electronic record or other communication is deemed to bedispatched at the place where the originator has his place ofbusiness, and is deemed to be received at the place where theaddressee has his place of business.

(4) The provisions of subsection (2) shall applynotwithstanding that the place where the information systemis located may be different from the place where the datamessage, electronic document, electronic record or othercommunication is deemed to have been received undersubsection (3).

(5) For the purposes of this section

(a)if the originator or the addressee has more than oneplace of business, the principal place of businessshall be the place of business.

(b)if the originator or the addressee does not have aplace of business, his usual place of residence shallbe deemed to be the place of business ;

10Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

(c)usual place of residence in relation to a bodycorporate, means the place where it is registered ;

(d)if the originator and the addressee are in differenttime zones, time refers to Universal Standard Time.

15.The Minister may by regulation prescribe the matterswhich may be agreed to between the parties to such contract,involving the generating, sending, receiving, storing orotherwise processing of data messages, electronic documents,electronic records or other communication, in relation to theprovisions of Chapter III.

16.(1) A Certification Service Provider shall not besubject to any civil or criminal liability for any transactionunder this Act in respect of third party information in theform of data messages, electronic documents, electronicrecords or other communications to which he merely providesaccess, if such liability is founded,on

(a)the making, publication, dissemination, ordistribution of such information or any statementmade in such information ; or

(b)the infringement of any rights subsisting in or inrelation to such information.

(2) Nothing in this section shall effect

(a)any obligation founded on contract ;

(b)the obligations of a Certification Service Providerproviding such services under a licensing or otherregulatory regime established under any writtenlaw ; or

(c)any obligation imposed under any written law or bya court to remove, block or deny access to anyinformation.

Variation byagreement.

Liability ofCertificationServiceProviders.

11Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

17.For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declaredthat

(a)if an offer and acceptance of an offer has been inwhole or in part expressed by means of an electronicrecord, an electronic signature attached to, orlogically associated with, such electronic recordshall not be denied legal effect soley on the groundthat it is with an electronic signature ;

(b)if an electronic communication is used in theformation of a contract, the contract shall not bedenied validity or enforceability solely on theground that an electronic record had been used forsuch purpose ;

(c)the accepted principles of common law relating tocontracts that the offeror may prescribe the methodof communicating acceptance, shall not be affectedby anything contained in this Chapter ;

(d)a contract formed by the interaction of an automatedmessage system and a natural person or by theinteraction of automated message systems, shall notbe denied validity or enforceability solely on theground that there was no review or intervention bya natural person of the final contrct or of each of theactions carried out by the automated messagesystem.

CHAPTER IV

CERTIFICATION AUTHORITY AND CERTIFICATION OF SERVICE PROVIDERS

18.(1) There shall be a Certification Authoritydesignated by the Minister for the purposes of this Act inconsultation with the Minister in charge of the subject ofInformation and Communication Technology.

Avoidance ofdoubt.

Designation of aCertificationAuthority.

12Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

(2) In designating a Certification Authority the Ministermay by Order published in the Gazette, designate anyGovernment Department, Public Corporation, Statutory Body,Institution, or authority or any branch or unit thereof whichshall be charged with the implementation of the provisionsof this Chapter ; the Minister shall in making the Order takeinto consideration the capacity of the GovernmentDepartment, Public Corporation, Statutory Body, institutionor authority to be designated in relation to its overall abilityto discharge the obligations under this Act in ensuring theproper functioning of certification services by accreditedCertification Service Providers.

19.The Certification Authority shall have the powerto

(a)identify the criteria which will form the basis foraccreditation of Certification Service Providers andthe qualifications required by them ;

(b)hear appeals and specify the procedure to be followedin the granting of accreditation for the purposes ofthis Act ;

(c)specify the procedure for the hearing of appeals inthe event of a refusal to grant or renew accreditationunder section 20, as the case may be ;

(d)issue licences or any other form of authorisation toCertification Service Providers to provide prescribedservices ;

(e)require Certification Service Providers to maintainsuch records and registers as may be prescribed ;

(f)from time to time call for information as may benecessary from Certification Service Providers andissue directions to such Certification ServiceProviders.

Powers ofCertificationAuthority.

13Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

20.(1) No person shall function as an accreditedCertification Service Provider unless be holds a validcertificate of accreditation issued under the Sri LankaAccreditation Board for Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32of 2005.

(2) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as impeding orin any way restricting the rights of any certification serviceprovider to engage in the business of providing certificationservices without being accredited.

(3) A certificate of accreditation to a Certification ServiceProvider may be granted in accordance with provisions ofthe Sri Lanka Accreditation Board for Conformity AssessmentAct, No. 32 of 2005, in keeping with the criteria foraccreditation specified by the Certification Authority underparagraph (a) of section 19.

CHAPTER V

RULES GOVERNING EVIDENCE

21.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in theEvidence Ordinance or any other written law, the followingprovisions of this section shall be applicable for the purposesof this Act.

(2) Any information contained in a data message, or anyelectronic document, electronic record or othercommunication

(a)touching any fact in issue or relevant fact ; and

(b)compiled, received or obtained during the course ofany business, trade or profession or other regularlyconducted activity,

shall be admissible in any proceedings :

Provided that, direct oral evidence of such fact in issue orrelevant fact if available, shall be admissible ; and there is noreason to believe that the information contained in a datamessage, or any electronic document, electronic record orother communication is unreliable or inaccurate :

Accreditation ofCertificationServiceProviders.

Applicability ofthe Rules ofEvidence.

14Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

Provided further that, for the purposes of paragraphs (a)and (b), if any information is contained in a data message,electronic document, electronic record or othercommunication made by a person

(i)who is dead or who by reason of his bodily or mentalcondition is unfit to attend as a witness ; or

(ii)who is outside Sri Lanka and where reasonable stepshave been taken to find such person and he cannotbe found ; or

(iii)who does not wish to give oral evidence throughfear ; or

(iv)who is prevented from so giving evidence,

evidence relating to such information shall, if available, beadmissible.

(3) The Courts shall, unless the contrary is proved, presumethe truth of information contained in a data message, or in anyelectronic doucment or electronic record or othercommunication and in the case of any data message, electronicdocument, electronic record or other communication made bya person, that the data message, electronic document orelectronic record or other communication was made by theperson who is purported to have made it and similarly, shallpresume the genuineness of any electronic signature ordistinctive identification mark therein.

22.Nothing contained in the Evidence (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 14 of 1995 shall apply to and in relationto any data message, electronic document, electronicrecord or other document to which the provisions of this Actapplies.

Provisions of theEvidence(SpecialProvisions) Act,No. 14 of 1995not to apply.

15Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

CHAPTER VI

MISCELLANEOUS

23.The provisions contained in this Act shall not applyto

(a)the creation or execution of a will, or any othertestamentry disposition by whatever name calld ;

(b)a license for a Telecommunication system issuedunder subsection (6) of section 17 of theTelecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991 ;

(c)a Bill of Exchange as defined in subsection(1) ofsection 3 of the Bills of Exchange Ordinance(Chapter 82) ;

(d)a Power-of-Attorney as defined in section 2 of thePower of Attorney Ordinance (Chapter 122) ;

(e)a Trust as defined in the Trusts Ordinance(Chapter 87) excluding a constructive, implied andresulting trust ;

(f)a contract for sale or conveyance of immovableproperty or any interest in such property ;

(g)or any other document act or transaction specifiedby the Minister by regulations made under section24.

24.(1) The Minister may, in consultation with theMinister in Charge of the subject of Information andCommunication Technology, make regulations in respect ofany matter required or authorized by this Act to be made, orfor the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to theobjectives of this Act, as specified in subsection (2).

Restriction onapplication ofthe Act.

Regulations.

16Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality ofthe powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister maymake regulations for and in respect of all or any of thefollowing matters :

(a)specifying the electronic infrastructure andguidelines that are

(i)sufficiently secure to meet the needs ofMinistries, Government Departments, bodiesor agencies owned and controlled by theGovernment, and Statutory bodies ;

(ii)interoperable to the maximum extentpossible ;

(b)the conditions of service of the members of theCertification Authority in relation to theimplementation of the provisions of this Act ;

(c)the powers, duties and functions of a person, bodyof persons, statutory body or institution beingappointed as a Certification Authority in terms ofsection 18 and the other terms and conditionsapplicable to them ;

(d)criteria for accreditation of certification serviceproviders under section 20, its cryptographyservices, electronic signature or advance electronicsignature and security procedures or any other legalconsequences connected therewith ;

(e)the procedure for appeals against refusal to grant orrenew an accreditation certificate ;

(f)the qualifications required of persons seeking toprovide certifications services ;

(g)the procedure for the recognition of CertificationService Providers, the issue of licences to suchCertification Service Providers and the categoriesof services required to be provided by them ;

17Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

(h)the records to be maintained by the CertificationService Providers and the manner in whichinformation has to be furnished to the CertificationAuthority by such Certification Service Provider ;and

(i)the matters referred to in section 15.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall as soon as convenientafter its publication in the Gazette be brought beforeParliament for approval.

(4) Every regulation, which is not so approved, shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval,but without prejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(5) The date on which such regulations shall be deemed tobe so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

25.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

26.For the purposes of this act, unless the contextotherwise requires

addressee means the person intended by the originatorto receive the communication but does not includean intermediary ;

Certification Authority means the CertificationAuthority appointed in terms of Chapter IV of theAct ;

certifiaction services means any service which isprovided to the senders or recipients of informationin electronic form, or to those storing such

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

18Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

information, and is designed to facilitate the use ofcryptographic techniques for the purpose ofascertaining that the confidentiality, authenticityand integrity of such information is secured ;

Certification Service Provider means a person providingcertification services within the meaning of thisAct ;

communication means any statement, declaration,demand, notice or request, including an offer andthe acceptance of an offer that a person is requiredto make or chooses to make in connection with anelectronic transaction within the meaning of thisAct ;

computer means an electronic or similar device havinginformation processing capabilities ;

data message means information generated, sent,received ot stored by electronic, magnetic, opticalor other similar means ;

electronic means information generated, sent receivedor stored by electronic, magnetic, optical, or similarcapacities regardless of the medium ;

electronic document includes documents, records,information, communications or transactions inelectronic form ;

electronic record means a written document, or otherrecord created, stored, generated, received, orcommunicated by electronic means ;

electronic signature means any letters, numbers, symbols,images, characters or any combination thereof inelectronic form, applied to, incorporated in orlogically associated with an electronic document,

19Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

with the intention of authenticating and, orapproving the same, in order to establishauthenticity or integrity, or both ;

information includes text, message, data, voice, sound,database, video, signals, software, computerprograms, including object codes and sourcecodes ;

information system means and electronic system forcreating, generating, sending, receiving, storing,reproducing, displaying, recording or processinginformation ;

intermediary means a person acting as a service provideron behalf of another person in relation to thesending, receiving, storing or processing of theelectronic communication or the provision of otherservices in relation to it ;

network service provider means a person who owns,possesses, operates, manages or controls a publicswitched network or provides telecommunicationservices ;

originator means a person by who or on whose behalfthe communication purports to have been sent orgenerated prior to receipt or storage, if any, but itdoes not include a person acting as an intermediarywith respect to that communication ;

provides access in relation to third-party information,means the provision of the necessary technicalmeans by which third-party information may beaccessed and includes the automatic and temporarystorage of the third-party information for the purposeof providing assess ;

20Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

security procedure means a procedure which in relationto a certificate issued by a certification serviceprovider, is specified in its certification practicestatement for establishing the authenticity orintegrity, or both, of any electronic document, whichmay require the use of algorithms or codes,identifying words and numbers, encryption, answerback or acknowledgment procedures, software,hardware or similar security devices ;

third party in relation to a network service providermeans a person over whom the provider has noeffective control ;

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.