a /
oe)
' PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
"NURSING HOMES (REGULATION)
* (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No, 62 OF. 1988
[Certified on 17th December, 1988}
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka-of Decembe23, 1988)
"mas At ensnacn OF CEMENT PONE SANA
Price : 30 cents. ;, Postage : 75 cents.


Nursing Homes (Regulation) (Amendment)
Act No. 62 of 1988 &
[Certified on 17th December, 1988}
L.D.—O, 58/87
AN Act To aMenp tHe Nunsic Homes (Recutation) Acr
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.-This Act’ may be cited as the Nursing Homes’ Shorttitle,
(Regulation (Amendment) Act, No. 62 of 1988,

2. Section 3 of the Nursing Homes (Regulation) Act aes
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is $ffclon
hereby amended as follows:— Chapter 20,

(a) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution,

for the words “one hundred rupees”, of the words
“ten thousand rupees”; and

(b) in subsection (4) of that section by the substitution,

for the words “Afty rupees”, of the. wurds “two
thousand rupees”, #09

3. (1) The amendment made to the principal enactment Retrogpec-
by section 2 of this Act shall be deemed, for all purposes, Gf °°"*t
to have come into operation on January 1, 1987, amendment.

(2) Where during the period commencing on January 1, .
1987 and ending on the date of commencement of this Act,

a nursing home has been registered, or the registration in
respect of a nursing home has been renewed, under the
provisions of the principal enactment, the proprietor of
such nursing home shall pay to the Director, within one
month of the date. of commencement of this Act, the
difference between— %
(@ the amount such ‘proprietor is required to pay in
. « Tespect of such registration or renewal, as the case
may be, under section 3 of the principal enactment
as amended by this Act ; and

(b) the amount paid by such ‘proprietor in respect of

such registration or renewal, as the case may be.

Failure by the proprietor of a nursing home to pay such
difference within one month of the date of commencement
of this Act shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in the principal enactment, be a ground for cancellation of
the registration of such nursing home. i


goes 8 STB feap Brake wut sige * Et ee

Annual subscription of Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 177 (Local),

Rs. 236 (Foreign), payable to the Surremrennent, Govenwament PUBLICATIONS

BuneAv, Covomso'1, before 15th December each year in respect of the years
following,
