PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOUIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

‘

ee ee te tee ee ee eee

PROVINCIAL COUNCILS PENSIONS
ACT, No. 17 OF 1993

[Certified on 31st March, 1993] ae

f.. ""' » Printed on the Orders of Government Ne: Hee

f

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 02, 1993

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF COVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Rnieo: 60 cents. _ Postage: Re 1.60


Provincial Councils Pensions Home RSG

Act, Nc. 17 of 1993

[Certified on 31st March, 1993]
L. D.—O. 58/91

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE PAYMENT OF PENSIONS TO
THE OFFICERS OF PROVINCIAL PuBLic SERVICES AND TO
SECRETARIAL STAFF OF PROVINCIAL COUNCILS; AND TO
PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Provincial Councils
Pensions Act, No. 17 of 1993, and shall come into operation
on such date (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed
date”) as the Minister may appoint by Order published in
the Gazette.

2. (1)The Minister, may, with the concurrence of the
Minister-in-charge of the subject of Provincial Councils,
declare any post in the Provincial Public Service of a
Province or in the Secretarial Staff of a Provincial Council,
as the case may be, to be a pensionable post with effect
from such date as may be specified in the declaration. (The
date so specified may be a date prior to the appointed date)
and accordingly, service in any such post, whether such
service was before or after the appointed date, shall be
deemed, for the purposes of the Minutes on Pensions, to
be service in a pensionable post.

(2) The Minutes on Pensions, the Widows’ and Orphans’
Pensions Fund Ordinance and the Widowers’ and Orphans’
Pensions Fund Act, No. 24 of 1983, shall subject to the
Provisions of this Act, apply to, and in relation to, the
holder of any post declared under subsection (1) to be a
pensionable post, as if the holder of such post were a public
servant or a public officer, within the meaning of such
Minutes or Ordinance or Act, as the case may be.

(3) Where the holder of the post in.the Provincial Public
Service of a Province or in the Secretarial Staff of a
Provincial Council, which is declared under subsection (1)
to be pensionable post was prior to his appointment 'to that
post— 2
(a) the holder of a post under the Government which was

declared under the Minutes on Pensions to be
pensionable ; or |

Short title
and date of
operation.

Application
t

Services
and to
Secretarial
staff

of
Provincial
Councils,
off the
Widows’ and
Orphans’
Pensions
Ordinance,

‘the

Widowers’

and

Orphans’

Pensions

Fund, Act,
24

No,

of 1983
and the
Minutes on
Pensions.


Inter-

prefation.

2 ‘ . Provincial Councils Pensions
Act, No. 17 of 1993

(b) the holder of a post in the Local Government Service
which was declared to be pensionable under the
Local Government Pension Fund Regulations made
under the Local Government Service Act, No. 16 of
1974,

and his service in such post or posts and his service in the
Provincial Public Service of a province or in the Secretarial .
Staff of a Provincial Council are continuous, then the
service of such holder in each such post shall subject to
the provisions of subsection (4), be deemed to be service in
a pensionable post for the purposes of the Minutes on Pen-
sions, and those Minutes shall apply accordingly.

(4) Where any person is entitled to a pension under this
Act by virtue of his or his spouse or parent, having held a
post in the Local Government Service and in the Provincial
Public Service of a province or the Secretarial Staff of a
Provincial Council, he shall not be paid any pension from
the Local Government Service Pension Fund or the Local
Government Service Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund
or the Local Government Service Widowers’ and Orphans’
Pensions Fund, in respect of his, or his spouses, or parents,
service in Local Government Service.

(5) Where any post in the Provincial Public Service of
a province or in the Secretarial Staff of a Provincial Council

has been declared under subsection (1) to be a pensionable

post, the provisions of subsections (2), (3) and (4) of this
section shall apply to every person who held that post
notwithstanding the fact that he is retired from that post
before the appointed date. —

3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Local Government Service Pension Fund” means the
Local Government Service Pension Fund estab-
lished by section 16 of the Local Government
Service Law, No. 16 of 1974;

‘Local Government Service Widows’ and Orphans’
Pension Fund” means the Local Government
Service Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension fund
established by section 16 of the Local Government
Service Law, No. 16 of 1974;


Provincial Councils Pensions “~:~ 3

Act, No. 17 of 1993 . '%

“Local Government Service Widowers’ and Orphans’
pension Fund ” means the Local Government Service
Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund established
by section 16A of the Local Government Service
Law, No. 16 of 1974;

“Province” means a province set out in the Eighth

Schedule to the Constitution ;

“ Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council estab-
lished under Chapter XVIIA of the Constitution.

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala ~
text to
prevail in
case . of

inconsistency.
