PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
| Ath Session 1959-60 .

Institute of Chartered Accountants

Act, No. 23 of 1959

Date of Assent: September 12, 1959

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the Government Press, Cryrion. To _ be
purchased at the GoveRNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 55 cents. Postage: 20 cents.


Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, 3
No. 23 of 1959

L. D.—O. 7/50.

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN
INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS OF
CEYLON AND OF A COUNCIL OF THE INSTITUTE
WHICH SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MANAGE-
MENT OF ITS AFFAIRS AND FOR THE REGISTRATION
AND CONTROL OF AND THE MAINTENANCE OF PROFES-
SIONAL STANDARDS AND DISCIPLINE BY PERSONS
PRACTISING OR ACTING AS ACCOUNTANTS IN CEYLON
AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED WITH OR INCIDENTAL
TO THE MATTERS AFORESAID.

[Date of Assent: September 12, 1959. ]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Institute of
Chartered Accountants Act, No. 23 of 1959, and
shall come into operation on such date (hereinafter
referred to as ‘“‘the appointed date’’) as may
_be appointed by the Minister by Order published in
‘the Gazette.

ESTABLISHMENT OF INSTITUTE AND MEMBERSHIP.

2. There shall be an Institute with the name
‘* The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ceylon ”’
(hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Institute’).

8. (1) The persons for the time being enrolled as
members of the Institute shall be a body corporate
with the name ‘‘ The Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Ceylon’’.

(2) The Institute shall have perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue or be sued in
its corporate name and may hold, acquire and
dispose of any property, movable or immovable.

4. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 15, the
following persons shall be eligible for membership of
the Institute : —

(i) a person who passes the qualifying examina-
tions for membership of the Institute to
be conducted by the Council under this

J. N. R 2740-4,054 (7/59)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Establishment
of Institute
of Chartered
Accountants
of Ceylon.

Incorporation
of Institute.

Eligibility
for member-
ship of
Institute.

a


4 Institute of Chartered Accountants Act,
No. 23 of 1959

Act and completes practical training of
such description and for such period as
may be prescribed by the Council;

(i1) a person who is a member of any society or,
institute of accountants by whatever name
called and approved by regulations made
by the Council as being in the opinion of
the Council an association of equivalent
status to the Institute:

Provided, however, that notwithstand-
ing the approval of any such society or
institute the Council may declare that any
specified class or description of members
of the society or institute shall not be
eligible for membership of the Institute;

(111) a person who was, at the appointed date,
registered as an Auditor under the
Companies’ (Auditors) Regulations, 1941;
and

(iv) an Accountant and Auditor registered under
section 13 who satisfies the requirements
Specified in regulations made under-
section 14.

(2) Any regulations made by the Council prescribing
practical training for the purposes of paragraph (1)
of sub-section (1) may contain such special provision
as the Council may deem expedient declaring that a
person—

(a) who had commenced prior to the appointed
date and completed or completes, whether
prior to or after that date, training of such
description and duration as may be speci-
fied in the regulations, or

(6) who has service in a post and who completes
training of such description and duration
as may be specified in the regulations,

shall be deemed to have completed the training pres-
cribed for the purposes of the aforesaid paragraph (i)-~

(3) Any regulations made by the Council by which
any society or institute is approved for the purposes
of paragraph (ii) of sub-section (1) may provide, as
a condition of such approval, that a member of suck


Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, 5
No. 23 of 1959

society or institute shall not be eligible for member-
ship of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of Ceylon, unless he has undergone such training or
has acquired such practical experience in the subject
of accountancy, as may be specified or described in.
the regulations.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 15 a Fee for |
person who is eligible for membership of the Institute members
shall be enrolled as a member upon payment to the
Council of a fee of one hundred and twenty-five
rupees or such other amount as may be substituted
therefor by regulation. Such fee shall be paid to the
President of the Council or if the Council has not
been constituted to the Registrar of Companies.

(2) The enrolment of a person as a member of the
Institute shall be effective until the thirty-first day of
December of the year of enrolment; and the enrolment
may be renewed annually upon payment to the Council
of the prescribed fee in respect of each such renewal.

6. (1) The members of the Institute shall be divid- Classification
ed into two classes consisting respectively of Fellows Sinamay
and Associate Members. . Associates.

(2) Any member of the Institute who satisfies the
~Council that he has been in continuous practice
as an accountant for not less than five years,
whether before or after the appointed date, or partly
before and partly after that date, shall on applica-
tion made to the Council in that behalf and on pay-
ment to the Council of a prescribed fee be registered
by the Council as a Fellow of the Institute and shall
be entitled to use the addition ‘‘ F. C. A.’’ after his
name to indicate that he is a Fellow. ;

(3) Every member of the Institute who is not
registered under sub-section (2) as a Fellow of the
Institute shall be an Associate Member and shall have
the right to use the addition ‘‘ A. C. A.’’ after his
name to indicate that he is an Associate Member.

(4) Every member of the Institute shall be entitled
to take and use the title ‘‘ Chartered Accountant ’’.

THE COUNCIL.

- 7, (1) There shall be a Council of the Institute, constitution
in this Act referred to as ‘‘ the Council ’’. of Council.
(2) The Council shall consist of a President and
eleven other members appointed or elected as herein-
after provided: |


6 Institute of Chartered Accountants Act,
No. 23 of 1959

Provided, however, that the number of members
of the Council other than the President shall, until a
Registered Accountant and Auditor is appointed
under sub-section (3) to be a member of the Council, be
ten. .

(3) During the period of five years commencing on
the appointed date, the President and the other
members of the Council shall be appointed by the
Minister, and of the members so appointed—

(a) at least six shall be persons who are members
of the Institute, of whom not more than
four shall be practising accountants, and

(5) one shall be a Registered Accountant and
Auditor.

(4) After the expiration of the period of five years
referred to in sub-section (8), the President of the
Council shall be elected by the members of the
Institute from themselves, and the remaining members
of the Council shall consist of—

(a) four members appointed by the Minister,

(b) six members elected by the members of the
Institute from among its members, of whom
not more than four shall be practising
accountants, and

(c) one member elected by the Registered
Accountants and Auditors from them-
selves:

Provided, however, that—

(i) where the Minister fails to appoint, within
three months after the expiration of the
period of five years referred to in sub-
section (3), one or more of the members
specified in paragraph (a) of this sub-
section, or ‘i

(ii) where the Minister fails to appoint, within
three months after the death of, or vaca-
tion of office by, a member of the Council


Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, 7
No. 23 of 1959

appointed under paragraph @) of this sub-
section, another person in place of such
member,

the members of the Institute may elect from themselves
such number of persons as may be necessary to make
up the number of members specified in paragraph (a)
of this sub-section.

(5) The elections under sub-section (4) shall be con-
ducted in accordance with such provisions in that
behalf as may be made by the Minister by Order
published in the Gazette.

8. (1) Every member of the Council shall, unless
he earlier vacates his office, hold office for a period of
two years from the date of his appointment or

election: ~

Provided, however, that the members appointed
under sub-section (8) of section 7 and holding office
at the expiration of a period of five years from the
date referred to in that sub-section shall thereupon
vacate office. — *

(2) A member of the Council shall vacate office by
_ resignation therefrom or if he ceases to be a member
of the Institute.

(3) In the event of the death of, or vacation of office
by, a member of the Council, another person shall,
in accordance with the provisions of section 7, be
appointed or elected, as the case may be, in place of
such member, and shall hold office during the remain-
ing part of the term of office of such member.

(4) Any member of the Council who vacates office
by effluxion of time shall be eligible for re-appoint-
ment or re-election as a member.

9. (1) The Council shall be charged with the
administration and management of the Institute and
shall be responsible for carrying out the provisions of
this Act and the functions and duties conferred or
imposed upon the Council by this Act.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Council—

(a) to conduct or provide for the conduct of the
qualifying examinations for membership
of the Institute or for registration as a:

Term of office
of members of
the Council.

Gencral powers
and duties of
Council.


Officers of
the Council.

Financial
provisions.

8

Institute of Chartered Accountants Act,

(b) to

(c) to

(e) to

(f) to

(9) | to

(2) to

No. 23 of 1959

Registered Accountant and Auditor under
this Act and to prescribe or approve.
courses of study for such examinations;

supervise and regulate the engagement,
training and transfer of articled clerks;

specify the class of persons who shall have
the right to train articled clerks, and to
specify the circumstances in which any
person of that class may be deprived of
that right;

_ (d) to fix the maximum amount of the premia or

fees to be charged from articled clerks and
the conditions subject to which such fees
are to be charged;

maintain and publish a Register of mem-
bers of the Institute, a Register of persons
authorised to practise in Ceylon as
Chartered Accountants and a Register of
persons authorised to practise in Ceylon as
Registered Accountants and Auditors;

secure the maintenance of professional
standards among persons who are mem-
bers of the Institute or who are Registered
Accountants and Auditors, and to take
such steps as may be necessary to acquaint
such persons with the methods and prac-
tices necessary to maintain such standards;

maintain a library of books and periodicals
relating to accountancy and to encourage
the publication of such books in Ceylon;
and

encourage research in Ceylon on the sub-
ject of accountancy and generally to secure
the well being and advancement of the pro-
fession of accountants.

10. The Council may appoint a Secretary and

such other officers and servants as it may deem
necessary.

44. (1) The Council shall establish and maintain

a fund under its management and control into which
shall be paid all moneys received by the Council and
out of which shall be met all expenses and liabilities
incurred by the Council in carrying out its powers,
functions and duties under this Act. —-


r

Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, 9
No. 23 of 1959

(2) The Council may invest moneys in the fund in
any securities issued or guaranteed by the Govern-
ment of Ceylon or in any other securities approved by
the Minister.

(3) The Council may maintain an account in any
bank or banks in Ceylon.

(4) The annual accounts of the Council shall be
subject to audit by a member of the Institute (not
being a member of the Council) in practice as a
Chartered Accountant in Ceylon who shall be
appointed for the purpose each year by the Council.

(5) As soon as may be after the end of each financial
year of the Council, the accounts for the preceding

‘year shall be published in the Gazette and copies there-

of shall be furnished to the Minister and to each
member of the Institute.

(6) As soon as convenient after the appointed date,
the Government shall donate to the Council a sum of
two hundred thousand rupees.

(7) The Minister of Finance may from time to time
decide that a temporary loan shall, subject to such
conditions as he may determine, be made to the Coun-
cil from the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon in order to
enable the Council to meet any current liabilities
pending the receipt of income by the Council. Any
sum which is to be lent to the Council under this sub-
section is hereby charged on the Consolidated Fund of
Ceylon:

Provided, however, that the total amount of such
loans to the Council outstanding at any time shall not
exceed ten thousand rupees.

12. (1) The Council may make regulations for or in
respect of any matter required or authorised by this

_ Act to be prescribed or of any matter relating to or

connected with its powers, functions and duties under
this Act or the proper exercise, discharge or perfor-
mance thereof.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provi-
sions of sub-section (1), the Council may make regu-
lations in respect of all or any of the following

Matters :—

(a) the summoning and holding of meetings of
the Council, the times and places of such
meetings and the conduct of business
thereat;

Power to make
regulations.


10 Institute of Chartered Accountants Act,
No. 23 of 1959

(6) the management of the property of the Coun-
cil, the custody of its funds and the main-
tenance and audit of its accounts;

(c) the election or appointment by the Council of
standing or other committees, the powers, ~-
functions and duties of such committees,
and the conditions subject to which such
powers may be exercised and such functions.
and duties performed;

(d) the powers, functions and duties of the Secre-
tary and other officers of the Council and
the salaries, fees, allowances and conditions.
of service of such officers and servants;

(e) the establishment and regulation of a Provi-
dent Fund for the benefit of the officers and
servants and their dependants or nominees,
and the contributions to be made by the
Council and by such officers and servants.
to such Fund;

(f) the exercise of disciplinary control over officers.
and servants of the Council;

(g) the time and manner of the payment of enrol-
ment, registration and renewal fees, the
termination of membership upon failure to
pay renewal fees and the conditions of
restoration to membership in such cases;

(h) the fees to be paid to the Council by students
admitted to the qualifying examinations or
for courses of instruction provided by the
Council, and the engagement and remune-
ration of lecturers and examiners; and

(i) the grant of assistance, whether financial or
otherwise, to societies of students.

REGISTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS.

Registeréa 13. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 15, any
Seen person (not being a person eligible for membership of
an .

the Institute) who holds any of the qualifications pres-
cribed by the Council for the purposes of this section
shall be eligible to be registered as an Accountant and.
Auditor.

:


Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, 11
No. 23 of 1959

Before the Council prescribes any qualifications for
the purposes of this section, the Council—

(2) shall cause the qualifications proposed to be
prescribed to be published in the Gazette
together with a notice stating that repre-
sentations regarding such qualifications
may be made in writing to the Council on
or elon the date specified in the notice,
an

(>) shall consider the representations made to the
Council. °

(2) A person who is under this section eligible
to be registered as an Accountant and Auditor shall
be so registered upon payment of the prescribed fee.

(3) The registration under this section of a person
as an Accountant and Auditor shall be effective until
the thirty-first day of December of the year of registra-
tion; and the registration shall be renewed annually
upon payment to the Council of the prescribed fee in
respect of each such renewal.

(4) Every person who is registered under this section
as an Accountant and Auditor shall be known as a
Registered Accountant and Auditor and shall be
entitled to use the addition “‘ R. A.’ after his name
to indicate that he is a Registered Accountant and
Auditor.

44. The Council may make regulations specifying
the requirements (including, if the Council so deter-
mines, the requirement of passing any examination
prescribed by the Council for the purpose), subject to
which an Accountant and Auditor registered under
section 13 will be eligible for membership of the
Institute.

QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENROLMENT AND REGISTRATION,
AND PROVISIONS AS TO DISENROLMENT, ETC.

15. (1) No person shall be enrolled as a member
of the Institute or be registered under section 13 as
an Accountant and Auditor—_

(2) unless he has attained the age of twenty-one
years and is either a citizen of Ceylon or
has ordinarily resided in Ceylon for a
period of not less than three years;

Regulations
for admission
of registered
accountants
and auditors
to membership
of Institute.

General dis-
qualifications.


Disenrolment
er revocation
of registration
for professional
misconduct.

Inquiries by
Disciplinary
Committees.

12 Institute of Chartered Accountants Act,
No. 28 of 1959

(0) 1f he has been adjudged by a competent court
to be of unsound mind;

(c) if having been adjudged an insolvent or bank-
rupt, he has not been granted by a com-
etent court a certificate to the etfect that
is insolvency or bankruptcy has arisen
wholly or partly from unavoidable losses

or misfortunes;

(d) if he has been convicted by a competent court,
whether in Ceylon or elsewhere, of any
offence involving moral turpitude and
punishable with imprisonment or similar
punishment and has not been granted a
free pardon.

(2) The Council shall disenrol any person who is
a member of the Institute or shall cancel the registra-
tion under section 13 of any person as an accountant
and auditor, if he becomes subject to any disqualifi-
cation mentioned in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)
or paragraph (d) of sub-section (1) of this section :

Provided, however, that such disenrolment or
revocation shall not prevent the Council from
subsequently re-enrolling or re-registering such
person if satisfied that he is fit to practise the
profession of an accountant and auditor.

16. (1) The Council may disenrol any individual
who is a member of the Institute, or revoke the
registration of a person registered under section 13
as an accountant and auditor, if satisfied that he is
unfit to practise the profession of an accountant and
auditor by reason that he has been guilty of
professional misconduct.

(2) The disenrolment or the revocation of the
registration of any person under sub-section (1) shall
not prevent the Council from subsequently re-enrol-
ling or re-registering that person, if satisfied that he
is fit to practise the profession of an accountant and
auditor.

17. (1) The Council shall not, under section 16,
disenrol any person or revoke the registration of any
person, unless a Disciplinary Committee has, after
inquiry, made a report to the Council that the person
has been guilty of professional misconduct.


Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, 138
No. 28 of 1959

(2) Where the Council has reasonable cause to
believe, whether upon complaint made to it or
otherwise, that any person who is a member of the
Institute or a Registered Accountant and Auditor
has been guilty of professional misconduct, the

Council may appoint a Disciplinary Committee for

the purpose of holding an inquiry into the conduct
of that person. :

(3) The provisions of the First Schedule to the Act
shall apply in relation to the constitution of and the
procedure to be followed by Disciplinary Committees
appointed under this section, the proceedings at
inquiries held by such Committees and the powers
exercisable by such Committees.

(4) The Minister may, upon the recommendation of
the Council, by Order published in the Gazette, amend
or alter or add to or revoke any or all of the provisions
of the First Schedule.

(5) The provisions of the First Schedule for the
time being in force shall be as valid and effectual as
if they were herein enacted.

18. In any case where the Council is by section 16
empowered to disenrol any person from membership
of the Institute or to revoke the registration of any
person, the Council may, in lieu of exercising
that power, suspend the person from membership or
revoke his registration under section 13, as the case
may be, for such period as the Council may deem fit.

19. (1) Any person aggrieved by a decision of the
Council under section 16 or section 18 may appeal
against that decision to the Supreme Court. :

(2) Every appeal under sub-section (1) against a
decision—

(a) shall be made by petition in writing bearing
a stamp of one rupee;

(6) shall be preferred within ten days after the
date of that decision; and “

(c) shall be heard and decided by a Judge of the
Supreme Court after such summary in-
quiry as that Judge may deem requisite.

20. (1) For the purposes of this Act, ‘‘ profes-
sional misconduct’’ means any act or omission
which is for the time being specified in the Second
Schedule to this Act.

Suspension in
lieu of
disenrolment
or revocation of
registration,

Appeal to the
Supreme Court
from decisions
of the Council
under section 16
or section 18.

Meaning of
‘* professional
misconduct ""


Restrictions
on practising
as accountant.

14 Institute of Chartered Accountants Act,
No. 23 of 1959

(2) The Minister may, upon the recommendation
of the Council, by Order published in the Gazette,
amend or alter or add to any or all of the provisions
of the Second Schedule.

RESTRICTION S ON PRACTICE AS ACCOUNTANTS.

21. (1) No person who is a member of the
Institute or is a Registered Accountant and Auditor
or 1s a partner of any such firm of accountants as is
referred to in sub-section (3) of section 22 shall practise
as an Accountant unless he is the holder of a certificate
to practise which is for the time being in force.

(2) Every certificate to practise shall be issued by
the Council upon payment of the prescribed fee;
different fees may be prescribed in respect of Fellows,
Associate Members, Registered Accountants and
Auditors, and partners of any such firm of accountants
as is referred to in sub-section (3) of section 22
respectively.

(3) Every certificate to practise shall be in force
until the thirty-first day of December of the year of
issue of that certificate, and may from time to time
be renewed upon payment of the fee prescribed as
provided in sub-section (2).

(4) Where each of the partners in a firm of
accountants is the holder of a certificate to practise,
no such certificate shall be required to authorize the
firm to practise as accountants.

(5) The preceding provisions of this section shall
not come into operation until such date as may be
fixed by the Minister by Order published in the
Gazette.

(6) No person who is a Registered Accountant and
Auditor shall perform for any company which is not
a private company or for any corporation whose
capital or a part of whose capital is provided by the
Government, any service which involves the auditing
or verification of financial transactions books, accounts
or records, or the preparation, verification, or certifi-
cation of financial accounting and related statements.

(7) Where all or any of the partners of a firm of
accountants are not citizens of Ceylon and are not
qualified to be members of the Institute by reason of
the fact that they have not ordinarily resided in Ceylon


Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, 15
No. 23 of 1959

for a period of not less than three years, then, if the
number of partners who are not such citizens and are
not so qualified is increased by the admission to that
firm of a partner who is not a citizen of Ceylon and
who has not ordinarily resided in Ceylon for a period
of not less than three years, that firm shall not prac-
tise as accountants.

RESTRICTIONS AS TO USE OF TITLES, ETC.

22. (1) No person, not being a member of the
Institute, shall take or use the title ‘“ Chartered
Accountant’, or any addition mentioned in
section 6.

(2) Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (1),
any firm of accountants, each of the partners of which
is a member of the Institute, may take and use the
title ‘‘ Chartered Accountants ”’.

(3) Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (1),
any firm of accountants all or any of the partners of
which are not citizens of Ceylon and are not qualified
to be members of the Institute by reason of the fact
that they have not ordinarily resided in Ceylon for a
period of not less than three years may, if that firm
_ was in practice on the ninth day of February, 1959,
take and use the title ‘‘ Chartered Accountants ”’.

(4) No person, not being a person for the time
being registered under section 13, shall take or use
the title ‘‘ Registered Accountant and Auditor ’’.

(5) Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (4),
any firm of Accountants, each of the partners
of which is an Accountant and Auditor registered
under this Act, may take and use the title
‘* Registered Accountants and Auditors ’’.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

23. (1) Any person who contravenes any provision
of this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable, on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, to imprisonment of either description for
a term not exceeding six months or to a fine not exceed-
ing one thousand rupees or to both such imprisonment
and fine.

(2) Any person who is declared by any rule in the
First Schedule to be guilty of an offence under this
Act shall be liable, on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding five
hundred rupees.

Restrictions as
to use of titles
conferred under
this Aot.

Offences and
Penalties.


16 = Institute of Chartered Accountants Act,
| No. 23 of 1959

(3) No prosecution for any offence under this Act
shall be instituted except by a member or officer of the
Council authorized in writing for the purpose by the

Council.
Meaning of 24, (1) For the purposes of this Act, a person shall
" practise ". be deemed to practise as an accountant if, in considera-

tion of remuneration received or to be received, and
whether by himself or in partnership with any other
person, he—

(a2) engages himself in the practice of accountancy
or holds himself out to the public as an
accountant; or

(b) offers to perform or performs service involving
the auditing or verification of financial
transactions books, accounts or records, or
the preparation, verification, or certifi-
cation of financial accounting and related
statements; or

(c) renders professional service or assistance in or
about matters of principle or detail
relating to accounting procedure or certi-
fication of financial facts or data; or

(d) renders any other service which may be
declared by the Council by regulation to
be service constituting practice as an
accountant.

(2) A person who is the salaried employee of the
Government or of any one employer shall not, by reason
only that he does any act referred to in sub-section (1)
in his capacity as such employee, be deemed to practise
as an accountant. .

Transitional 25. Notwithstanding anything in the preceding

arrangements. sections of this Act, the following provisions shall
apply in relation to the first enrolment of members
of the Institute and the constitution of the first Council
to hold office under this Act :— .

(1) As soon as may be after the appointed date,
the Minister shall in terms of sub-section
(3) of section 7 appoint a person to be the
President of the Council.

(2) The President shall, by notice published in
the Gazette and in at least two daily news-
papers circulating in Ceylon, call upon
persons eligible for membership of the
Institute to make application therefor.


Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, 17
No. 23 of 1959

(3) The President shall, subject to the provisions
of sections 5 and 15, enrol as members of
the Institute all persons eligible for such
membership who make application in that
behalf within the period of three months
immediately succeeding the appointed
date.

(4) The names of the persons enrolled under para-
graph (8) of this section shall be presented
to the Minister for the purpose of enabling
bim to make the other appointments for
which provision is made in sub-section (3)
of section 7.

(5) As soon as may be after all appointments
are made, the Minister shall by Order
published in the Gazette specify the date
on which the first Council established
aneer this Act shall commence to hold
office.

FIRST SCHEDULE.
(Section 17).

RULES AS TO INQUIRIES BY DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEES

4. For the purposes of any inquiry to be held
under section 17 of the Act, the Council shall appoint,
by drawing lots if the Council so determines, three
persons from among its members to constitute a Disci-
pauey Committee, and shall appoint one of them to

e Chairman of the Committee.

2. (1) The Council shall cause a statement to be
prepared setting out the charges to be investigated by
the Disciplinary Committee, and the Secretary shall
transmit a copy of the statement to each member of the
Committee and to the person whose conduct is the
subject of the investigation. :

(2) Where the inquiry is to be held in consequence of
a petition or complaint alleging misconduct by any
person, the Secretary of the Council shall in addition
transmit a copy of that petition or complaint to that
person and to each of the members of the Disciplinary
Committee..

2


18 Institute of Chartered Accountants Act,
No. 23 of 1959

3. (1) The Secretary of the Council shall give
notice of the first date fixed for the inquiry to the
person whose conduct is the subject of the investiga-
tion. Every such notice shall, at least fourteen days
before the date fixed for the inquiry, be delivered by
hand at, or sent through the post by registered letter
addressed to, the last known place of residence of that
person.

(2) Where any person to whom a notice has been
given under paragraph (1) fails to appear in person
or is not represented by counsel, the inquiry may be
held by the Disciplinary Committee in his absence.

(3) Notice of any date to which the inquiry may be
adjourned shall be given by the Committee personally
to the person whose conduct is the subject of inquiry
or be given in manner provided in paragraph (1).

4%. (1) If the Council is of the opinion that the evi-
dence of any person, or the production by any person
of any document, is necessary to enable any matter to
be investigated by a Disciplinary Committee, the
Council shall direct the Secretary of the Council to
require the attendance of that person, or the produc-
tion by that person of such document, at such time
and place as may be specified in a notice which shall
be delivered by hand at, or sent through the post by

‘registered letter addressed to, the last known place of

residence of that person.

(2) Where any person who has been served with a
notice under paragraph (1), fails, without reasonable
cause, to attend or to produce any document, as the
case may be, at the time and place specified in the
notice, he shall be guilty of an offence under the Act.

. (8) The Secretary for the time being of the Council
shall be the Secretary of every Disciplinary Committee
and every notice issued under these rules shall be signed

by him.

(4) A Disciplinary Committee shall have power to
administer oaths or affirmations to all persons who are
required to give evidence before such Committee, and
every person who refuses to be sworn or affirmed, or
to answer such questions as may be put to him concern-
ing any matter in respect of which the inquiry is held,
shall be guilty of an offence under the Act.


Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, 19
No. 23 of 1959

(5) Every person who upon examination upon oath
or affirmation before a Disciplinary Committee wil-
. fully gives false evidence shall be guilty of an offence
under the Act.

(6) Any person whose conduct is the subject of
investigation ‘at an inquiry or who is in any way con-
cerned or implicated in such inquiry may be repre-
sented by one or more advocates or proctors at the
inquiry.

(7) The Council may authorize any advocate or
proctor to assist the Disciplinary Committee as to the
leading and taking of evidence.

(8) Every inquiry held by a Disciplinary Com-
mittee shall, unless the Council otherwise determines
in any case, be held 2m camera. :

(9) Any question before a Disciplinary Committee
shall be determined by the decision of the majority of
the members of that Committee.

(10) Upon the conclusion of an inquiry, the Disci-
plinary Committee shall prepare and transmit to the
Council a report embodying the findings on the matters
in respect of which the inquiry was held.

SECOND SCHEDULE.
(Section 20).

_ A. Each of the following acts on the part of a Char-
tered Accountant shall constitute professional
misconduct : — :

(1) allowing any other person to practise in his
name as a Chartered Accountant unless
such person is also a Chartered Accountant
and is in partnership with or employed by
himself ; :

(2) entering into partnership with any person

other than a Chartered Accountant or

. securing, either through the services of a

person not qualified to be a Chartered

Accountant or by means which are not open

to a Chartered Accountant, any profes-
sional business; and


20 Institute of Chartered Accountants Act,
No. 28 of 1959

(3) engaging in any business or occupation other
than the profession of Chartered Accoun-
tant unless permitted by the Council so to
engage :

Provided, however, that nothing con-
tained herein shall disentitle,a Chartered
Accountant from being a director of a com-
pany, unless he or any of his partners is
interested in such company as an auditor.

B. Each of the following acts or omissions on the
part of a Chartered Accountant or a Registered
Accountant and Auditor shall constitute professional
misconduct : —

(1) paying or allowing or agreeing to pay or
allow, directly or indirectly, to any
person, other than a member of the
Institute, a Chartered Accountant or
Registered Accountant and Auditor or a
retired partner or a nominee or the legal
representative of such partner, any share,
commission or brokerage out of the fee or
profits for his professional services;

(2) accepting or agreeing to accept any part of
the profits of the professional work of a
lawyer, auctioneer, broker or other agent
who is not a Chartered Accountant or a
Registered Accountant and Auditor;

(3) soliciting clients or professional work either
directly or indirectly, by circular, adver-
tisement, personal communication or
interview or by any other means;

(4) advertising his professional attainments or
services ;

(5) disclosing information acquired in the course
of his professional engagement to any
person other than his client, without the
consent of his client, or otherwise than as
required by any law for the time being in
force;

(6) accepting a position as auditor previously
held by another Chartered Accountant or
Registered Accountant and Auditor with-
out first communicating with him in
writing;


Institute of Chartered Accountants Act, 21
No. 28 of 1959

(7) accepting an appointment as auditor of a
company without first ascertaining from it
whether the requirements of the Companies
Ordinance, No. 51 of 1938, relating to the
appointment of auditors have been duly
complied with;

(8) certifying or submitting in his name or in the
name of his firm a report of an exami-
nation of financial statements unless the
examination of such statements and the
related records have been made by him or
by a partner or an employee in his firm;

(9) permitting his name or the name of his firm
to be used in connexion with an estimate
of earning contingent upon future trans-
actions in a manner which may lead to the
belief that he vouches for the accuracy of
the forecast;

(10) expressing his opinion on financial state-
ments of any business or any enterprise
in which he, his firm or a partner in his
firm has a substantial interest, unless he
discloses the interest also in his report;

(11) charging in respect of any professional
employment fees which are based on a per-
centage of profits or which are contingent
on results;

(12) failing to disclose a material fact known to
him which is not disclosed in a financial
statement, but disclosure of which is
necessary to make the financial statement
not misleading;

(13) failing to report a material misstatement
known to him to appear in a financial state-
ment with which he is concerned in a pro-
fessional capacity ;

(14) gross negligence in the conduct of his profes-
sional duties;

(15) failing to obtain sufficient information to
warrant the expression of an opinion;


22 Institute of Chartered Accountants Act,
No. 23 of 1959

(16) failing to invite attention to any material
departure from the generally accepted
procedure of audit applicable to the
circumstances ;

(17) failing to keep moneys of his client in a
separate banking account or to use such
moneys for purposes for which they are
intended; and

—

(18) including in any statement, return or form
to be submitted to the Council any parti-
culars knowing them to be false.

C. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
paragraph A or paragraph B of this Schedule,
a Chartered Accountant or a Registered Accountant
and Auditor shall not be guilty of professional mis-
conduct by reason only of any of the following acts :—

(1) entering into or being in partnership with
any person outside Ceylon who is a mem-
ber of a society or institute of accountants
of the description specified in section
4 (1) (11) of the Act;

(2) securing professional business by reason of
such partnership; :

(3) allowing such partnership to be carried on in
his name;

(4) paying or allowing or agreeing to pay or
allow to any such partner any share out of
the fees or profits for professional services.
