6/33 ue vi
‘j it \ B ‘
f f i

5 i

PARLIAMENT OF GEYL

aff
Ath Session 1968-69"

Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act,
No. 47 of 1968

Date of Assent : December 14, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOvERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to_ the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 20 cents Postage: 10 cents


Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1968

L. D.—O. 11/68.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE Motor TRAFFIC AcT.

[ Date of Assent: December 14, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Motor Traffic
(Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1968.

2. Section 198 of the Motor Traffic Act (hereinafter
referred to as the ‘“‘ principal Act’’), is hereby
amended as follows: —

(1) in sub-section (6) of that section, by the
substitution, for the expression ‘“‘by a
divisional road transport officer, and, where
any such application is made, the divisional
road transport officer, ’’, of the expression
“by an officer authorized in that behalf in
writing by the Commissioner, and, where any
such application is made, such officer, ’’;

(2) in sub-section (7) of that section—
(a) by the substitution, for the expression
““ refusal of a divisional road trans-
port officer’’, of the expression
‘‘ refusal of an officer authorized by
the Commissioner ’’; and |
(b) by the substitution, for the expression
‘binding on the divisional road
transport officer. ’’, of the expression
‘* binding on such officer. ’’; and
(3) in sub-section (8) of that section, by the
substitution, for the expression ‘‘ examiner
or divisional road transport officer ’’, of the
expression ‘‘ examiner or an officer authorized
by the Commissioner ’’.

8. Section 200 of the principal Act is hereby
amended in sub-section (2) of that section, by the
substitution, for the expression “shall apply in
relation to a divisional transport officer ’’, of the
expression ‘‘ shall apply in relation to an officer
authorized by the Commissioner ”’.

H 17261—3,826 (9/68)

Short title.

Amendment of
section 198
of Chapter 208

Amendment of
section 200

of the principal
Act,


Amendment of

section 201 of
the principal
Act.

Amendment of
section 204 of
the principal
Act.

Amendment of
gection 236 of
the principal
Act,

2 Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1968

4. Section 201 of the principal Act is hereby
amended as follows : —

(1) in sub-section (6) of that section, by the
substitution, for the expression ‘‘ by a
divisional road transport officer, and, where
any such application is made, the divisional
road transport officer, ’’, of the expression
‘“'by an officer authorized in that behalf in
writing by the Commissioner, and, where any
such application is made, such officer, ’’;

(2) in sub-section (7) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, for the expression
‘* refusal of a divisional road trans-
port officer’’, of the expression
‘‘ refusal of an officer authorized by
the Commissioner ”’; and

(b) by the substitution, for the expression
‘binding on the divisional road
transport officer.’’, of the expression
‘* binding on such officer. ’’; and

(3) in sub-section (8) of that section, by the
substitution, for the expression ‘* examiner
or divisional road transport officer ’’, of the
expression ‘“‘examiner or an _ officer
authorized by the Commissioner ’’.

5. Section 204 of the principal Act is hereby
amended in sub-section (1) of that section, by the
substitution, in paragraph (d) of that sub-section, for
the expression ‘‘ such divisional road _ transport
officers, certifying officers ’’, of the expression ‘‘ such
certifying officers ’’.

6. Section 236 of the principal Act is hereby
amended, by the substitution, for the expression
** certifying officer, divisional road transport officer ’’,
of the expression “‘ certifying officer ’’.
