PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

IMMIGRANTS AND EMIGRANTS(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 31 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 26th September, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.50Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 29, 2006

Immigrants and Emigrants (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 20061

Short title.

[Certified on 26th September, 2006]

L.D.O. 43/2006.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE IMMIGRANTS AND EMIGRANTS ACT(CHAPTER 351)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Immigrants and Emigrants(Amendment) Act, No. 31 of 2006.

2.Section 45 of the Immigrants and Emigrants Act,(Chapter 351) (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords from paragraph (g), to imprisonment, to theend of that paragraph, of the words paragraph (g),paragraph (h), paragraph (i), paragraph (j), paragraph(k), paragraph (l), paragraph (m), paragraph (n) andparagraph (o), to imprisonment for a term notexceeding five years and to a fine not exceedingtwo hundred thousand rupees;; and

(2)in subsection (6) thereof, by the repeal of paragraph(a) of that subsection.

3.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 45B of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 45C of that enactment :

45c. (1) Any person, who

(a)organizes one or more persons to leaveSri Lanka in contravention of any ofthe provisions of this Act ; or

Amendment ofsection 45 ofChapter 351.

Facilitatingpersons toleave SriLanka.

Insertion of newsection 45c inthe principalenactment.

Immigrants and Emigrants (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 20062

(b)attempts or does any act preparatoryto, or aids and abets any other personto, so organize under paragraph (a),

shall be guilty of an offence.

(2) Any person guilty of an offence undersubsection (1) shall, upon conviction by aMagistrate, be liable to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not less than one yearand not more than five years.

(3) In this section, the expression organize,with its grammatical variations, includes

(a)the recruitment of a person on apromise of securing employmentoutside Sri Lanka ;

(b)knowingly making false promises ofemployment in a foreign country ormaking any false representation ordisseminating misleading informationwith the intention of inducing personsto leave Sri Lanka for foreignemployment ;

(c)soliciting pecuniary benefits frompersons whether or not any suchbenefit was realized ;

(d)the transportation of persons by sea,land or any other manner withoutobtaining valid travel documents ;

(e)receiving and harbouring personswhether in Sri Lanka or in a foreigncountry..

Immigrants and Emigrants (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 20063

4.Section 47 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal ofparagraphs (a) and (b) thereof and the substitution thereforof the following paragraph :

(a)every offence committed by persons to whom theprovisions of Part III of this Act apply

(i)under paragraph (a), paragraph (b), paragraph(c), paragraph (d), paragraph (e), paragraph (f)or paragraph (g) of subsection (1) of section45 ; and

(ii)under subsection (2) of section 45 in so far asit relates to paragraph (a), paragraph (b),paragraph (c), paragraph (d), paragraph (e),paragraph (f) or paragraph (g) of subsection(1) of that section ;;

5.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 47 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 47A of that enactment :

47A. (1) Notwithstanding anything in any otherlaw, no person accused of an offence under section45c shall be enlarged on bail except by a HighCourt upon proof of exceptional circumstances.

(2) Where there is no express provision madein respect of the granting of bail for an offenceunder this Act, bail shall be granted by aMagistrate.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other law, the application of theprovisions of this section shall extend to everyperson who is in remand on the date of cominginto operation of this section..

6.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Insertion of newsection 47A inthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 47 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Granting ofbail.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.