PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ath Session 1959-60

sf

Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections)
(Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1959

Date of Assent : December 2, 1959

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the .GovERNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO =
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINDENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 25 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections) (Amendment) 8
Act, No. 26 of 1959

‘L. D.—O. 34/59.

An ACT TO AMEND THE CEYLON (PARLIAMENTARY
ELECTIONS) ORDER IN CouNCIL, 1946.

[Date of Assent: December 2, 1959]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows:—

4. (1) This Act may be cited as the Ceylon (Parlia-
mentary Elections) (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1959.

(2) The provisions of section 8 and section 4 of
this Act shall not come into operation until such date
as the Minister may appoint by Order published in
the. Gazette. .

2. Section 15 of the Ceylon (Parliamentary Elec-
tions) Order in Council, 1946, hereinafter referred to
as the “‘ principal enactment ’’, as amended by Act
No. 11 of 1959, is hereby amended as follows: —

(1) in paragraph (a) of sub-section (18) of that
Section, by the substitution, for the
expression ‘‘shall include’’, of the
expression “‘shall, subject to the provisions
of Section 8 of this Order, include ’’;

_' (2) by the insertion, immediately after sub-
3 section (1c) of that Section, of the following
new sub-sections : —

“* (1p) Sub-section (7) of Section 16
of this Order shall apply in the prepa-
ration of a register of electors under
sub-section (1) of this Section.

(1z) Where a person’s name, which by
virtue of sub-section (1) or sub-section
(1B) (a) of this Section should have been
included in a register of electors
prepared under sub-section (1) of this
Section, does not appear in that
register, he may prefer a claim to the
registering officer to have his name
inserted in that register. ’’; and

2——J. N’ RB 6086-5,604 (11/59) :

Short title.

Amendment of
section 15 of
the Ceylon
(Parliamentary
Elections)
Order in
Council, 1946.


Appropriation Act, No. 24 of 1959

chargeable as if it were expenditure out of the
Consolidated Fund of Ceylon for the service of the
financial year beginning on October 1, 1964, and
ending on September 30, 1965, in addition to any
other sums that may by law be payable, or may
by any written law hereafter enacted be declared
.to be payable, for the service of that financial year. ~

FIRST SCHEDULE

Sums Payable for the General Services

Head 1, His Excellency the Governor-General Rs.
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Establishment
and Office of His Excellency the Governor-General .. 446,341
Head 2, Supreme Court

Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Supreme Court 1,719,771

Head 3, Cabinet Office

Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Cabinet Office. . 132,134
Head 4, Senate

Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Senate ag 513,493

Head 5, House of Representatives
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Department of
the House of Representatives si ae 1,414,327 ;

Head 6, Judicial Service Commission
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Judicial Service
Commission - ane is 89,080

Head 7, Public Service Commission
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Office of the

Public Service Commission ie 208,255

Head 8, Audit Office
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Department of
the Auditor-General ‘3 - 2,968,178
Head 9, Planning Secretariat
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Planning
Secretariat aa = ia . 467,540

Head 10, Offices of the Leader of the House of Representatives and
the Chief Government Whip
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Offices of the
Leader of the House of Representatives and the Chief
Government Whip .. + wi 63,147 |
Head 11, Office of the Leader of the Opposition in the House of
Representatives
Vote No. I, Salaries and expenses of the Office of the
Leader of the Opposition in the House of Re-

presentatives iva 42,187


Appropriation Act, No. 24 of 1959

Head 16, Prime Minister and Minister of Defence and External
Affairs
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Establishment
and Office of the Prime Minister

Head 16, Prime Minister and Minister of Defence and External
Affairs

Vote No. 2, Salaries and expenses of the Office of the

Minister of Defence and External Affairs ,

Head 16, Prime Minister and Minister of Defence and External
Affairs
Vote No. 3, Contributions and Services

Head I

~

, Ceylon Defence
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Army

Head 17, Ceylon Defence
Vote No. 2, Salaries and expenses of the Royal ae
Navy

Head 17, Ceylon Defence
Vote No. 3, Salaries and expenses of the Royal Ceylon
Air Force .

Head 18, Department of External Affairs Abroad
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of Sey on Missions
Abroad ie : its

Head 18, Department of External Affairs Abroad.
Vote No. 2, Maintenance, repairs and running epxenses
of Hostel and Centre for Ceylon Students in London

Head 19, Police
Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Police Depart-
ment including grants and contribution to Social
Welfare Institutions and cost of special services

Head 19, Police
Vote No. 2, Salaries and expenses in connection with
special measures against illicit immigration :

Head 20, Department of Immigration and Emigration and
Registration of Indian and Pakistani Residents

Vote No. 1, Salaries and expenses of the Office of the

Controller of Immigration and Emigration ‘

Head 20, Department of Immigration and Emigration and
Registration of Indian and Pakistani Residents

Vote No. 2, Salaries and expenses of the Office of the

Commissioner for Registration of Indian and Pakis-

tani Residents ae os

415,495

1,186,276

1,479,000

27,316,869

16,428,123

14,121,033

8,986,703

91,860

39,602,130

100,000

801,398

116,539


6 Ceylon,(Parliamentary Elections):(A mendment)
Act, No. 26 of 1959

- Electoral District, and I ‘apply to be treated as a postal voter
at the election of a: member for the abovenamed Electoral Dis-
trict because I am unable*/ likely to be unable to vote in person
‘at the polling station allotted to me—

; : *(1) ‘by reason of the particular circumstances of my employ-
eo ment ,

. *(a) as a member of the Ceylon Army*/Royal Ceylon
“ur Navy*/Royal Ceylon Air Force ; —

“#(b) as an officer or servant in the Department of
Police*/Ceylon Government Railway*/Depart-
ment of Postal and Telecommunication Services;

—*(c) as an officer or servant in the public service
appointed*/likely to be appointed for duties con-
nected with the election;

: *(2) by reason of my candidature in Electoral District
Obie Nin engulieoures snemnmqanees , (give number and name of Electoral
District). |
The address to which my ballot paper*/papers and other docu-
ments should be sent is as follows :—

‘If the applicant is not entitled to
function as a certifying officer in
accordance with the note appearing
below, -state official designation and
address of applicant’s certifying
officer.

If the applicant is entitled to
function as a certifying officer,
state applicant’s official designa-
‘tion and address. 2"

_ I hereby certify that I am unable*/likely to be unable*/the
applicant is unable*/likely to be unable/to vote in person at
the polling station allotted to me*/him for the reason stated by

- me*/him in: this application.

My official designation and address as stated in this application
are correct.

Date and official frank: srremenvatnitete paveenepanmnnowes

‘Signature and designation of
— certifying officer*/applicant. .
* Delete inapplicable words.
seppeneerenes wreck ah cca i Sere rere + Notee cc wna ee
1." Every application shall be made to the Registering Officer
‘of the Electoral District where the applicant is. registered ag an
elector not later than seven days after the day of nomination,.


Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections) (Amendment) ‘7
Act, No. 26 of 1959

2. Every application shall be duly filled in as- otherwise ‘it
is liable to rejection by the Registering Officer.

.8. Every applicant will be informed of the decision of the
“Registering Officer.

4. The ballot paper or papers and other documents will be
despatched to any applicant whose application has been allowéd
to his name and address as stated in his application if he is
entitled to function as a certifying officer or, if he is not so
entitled, under the care of the certifying officer whose official
designation and address are stated in his application.

t

5. The expression “‘ certifying officer '',—

(a) in relation to any applicant who, being a member of the
Ceylon Army or Royal Ceylon Navy or Royal Ceylon
Air Force,—

(i) is the Commander of that Army or the Captain
of that Navy or the Commander of that Air
Force, or is the officer ‘in immediate charge
of the unit or establishment in which the
applicant is serving, means the applicant; or

(ii) is not a person referred to in clause (i) of this
sub-paragraph, means the officer in immediate
charge of the unit or establishment in which
the applicant is serving;

(b) in relation to any applicant who, ‘being ‘an officer or
servant in the public service,—

(i) is the officer in immediate charge of any office,
means the applicant; or

-.(ii) is not a person referred to in clause (i) of this
sub-paragraph, means the officer in immediate
charge of the office in which the applicant is
serving; or

(c) in relation to any applicant who is a-candidate at a
general election, means the Returning Officer for the
Electoral District in which the applicant is-registered

_ as an elector.

REGULATION 6—FORM B...
ae Form of Declaration of Identity.

FRONT OF FORM.

Serial number*/numbers of ballot paper*/papers ......seeeseerees
reste easeacnns ; (To be inserted by Returning Officer).

*JT hereby declare that.I ‘am the person to whom the ballot
paper*/papers bearing the above serial number*/numbers and


‘8 Ceylon: (Parliamentary Elections) (A méndment)
‘Act, No.'26. of 1959

“the ‘envelope :containing such ballot paper*/papers (which have
been now handed over to me) were sent under the caré of the
officer mentioned below who js a witness to my signature.

C3

4k I hereby declare that Tam ‘the * person “to: whom the ballot.
paper*/papers numbered as above and the envelope: containing
-guch--ballot - ‘paper" [papers (poshiro of. ‘which I-now Produes) were

‘gent’ direct.: 2 ares et 2 ae
a od dh Giere Com eo a Cees oe sey leg wae wae
oo tier ni me 3 cos oS NS SG < an OR oe 8 ee sent epaneRevagenetecten nig,
ee a ee a . . -Noter’s: Signature,
Date besveseeneesese - , _ : ; _

| Ce ee sae 4
ARaey a Sa td ry a

' * The ballot venar® paper and the eavelopa towel to were
“sent: £0, the. abovenatned person under my care in my capacity
“as ‘his - -certifying. officer.. The abovenamed person is personaliy
known to me, being a candidate at the pending Parliamentary
Election* /being employed in the Uniti festablenmans* sores in
may charge. |

** The'ballot paper* fpapers handed over to ‘he voter was*/were
 Wadkead immediately:by him .in the compartment provided in my
office. The marked ballot .paper*/papers was*/were placed in
the ballot paper envelope by the voter and the envelope was
‘sealed in my presence and that of the voter.:. ** The official
‘identity card of the voter was shown to me. The above Declara-
- tion’ of: :Identity was cae in. Lay presence by the voter before
voting. '

ss, ee a DO iovennraxa person who is personally known to me
has shown me ‘the ballot paper*/papers and the envelope ‘referred
to above/**and his official identity card/and has signed the
above declaration in my presence,

eaeeetenroesteoesey opeenaseece oe

ill _ Signature and designation of
acpi, Beep . Witness.

Date and Official Frank ..,..c:sssccesssecssersees

“Boe . Bee instructions on back of this Form. i a)

’ a
*

oe Delete if : inapplicable.

_ ** Should be deleted if no official sdentiny. cards | are. required
to be issued for the purpose of the election.

*** Applicable ‘only: in respect of voters: to whom ballot paper
or papers and other. documents were. sent direot under their
official designation and: address and should be deleted if inappli-
cable. The witness to the declaration in respect of such voters
will be as specie’ in. the. Instructions overleaf.

* Baox ‘OF Form. eae pl corres Un e
‘ es .Y .

rue
if Se Be SEE Re cie S e Ree eee eT

A. Tastrastions to Voter in respect of whom ballot
‘''o:' 9-"“paper*/papéis ‘and other - documents” have :-been*
nk ot. despatehed: under-the care of -his. Certifying. Officer,.=%


Ceylon (Par. Sta) Elections) (A mendment). 3
Act, No. 26 of 1959
1. Before signing the declaration, the voter in respect of
whom ballot: paper*/papers and other documents have been
despatched: minder the care of -_ pont ying Officer shall

(a) seo—

(i the envelope in which the form ‘of. declaration
of identity and the ballot paper*/papers were
forwarded to the voter under the care of such
officers; r oe

(i) that the serial Sinisa of the ballot
paper* / papers ‘specified in the declaration of
"identity is*/are the same ‘as ‘the number* /
numbers appearing on the ballot papers (papers

< handed over -to him; j

ms sasalvae: his official ‘identity card before stk officer if
:: such card is required. to to be. issued ion ae -pumpese
- of the election, tls _

‘. The voter shall then sign the aaslavations in tic ‘presence 5 of
such ofiger who. — function as his witness, cas

"xg, ‘The volar ee only énevote, i: coe
era The’ “voter: “has s8.225.82 ‘Votes; - “and: he‘ thay’ give’ each
of his ‘votes to a diferent: candidate-or all or-any of his votes
to- the‘ same ‘candidate... The voter: shall: eive: each: wots on 8
separate ballot paper. fe ee
-.4. The .voter. shall. vote . = — a-ballot paper with: a
cross in the space provided for: the purpose on. the right -hand

side of such paper opposite the name of the candidate for whom
he votes, thus X.

- 6. THE VOTER SHALL NOT ALLOW ANY PERSON, TO
SEE. HOW: ‘HE HAS VOTED.

6. ‘Immediately after voting the voter shall fold the’ ballot
paper*/papers, obtain the small envelope provided on which are
printed the ‘words.-‘‘.Ballot Paper Envelope ’’ from his witnéss,
place the marked ballot paper*/papers in it without showing
the front of the ballot paper*/papers and fasten the envelope up.
The envelope shall then be sealed in she presence of the voter
and his. witness. ~

~The voter shall then place the satis ballot paper anil
together with his completed declaration of identity in the other
larger. enclosed envelope addressed to the Returning Officer,
fasten the Cnvelepe 6 and -hand it, over ‘to nig witness, 5 for despeteh
without delay. - ie ;

7. “AS POSTAL ° BALLOT “PAPER. SHALL NOT BE
DEEMED TO BE DULY. RETURNED, UNLESS IT IS
RETURNED SO AS TO REACH THE RETURNING OFFICER
BEFORE THE CLOSE OF THE POLL ON THE POLLING
DAY APPOINTED, AND IS ACCOMPANIED BY THU
DECLARATION ‘OF. IDENTITY - DULY SIGNED - AND
WITNESSED,

* Delete - if inapplicable.


10 Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections) (A mendment)
Act, No. 26 of 1959 |

B. Instructions to. Voter in respect of whom ballot

> paper*/papers .and other documents were sent

direct to him under his official designation and
address. :

- 1. Before signing the declaration of identity, the voter shalle
show the person before whom he is to sign such declaration—

(a) the ballot paper*/papers bearing the same number*/
numbers as is*/are specified in such declaration,

(b) the envelope in which the voter has received the form
of declaration of identity and the ballot paper*/papers,
and

(c) his official identity card if such card is required to be
issued for the purpose of the election.

2.°- The -voter shall sign the declaration of identity in the
presence of a witness who shall—

(a) if the voter is a member of the Ceylon Army, Royal

Ceylon Navy, or Royal Ceylon Air Force, be a

Commissioned Officer of such Army, Navy, or Air
Force;

(b) if the voter is an officer or servant in the public service, .

be a superior officer of such. service, or if the voter

_ has no superior officer, any other officer of such service.

*3. The voter has only one vote.

*4. The voter has ..:..........05 votes, and he may give eacit
of his votes to a different candidate or all or any of his votes to
the same candidate. The voter shall give each vote on 4 separate
ballot paper.

5. The voter shall vote by marking a ballot paper with a cross
in the space provided for the purpose on the right hand side of
such paper opposite the name of the candidate for whom he votes,
thus X.

6.. THE VOTER SHALL NOT ALLOW ANY PERSON TO
SEE HOW HE HAS VOTED. .

7, Immediately after voting, the voter shall place the marked
ballot paper*/papers in the enclosed small envelope on which
are printed the words “‘ Ballot Paper Envelope ’’ and fasten it
up. The voter shall then place the Ballot Paper Envelope,
together with the declaration of identity, in the other largar
enclosed envelope addressed tothe Returning Officer and despatch
them by post without delay. Unless the voter returns the ballot
paper*/papers at once it may be too late to be counted.

. g. A POSTAL BALLOT PAPER SHALL NOT BJ
DEEMED T0 BE-DULY RETURNED, UNLESS IT 1
RETURNED SO AS TO REACH THE RETURNING OFFICER
BEFORE THE CLOSE OF THE POLL ON THE POLLING
DAY APPOINTED, AND IS ACCOMPANIED BY THE
DECLARATION OF IDENTITY DULY SIGNED AND
WITNESSED.

* Delete if inavpvlicable.’’.
