PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
3rd Session 1967-68 rem...

. ASN

Sr ey 7

SLLDS eg « j

hice Figo -+ 7 }

Wally we Ap

ar Sys Peay eee cal
QEY
Ceylon State Mortgage Bank
and Finance (Amendment)
Act, No. 33 of 1968
Date of Assent : June 22, 1968
Printed on the Orders of Government

ee ee ee
Bria ty oO gas Beaty, CaaS
asi ler (lig Beha Tal Be 0
ee ee a ae ee Cotehmg before
Somer eo FO, es i, CaP tag tas
eo
oat ma 185 ped eae


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank und Finance

(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968

L. D0, 2/68,

An Acr To AMEND THE CEYLON SraTe Morrcace

Bank ORDINANCE, AND THE Fivance Acr, No. 11

oF 1963.

(Date of Assent: June 22, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows: —

4. (1) This Act may be cited as the Ceylon State short stl,
Mortgage Bank and Finance (Amendment) Act,
No. 33 of 1968.

(2) The provisions of this Act, other than the
provisions of the sections referred to in sub-section (8),
shall come into operation on the date of enactment of
this Act.

(8) The provisions of sections 31, 42 and 53 of this
Act shall come into operation on such date as may be
appointed by the Minister by Order published in the

- Gazette.
PART I.
AMENDMENTS To THE CEYLON Stars MorTGace BANK
Onprvance.

2. Section 2 of the Ceylon State Mortgage Bank Amendment ot
Ordinance, hereafter in this Act referred to as the Gi0n.9,%
“‘ principal enactment”, is hereby amended as
follows: —

(1) by the insertion, immediately before the
definition of the expression “‘ the bank ”, of
the following new definition: —

«© agriculture ” includes the raising of
crops, horticulture, animal husbandry,
ponlizy farming, dairy farming and

-keeping; ’ 5

(2) by the omission of the definition of the

expression “‘ branch board ””;
Tania 9.1004)69


2 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968

(8) by the insertion, immediately after the
definition of the term “board”; of the
following new definition: —

“Central Bank” means the Central
Bank of Ceylon established under the
Monetary Law Act; ’;

(4) by the substitution, for the definition of the
terms ‘“‘ director ””, “‘ member of a branch
board”, “manager”, and “ assistant
manager”’, of the following new
definition :—

« director”, “‘ general manager "’, and
“ deputy general manager ” means the
persons appointed to such offices under
this Ordinance; ’; and

(6) by the insertion, immediately before the
definition of the term “ prescribed ””, of the
following new definition: —

<* Joan” means a loan of money, and
includes any overdraft, or any other“
monetary accommodation by whatsoever
name or designation called; ’.

Amendment o¢ 8. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby
wives teh amended by the substitution, for all the words from
enactment. “in Colombo ” to the end of that section, of the words
“ to carry out the purposes of this Ordinance.””.
Replacement ot 4% Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 5 of, repealed, and the following new section substituted
the principal PE
toackmeate therefor: —
*" Head ofico 5. The head office of the bank shall
of the bank be in Colombo. Such branch offices of the
bank, as the board considers necessary,
may, with the prior approval of the
Minister, be established at places in
Ceylon, other than Colombo. No branch
office so established shall be closed except _
with like approval.””.


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 8
(Amendment) Act, No. 88 of 1968

5. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby  Replscement of
repealed, and the following new section substituted gs. 7,2f,
therefor: — coscmeat
Barend 7. The bank is, subject to the provi-

= sions of this Ordinance, authorized to
carry on and transact the several kinds
of business specified in section 51.”.

6. The following new section is hereby inserted  Inertion of
immediately after section 9, and shall have effect as "se"orcipat
section 9A, of the principal enactment: — ‘ennctment.
{Bete of the 9a. No act or proceeding of the
te 2 board shall be invalid by reason only of
reason of the existence of any vacancy among the
sey meancy. directors, or any defect in the appoint-

ment of a director.’”.

7. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the insertion, at the end of that section, #0016 of
of the following new sub-section: — nectmont.

“(3) If it appears to the Minister that any

director is temporarily unable to discharge the

duties of his office on account of ‘ill health or

absence from Ceylon or for any other cause, the

Minister may appoint any other person to act in

place of such director.””.

8. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended in the proviso to that section, by tho fetes. 16 of
substitution, for the expression ‘“‘ten thousand  ensctmeat.
rupees”, of the expression “‘ twenty-five thousand
Tupees ””.

9. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment ot
amended as follows:— eyed
(1) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the ‘meat
substitution; for the word “ manager”, of

the expression “ general manager ”;

(2) in sub-section ® of that section, by the
substitution, for the expression “ assistant
manager”, of the expression ‘‘ deputy
general manager ”;

(8) in sub-section (8) of that section, by the
substitution, for the expression ‘The
manager and assistant manager”, of the
expression ‘The general manager and
deputy general manager”; and


4 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
(4) in the marginal note to that section, by the
substitution, for the expression ‘‘ manager
and assistant manager."”, of the expression
““general manager and deputy general
manager.””.
Amendment of 40, Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby
sien lef amended as follows:—
‘eugceeni (1) in sub-section (1) of that section—
(@ by the substitution, for the word
“manager ”” wherever it occurs in
that sub-section, of the expression
“general manager ’”; and
(®) by the substitution, for the expression
“if, with the approval of the
Minister,”, of the word “if”;
(2) in sub-section (2) of that section, —
(a) by the substitution, for the expression
“assistant manager”, of the expres-
sion ‘deputy general manager";
and
() by the substitution, for the word
“manager ”” wherever it occurs in
that sub-section, of the expression -
“general manager ”; and
(8) in the marginal note to that section, by the
i substitution, for the expression “‘ manager
' and assistant manager.”’, of the expression
! “general manager and deputy general
manager.”’.

7 Hat is hereby
yendment of 44. Section 21 of the principal enactment is bere!
sii Sret amended in paragraph (6) of the proviso. to that
eeenag! section, by the substitution, for the expression 12

with the approval of the Minister given with, 1
concurrence of the Minister of Finance, he”, ©
expression “‘ if he”.
2 ‘inci is here
12, Section 22 of the principal enactment is b
ree repealed, and the following new section nt is eed
the procs! therefor: — ae
Legal, be 22, The board may, from HM on
sdvioers, time, appoint any duly qualifi emo,
or persons to act as legal, emia,
financial or technical adviser to


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 5
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968
and any such person shall be remunerated
in accordance with such scale of fees as
may be prescribed.””.

43. The principal enactment is hereby amended Omission of »
by the omission of the sub-heading “(TTT) Branch {rom the
Boards ”” appearing immediately after section 23 of pracpel
that enactment. =m

14. Sections 24 to 30 (both sections inclusive) of {2fima°b
the principal enactment are hereby repealed. 19 a se

Eoackment.

45. Section 31 of the principal enactment is hereby Amgodment of
amended by the mubstlinties, for tha <xpreaion Secu!
“manager, assistamt manager,”’, of the expression stmeot-
“general manager, deputy general manager,””.

46. Section 34 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the omission of the expression “‘ every the principal
member of a branch board,””. enactment.

17. Section 35 of the principal enactment is hereby Anenitnent of
amended, in paragraph (a) of that section, by the the proaps!
substitution, for the words “the bank upon the ‘stment.
security of mortgages ”’, of the words ““ the bank ’”.

- 48. Section 51 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
repealed, and the following new section substituted the principal
therefor :— eotctment,
ee 51. (1) Subject to the provisions of
bank ie this Ordinance, the bank is authorized
imorizd © to carry on and transact the several
trapmct. kinds of business hereinafter specified,

namely :—

(a) to grant loans, subject to interest,
ie any person for the purpose
ots
(i) the purchase or lease, or the

cultivation, development
or improvement of any
land used, or to be used.
for any purpose of
agriculture;

(ii) the purchase or lease, or the
construction, repair or
renewal, of any build-
ing, factory, mill, mine,

® machinery or equipment


6 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
used, or to be used, in
connection with any
agricultural or other
prescribed undertakin,
not inconsistent with
the objects of the bank;

(iii) the purchase or lease of any
land for the construe-
tion of a dwelling
house;

(iv) the construction, repair,
renovation or extension
of a dwelling house;

(*) the purchase or lease of a
dwelling house;

(vi) the manufacture or prepara
tion of any agricultural
or other prescribed pro-
duct or commodity for
sale in the market;

(vii) any purpose incidental,
‘accessory or ancillary to
any purpose mentioned
in any of the foregoing
sub-paragraphs;

(viii) the liquidation of any debt
already incurred for any
purpose mentioned in
any of the foregoing
sub-paragraphs;

(®) to grant loans of money, subject
to interest, to any person for
the purpose of conducting any
agricultural business, or for
the settlement of debts incurred
under any mortgage provided
such mortgage has been to
secure a loan raised for 8

ur falling within the
purview of the bank;

(0) to finance, and to participate in,
the share capital of corpor-
ations established or main-
tained with capital wholly or
partly provided by the Govern-
ment and engaged in agricul-
ture;


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 7
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968

(@ to grant loans of money to any
person for the purpose of
carrying out any _ scheme
approved by the Minister of

‘nance for the development of
agriculture;

(e) to carry on the business of hire-
purchase in agricultural
machinery, and equipment used
in agriculture;

(f) to manage, co nig or control,
with or without remuneration,
or to participate in the manage-
ment, supervision or control,
with or without remuneration,
of any agricultural or other
prescribed undertaking of an\
client of the bank where au
management, supervision or
control, or such participation
therein appears to the board to
be necessary in order to protect
the interests of the bank in any
loan granted by the bank;

(g) to act, with or without remunera-
tion, as the technical adviser of
any client of the bank, on any
matter relating to any agricul-
tural or other prescribed
undertaking of such client;

(h) to set up the necessary organization
for selling or marketing any
product of any agricultural or
other prescribed undertaking;

(i) to act as the agent of any client

of the bank, or any other
person, for the purpose of the
purchase of any machinery or
equipment or of any material
of any description, required
for the purpose of any agricul-
tural or other prescribed under-
taking of such client, or other
person, as the case may be;

(j) for the purpose of employing any

) for plas fands of the bank, ©
buy, sell, invest or deal in
stocks, ‘shares, debentures,


8 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
mortgages, bonds or securities
issued or guaranteed by the
Government or the Central
Bank;

(&) to make arrangements for the .
insurance of any _ property
mortgaged to the bank by any
client of the bank;

(D to acquire and undertake the whole
or any part of any business
carried on in Ceylon by am
potean, being & beainges whith
the bank is authorized to carry
on;

(m) with effect from such date as may
be fixed by the Minister by
Order published in the Gazette,
to acquire the whole or any
part or share of any agricul-
tural, residential or business
premises and dispose of such
premises for the purpose of the
administration of the provision
of Chapter Va;

(n) to purchase, take on lease or in,
exchange, hire, or otherwise
acquire any movable or immov-
able roperty, and any rights
or privileges which the bank
may think necessary or con-
venient with reference to any
business which the bank is
authorized to carry on, or the
acquisition of which the bank
may deem to be necessary or
advisable in order to facilitate
the realization of any securities
held by the bank, or to prevent
or diminish any apprehended
loss or liability;

(0) to establish and support, or aid in
the establishment and support
of, associations, institutions,
trusts or schemes for the provid-
ing of pensions and of gratui-
ties and other funds and
conveniences calculated to


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 9
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
benefit employees of the bank
or the dependants of such
employees;

(p) to improve, manage, develop,
exchange, lease, | mortgage,
dispose of, sell, turn to account
or othersise deal with, all or
an, art of the property, an
Hehe of the Tank ingladiog
any property, movable or
immovable, on the security of
which the bank may have made
any loan, or over which the
bank may have any power of
disposal;

(q) to give any guarantee or indem-
nity and to enter into any
agreements with the Govern-
ment or any local authority or
with any body corporate or
other person, in order to obtain
any rights, concessions and
privileges that may seem to the
bank to be conducive to any
object of the bank;

(r) to issue debentures;

(8) to borrow or accept deposits from
the Government, or the Central
Bank, or other such institutions
as are approved for the purpose
by the Monetary Board of the
Central Bank, on such terms
and conditions as may be
mutually agreed upon by them
so however that the aggregate
amount so borrowed and
accepted as deposits at any time
does not exceed the maximum
limit imposed by the Minister,
with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance;

(i) to accept a contribution, not exceed-
ing five million rupees, from the
Government towards the reserve
fund of the bank, subject ‘to


10 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
such terms and conditions as
may be mutually agreed upon
by them;

(uw) to establish and maintain any
institute, or to participate in
any scheme, for the provision
of technical, financial and
management services;

(x) to conduct economic surveys,
studies and seminars ;

(w) to train selected personnel of the
bank and other persons in
accountancy, tacking and
valuation, project and credit
appraisal, and engineering and
scientific skills;

(@) to give indemnities;

(Y) to invest the funds of the bank in
the shares, debentures or other
appropriate securities of public
or private companies engaged
in agriculture;

(®) generally to take, or concur in
taking, all such steps and
proceedings as the bank may
deem to be best calculated to
uphold and support the credit
of the bank, and to do all things
incidental or conducive to the
attainment of the objects, or the
exercise of the powers, set out
in the preceding paragraphs.

(2) Any object or purpose mentioned

in any paragraph of sub-section (1) of
this section shall not, except where the
context expressly so requires or where
any limitation or restriction has been
prescribed, be in any way limited or
restricted by reference to, or inference
from, the terms of any other paragraph
of that sub-section, or the objects therein
specified, or otherwise,


Coylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 11
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968

(3) In this section, the expression

“client of the bank’? means a person

who is in receipt of assistance from the
bank under this Ordinance. *,

19. Section 52 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendmeot of
amended as follows: — Pape
(1) by the repeal of sub-section (1) of that section; ‘*™***

(2) by the renumbering of sub-section (2) of that

section as section 52;

(8) in renumbered section 52 of that enactment, by
the substitution, for the expression “shall,
for the purposes of sub-section (1) and of
section 3, ”’, of the expression “shall, for
the purposes of section 3,”; and

(4) by the substitution, for the marginal note to
that section, of the following new marginal
note: —

“Power to grant additional loans in
certain circumstances.””.

20. Section 5% of the principal enactment, as Amendment of
amended by Act No. 17 of 1958, is hereby further the principal
amended as follows: — tuectment.

(1) by the substitution, for the words “ shall be

granted unless”, of the words “ shall be
granted on the mortgage of property unless’’ ;
and

(2) in paragraph (c) of that section, by the substitu-
tion, for the word “‘valid’’, of the word
“ satisfactory ””.

21. Section 54 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
repealed, and the following new section substituted ffs prncps!
therefor: — ‘enactment.
Men 54. (1) No loan shall be granted
Freot laos, except by a resolution of the board:

Provided, however, that the board
may, under section 19, empower the
general manager to grant loans up to
any sum not exceeding twenty-five
thousand rupees:

And provided further that no loan
exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees
shall be fronted by a resolution passed
by the favourable votes of less than
three directors.


12 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
(2) All loans granted by the general
manager under the provisions of this
section shall be reported to the board
at its next meeting.’’.
Amendment of 22. Section 58 of the principal enactment is hereby
soon Sef amended as follows :— . .
enactments (1) by the repeal of sub-section (1) of that section,
and the substitution therefor of the following
new sub-section: —
“« (1) Repayment of loans shall be made—
(a) half-yearly, quarterly or monthly
by instalments “or equated
payments; or
(®) in accordance with such terms as
may be determined by the
board.”; and
(2) by the substitution, for the marginal note to
that section, of the following new marginal
note: —
“ Manner of repayment of loans.””.
Anguiore st 23, Section 60 of the principal enactment is hereby
jeton@ of amended, by the substitution, for the word ‘‘ board”
ansclacate wherever it occurs in that section, of the word
“bank”.
Insertion of 24, The following new sections are hereby inserted
gow sections immediately after section 61 of the principal enact-
ie priocipsl’ © ment under the sub-heading “‘ (iv) Recovery”, and
enactment, shall have effect as section 614, section 615, section
61c, section 61p and section 61, of that enactment: —
‘Aeton, by 614. Whenever default is made in
defoal a the payment of any sum due on any loan,
sasde, whether on account of principal or of
interest or of both, default shall be
deemed to have been made in respect of
the whole of the unpaid portion of the
loan and the interest due thereon up to
date; and the board may, in its discre-
tion, take action ‘as specified either in
section 615 or in section 61D:
Provided, however, that where the
board has in any case taken action, or
commenced to take action, in accordance


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 18
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968
with section 618, nothing shall be deemed
to prevent the board at any time from
subsequently taking action in that case
by resolution under section 61p if the
board deems it advisable or necessary te
. do so.

Authorization 61n. Subject to the provisions of
eimanaees to, section 61z, the board may by resolution
of morigeged” to be recorded in writing authorize any
eee: person specified in the resolution to
enter upon any immovable property mort-
gaged to the bank as security for any
Joan in respect of which default has been
made, to take possession of and to
manage and maintain such property, and
to exercise the same powers in the con-
trol and management of such property
as might have been exercised by the

mortgagor if he had not made default.
Procedre 6c. (1) Any person authorized by
bes masagee resolution of the board under section 618
in respect of any property shall be
entitled generally to take action in terms

of the resolution and in particular—

(a) to sell the produce of such

7 property;

(®) to receive the rents, profits or
other income from such pro-
perty;

(0) to pay the expenses incurred in
the control and management of
such Property out of the income
from such property;

(@) to sppreprils to himself out of
such income such sum (if any)
as the board may deem fit to
fix as remuneration for his
services;

(e) to remain in possession of such
property until all moneys due
to the bank under the mortars
on such property have n
fully paid or until he is directed
by the board to yield possession
of such property under sub-

: section (2).


14 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968

@) Every, person, authorized by
resolution of the board under section 615
in respect of any property shall—

(@) pay monthly, out of the income of

‘such property such sum (if any)
as the board may in its discre- °
tion fix, to the mortgagor for
his maintenance;

(®) pay quarterly or as otherwise
directed by the board to such
person or persons and in such
manner as the board may direct
the balance of the income from
such property remaining after
the payments herein before
authorized have been made;

(c) keep and render to the board at
such intervals as the board may
determine, clear and accurate
records of all sums received or
paid out by him in respect of
such property;

(@) yield possession of such property
to the mortgagor or some other
person as directed by the board
and pay to the board any «
balance of the income from such
property remaining in his hands
after the payments herein
before authorized have been
made.

(3) The board shall when all sums due
to the bank under the mortgage have been
fully paid surrender possession of the
mortgaged property to the mortgagor
and return to him any balance remaining
of the income from such property.

-Anthorization 61D. Subject to the provisions of
oad section 61z, the board may by resolution
property. to be recorded in writing authorize any
rson specified in the resolution to sell

= public auction any immovable pro-

erty mortgaged to the bank as security

for any loan in respect of which default

has been made in order to recover the

whole of the unpaid portion of such loan,

and the interest due thereon up to the


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 15
(Amendment) Act, No. 83 of 1968
date of the sale, together with the
moneys and costs recoverable under
section 63.

Where borower 618, (1) Save as otherwise provided
+ wot in sub-section (2), the provisions of
sections 618 and 61p shall apply in the
case of any default notwithstanding that
the borrower may have died or that any
right, title or interest whatsoever in the
property mortgaged to the bank as
security for the loan may have passed
by voluntary conveyance or operation of

law to any other person.

(2) Where a borrower is dead and
probate of his will or letters of adminis-
tration to his estate have not been
issued to any person, the District Court
of Colombo or the District Court of the
district in which the property, mort-
gaged to the bank by the borrower, is
sittate, may, upon application made in
that behalf by the board and after service
of notice of the application on such
persons, if any, as the Court may order,

- and if satisfied that the prant of probate
or the issue of letters of administration ,
is likely to be unduly delayed, appoint
a person to represent the estate of the
borrower for the purposes of this section;
and the provisions of sections 618 and
Gp shall not apply in the case of any
default made by such borrower unless and
until a person is appointed under this
sub-section to represent the estate of such
borrower.”’.

25. Section 62 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of

amended as follows: — aes
soacimeot

(1) by the repeal of sub-sections (1) and (2) of that
section;

(2) by the renumbering of sub-section (3), sub-
section (4), sub-section (5), sub-section (6)
and sub-section (7) of that section as sub-
section (1), sub-section (2), sub-section (8),

- sub-section’ (4), and sub-section (5), respec:

tively, of that section;

2m anise (88


16 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968

(8) in renumbered sub-section (2) of that section—
(@) by the substitution, in paragraph (a) of

that sub-section, for the expression

“any penal interest ”’, of the expres-

sion “‘ any penal or other interest pay. *

able under the proviso to section 103”;

(b) by the substitution, in paragraph (b) of
that sub-section,—

(i) for the expression ‘‘ equated pay-
ment”, of the expression
“equated payment or other
payment ”;

(ii) for the expression “any penal
interest”, of the expression
“any penal or other interest
payable under the proviso to
section 103”;

(iii) for the expression “‘ the board
may, in”, of the expression
“the bank may, in’; and

(iv) for the expression “ sub-section
(1), of the — expression
“section 61 ”; .

(4) by the repeal of renumbered sub-section (3) of
that section, and the substitution therefor of
the following new sub-section :—

* (8) (a) The board may fix an upset
pa below which the property shall not
e sold to any person other than the bank.

(®) In fixing an upset price the board
shall have particular regard both to the
outstanding amount of the loan — on
the security of the property and the current

- value of the property.””;

(6) in renumbered sub-section (5) of that section,
by the substitution, for the expression “‘ this
section ”, of the expression “ sections 614 to
68 (both sections inclusive)”; and

(8) by the substitution, for the marginal note to that
section, of the following new marginal
note: — :

“ Special provisions relating to sale.”.


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 17
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968

26, Section 63 of the principal enactment is hereby Anendmeot ot
amended in paragraph (8) of that section, by the {epoca
substitution, for the proviso to that paragraph, of ‘=!
the following new proviso:—

- Provided, however, that the costs incurred

under this paragraph shall not exceed such percen-

tage of the loan as may, from time to time, be fixed

by the bank; and”.

27. Section 64 of the principal enactment is hereby Ameoiment of
amended, by the substitution, for the word “‘ board ", tie rcs!
wherever it occurs in that section, of the word ‘=
“bank”.

28. Section 66 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
Samide aedollowse= ” gees

edoeae

(1) in sub-section (8) of that section, by the substi-

tution, for the expression “land sold in

pursuance of the provisions of section 62”,

of the expression “‘ property sold in
pursuance of the preceding provisions of this

Ordinance ”; and

-  Q) in sub-section (4) of that section, by the
substitution,—

(a) for the expression ‘ in pursuance of the
provisions of section 62”, of the
expression “‘in pursuance’ of the :
preceding provisions of this Ordi-
nance ’”; and

(®) for the expression ‘ the English and in
the Sinhalese or Tamil language, of
the expression “the Sinhala, ‘Tamil
and English languages, ”’.

29. Section 67 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment o
amended, by the substitution, for the expression {i paces!
“nine per centum”, of the expression “the  cotneot
prescribed rate”.

30. Section 69 of the principal enactment is hereby Anestest of
amended, by the substitution, for the expression tS. priel
“under section 62”, of the expression “ in pursuance ssscmest:
of the preceding provisions of this Ordinance ”.


18 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
Townion of B84. ‘The following new Chapter is hereby inserted
pcm, a immediately after Chapter V, and shall have effect
csuctneat.”” as Chapter Va, of the principal enactment:—
“CHAPTER Va
Tae ACQUISITION OF CERTAIN PREMISES *
AND THE DISPOSAL OF SUCH PREMISES.
‘Aaminetaton 704. ‘The bamlk shalll be responsible for
oo and charged with the administration of
the provisions of this Chapter and shal
in the exercise, performance or discharge
of any power, duty or function con-
ferred or imposed upon or assigned to the
bank by or under this Chapter, be subject
to the general direction and’ control of
the Minister.
deeitifos 70B. (1) Subject to the provisions of
reais sub-section (2), the bank is hereby
authorized to acquire the whole or any
part or share of any agricultural, resi-
dential or business premises, if the bank
is satisfied that those premises were, at
any time not earlier than the first day
of January, 1952,—

(a) sold in execution of a mortgage _
decree entered by a court
against the owner of such
premises (hereafter in this
Chapter referred to as the
“original owner ”); or

(®) transferred by the owner of those
premises (hereafter in this
Chapter referred to as the
“original owner”) to any
other person in satisfaction
of a debt which was due
from the original owner or his,
predecessor in title to that other

jerson and which was secured
Pyia mortgage of those premises
subsisting immediately prior to
the transfer; or

() transferred by the owner of those
premises (hereafter in this
Chapter referred to as the
“original owner”) to any
other person, at the request of


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 19
(Amendment) Act, No. 83 of 1968
a mortgagee of those premises,
in satisfaction or part satisfac-
tion of a debt which was due
from the original owner or his
F predecessor in title to that
mortgagee and which was
secured by a mortgage of those
premises subsisting  imme-
diately prior to the transfer; or
(@) transferred by the owner of such
premises to any other person
after receiving from such other
person a sum of money as con-
sideration for such transfer and
: upon the condition that, on the
repayment by the transferor
(hereafter in this Chapter
| referred to as the “ original
H owner’) of that sum with or
| without interest thereon within
‘a specified period, such other
person will re-transfer those
- premises to the original owner.
(2) No premises shall be acquired
under sub-section (1)—

(@ if an application in that behalf
had earlier been made to the
People’s Bank under Part VIII
of the Finance Act, No. 11 of
1963, and such Bank had deter-
mined that such premises should

not be acquired; or
(®) unless an application in that
behalf has been made to the
bank by the original owner of
such premises or his spouse or

children; or

(c) unless the bank is satisfied that the
average statutory income of the
original owner and of the other
< members of the family of which


20 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968
he is the head, computed under
the provisions of the written
law relating to the imposition
of income tax, for the three
years of assessment imme-
diately preceding the date on *
which such application was
made, does not exceed a sum of
ten thousand rupees; or
(d) if the bank is satisfied that the
premises to which the applica-
tion relates are reasonably
required for occupation as a
residence for the original owner
of those premises or any mem-
ber of the family of such owner
or for the purposes of any trade,
business, profession, vocation
or employment of such owner or
any member of his family and
that such owner or member of
his family has no other premises
which could be used for the
purpose for which the premises
to which the application relates
are being used; or .

(©) unless, in the case of an applica:
tion relating to any agricultural
premises, the bank is satisfied
that the original owner is not
the owner of any other agricul-
tural premises exceeding ten
acres in extent.

For the purposes of paragraph (2) of
this cub-section, “member. of the
family”, when used in relation to any
person, means the spouse of that person
or any son or daughter of that person
over eighteen years of age.

(8) Where the bank entertains an
application for the acquisition of any
premises referred to in sub-section (1),

\ the bank shall—

(a) cause notice of the fact to be sent

by registered post to the
owner of such premises;


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 21
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
(®) cause a copy of such notice to be

delivered or transmitted to the |
proper Registrar of Lands for |
registration, setting out the
prescribed particulars relating
to such peor and stating
that _ sucl premises may be e
acquired under this Chapter.

Every notice under paragraph (0)
shall be registered by the Registrar of
Lands in the manner provided in the
Registration of Documents Ordinance
for the registration of an instrument
affecting or relating to land and shall be
deemed for such purposes to be an instru-
ment affecting or relating to premises
the prescribed particulars of which are
set out in such notice:

Provided that, if the bank determines
that such premises shall not be acquired
for the purposes of this Chapter, the
bank shall forthwith cancel such notice
and give written information of the
cancellation to the Registrar of Lands,
who shall register such cancellation.

(4) (@) Where the owner of any
premises receives a notice under sub-
section (3) relating to an application in
respect of the premises, such owner shall
not sell, gift, transfer, lease, mortgage
or otherwise alienate the premises unless
or until such application is dismissed by
the bank.

(b) Any sale, gift, transfer, lease,
mortgage or other alienation of any
premises in contravention of the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of this sub-section
shall be null and void.

(6) No civil court shall entertain any
action—

(a) in respect of any matter which is !
pending before the bank relat-
ing to any acquisition to be
made under this Chapter; or


22 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 88 of 1968
(0) in respect of the validity of the
procedure followed by the bank
relating to such acquisition, or
to the validity of such
acquisition.

(6) The question whether any premises
which the bank is authorized to acquire
tander this Chapter should or should not
be acquired shall be determined by the
bank and every such determination of the
bank shall be final and conclusive and
shall not be called in question in any
court.

(7) Where the bank has determined
that any premises shall be acquired for
the purposes of this Chapter, the bank
shall—

(a) notify such determination to the

owner of such premises; and

(b) cause a notice to be delivered or

transmitted to the | proper
Registrar of Lands for
registration, setting out the
prescribed particulars relating
to those premises and stating
that those premises are to be .
acquired under this Chapter.
Every notice under paragraph (b)
shall be registered by ‘hb Registrar of
Lands in the manner provided in the
Registration of Documents Ordinance
for the registration of an instrument
affecting or relating to land and shall be
deemed for such purposes to be an instru-
ment affecting or relating to the premises
the prescribed particulars of which are
set out in such notice.
Acquisition 70c. (1) Where the bank has deter-
procedare mined that any premises shall be
acquired for the purposes of this
{ Chapter, the chairman of the board shall
cause such determination to be notified
to the Minister.
(2), Upon, being notified of the deter-
mination of the bank in respect of any
premises the Minister may, by Order


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 23
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
(hereafter in this Chapter referred to as
a “vesting Order”) published in the
Gazette, vest in the bank, with effect
from_such date as shall be specified in
the Order, the premises to which such
, determination relates
(3) Where a vesting Order under sub-
section (2) in regard to any premises is
published in the Gazette, such premises
shall, with effect from the date specified
in the Order under that sub-section, vest
absolutely in the bank free from all ,
encumbrances.
(4) Any person specially or generally
authorized in that behalf by the chair-
man of the board may take possession of
any premises vested in the bank by a
vesting Order.
(6), The person who, under sub-section
(4), is snthavized 4 Yaka posseaion of
any premises vested in the bank by a
vesting Order shall, by notice given to .
the person in occupation or in ipassesion
of such premises or exhibited in some
~ conspicuous place in, or in the vicinity H
of, such premises,— ,

(a) inform that such authorized officer

intends to take possession of

such premises for and on behalf

of the bank on such date and at

such time and place as shall be

specified in the notice; and

() require any person interested or

is authorized agent to be
present on the date and at the
time and place so specified, and
to allow and assist such autho-
rized officer to take possession
of such premises for and on
behalf of the bank.

(8) Any notice required to be given to
any person under sub-section (5) shall be
deemed to Be piven to him if such notice
is sent to him by registered letter

i“ through the post.


24 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 88 of 1968

(7) Every person—

(a) who contravenes any requirement
of any notice given to him
under sub-section (5); or

(0) who— .
(i) prevents, obstructs or

resists, or
(ii) directly or indirectly causes
anyone to prevent,
obstruct or resist,
any other person from or in
taking possession under the
Preceding provisions of this
section of any premises for and
on behalf of the bank,
shall be guilty of an offence under this
Chapter and shall, on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, he
liable to imprisonment of either descrip-
tion for a period not exceeding one year
or to a fine not, exceeding one thousand
rupees or to both such imprisonment and
fine.
ese 70p. (1) Notwithstanding that any
Order premises have vested in the bank by ~
virtue of a vesting Order, the Minister
may at any time by a subsequent Order
published in the Gazette (hereafter in
this section referred to as a “ divesting
Order”) revoke that’ vesting Order.
(2) The following provisions shall
apply in any case where a vesting Order
in respect of any premises is revoked by
a divesting Order:—

(a) such premises shall be deemed
never to have vested in the bank
by virtue of that vesting Order,
and any question which might
arise as to any right, title or
interest in or over such premises
shall be determined accord-
ingly; and

(®) all claims under this Chapter to
the compensation payable in
respect of such premises, and


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 25
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968

all Proceedings taken under

this Chapter in regard to such

claims, ‘before that. vesting

Order was revoked, shall be

deemed to be null and void; and

() no compensation shall be payable

under this Chapter in respect of
the period prior to the revoca-
tion of that vesting Order
during which such premises
were vested in the bank.

(3) The preceding provisions of this
section shall have effect notwithstanding
anything in any other provision of this
Ordinance or in any other written law.

Notice to 708. Where any premises are vested in
pees the bank, the chairman of the board
‘tke ceims shall, by notice published in the Gazette
‘ete atin and in such other manner as may be
payable determined by him, direct every person
ae who was interested in such premises
respect of immediately before the date on which
soy premise such premises were so vested, to make,
the bask. within a period of one month reckoned
from the date specified in the notice, a
written claim to the whole or any part
of the compensation payable under this
Chapter in respect of such premises, and
to specify in the claim—
(@) his name and address;
(®) the nature of his interest in such
‘premises;
(0) the particulars of his claim; and
(@ how much of such compensation is
claimed by him.
Provisions to 70r. Upon the receipt of any claim
wirbe iy made under section 70B to the compen-
staimmin of sation payable under this Chapter in
recemrwt respect of any premises vested in the
aime to bank, the chairman of the board sball
soppensation. cause the following documents to be sent
to the claimant by registered letter
through the post—

(a) a copy of any such report in regard

: tthe condition of the alore-

said premises as has been made


26 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. $3 of 1968

by or under the authority of

the bank under any rule made

under this Ordinance, if a copy
of that report has not already
been served on the claimant;

(®) @ copy of any such assessment of
the compensation payable under
this Chapter in respect of the
aforesaid premises as has been
made by or under the authority
of the bank;

(0) a notice requiring the claimant,
within the time specified in the
notice—

() to furnish to the bank a
written statement set-
ting out whether or not
he agrees with the report.
referred to in the pre-
ceding paragraph (2)
and the assessment
referred to in the pre-
ceding paragraph |)
and, if he does not so
agree, any objections
that he may have to such
report and assessment,
and the grounds of such
objections, and

(ii) to produce to the bank all
documents, and in parti-
cular the ‘documents in
regard to the condition
of the aforesaid pre-
mises, relied on by him
in support of any such
objection.

Reference to 700. (1) The chairman of the board
the compen. shall refer to the compensation tribunal
{nbunal for determination of the amount of the
snsvard.s! compensation payable in respect of any
fnvespect of property vested in the bank under this
soy premises Chapter and shall transmit to the tribu-
iiit‘nder” nal all claims made to such compensation
this Chapter. together with all documents furnished by
the claimants in support of their claims,


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 27
(Amendment) Act, No. 83 of 1968
and all documents, copies of which have
been served on or transmitted to the
claimants by the bank,
(2) A reference made under sub-
+ section (1) to the compensation tribunal
is hereafter in this Chapter referred
to as a ‘‘ reference for an award as to
compensation ”.
Compecsston 70H. The amount of compensation to
‘erect be paid under this Chapter in respect of
vested in End premises vested in the bank shall be
weber either the actual amount for which such
Chapter. premises were purchased by, or trans-
ferred to, the owner thereof together
with such interest thereon as may have
been determined by the compensation
tribunal, and an additional sum which
is equal to the reasonable value of any
subsequent additions and improvements
made to such premises by any person who
was interested in such premises before
the publication of the resting Order in
regard to such premises or the market
value of such premises, whichever is less.
Wheo compen- 703. The compensation payable in
a respect of any premises vested in the
any vented bank under this Chapter shall be con-
Penis sidered as accruing due from the date on
* Which those premises were so vested.
Proportionate 70x. (1) The amount of compensation
Rayment of to be paid to any person in respect of any
af premises vested in the bank under this
Chapter shall be proportionate to the
interest such person had in such premises
on the date on which such premises were
so vested.
(2) Where any premises are subject to
a mortgage or lease at the time when
those premises were vested in the bank
under this Chapter, the rights of the
mortgagee or of the lessee, shall, notwith-
standing the provisions of sub-section (3)
of section 70c, be limited to any sum paid
under this Chapter as compensation in
respect of those premises.


*
28 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968
Taterest 00 70L. Any compensation payable
compensstion. under this Chapter shall, from the date
on which such compensation accrues due
up to the date of payment, carry interest
at such rate as may be determined by
| the bank with the concurrence of the .-
Minister.
Right to 70m. No compensation in respect of
cospensation. any Premises vested in the bank under
this Chapter shall be paid to any person
under this Chapter unless such person
is entitled to such compensation accord-
ing to an award (hereafter in this
Chapter referred to as an “ award as
to compensation ”’) made by the com
pensation tribunal under this Chapter.
es 70x. Where any compensation
fed payable to any person under this Chapter
compensation 1m Tespect of premises vested in the bank
itt ae. 8 Mot accepted by him when it is
tendered to him or where such person
is dead, cannot be found after diligent
search, or is not known, it shall be paid
to the District Court or the Court of
: Requests havicg jurisdiction over the
place where such premises are situated, —
according as the amount of that compen-
sation exceeds or does not exceed seven
hundred and fifty rupees, to be drawn by
the person or persons entitled thereto.
Consttation 70P. (1) There shall be established,
espa for the purposes of this Chapter, a
* compensation tribunal consisting of ten
members appointed by the Governor-
General of whom at least five shall
be persons with judicial or legal
experience.
(2) A person shall be disqualified for
appointment, or for continuing, as a
member of the compensation tribunal if
he is a Senator, a Member of Parliament,
or a member of the board or an officer or
an employee of the bank.
(3) A member of the compensation
tribunal with judicial or legal experience
shall be appointed to be the chairman, *—


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 29
(Amendment) Act, No. 83 of 1968
and another member with similar experi-
ence shall be appointed to be the vice-
chairman, of the tribunal by the
Governor-General on the recommenda-
tion of the Minister.

(4) Every member of the compensation
tribunal shall, unless he earlier vacates
office or is removed therefrom by the
Governor-General, hold office for a
period of three years. Any member of
the tribunal who vacates office by
efiluxion of time shall be eligible for
reappointment.

(5) There shall be appointed a secre-
tary to the compensation tribunal (here-
after in this Chapter referred to as the
“* secretary ’’) and such other officers and
servants as may be necessary for the
performance of the work of the tribunal.

(6) The members, officers and servants
of the compensation tribunal shall be
remunerated at such rates as may be
determined by the board.

Moetings of 709. (1) The secretary shall, under

Stpensation the direction of the chairman or in his

‘tribunal, absence the vice-chairman of the compen:
sation tribunal, convene meetings of the
tribunal for the consideration and
determination of references for awards
as to compensation.

(2) The chairman or vice-chairman
and four other members of the compen-
sation tribunal shall be summoned to a
meeting of the tribunal. Such other
members shall be chosen by lot by the
secretary. The quorum for a meeting
of the tribunal shall be three members.

(3) Two separate meetings of the
compensation tribunal may be convened
and held at the same time to consider
and determine different references for
awards as to compensation.


30 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968

(4) Where the chairman or the vice-
chairman is summoned to a meeting of
the compensation tribunal, the chair-
man or vice-chairman, as the case may
be, shall preside at that meeting, and in
the absence of the chairman or the vice- ©
chairman the members of the tribunal
summoned to and present at that meet-
ing shall choose from themselves a
chairman for the meeting.

(5) A member of the compensation
tribunal who is interested in any matter
which is the subject of a reference for an
award as to compensation or who has
been consulted as an advocate or proctor
or in any other capacity in regard io
that matter by or on behalf’ of any
person interested therein shall not parti-
Gipate in any proceedings of a meeting
of the tribunal on such reference.

(6) A meeting of the compensation
tribunal may from time to time be post-
poned or adjourned.

Proceedings 70r. (1) Every reference for an-»

before ation award as to compensation shall be con-

abuse. sidered and determined at a meceting of
the compensation tribunal.

(2) The secretary shall fix a date, time
and place for the consideration and
determination by the compensation
tribunal of each reference for an award
as to compensation.

(8) The secretary shall, in respect of
every reference for an award as to com-
pensation, keep a record of all such
proceedings before the compensation
tribunal as relate to that reference.

Power to 70s. (1). The chairman or _ vice-
same: , chairman of the compensation tribunal
winewes, 46 and, if the chairman or the vice-chair-
man ig not presiding at any meeting of
the tribunal, the chairman of that meet-
ing shall, for the purposes of the con- «-
sideration and determination of any


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 31
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
reference for an award as to compensa-
tion, have all the powers of a District
Court—
(a) to summon and compel the
. attendance of witnesses;

() to compel the production of docu-

ments; and

(c) to administer any oath or aflirma-

tion to witnesses.

(2) Every person giving evidence on
any matter before a meeting of the com-
pensation tribunal shall Be bound to
state the truth on such matter.

(8) Every person who attends a meet-
ing of the compensation tribunal as a.
witness shall be paid as travelling and
other expenses such sum as may be
determined by the chairman of the

‘ meeting.
Determination 707. (1) The determination made at
Of the ation: @ Meeting of the compensation tribunal ;
tnbunale on any matter considered at that meet-
ing shall be deemed to be the determina
7 tion of the tribunal on that matter.

(2) Where the members of the com- ‘
pensation tribunal who consider any
matter disagree with regard to the
determination of that matter, the deter-
mination of the majority of them shall
be the determination of the tribunal on
that matter, and, where the members
are equally divided in their opinion,
the determination supported by the
chairman of the meeting b ‘which that
matter is considered shall be the deter-
mination of the tribunal on that
matter.

(8) Every determination of the com-
pensation ‘tribunal shall contain the
reasons therefor.

Campeneation 70u. Subject to the provisions
Toque, RY contained in this Chapter in respect of
Drovedvre at procedure, the compensation tribunal
ee may Jay down the procedure to be
e observed at meetings of the tribunal.
=a ines c00)


32 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. $8 of 1968

‘ee nenk and TOV, Where a reference for an award

Gimante tas to compensation is made to the com-

to be given an pensation tribunal, the tribunal shall,

gpenuaity before making an award, give the bank

feard before and every person who has made a claim

Ge makiog to compensation an opportunity of being
heard either in person or by an agent
authorized in that behalf.

Provisions 70w. (1) Where a copy of any report

aie made by or under the pathority of the
bank in regard to the condition of any
premises vested in the bank under this

chapter is served on any claimant to

compensation in respect of such premises,
then, in so far as that claimant is con-
cerned, that report shall, in any pro
ceedings relating to the claim of the
claimant before the compensation
tribunal, be prima facie evidence of the
facts stated therein until the contrary
is proved.

(2) Where a copy of the bank’s
assessment of compensation in respect of
any premises is served on any claimant
to such compensation, that assessment
shall, in any proceedings relating to the >
claim of the claimant before the compen-
sation tribunal, be prima facie evidence
of the facts stated therein until the
contrary is proved.

(3) Where a report in regard to the
condition of any premises vested in the
bank, or the bank’s assessment of any
compensation, is prima facie evidence
of the facts stated therein under the
preceding provisions of this section in
any proceedings relating to a claim to
compensation before the compensation
tribunal, then, the claimant shall not be
entitled to produce in those proceedings
any document in support of any objec-
tion to such report or assessment unless
that document had been produced to the
bank as required by or under this
Chapter. =


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 33
(Amendment) Act, No. 83 of 1968

de avacd ot 70x. (1) Where a reference for an
tate bythe aWard as to compensation is made to the
‘compensetion compensation tribunal in respect of any
‘Pibural on premises vested in the bank, tg tritanal
shall, after considering all such matters
and hearing all such witnesses as may
be necessary for the purpose and after
complying with the provisions of section
70v and section 70w make, save as
otherwise provided in sub-section (2),

an award determining—

(a) whether or not each person who
has made a claim to compensa-
tion is a person entitled to
compensation, and if so, the
capacity in ‘which he is so
entitled;

(8) the amount of the compensation
payable in respect of such
premises in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter;
and

(c) the apportionment of the compen-
sation among the persons
entitled to compensation:

Provided that, where there is a
dispute as to the persons entitled to such
compensation or as to the apportion-
ment of such compensation among the
persons entitled to such compensation,
the tribunal shall defer the making of -
an award and shall refer the dispute for
decision to the District Court within
whose jurisdiction such premises are
situated and shall, after such Court or,
in the event of an appeal, the Supreme
Court makes its decision on such dispute,
make an award in accordance with such
decision.

(2) Any person who is dissatisfied
with the decision of the District Court
on a reference made to such Court under
the proviso to sub-section (2) may appeal
agent pcb, deceion, to ‘the Sapomns
Court within the time and in the
manner provided in the Civil Procedure


34 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. $8 of 1968
Code for appeals against decrees in civil
suits. The decision of the Supreme
Court on any appeal to such Court
under this sub-section shall be final.

(8) Where no person makes a claim
to compensation in respect of any
premises vested in the bank, it shall not
be necessary to determine in the award
under this section the matters specified
in paragraphs (a) and (¢) of sub-section
(1) and to comply with the provisions of
sub-section (4) relating to the giving of
notice of the award to claimants to
compensation.

(4) The compensation tribunal shall
cause written notice of awards to be
given to the bank and the claimants to
compensation.

(5) An award of the compensation
tribunal shall be final and shall not be
called in question in any court.

Dispoest of 70y. Any premises vested in the bank
pemivt ., in consequence of an application made to
‘the bank the bank for the acquisition of such
aie premises by any person entitled to make
Lond such application under the preceding
aa provisions of this Chapter may be let by
the bank to such person or where such
person is dead, to the surviving epoute,
if any, or any descendant of such person
upon such terms as will enable the person
to whom such premises are let to become
the owner thereof after making a certain
number of half-yearly payments as rent.
Powers of 70z. Where the bank considers it
gery necessary that an inspection, examina-
tion or survey should be made of any
premises which the bank is authorized
under this Chapter to acquire, it shall
be lawful for any person authorized in
that behalf by the chairman of the board,
together with such persons, implements,
materials, vehicles and animals as may
be necessary, to enter upon and to take
levels of such premises, and to do all


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 35
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
such other acts as may be necessary for
the purpose of such inspection, examina-
tion or survey:

Provided, however, that no person
shall enter or do any act upon any
premises in pursuance of the powers
conferred on him by the preceding provi-
sions of this section unless he has given
the owner or occupier of such premises
at least seven days’ written notice of his
intention to enter such premises or to do
such act thereon.

Power of benk 70a. (1) The chairman of the board
So gall fe on any other person authorized in that
7 behalf by such chairman may, by notice
in writing, direct any person to furnish
before a specified date to the bank or to
such officer thereof as may be specified

in the notice—

(@) a return in the prescribed form
containing the prescribed parti-
culars relating to any such
premises as are referred to in
section 70x of which that person
is, or was at any time, the
owner; or

() such information or explanation
as the bank may require in
respect of any particulars
stated in any return furnished
by that person; or

(c) such documentary or other evidence
‘as the bank may require for the
purpose of verifying any parti-
culars stated in any return or
any information furnished by
that person.

(2) Where any person has a plan of

any premises referred to in section 708,
the Eairman of the board or any other
person authorized in that behalf by such
chairman may by written notice direct
that poe to produce the plan before a
specified date to such officer of the bank
as is specified in the notice in order that
the bank may verify the boundaries and
extent of those premises.


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 37
(Amendment) Act, No. 83 of 1968

may by written notice given in the same
manner as a notice under section 70aA
prohibit the owner or occupier of such
premises from committing or permitting
the commission of any damage to those
premises or to any plantation, building
or other structure on those premises, or
any other act which will dininist the
value of those premises.

(2) Where it is decided not to vest. in
the bank by vesting Order made under
the provisions of this Chapter any
premises ia respect of which a notice has

een given to ‘any person under sub-
section (1), the chairman of the board
shall forthwith cancel that notice and
give written information of the cancella-
tion to that person.

(3) A person who contravenes a notice
issued to him under sub-section (1) shall

: be guilty of an offence and shall, on con-

vietion after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not
exceeding five hundred rupees.

Taloemslliy oe 70cc. No informality or irregularity

reget. Securring in any matter or proceeding
under this Chapter shall invalidate or
affect the title to any land vested in the
bank under this Chapter.

Financial 70pp. All expenses incurred in the

pris administration of this Chapter, includ-
ing the remuneration to be paid to the
members, officers and servants of the
compensation tribunal and the sums to
be paid as travelling and other expenses
to. persons attending a meeting of the
tribunal as witnesses shall be met by the
bank.

Toterprettion. 7088. In this Chapter unless the con-
text otherwise requires—

“ agricultural premises ” means any
property or premises which is
used or capable of being used
wholly or mainly for the pur- *
pose of agriculture or horticul-
ture or for any purpose of


38 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968
husbandry including the keep-
ing or breeding of livestock,
poultry, or bees and the culti-
vation of fruits, vegetables and
the like;

“business premises”? means any
premises other than serie
tural premises or residential
premises;

““compensation tribunal ’’ means the
‘compensation tribunal estab-
lished under this Chapter;

“market value’, with reference to
any premises vested in the bank,
means the price which those
premises would have fetched in
the open market on the date on
which such premises were
vested in the bank;

“person who was interested”, in
relation to any premises vested
in the bank, means a person
who, immediately before the
date on which such premises
were vested, has an interest in
such premises as owner, 00-
owner, mortgagee, lessee or
otherwise, whether absolutely
for himself or in trust for any
other person;

“residential premises’ means any
premises for the time being
occupied wholly or mainly for
the purposes of residence;

“ spouse”, when used with reference
to any person, means the

_ husband or wife, as the case
may be, of that person and
Indludes, in the case of a
marriage by habit and repute or
according to custom, any con-
tracting party to — such
marriage;

“year of assessment ”” has the same

year meaning as in the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 4 of 1963. ’.


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 39
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
32. Section 71 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
repealed, and the following new section substituted {2'-iotipal
therefor :— sonciment.
“scouts of 71. ‘The board shall cause the
. accounts of the bank to be kept in such
form and manner as may be determined
by the board.”

33. Section 72 of the principal enactment is Repeat of |
hereby repealed. i peoaal

84%. Section 73 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacrment of
repealed, and the following new section substituted {f'ptaceat’
therefor :— ‘enactment.
“Limitation on 73, No acoounts of the bank shall be
of secountes overdrawn to the extent of a greater sum

than is authorized by the Minister with
the concurrence of the Minister of
Finance and the repayment of which is
guaranteed by the Ceylon Government
under the signature of the Minister of
Finance.”’.

85. Sections 74 to 80 (both sections inclusive) of Repeal of
the principal enactment are hereby repealed. orth”

Rinse.

86. Sections 82 to 85 (both sections inclusive) of Repeal of

the principal enactment are hereby repealed. ee Se
Sanco.

87. Section 87 of the principal enactment is hereby Repeal of
repealed. Simi

enactment.

88. Section 87A of the principal enactment is Amendment ot
hereby amended by the substitution, for the expression {fe ericchatt
“the manager, the accountant and a majority of the estciment
directors, ”, of the expression “ the general manager,
the accountant, a majority of the directors and the
auditors, ”.

39. Section 89 of the Principal enactment is hereby Ameodment ot
amended by the substitution, for all the words from {ftten.8? of
“the half-yearly ” to “examine them with”, of the emameat".
words “the annual statement of accounts, and he
shall examine such statement and”.


40 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 88 of 1968
Agiednent ot 40. Section 92 of the principal enactment is hereby
the principat, = amended, in sub-section (1) of that section, by the
enactment substitution, in paragraph (a) of that sub-section, for
the expression “ and privileges”, of the expression
“and privileges, the payment of bonuses to them ””.
Amminest ef 44. Section 93 of the principal enactment is hereby
the principal amended in sub-section (1) of that section as
enactment follows:—
(1) in paragraph (a) of that sub-section, by the
substitution,—

(@) for the expression ‘manager and
assistant manager”, of the expres-
sion “general manager and deputy
general manager ””; and

(6) for the expression ‘‘ conditions of
service”, of the expression ‘‘ condi-
tions of service, the payment of
bonuses to them”; and

(2) in paragraph (0) of that sub-section, by the
substitution, “for the expression’ “ legal
advisers,”, of the expression “legal and
other advisers,”’.

Amendment of 42. Section 94 of the principal enactment is hereby .

{ie eto! —- amended in sub-section (1) of that section as follows: —

ics) (1) by the substitution, in paragraph (@) (ii) of that
sub-section, for the words and figures “and
the additional purposes for which loans may
be made under section 51;”, of the words and
figures ‘and the matters stated or required

to be prescribed under section 51;”’;

(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (f) of that sub-
section, for the words ‘on such loans.”’, of
the words ‘‘ on such loans;’’; and

(3) by the insertion, at the end of that sub-section,
of the following new paragraph: —

“@) for carrying out or giving effect to the
rineiples and provisions of Chapter
a and for regulating any matter
regarding the assessment and payment
of any compensation, or any matter
stated or required to be prescribed.
under Chapter Va.”.


' Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 41
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968
_ 48, Section 98 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows:— tena
(1) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the substitu- esscimest
tion, for the words ‘* A director or a member
: of a branch board”, of the words “A
director ”; and

(2) in the marginal note to that section, by the

substitution, for the words “ directors, mem-
bers of branch boards,”, of the’ word
“directors ””,

44. Section 99 of the principal enactment is hereby era 4 of
repealed. the cl

45. Section 100 of the principal enactment is amendment of
hereby amended by the substitution, in paragraph (iii) go", of
of sub-section (1) of that section, ‘for the expression tnecineat
“‘the manager”, of the expression ‘‘ the general
manager ””.

46, Section 102 of the principal enactment is Replacemeat of
hereby repealed, and the Following mew section {eee tial
substituted therefor :— ‘enactment.
“tots end -102. (1) The common seal of the bank
commen seal, Shall be in the custody of the general t

3 manager, and shall not be affixed to any
instrument, except in the presence of the
general manager or, in his absence, of ‘
the deputy general manager, and. two
directors, all of whom shall sign the
instrument in token of their presence.
(2) The common seal of the bank may
be altered in such manner as may be
determined by the bank.””.

47. Section 103 of the principal enactment is Amendment of
hereby amended as follows: — te pragpel

snadiment,

(1) by the substitution, for the words ‘ Any mort-

gage bond”, of the words “ Any instru-
ment ”;

(2) by the substitution, for the words ‘‘ equated

payment,”, of the words “ equated or other
payment,” ;

(8) by the substitution, for the words ‘ loan in res-

: pect of the half-year for which default has
been made”, of the word “loan”; and


42 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968
(4) by the insertion, at the end of that section, of the
following proviso:—
“* Provided, however, that the board
may, in its absolute discretion, waive the
Payment of interest at the prescribed rate
referred to in the preceding provisions of
this section, and may, in lieu thereof, deter-
mine that interest up to double the agreed
rate shall be payable on the instalment in
default for the period commencing on the
date on which the instalment was due and
ending on the date on which the instalment
was paid.”
Amendment of 48, Section 104 of the principal enactment is
wegen 09 hereby amended, by the substitution, for the word
‘enactment. “board” wherever it occurs in that section, of the
word “bank”.
Insertion of 49. The following new section is hereby inserted
new wetion immediately after section 106, and shall have effect,
principal as section 106a, of the principal enactment: —
oactmeat,
“Goapter 81, -106a. The provisions of the Debt
of 1958, not Conciliation Ordinance and the Concili-
tosppl@ ation Boards Act, No. 10 of 1958, shall
not apply to, and in relation to, the bank;
and accordingly such provisions shall be
read and construed subject to the preced-
ing provisions of this section.””.
Retrospective 50. The amendments made in the principal enact-
sea ct. ment by sections 40 and 41 of this Act shall be deemed,
fete tae’ for all purposes, to have had effect from October 1,
aod of existing 1948, and accordingly—
Payments (a) the rules relating to the payment of bonuses to
mee its manager, assistant mariager, subordinate
staff, and other officers and servants hereto-
fore made by the board of directors of the
Ceylon State Mortgage Bank shall be deemed
to have been duly made under the principal
enactment and to have been valid and efiec-
tual at all material times prior to the date of
enactment of this Act;
all payments of bonuses to its manager, assis-
®) dei maneves, subordinate staff and other
officers and servants heretofore made by or
on behalf of the bank, prior to the date of


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance 43
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1968
enactment of this Act, shall be deemed
to have been duly made under the powers
conferred by the principal enactment; and

(c) from the date of enactment of this Act, the

said rules shall be in force as if they were
rules duly made under the principal enact-
ment, and may be amended, rescinded, added
to or replaced by rules made under that
enactment.

51. (1) Notwithstanding the change of designation Ccontinaation
of the office heretofore called the manager of the Cey- i employment
lon State Mortgage Bank, the person, holding office switent
as such manager on the day immediately prior to the mansett of
date of enactment of this Act, shall continue
in employment in the bank in the office of general
manager until such time as he vacates the office of
general manager.

(2) Notwithstanding the change of designation of
the office heretofore called the assistant manager of
the Ceylon State Mortgage Bank, the person, holding
office as such assistant manager on the day immediately
prior to the date of enactment of this Act, shall
continue in employment in the bank in the office
of deputy general manager until such time as he
vacates the office of deputy general manager.

52. Wherever in any provision of any other written Amendmeat of
law (other than the principal enactment), or of any
notice, permit, communication, form or other document laws,
issued, made, required or authorized by or under the
principal enactment or any other such law, the ex-
pression “manager of the Ceylon State Mortgage

ank ’, or the expression “ assistant manager of the
Ceylon State Mortgage Bank ’’, occurs, there shall be
substituted therefor the expression “ general manager
of the Ceylon State Mortgage Bank ””, or the expres-
sion “deputy general manager of the Ceylon State
Mortgage Bank”, as the case may be; and accordingly
wherever in any such provision the abbreviation

“manager” is used to denote the manager of the
Ceylon State Mortgage Bank, or the abbreviation

assistant managee *” is used to denote the assistant
manager of the Ceylon State Mortgage Bank, such
abbreviation shall be read and construed as a reference
to the general manager of the Ceylon State Mortgage
Bank, or the deputy general manager of the Ceylon
State Mortgage Bank, as the case may be.


44 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank and Finance
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1968
PART II.
AMENDMENT TO THE Finance Act, No. 11 oF 1963.
Taertlon ot 53. The following new section is hereby inserted
iaa'No 1 immediately after section 98, and shall have effect as i
of 1963. section 98a, of Part VIII of the Finance Act, No. 11 *»
of 1963:—
‘No spplication 98a. Notwithstanding anything to
'@ ww the contrary in any other provision of
goteaived on this Part of this Act, no application
Guetéhoinea under section 71 (2) of this Part of this
vise ‘Act shall be made to or entertained by
. the Bank on or after such date as may be
fixed in that behalf by the Minister by
Order published in the Gazette.”’.
\
|
|
