PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF
CEYLON (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 23 OF 1997

[Certified on 21st August, 1997]

“}

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 22, 1997

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
_ TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price : Rs. 4.50 Postage : Rs. 2.51


Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
(Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 1997

{Certified on 21st August, a7)
L. D. — O. 25/96.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
CORPORATION OF CEYLON ACT.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 1997.

2. (1) Section 2 of the Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon Act (hereinafter referred to as the
“principal enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (1)
of that section as follows : —

(1) by the substitution for the words ‘referred to as the
“Corporation”, ’ of the words ‘referred to as the
“Bank” ’; and

by the repeal of paragraph (5) of that subsection and
the substitution of the following paragraps
therefor :-—

“(b) shall be called the DFCC Bank .”.

(2)

~ 3. (1) - Inthe principal enactment (other than in the Long

Title) and in any other written law, there shall be substituted

for the words “Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon”
and “Corporation” (denoting the Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon), of the words “DFCC Bank” and
" Bank ” respectively.

(2) Every’ reference to the “Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon” in any notice, notification, contract,
communication, form or other document shall be read and
construed as a reference to the “DFCC Bank’.

Short title.

Amendment of
section 2 of
Chapter 165.

“Development
Finance
Corporation of
Ceylon” and
“Corporation” to
be referred to as
the “DFCC Bank”
and “Bank”
respectively.


Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal | -
enactment.

Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of

section 14 ofthe: '
Principal 2::. 9 ;j
enactment: oon

i *;
| Savings...

2 Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon:

(Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 1997

4. Section 4 of the principal enactment as last amended
by Act, No. 25 of 1993, is hereby further amended as "7
follows :—

Q) jin subsection (1) of that section — | a

... (a) _ by the substitution in paragraph (a) of that
“"““ subsection for the words “of private, industrial,
agricultural and commercial enterprises”, of the
.. ,. words “of industrial, agricultural and commercial
: enterprises,” jan nd . a cana
(b) by the substitution in paragraph (b) of that |
_ “subsection, for the words “of private Capita, : of
ilies the words “of capital. ia |

AOC FH oTHOBNS Lona

@) by the pean of subsection ni) of that section.

“8, ‘Section 5 of the principal ¢ enactment as last etnenided
by Act, No. 25 of 1993 is hereby further amended in paragraph
(vii) of that section by the substitution for the words “to or
for private,:industrial, agricultural and commercial
enterprises,” of the words “to or for industrial, agricultural

and commercial enterprises”.

6. Section 1 14 of the principal enactment as last amended
— by Act, No. 25 of 1993 is hereby further amended in subsection
(1) of that section by the repeal of all the words from “‘No
guarantee shall be a eae under this subsection” to the end of.
pa gee 34 iii BiOMSD) NOUeTONIS OTS

| Sac es | ; : A hee ne ene Devereyreaey oD
Pee Aa aE eee ee wave tots soerevripe § ty ftryit f EB ae
aA AE CRI RAS VE cults) iO ehbOhi VSP Tt 8G {
\ "4

(1) Allcontracts, agreements and other instruments
of the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon subsisting
on the day. immediately prior to the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be deemed to be contracts, agreements or
other instruments entered into by the DFCC Bank. .


Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon 3

(Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 1997

(2) All suits, actions and other legal proceedings
instituted by or against the Development Finance Corporation
. Of Ceylon and pending on the day, immediately prior to the
date of commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be
Suits, actions and other legal proceedings instituted by or
against the DFCC Bank. ! |

(3) All the rights, liabilities and obligations of the
Development Fiance Corporation of Ceylon on the day
immediately prior to the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be deemed to be the rights, liabilities and obligations of
the DFCC Bank.

(4) Every decree, order or judgment entered in favour of
or against the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
by any court in any action or proceeding, shall with effect
from the date of commencement of this Act, be deemed to be
a decree, order or judgment entered in favour of or against
the DFCC Bank and may be enforced accordingly.

8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
