PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

STAMP DUTY (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 10 OF 2008

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 29th February, 2008]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 29, 2008

1Stamp Duty (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2008

2PL 0028156,400 (02/2008)

[Certified on 29th February, 2008]

L. D. O. 68/2007

AN ACT TO AMEND THE STAMP DUTY (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, NO. 12 OF 2006

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Stamp Duty (SpecialProvisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 2008.

(2) The provisions of this Act, shall be deemed for allpurposes to have come into operation from January 1, 2008.

2.Section 6 of the Stamp Duty (Special Provisions) Act,No. 12 of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended as follows:

(1) in paragraph (d) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words credit card holder; and, of the wordscredit card holder;;

(2) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (d), ofthe following new paragraphs:

(dd) in the case of a warrant to act as Notary Public,by the person applying for the office of Notary;

(ddd) in the case of a licence, by the person applyingfor the same; and.

3.Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor:

8. (1) Otherwise than, when stamp duty iscompounded in terms of section 7, the stampduty payable on any specified instrument shallbe paid by means of affixing adhesive stamps tothe required value, prior to, or at the time of, the

Short title andthe date ofoperation.

Amendment ofsection 6 of Act,No. 12 of 2006.

Replacement ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.Manner ofpayment ofstamp duty.

2Stamp Duty (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2008

execution of the instrument. The value of thestamp duty so paid shall be specified on theface of the instrument so executed:

Provided that, share transfers executed in SriLanka shall be stamped within one month fromthe execution of the same.

(2) Stamp duty payable on any specifiedinstrument relating to a mortgage or lease of anyimmovable property may be paid, prior to, or atthe time of, the execution of the specifiedinstrument, to a prescribed bank. Where however,the stamp duty cannot be so paid due to reasonsbeyond the control of the person by whom thestamp duty is payable, the stamp duty shall bepaid to the prescribed bank within seven daysfrom the date of such execution. The bank shallthereupon issue a certificate in the prescribedform certifying that the stamp duty has beenduly paid and such certificate shall be affixed tothe instrument so executed.

(3) Any person executing a specifiedinstrument shall at the time of the execution ofsuch specified instrument which is not stampedwith an impressed stamp, cancel the stampsthereon by writing or marking in ink on or acrosseach stamp, his name or initials, therebypreventing the stamp from being used again.Further, where such specified instrument bearsan adhesive stamp of the value of fifty rupees ormore, such stamp shall be cancelled by the personexecuting a specified instrument by perforatingthe same by either cutting or pricking the stampwith a suitable instrument.

3Stamp Duty (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2008

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

(4) Any specified instrument bearing anadhesive stamp which has not been cancelled inthe manner set out in subsection (3) shall bedeemed to be unstamped to the extent of thevalue of such stamp..

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

4Stamp Duty (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2008

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.