PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON’
2nd Session 1957-58

Courts’ Records (Inspection by
Minister of Justice) Act, No. 9
of 1958

Date of Assent: March 12, 1958

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GovERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be purchased
at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BurREAU, COLOMBO.
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post OrricE Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 10 cents Postage: 10 cents


Courts’ Records (Inspection by Minister of 3
Justice) Act, No. 9 of 1958

“, D.—O. 40/57.

AN ACT TO ENABLE THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE TO CAUSE

., ANY RECORD OF ANY COURT OF JUSTICE TO BE PRO-
DUCED FOR HIS INSPECTION IF HE CONSIDERS SUCH
INSPECTION NECESSARY FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF
HIS DUTIES. ;

¢ [Date of Assent: March 12, 1958]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows :—

4. This Act may be cited as the Courts’ Records
(Inspection by Minister of Justice) Act, No. 9 of 1958.

2. (1) The Minister of Justice may direct any
record of any court of justice to be produced for his
inspection if he considers such inspection necessary
for the performance of his duties.

(2) A direction of the Minister of Justice under sub-
section (1) in respect of a record of any court of justice
shall be communicated in writing by the Permanent
Secretary to the Ministry of Justice,—

(2) where such court is the Supreme Court, to the
Chief Justice,

(b) where such court is a District Court. to the
Judge of that Court,

(c) where such court is a Court,of Requests, to the
Commissioner of Requests of that Court.

(d2) where such court is a Magistrate’s Court, te
the Magistrate of that Court, and

(e) where such court is a Rural Court, to the
; President of that Court.
_ 8. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2),
It shall be the duty of the Chief Justice, District
Judge, Commissioner of Requests, Magistrate, or

resident of a Rural Court, to whom a direction of

e Minister of Justice under section 2 is communi-
‘tated, to cause the record to which such direction
‘Telates to be transmitted to or delivered at the office
:Of the Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Justice.
~" TON. R 19218-3,025 (10/58)

ae

Short titls.

Minister of
Justice may
cause a record
of any cours
of justice to
be produc2d
for his
inspection.

Duty of pirson
to whom 3
direction under
section 2 13
communicated
to comply with
it.


?

4 Courts’ Records (Inspection by Minister of
Justice) Act, No. 9 of 1958 ,

(2) Where a record to which a direction of this
Minister of Justice under section 2 relates— ot

ist

(a) is being used in any trial, inquiry or other:
proceeding that is in progress, or 4

(b) is with the Attorney-General, or me

(c) has been destroyed in accordance with the
rovisions of the Destruction of Valuelesg.
ocuments Ordinance, "

it shall’ be the duty of the person to whom such direc.
tion is communicated under section 2 (2) to report in,
writing to the Minister of Justice that such record is:
being so used or is with the Attorney-General or has.
been so destroyed, and, unless such record has been so:
destroyed, to cause it to be transmitted to or delivered.
at the office of the Permanent Secretary to the’
Ministry of Justice as soon as it 1s available. Vd

(3) Where it is manifest on the face of the record,
or it is made manifest in any other way, that the!
record is required in the court on any particular day, |
it shall be the duty of the Permanent Secretary to!
cause the record to be returned before that day.
