PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ANTI-CORRUPTION ACT, No. 9 OF 2023

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th of August, 2023]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 234.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 11, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

L.D.O. 61/2018

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE UNITED NATIONSCONVENTION AGAINST CORRUPTION AND OTHER INTERNATIONALLY

RECOGNIZED NORMS, STANDARDS, AND BEST PRACTICES; TO PROVIDE

FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN INDEPENDENT COMMISSION TO DETECT

AND INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OF BRIBERY, CORRUPTION AND

OFFENCES RELATED TO THE DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

AND ASSOCIATED OFFENCES, AND TO DIRECT THE INSTITUTION OF AND

INSTITUTE PROSECUTIONS FOR OFFENCES OF BRIBERY, CORRUPTION

AND OFFENCES RELATED TO THE DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND

LIABILITIES AND OTHER ASSOCIATED OFFENCES; TO PROMOTE AND

ADVANCE THE PREVENTION OF CORRUPT PRACTICES; TO EDUCATE AND

RAISE AWARENESS AMONGST THE PUBLIC TO COMBAT CORRUPTION; TO

REPEAL THE BRIBERY ACT (CHAPTER 26), THE COMMISSION TOINVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OF BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION ACT,NO. 19 OF 1994 AND THE DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIESLAW NO. 1 OF 1975 AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Anti-Corruption Act,No. 9 of 2023.

(2) The provisions of this Act other than this section, shallcome into operation on such date as the Minister may byOrder published in the Gazette appoint:

Provided however, every provision of this Act shall comeinto operation not later than eighteen months from the dateof coming into operation of this section.

(3) The provisions of this section shall come into operationon the date on which the certificate of the Speaker is endorsedthereon in respect of this Act in terms of Article 79 of theConstitution.

Short title anddate ofoperation

[Certified on 08th of August, 2023]

2Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

2.(1) The objects of this Act shall be to-

(a) prevent and eradicate bribery and corruptionin order to meet the just requirements of thegeneral welfare of a democratic society;

(b) enhance transparency in governance;

(c) strengthen integrity of governance and increaseaccountability;

(d) enhance public confidence in the Governmentand strengthen public participation to eradicatecorruption;

(e) establish an Independent Commission, toexercise and perform the powers and functionsunder this Act and to carry out theresponsibilities imposed thereon under this Act;

(f) mandate the said Commission to conductpreliminary inquiries and investigations into,and to prosecute against, bribery, corruption,offences relating to declaration of assets andliabilities and associated offences;

(g) to conduct and coordinate educational activitieson the prevention of bribery and corruption;

(h) introduce an effective system for the declarationof assets and liabilities in order to prevent illicitenrichment by public officials;

(i) promote inter-agency cooperation andinternational collaboration in preventingbribery and corruption; and

Objects of theAct

3Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(j) give effect to obligations under the UnitedNations Convention against corruption and anyother International Convention relating to theprevention of corruption to which Sri Lanka isa party and recognize international standardsand best practices in order to establish a cultureof integrity in Sri Lanka.

(2) For the purposes of this section, governance includessystems and processes that are designed to ensureaccountability, transparency, responsiveness, rule of law andstability.

PART I

CHAPTER I

ESTABLISHEMT OF THE COMMISSION

3.(1) There shall be established, for the purposes of thisAct, a Commission which shall be called and known as theCommission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery orCorruption (hereinafter referred to as the Commission).

(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

(3) The Commission shall have powers specified in thisAct for the accomplishment of the objects of this Act and forthe exercise of powers and performance of functions and carryout the responsibilities conferred on it under this Act.

(4) The Commission shall exersice and perform its powersand functions without being subject to any direction or otherinterference proceeding from any other person except a courtor tribunal entitled under law to direct or supervise theCommission in the exercise or performance of such powersor functions.

Establishment ofthe Commissionto InvestigateAllegations ofBribery orCorruption

4Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(5) Every person who, without legal authority, interferesor attempts to interfere with the exercise or performance ofthe powers or functions of the Commission as referred to insubsection (4) of this section shall be guilty of an offencepunishable by the High Court on conviction after trail withouta jury with imprisonment of either description for a termwhich may extend to a period of one year or with fine or withboth such imprisonment and fine and may, in addition-

(a)be disqualified for a period not exceeding sevenyears from the date of such conviction from beingan elector and from voting-

(i)at a referendum;

(ii)at any election of the President of theRepublic; or

(iii)at any election of a Member of Parliament,Provincial Council or any local authority; or

(b)be disqualified from holding any public office orfrom being employed as a public officer.

4.(1) The Commission shall consist of three membersappointed by the President on the recommendation of theConstitutional Council from among the following:-

(a) a person who has expertise, reached eminence andhas at least twenty years of experience in law; and

(b) two persons who have expertise, reached eminenceand have at least twenty years of experience in oneor more of the following fields:-

(i) investigation of crime and law enforcement;

(ii) forensic auditing;

Composition ofthe Commission

5Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(iii) forensic accounting;

(iv) engineering;

(v) international relations and diplomaticservices;

(vi) management of public affairs; or

(vii) public administration.

(2) Every member of the Commission shall-

(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(b) be not more than sixty two years of age as atthe date of appointment to the Commission;

(c) be physically and mentally fit;

(d) be competent, honest, of high moral integrity,and of good repute;

(e) have relinquished all other remunerated officesbefore being appointed as a member of theCommission:

Provided however, a person holding anyremunerated office may be considered forappointment as a member of the Commissionif such person relinquishes all remuneratedoffices prior to assuming office as suchmember;

(f) not carrying on any business or pursuing anyprofession while being a member of theCommission; and

(g) declare his assets and liabilities to theConstitutional Council according to theprevailing written laws before assuming officeas such member.

6Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) One of the members of the Commission shall beappointed by the President on the recommendation of theConstitutional Council to be the Chairman of theCommission.

5.A Person shall be disqualified from being appointed,or continuing as a member of the Commission, if such person

(a) has been convicted of a criminal offence other thanan offence punishable with only a fine;

(b) is adjudged an insolvent by a court of competentjurisdiction;

(c) is or becomes of unsound mind or incapable ofcarrying out his duties under the Act;

(d) is guilty of serious misconduct in relation to suchpersons duties;

(e) fails to comply with his obligations under theprovisions of this Act;

(f) is, or has been an elected representative to anypolitical office; or

(g) holds or has held any post or membership in anypolitical party recognized for the purposes ofpresidential elections, parliamentary elections,provincial council elections, or any localgovernment elections conducted under theprovisions of respective laws applicable therefor.

6.(1) A member of the Commission shall not be removedfrom office except by an Order of the President made after anaddress of Parliament on a resolution for such an address,supported by a majority of the total number of Members ofParliament (including those not present) has been presented

Removal of amember of theCommission

Disqualificationsfrom being amember of theCommission

7Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

for such removal on the ground of proved misconduct orphysical, mental or other incapacity of a permanent nature ora disqualification under section 5 of this Act:

Provided that no resolution for the presentation of suchan address shall be entertained by the Speaker or placed onthe Order Paper of Parliament, unless notice of such resolutionis signed by not less than one-third of the total number ofMembers of Parliament and sets out full particulars of thealleged misconduct or incapacity.

(2) The procedure for the presentation and passing of anaddress of Parliament for the removal of a Judge of theSupreme Court or the Court of Appeal specified in paragraph(3) of Article 107 shall mutatis mutandis shall apply in allrespects to the presentation and passing of an address ofParliament for the removal of a member of the Commission.

7.(1) A member of the Commission may at any timeresign from his office by a letter addressed to the President inthat behalf and such resignation shall take effect upon itbeing accepted by the President in writing.

(2) The President shall on the recommendation of theConstitutional Council appoint a new member in place ofthe member who resigned, within two weeks of the resignationof such member.

8.(1) Every member of the Commission shall, unlesssuch member earlier vacates office by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a period of three years and shall notbe eligible for reappointment:

Provided however, the members of the First Commissionappointed under the provisions of this Act shall hold officefrom the date of appointment in the following manner:-

Resignation of amember of theCommission

Term of officeof the membersof theCommission

8Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(a) the Chairman shall hold office for a period of fiveyears;

(b) one other Commissioner other than the Chairmanshall hold office for a period of four years; and

(c) the remaining Commissioner shall hold office for aperiod of three years.

(2) Where a vacancy arises in the office of a member of theCommission due to the expiration of his period of office,such member shall continue in such office until a new memberis appointed in his place by the President on therecommedation of the Constitutional Council within threemonths of the occurring of such vacancy.

9.The remunerations of the members of the Commissionshall be-

(a) determined by Parliament; and

(b) charged on the Consolidated Fund and shall not bediminished during their terms of office.

10.(1) A member of the Commission shall submit to theConstitutional Council, a general disclosure of his interestsas at the date of such appointment before assuming office assuch member.

(2) A member of the Commission who is directly orindirectly interested in any matter that is to be taken up beforethe Commission shall disclose the nature of such interest tothe Commission and shall not take part in any deliberationor decision of the Commission with regard to that matter.

Members of theCommission todisclose anyinterest

Remuneration ofthe members ofthe Commission

9Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

11.No act or decision or proceeding of the Commissionshall be invalidated by reason only of the existence of avacancy among the members or of any defect in theappointment of a member thereof.

12.(1) The seal of the Commission shall be in thecustody of the Chairman of the Commission.

(2) The seal of the Commission may be altered in suchmanner as may be determined by the Commission.

(3) The seal of the Commission shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except in the presence of a memberof the Commission and the Director-General of theCommission or in the absence of the Director-General, in thepresence of any two members of the Commission, who shallsign the instrument in token of their presence.

13.The Commission shall be responsible and answerableto Parliament for the discharge of its functions under theprovisions of this Act and shall forward to Parliament in eachcalendar year reports relating to its activities during suchyear, in accordance with the provisions of section 159 of thisAct.

14.(1) The quorum of the Commission to exercise itspowers and discharge its functions under section 41 andsubsection (1) of section 65 shall be two members.

(2) The quorum of the Commission to exercise any poweror discharge any function under this Act other than the powersand functions specified under section 41 and subsection (1)of section 65, shall be three members and in the event of anydisagreement, the majority decision shall prevail.

Acts notinvalidated byreason of avacancy

Seal of theCommission

Commission tobe answerable toParliament

Quorum of theCommission

10Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

15.(1) The members of the Commission, the Director-General and the Staff of the Commission shall be subject tothe Code of Conduct of the Commission. The Code ofConduct shall be as prescribed by regulations.

(2) Any officer, or employee of the Commission or anyother person whose services are retained under section 27,who is found to be in breach of any provision or provisionsof such Code, shall be subject to the procedure to be specifiedby rules made by the Commission under this Act.

16.(1) The Commission shall take reasonable steps toprevent corruption by the members of its staff in relation totheir office by emphasizing and enforcing rules and providingappropriate education or training relating thereto.

(2) Any member of the Commission, the Director-General,employee or any person whose services are retained undersection 27 who is directly or indirectly compelled to act byany person in an unlawful, improper or unethical mannerwhich involves maladministration, or which is otherwiseinconsistent with the Code of Conduct of the Commissionshall make a complaint in that respect according to theprocedure specified by the Commission.

(3) The Commission shall ensure that no prejudice iscaused to any person who makes a complaint undersubsection (2).

CHAPTER II

DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND THE STAFF OF THE COMMISSION

17.(1) The President shall on the recommendation ofthe Constitutional Council and after consulting the membersof the Commission appoint a Director-General (hereinafter

Appointment ofthe Director-General

Code of Conduct

Responsibilitiesof theCommission

11Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

in this Act referred to as the Director-General) to theCommission to discharge the powers, perform the duties andcarry out the functions assigned to him under this Act.

(2) The Director-General shall submit to the ConstitutionalCouncil, a general disclosure of his interests as at the date ofhis appointment, before assuming office as Director-General.

(3) The Director-General who is directly or indirectlyhaving any interest in any matter that is to be taken up beforethe Commission shall disclose the nature of such interest andshall not take part in any deliberation or decision of theCommission with regard to that matter, unless the Commissiondecides otherwise:

Provided that, this will not impede the responsibility ofthe Director-General to sign indictments on the direction ofthe members of the Commission.

18.The Director-General shall

(a) institute criminal proceeding on an indictmentor a charge sheet on the direction of theCommission;

(b) be the Chief Executive Officer of theCommission;

(c) be the Chief Accounting Officer of theCommission; and

(d) carry out all such other duties and functionsnecessary to achieve the objects of this Act.

19.(1) The person appointed as the Director-Generalshall

(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

Powers andFunctions of theDirector-General

Qualificationsanddisqualificationsto be appointedas the Director-General

12Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) be physically and mentally fit;

(c) be an Attorney-at-Law with at least fifteen yearsexperience and sound knowledge in criminalprosecutions;

(d) be not more than fifty-five years of age as at the dateof appointment;

(e) be competent, of high moral integrity, and of goodrepute;

(f) have relinquished all other remunerated officesbefore assuming office as the Director-General:

Provided however, a person holding anyremunerated office may be considered forappointment as the Director-General if such personrelinquishes all remunerated offices prior toassuming office as Director-General; and

(g) have declared his assets and liabilities under theprevailing written law before assuming office as theDirector- General:

Provided however, that the provisions ofparagraph (f), shall not prevent the appointment ofany public officer in the Government Service onsecondment as the Director-General.

(2) A Person shall be disqualified from being appointed,or continuing as the Director-General if such person

(a) has been convicted of a criminal offence other thanany offence punishable with only a fine;

(b) is adjudged an insolvent by a court of competentjurisdiction;

(c) is or becomes of unsound mind or incapable ofcarrying out his duties under the Act;

13Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(d) is guilty of serious misconduct in relation to suchpersons duties;

(e) fails to comply with his obligations under theprovisions of this Act;

(f) is, or has been, an elected representative to anypolitical office; or

(g) holds or has held any post or membership in anypolitical party recognized for the purposes ofpresidential elections, parliamentary elections,provincial council elections, or any localgovernment elections conducted under theprovisions of respective laws applicable therefor.

20.The Director-General may resign from his office atany time by letter in that behalf addressed to the President.

21.The President may, in consultation with theCommission, on any one or more grounds for disqualificaionset out in subsection (2) of section 19 or where the conduct ofthe Director-General negatively impacts on the exercise ofthe powers and functions of the Commission and after givingthe Director-General an opportunity to be heard in person orby a duly appointed representative, remove him from office,subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council.

22.Where the office of the Director-General becomesvacant due to the death, resignation or removal as the casemay be, the President shall appoint another person for thepost of Director-General within three months having dueregard to the provisions of section 17.

23.(1) The Director-General shall, unless he earliervacates office by death, resignation or removal, hold officefor a period of five years and shall not be eligible forreappointment.

Resignation ofthe Director-General fromoffice

Removal of theDirector-General

Death,resignation orremoval of theDirector-General

Term of officeof the Director-General

14Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The Director-General on vacating office at theexpiration of the period of office shall continue to functionin his capacity as Director-General until a new Director-General is appointed.

(3)The President shall on the recommendation of theConstitutional Council appoint a new Director-General,within three months of such expiration.

24.The remuneration of the Director-General shall bedetermined by Parliament, shall be charged on theConsolidated Fund and shall not be diminished during hisperiod of service with the Commission.

25.(1) The Director-General may delegate to any othercompetent officer appointed under the provisions of this Actto assist the Commission any power, function, or duty of theDirector-General except the power of delegation conferredon him by this section and the powers and functions underparagraphs (a) and (c) of section 18 and such other officermay exercise those powers and perform such functions anddischarge such duties subject to the control and supervisionof the Director- General.

(2) In the event the office of the Director General becomesvacant due to death, resignation, removal or dismissal, thepowers, functions, or duties of the Director-General shall bedelegated to any other competent officer appointed underthe provisions of this Act to assist the Commission by thePresident in Consultation with the Commission until a newappointment is made within three months of such vacancyunder section 22.

26.(1) The Commission may subject to the rules madeunder this Act appoint such other officers and employees asit may deem necessary for the efficient discharge of itsfunctions.

Officers andemployees of theCommission

Remuneration ofthe Director-General

Director-Generalmay delegatepowers

15Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The officers and employees appointed undersubsection (1) shall be remunerated in such manner and atsuch rates and shall be subject to such conditions of serviceas may be determined by the Commission in consultationwith the Minister assigned the subject of Finance andapproved by Parliament and the remuneration paid to themshall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

(3) The persons whose services are retained undersection 27 shall be remunerated in such manner and at suchrates and shall be subject to such conditions of service asmay be determined by the Commission and the remunerationshall be charged on the Fund of the Commission.

(4) At the request of the Commission any member of theLocal Government Service constituted under LocalGovernment Service Law, No. 16 of 1974 or any other officeror official of a local authority, may, with the consent of suchmember or officer and the Local Government ServiceCommission established by section 3 of the LocalGovernment Service Law, No. 16 of 1974 , or the localauthority, as the case may be, be temporarily appointed tothe staff of the Commission for such period as may bedetermined by the Commission with like consent or bepermanently appointed to such staff on such terms andconditions including those relating to pension or providentfund rights as may be agreed upon by the Commission andthe Local Government Service Commission or that localauthority as the case may be.

(5) At the request of the Commission any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of such officer and thePublic Service Commission and the appointing authority ofsuch officer be temporarily appointed to the Commission forsuch period as may be determined by the Commission withlike consent, or be permanently appointed to such staff.

16Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(6) Where any officer in the Public Service is temporallyappointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandisapply to and in relation to such officer.

(7) Where any officer in the Public Service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandisapply to and in relation to such officer.

(8) At the request of the Commission any officer oremployee of a public corporation may, with the consent ofsuch officer or employee and the governing board of suchcorporation, be temporarily appointed to the staff of theCommission for such period as may be determined by theCommission with like consent or be permanently appointedto the staff of the Commission on such terms and conditions,including those relating to pension or provident fund rights,as may be agreed upon by the Commission and the governingboard of such corporation.

(9) At the request of the Commission any member of theSri Lanka State Audit Service established under section 30of the National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018, may with theconsent of such member and the Audit Service Commissionbe temporarily appointed to the staff of the Commission forsuch period as may be determined by the Commission withlike consent or be permanently appointed to the staff of theCommission on such terms and conditions, including thoserelating to pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreedupon by the Commission and the Audit Service Commission.

27.The Commission may obtain the services of suchother officers and employees on fixed-term contracts as itconsiders necessary for the proper and effective performanceof its powers and functions.

Commission toobtain servicesof otherpersonnel

17Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

28.(1) Any member of the Commission, the Director-General or any officer or employee of the Commission or anyother person whose services are retained under section 27shall not disclose any information received by him, or comingto his knowledge, in the exercise and the discharge of hispowers and functions under this Act, except for the purposeof giving effect to the provisions of this Act or whereprovision has been made under this Act to share information.

(2) Every member of the Commission, the Director-General and every officer or employee of the Commission orany other person whose services are retained under section 27shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, sign adeclaration to the effect that he will not disclose anyinformation received by him, or coming to his knowledge, inthe exercise and the discharge of his powers and functionsunder this Act, except for the purpose of giving effect to theprovisions of this Act.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theDirector-General may, subject to the provisions ofsubsection (1) of section 5 of the Right to Information Act,No. 12 of 2016 and with the permission of the Commission,disclose such information as the Commission considersnecessary in the public interest, for the purposes ofpublication in the press, media and social media with a viewof enhancing the transparency and accountability of theCommission towards the public.

29. (1) The members of the Commission, theDirector-General and officers and employees of theCommission and any other person whose services are retainedunder section 27 shall be deemed to be public servants withinthe meaning of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) and everyinvestigation conducted under this Act shall be deemed tobe a judicial proceeding within the meaning of thePenal Code (Chapter 19).

Declaration to besigned beforeentering uponduties

Members of theCommission, etc.deemed to bepublic servants

18Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The Director-General and every officer of theCommission shall be deemed to be peace officers within themeaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of1979.

30. (1) No proceedings, civil or criminal, shall beinstituted against a member of the Commission, the Director-General or any officer or employee of the Commission, orany other person whose services are retained under section 27or against any other person assisting the Commission in anyway, other than for contempt, for any act which is done oromitted to be done, in good faith by him in his capacity assuch member of the Commission, Director-General, officer oremployee of the Commission, a person whose services areretained under section 27 or a person assisting theCommission, in the execution of their duties.

(2) A member of the Commission or the Director-Generalor any officer or employee of the Commission or any personwhose services are retained under section 27 shall not berequired to produce in any court, any document received by,or to disclose to any court, any matter or thing, coming to thenotice of the Commission in the course of any investigationconducted by the Commission under this Act, except as maybe necessary for the purposes of proceedings before a courtof law for contempt or for an offence under this Act or for anoffence under Chapter XI of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

(3) No proceedings, civil or criminal, shall be instituted inany court against any member of the Commission in respectof any report made by the Commission under this Act oragainst any other person in respect of the publication bysuch person of a substantially true account of such report.

CHAPTER III

FINANCE

31.(1) (a) The Commission shall prepare the annualbudget estimates of the Commission within the period asspecified by the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

The Commissionto submit annualbudget estimatesfor theincorporation inthe nationalbudget

Protection foractions

19Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) The said estimates shall be submitted to the Speakeron such date as may be decided by the Speaker afterconsultation with the said Minister assigned the subject ofFinance and the Commission. The Speaker shall table thesaid estimates in Parliament for its review with theobservations of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance,who shall provide his observations to the Speaker within tenworking days from its receipt of such annual budget estimatesfrom the Speaker. The Parliament shall after having reviewedthe annual budget estimates of the Commission forward theestimates to the Minister assigned the subject of Finance forthe incorporation in the national budget with suchmodifications, if any, as Parliament thinks fit.

(2) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution andnotwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), all expensesfor inquaries, investigations and prosecutions on any offenceconducted by the Commission shall be charged on theConsolidated Fund.

(3) The Commission shall have its own Fund.

(4) There shall be paid into the Fund

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted uponfrom time to time by Parliament for the use ofthe Commission;

(b) all such sums of money as may be received bythe Commission by way of donations, gifts,bequests, or grants from any source whatsoever,whether within or outside Sri Lanka, subject tothe approval of the Minister assigned thesubject of Finance;

(c) all such sums of money as are ordered to bepaid as administrative fines to the Fund undersection 90 of this Act;

(d) all such sums of money as may be ordered to bepaid as compensation to the Fund under theprovisions of section 131 of this Act; and

20Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(e) all such sums of money proceeding from the saleof property received by the Commission orconfiscated by the Commission in terms of thisAct.

(5) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums ofmoney required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCommission in the exercise, discharge and performance ofits powers and functions.

(6) Where any money is received by way of donations,gifts, bequests or grants under paragraph (b) of subsection(4), the source and purpose for which such donation, grant,bequests or gift was made available shall be made publicwithin one month of such receipt.

CHAPTER IV

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION

32. (1) The appointment, promotion, disciplinary controland dismissal of the officers and employees of theCommission shall be vested in the Commission and shall becarried out in the manner as may be specified by theCommission by rules made in that behalf.

(2) The Commission shall make rules in relation to theofficers other employees of the Commission including theirappointments, promotions, remunerations, disciplinarycontrol, dismissal, conduct and the grant of leave.

33.The Commission shall act as the central authorityon declarations of assets and liabilities under Part II of thisAct and for such purpose shall exercise the powers, dischargethe duties and perform the functions of the Central Authorityunder this Act.

CentralAuthority ondeclarations ofassets andliabilities

Appointment,promotion, etc.of the officersetc. of theCommission

21Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

34. (1) The Commission shall take all possible measuresto give effect to the United Nations Convention AgainstCorruption and any other international obligations whichSri Lanka has undertaken to prevent corruption.

(2) The Director-General shall be the competent Authorityin Sri Lanka for the purpose of giving effect to the UnitedNations Convention Against Corruption and any otherInternational Conventions relating to the prevention ofcorruption to which Sri Lanka is a party.

35.The Commission shall take all possible measures toenhance the awareness of the public and disseminateinformation to the public on detrimental effects of corruptconduct and enlist and foster public support in combatingany such corrupt conduct.

36.The Commission shall have the power to monitorand coordinate the implementation of effective, anti-corruption policies and practices of the Government.

37.The Commission shall have the power to examinethe laws, practices, and procedures of any public authority inorder to discover acts of corruption and methods of work orprocedures which, in its opinion, may be conducive tocorruption.

38.The Commission shall have the power to advise andassist any public authority on ways and means in which actsof corruption may be eliminated and how to promote theintegrity and good repute of public administration.

39. (1) The Commission may make recommendations tothe Government for future legislative reforms as it considersnecessary to minimize corruption and the adoption andratification of international instruments relating toanti-corruption.

Advice andprovideassistance topublic bodies

Providerecommendationsto theGovernment forlegislativereforms tominimizecorruption etc

Implementationof InternationalConventions,agreements,obligations etc.

Commission toenhance publicawareness oncorrupt conduct

Monitoring theimplementationof anti-corruptionpolicies

Examination oflaws, etc todiscover acts ofcorruption

22Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The Commission shall promote active participation ofcivil society, non-governmental and community basedorganizations, in the prevention of and the fight againstcorruption to raise public awareness regarding the existenceof, causes and gravity of and threats posed by corruption.

40.The Commission may, for the achieving of the objectsof this Act-

(a) liaise with any public authority to facilitate thepromotion of the principles of the rule of law, propermanagement of public affairs and public property,integrity, transparency and accountability;

(b) liaise with the Government to review the relevantinstitutional, legal and procedural provisions toimplement a coherent and coordinatedanti-corruption strategy;

(c) advise heads of Government Departments or ofpublic authorities, of changes in practices orprocedures compatible with the effective dischargeof the duties of such Departments or publicauthorities which the Commission thinks necessaryto reduce the likelihood of the occurrence of corruptpractices;

(d) monitor the implementation of such anti-corruptionmeasures by public authorities and may require suchpublic authorities to report to it on its implementationstatus;

(e) provide consultation, guidance, and advice to anyinstitution public or private, on prevention strategiesor measures to eradicate corruption;

(f) instruct, advice and assist any person on ways inwhich corruption may be eliminated by such person;

Measures topreventcorruption andproper dischargeof its functionsetc.

23Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(g) to introduce codes of conduct for prevention anderadication of bribery and corruption which shallbe adhered to by the private sector entities in orderto develop proper conduct of business for thepromotion of good commercial practices;

(h) to introduce codes of conduct for prevention anderadication of bribery and corruption in the publicsector which shall be adhered to in the publicadministration;

(i) take measures to prevent corruption in thecontractual relations between the Government andprivate sector entities;

(j) take measures to enlist and foster public supportagainst corruption; and

(k) recruit interns and apprentices as the Commissionmay consider necessary for the effective dischargeof its powers, duties and funtions subject to suchconditions of service as may be determined by theCommission; and

41.Subject to the provisions of this Act, theCommission shall hold a preliminary inquiry or conduct aninvestigation, as the case may be, regarding the allegationscontained in any information or complaint made to it or anymaterial received by it under section 42 where any suchallegations or any material received discloses the commissionof-

(a) an offence under Part II, and Chapter I and ChapterII of Part III of this Act other than any offencespecified in Schedule A to this Act;

Investigations

24Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) an offence under the Prevention of MoneyLaundering Act, No. 5 of 2006 when the unlawfulactivity within the meaning of that Act is committedin the same transaction together with an offenceunder the provisions of this Act;

(c) an offence specified in Schedule A to this Act wheresuch offence has been committed in the sametransaction together with an act which constitutesan offence in terms of this Act; or

(d) an offence specified in Schedule B to this Act, wheresuch offence has been committed in connection withan offence in terms of this Act,

and direct the Director-General to institute proceedingsagainst such person in respect of such offence in theappropriate court.

42.(1) The Commission may commence the conduct ofa preliminary inquiry

(a) upon receipt of any information;

(b) upon receipt of a complaint;

(c) ex mero motu by the Commission; or

(d) based on any other material received by theCommission,

in relation to the commission of any act which may disclosethe commission of an offence referred to in section 41.

(2) The purpose of conducting a preliminary inquiry shallbe to determine whether there exist reasonable grounds tobelieve that an offence under the provisions of this Act hasbeen committed.

Preliminaryinquiry,investigation,and othermeasures

25Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) After the conduct of a preliminary inquiry, if theCommission is satisfied that an offence referred to insection 41 has been committed, the Commission shall directthe Director-General to conduct an investigation:

Provided that, if the Commission is satisfied that thereexist reasonable grounds to believe the committing of anoffence referred to in section 41, the Commission mayauthorize the conduct of an investigation without the conductof a preliminary inquiry.

(4) The purpose of the investigation conducted by theCommission under subsection (3) is to-

(a) determine whether an offence referred to in section41 has been committed;

(b) identify and trace witnesses to the commission ofany offence referred to in paragraph (a) and anyother relevant facts;

(c) trace, interview, and record the statements of personswho may be acquainted with facts and circumstancespertaining to the committing of an offence referredto in section 41;

(d) collect documents and material that has the potentialof being converted into evidence in criminalproceedings;

(e) determine the identity of persons who havecommitted an offence referred to in section 41;

(f) trace, arrest, interview, and record the statement ofany person who has committed an offence referredto in section 41;

(g) determine whether to institute criminal proceedingsor take any other lawful action against any person,for any offence referred to in section 41; or

26Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(h) take any other appropriate measure provided for inthis Act.

(5) On any information or a complaint received by theCommission, or if decided ex mero motu by the Commission,or on any other material received by the Commission, if theCommission is satisfied of the likelihood of an offence referredto in section 41 being committed, it may take measures asmay be necessary to detect the committing of such offenceand make investigations thereto.

(6) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Actor any other written law, where the Commission, on aconsideration of material collected in the course of aninvestigation or inquiry or both an investigation and inquiryas the case may be by a Commission of Inquiry appointedunder the Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) or by aCommission appointed under the Special PresidentialCommissions of Inquiry Law, No. 7 of 1978, is satisfied thatan offence referred to in section 41 has been committed, itshall direct the Director-General to institute criminalproceedings against the person or persons alleged to havecommitted such offence in terms of this Act.

(7) The Commission may prior to the institution ofproceedings under subsection (6), direct to-

(a) conduct further investigations into the commissionof any such offence;

(b) consider material that may have been collected inthe course of an investigation conducted by theCommission prior to the receipt of the materialreferred to in subsection (6); and

27Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(c) consider the material the Commission may havereceived from any other law enforcement authority.

(8) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Actor any other written law, the Commission may, if it deemsappropriate, forward the material collected and received undersubsections (1), (3), (5), (6) and (7) to the Attorney-General orto any other authority to take any appropriate action underany other written law.

(9) The Commission shall not be required, unless it deemsappropriate to, record a statement of a person who has givena statement to a Commission of Inquiry or to a SpecialPresidential Commission of Inquiry or has given evidencebefore any such Commission.

(10) The Commission shall have the power to investigateany matter disclosed by a communication received by it undersubsection (1) whether or not such matter relates to a periodprior to the appointed date and notwithstanding anything tothe contrary in any other law.

(11) If the Commission decides not to act according to theprovisions of subsections (1), (3), (5) or (6) of this section,reasons for such decision shall be recorded in writing and becommunicated by the Commission to the person who madethe complaint.

43.(1) A complaint or information relating to thecommission of an offence referred to in section 41, may bemade against a person whether or not such person is holding,on the date on which the complaint or information is receivedby the Commission, the office or employment by virtue ofholding which he is alleged to have committed the actconstituting an offence. Such complaint or information maybe provided to the Commission orally, in writing or byelectronic communication.

Complaints ofoffences

28Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The complaint given orally shall be reduced to writingin the language it was given, by any officer of the Commissionas directed by the Commission as soon as possible:

Provided that, if it is not possible for the officer to recordthe complaint in the language in which it is given, the officershall request that the complaint be given in writing. If thecomplainant is unable to give it in writing, the officer shallrecord the complaint in one of the national languages afterrecording the reasons for doing so and shall read over therecord to the complainant or interpret it in the language suchperson understands.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, a public authority or a law enforcement authority,where in the exercise of its functions is of the opinion that anoffence under the provisions of this Act may have occurredor suspected to have committed, such public authority or thelaw enforcement authority shall refer the matter to theCommission for investigation.

44.(1) Any person who has made a complaint undersection 43 shall be provided with an update of the basic stepstaken in relation to an investigation conducted under section42 in a manner which does not hinder the progress of theinvestigation.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) of section 5 of theRight to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016 shall apply for anyinformation provided, shared or communicated as providedfor in this Act.

(3)Any person who has made a complaint under section43 shall be provided with a detailed justification by theCommission for the closure of a file, upon a request made onthat behalf by such person.

Complainantmay knowthe progress

29Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

45.(1) If the Commission is satisfied

(a) that there is a reasonable ground for suspectingthat an offence referred to in section 41 hasbeen committed and that evidence of thecommission of the offence is to be found atany premises or in any vessel, vehicle oraircraft or with any person; or

(b) that any book, account or other document orthing which ought to have been producedduring an investigation conducted by it underthis Act and have not been so produced are tobe found at such premises or in any suchvehicle, vessel or aircraft or with any person,

the Commission may by written order, authorize an officerof the Commission to enter such premises or, such vehicle,vessel or aircraft as the case may be and search such premises,or such vehicle, vessel, aircraft or such person.

(2) An officer authorized by the Commission undersubsection (1) may seize any article, which is found in thepremises or in the vehicle, vessel or aircraft or with the personand which he has reasonable grounds for believing to beevidence of the commission of any offence under this Act, orany book, account or document or thing which he hasreasonable grounds for believing, ought to have beenproduced at an investigation conducted by the Commissionunder this Act and every such article, book, account,document or thing seized by such officer in pursuance of thepowers conferred on him by this section shall be producedby him before the Commission:

Provided that, no female shall, in pursuance of a searchunder this section, be searched except by a female.

Search andseizure

30Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) Where, by virtue of this section a person has any powerto enter into any premises, vessel, vehicle or aircraft, he mayuse such force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose ofexercising that power.

(4) A list of all items seized pursuant to the precedingprovisions of this section and of the places in which they arerespectively found shall be prepared by the officer of theCommission effecting the seizure and be signed by him.

(5) A copy of the list referred to in the above subsectionshall be served on the owner of such property or on the personfrom whom the property was seized as soon as possible.

(6) Where any movable property liable to seizure asstipulated above is in the possession, custody or control of abank, the provisions of subsections (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) ofsection 49 shall apply thereto.

(7) The Director-General or an officer authorized by theCommission may with such assistance as may be necessary,enter and search any department, office or establishment ofthe Government to give effect to the provisions of this section.

(8) The Director-General or any officer of the Commissionmay obtain the assistance of any public officer or any otherperson authorized by the Commission for assistance in theexercise of his powers or the discharge of his functions underthis Act.

(9) Any officer authorized under subsection (1) shallalways carry the warrant card issued to such officer undersection 46 where any power under this section is exercised.

46.The Director-General shall issue to any officer of theCommission a warrant card which shall be prima facieevidence of the authorization granted to such officer undersection 45.

Issuance ofwarrant cards

31Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

47.(1) Any authorized officer of the Commission maywithout an order from a Magistrate and without a warrantarrest any person suspected of committing an offence underthe provisions of this Act if such person

(a) in his presence commits any offence under this Act;

(b) has been concerned in any offence under this Act oragainst whom a reasonable complaint has been madeor credible information has been received or areasonable suspicion exists, of his having been soconcerned;

(c) obstructs an officer employed by the Commissionwhile in the execution of his duty or has escaped orattempts to escape from lawful custody;

(d) is found taking precautions to conceal his presenceunder circumstances which afford reason to believethat he is taking such precautions with a view tocommitting an offence under this Act; or

(e) has been concerned in or against whom a reasonablecomplaint has been made or credible informationhas been received or a reasonable suspicion existsof his having been concerned in any act committedat any place out of Sri Lanka, which if committed inSri Lanka would have been punishable as an offenceunder this Act and for which he is under any law forthe time being in force relating to extradition or tofugitive persons or otherwise, liable to beapprehended or detained in custody in Sri Lanka.

(2) In making an arrest under subsection (1), the officermaking the same shall actually touch or confine the body ofthe person to be arrested unless there be a submission to the

Arrest of personswithout awarrant etc.

32Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

custody by word or action and shall inform the person to bearrested, of the nature of the charge or allegation upon whichhe is arrested and the keeping of a person in confinement orrestraint without formally arresting him or under thecolourable pretension that an arrest has not been made whento all intents and purposes such person is in custody, shall bedeemed to be an arrest of such person.

(3) If such person forcibly resists the endeavour to arresthim or attempts to evade the arrest, the officer making thearrest may use such means as are reasonably necessary toeffect the arrest.

(4) If the officer making the arrest has reasons to believethat any person to be arrested has entered into or is withinany place, the person residing in or in charge of such placeshall on demand of such officer allow him free ingress thereinand afford all reasonable facilities for a search therein.

(5) If ingress to such place cannot be obtained under thepreceding subsection it shall be lawful in any case for theofficer acting under a warrant or in any case in which a warrantmay issue but cannot be obtained without affording theperson to be arrested an opportunity of escape, for the officerto enter such place and search therein.

(6) The officer may break open any outer or inner door orwindow of any place in order to liberate himself or any otherperson who, having lawfully entered for the purpose ofmaking an arrest, is detained therein.

(7) The person arrested shall not be subjected to morerestraint than is necessary to prevent his escape.

(8) Anything in this section shall not be held to interferewith or modify the operation of any enactment empoweringan officer to arrest without a warrant.

33Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

48. (1) An officer making an arrest without a warrantshall without unnecessary delay and subject to the provisionsherein contained as to bail, take steps to produce the personarrested before the nearest Magistrate.

(2) Any officer shall not detain in custody or otherwiseconfine a person arrested without a warrant for a longer periodthan under all the circumstances of the case is reasonable,and such period shall not exceed twenty-four hours exclusiveof the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrestto the Magistrate.

(3) Where a person arrested was produced before aMagistrate other than the Magistrate who has the jurisdictionin the case, the Magistrate before whom the person wasproduced shall, subject to section 149 and having consideredthe circumstances of the investigation, order to produce theperson arrested before the Magistrate having jurisdiction inthe case forthwith.

(4) If a person in lawful custody escapes or is rescued, theofficer from whose custody he escaped or was rescued mayimmediately pursue and arrest him in any place, either withinor outside the jurisdiction where he was so in custody, andprovision of section 47 shall apply to such arrest.

(5) Where any currency notes, alleged to have beenaccepted, solicited or offered as an illegal gratification bythe person arrested are produced before the Magistrate havingjurisdiction in the case together with a report under the handof the Director-General, stating that such notes were allegedto have been so accepted, solicited or offered, the Magistrateshall issue a certificate under his hand to the effect that thenotes of the denominations and numbers set out in thecertificate were produced before him and such certificate shallbe admissible in any proceedings instituted against theperson alleged to have accepted, solicited or offered suchnotes, in lieu of producing such notes in such proceedings.

Procedure afterarrest

34Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

49.(1) The Commission may, in conducting aninvestigation under section 42

(a) procure and receive all such evidence, written ororal, and examine all such persons as theCommission may think necessary or desirable toprocure, receive or examine:

Provided, the Commission may video record theexamination of any person under the provisions ofthis paragraph;

(b) require any person to attend before the Commissionfor the purposes of being examined by theCommission and to answer, orally on oath oraffirmation, any question put to him by theCommission relevant, in the opinion of theCommission, to the matters under investigation orrequire such person to state any facts relevant to thematters under investigation in the form of anaffidavit;

(c) summon any person to produce any document orother thing in his possession or control;

(d) direct by notice in writing any bank, a non-bankingfinancial institution, or designated non-financebusiness to produce, within such time as may bespecified in the notice, any information inwhatsoever form relating to the account of any personin respect of whom any inquiry or investigation isbeing conducted under section 42 or of any personassociated with such person, or of a company ofwhich such person is a director, or of a trust in whichsuch person has a beneficial interest or of a firm ofwhich such person is a partner, or to furnish as sospecified, certified copies of such information thereinwhich is in printable form;

(e) notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d),require any bank, non-banking financial institution,or designated non-finance business to providefollowing information and material to the

Examination ofpersons whenconducting aninvestigation

35Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Commission subject to the provisions of thePrevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006and Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of2006, relating to

(i) any financial service provided by such bank,institution or business, to any person;

(ii) details of any financial transaction carried outby any person;

(iii) details of any bank accounts, deposits,remittances, and withdrawals and financialservices provided by any such bank,institution or business;

(iv) details in respect of securing of financialservices by any person; and

(v) a certified statement of any account or otherdetails pertaining to any account ortransaction;

(f) notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d),require from the following officers any informationor document which is in his possession or under hiscontrol or a certified copy thereof or any entry thereinfor the purpose of conducting an investigation underthe provisions of this Act or in respect of anassociated offence referred to in this Act:-

(i)the Secretary to any Ministry appointed underArticle 52 of the Constitution;

(ii)Secretary General of the Parliament of SriLanka appointed under Article 65 of theConstitution;

(iii)Commissioner General of Inland Revenueappointed under section 97 of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

36Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(iv) Governor of the Central Bank appointed undersection 12 of the Monetary Law Act(Chapter 422);

(v) Auditor General appointed under Article 153of the Constitution;

(vi) Head of the Department of Foreign Exchangeof the Central Bank appointed undersection 33 of the Monetary Law Act(Chapter 422);

(vii) Director of the Financial Intelligence Unitappointed in terms of the FinancialTransactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006;

(viii) Director-General of the Securities andExchange Commission of Sri Lankaappointed under section 19 of the Securitiesand Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act,No. 19 of 2021;

(ix) Director-General of Customs appointed undersection 2 of the Customs Ordinance(Chapter 235);

(x) Controller of Immigration and Emigrationappointed under section 4 of the Immigrantsand Emigrants Act (Chapter 351);

(xi) Commissioner General for the Registration ofPersons appointed under section 3 of theRegistration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968;

(xii) Controller of Imports and Exports appointedunder section 2 of the Imports and Exports(Control) Act, No. 1 of 1969;

(xiii) Registrar General of Companies appointedunder section 47 of the Companies Act,No. 07 of 2007;

37Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(xiv)Commissioner of Land appointed undersection 3 of the Land Development Ordinance(Chapter 464);

(xv)Director-General of Intellectual Property ofSri Lanka appointed under section 2 of theIntellectual Property Act, No. 36 of the 2003;

(xvi)Commissioner General of Motor Trafficappointed under section 204 of the MotorTraffic Act, (Chapter 203);

(xvii)Director-General of Telecommunicationsappointed under section 22B of the Sri LankaTelecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991;

(xviii)a Head of any Government department, publiccorporation, statutory body, or otherGovernment institution;

(xix)Registrar General of Lands appointed undersection 2 of Registration of DocumentsOrdinance (Chapter 117);

(xx)Chairman of a Provincial Council or aChairman or a Special Commissioner of a localauthority;

(xxi)the Head of any scheduled institution underthis Act;

(g) direct any person in respect of whom acommunication has been received under section 42to furnish a sworn statement in writing-

(i)setting out all movable or immovableproperty owned or possessed at any time, or atsuch time as may be specified by theCommission, by such person and by any other

38Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

person associated with such person andspecifying the date on which each of theproperties so set out was acquired, whether byway of purchase, gift, bequest, inheritance orotherwise; and

(ii)containing particulars of such other matterswhich in the opinion of the Commission arerelevant to the investigation;

(h) direct any person other than the persons specifiedin paragraphs (f) and (g) above to furnish a swornstatement in writing-

(i)setting out all movable or immovableproperty owned or possessed at any time or atsuch time as may be specified by theCommission, by such person where theCommission has reasonable grounds tobelieve that such information can assist aninvestigation conducted by the Commissionunder section 42; and

(ii)containing particulars of such other matterswhich in the opinion of the Commission arerelevant to such investigation:

Provided that, any person to whom theCommission issues any direction under thissubsection shall comply with such direction,notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother law.

(2) Where the Commission is satisfied of any informationgiven by an officer of the Commission that any movableproperty, including any monetary instrument or any accretion

39Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

thereto, which is the subject matter of an offence under thisAct or evidence in relation to the commission of such offence,is in the possession, custody or control of a bank, theCommission may, notwithstanding anything contained inany other written law, by order direct the bank not to partwith, deal in, or otherwise dispose of such property or anypart thereof for a period not exceeding three months.

(3) An order under subsection (2) may include freezing ofbank accounts or freezing of other financial deposits andaccounts suspected to contain proceeds of bribery to theextent of the proceeds of bribery contained therein, underparagraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 53, subject to anycondition that may be imposed by rules made in that behalfby the Commission.

(4) A bank or any agent or employee of a bank shall not,on account of such compliance envisaged in subsection (2),be liable to any prosecution under any other law or to anyproceeding or claim by any other person under any other lawor under any contract, agreement, or arrangement, orotherwise.

(5) On the conclusion of any investigation conductedunder this Act, the Commission may award to any personwho has been in any way implicated or concerned in thematter under investigation or to any bank whose managerhas complied with a notice issued in connection with suchinvestigation by the Commission such sum of money as theCommission may consider sufficient to meet the costs andexpenses which may have been reasonably incurred by suchperson or bank in connection with the investigation.

(6) All moneys awarded under subsection (5) shall be paidout of the Fund of the Commission.

40Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(7) Any person who appears before the Commission underthis section is bound to answer truly all questions relating tosuch case put to him by the officers of the Commission otherthan the questions which would have a tendency to exposehim to a criminal charge or to a penalty or forfeiture.

50.(1) Where the Commission considers that theexamination of any person by the Government Analyst, aGovernment Medical Practitioner, or any other local orforeign expert is necessary for the conduct of an investigation,the Commission may

(a) summon the person to be examined with the consentof such person, to be subject to an examinationconducted by the Government Analyst, any otherlocal or foreign expert having expertise in the fieldin respect of which the investigation is conducted,or a Government Medical Practitioner; and

(b) require in writing from any expert referred to inparagraph (a) to provide a report on a matter referredto him by the Commission.

(2) Where the person referred to in subsection (1) does notconsent to being so examined, the Commission may apply tothe Magistrate within whose jurisdiction the investigation isbeing carried out for an order authorizing the expert namedtherein to examine such person and report thereon. Wheresuch an order is made, the person referred to in subsection (1)shall submit himself to an examination by such expert whoshall submit a report to the Magistrate setting out the resultof such examination.

51. (1) Where a person has been arrested under section 47or, has been served with summons under section 49, anyauthorized officer of the Commission may take, or cause tobe taken blood samples, voice samples, photographs, finger,palm or foot impressions or impression of any part of thebody and the weight and height measurements of that person.

Obtaining theassistance ofexperts

Taking offingerimpressions,photographs,non-intimatesamples, bloodsamples andvoice samplesetc.

41Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The identifying particulars of a person taken undersubsection (1) may be retained by the Commission, exceptthat if-

(a) a decision is taken not to charge the person withany offence; or

(b) the person is charged with an offence under this Actbut discharged by a court before conviction oracquitted at his trial or on appeal, the identifyingparticulars, together with any negatives or copiesthereof, shall as soon as reasonably practicable bedestroyed or, if the person so prefers, delivered tothe person.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), theCommission may retain the identifying particulars of a personwho has been previously convicted of any offence under thisAct.

(4) In any investigation in respect of an offence committedor believed to have been committed under this Act, a non-intimate sample may be taken from a person for forensicanalysis only if-

(a) that person is dealt with and detained pursuant tothe provisions of this Act; and

(b) an officer not below the rank of a Deputy Director-General or above (hereinafter referred to as theauthorizing officer) has authorized such taking.

(5) An authorizing officer may give his authorization asrequired under paragraph (b) of subsection (4) only if he hasreasonable grounds-

(a) for suspecting that the person from whom the non-intimate sample is to be taken has committed anoffence under this Act; and

42Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) to believe that the sample will tend to confirm ordisprove the commission of such offence.

(6) An authorizing officer shall give his authorization inwriting and in practical difficulty, may give suchauthorization orally and as soon as possible confirm it inwriting.

(7) Where an authorization has been given undersubsection (5), officer who has been empowered with suchauthorization shall, before the taking of such non-intimatesample, inform the person from whom the sample is to betaken-

(a) of the nature of the offence in which the person issuspected to have committed;

(b) that there are reasonable grounds to believe that thesample will tend to confirm or disaprove thecommission of the offence by that person;

(c) of the authorization;

(d) that he may or may not consent to the taking of thesample; and

(e) that the sample will be analyzed and the informationderived from such analysis may provide evidencethat might be used in criminal proceedings for suchoffence or any other offence for which the personmay be arrested under this Act.

(8) Where a person does not consent to the taking of ablood sample, finger, palm or foot impression or an impressionof any part of the body under subsection (1) or the taking ofa non-intimate sample under subsection (4), the Commissionmay apply to the Magistrate for an order for the taking of thesame from him.

(9) The person from whom a non-intimate sample wastaken under subsection (4) is entitled to be informed of theresults derived from the analysis of the sample.

43Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(10) Any consent given for the taking of a non-intimatesample under this section shall be given in writing and signedby the person giving the consent.

(11) Where an order under subsection (8) is made, theresults shall be reported to the Magistrate by the Commission.

(12) A non-intimate sample from a person may only betaken by a registered Medical Practitioner.

(13) The Minister shall make regulations in consultationwith the Commission on the privacy and the limitations onthe use of non-intimate samples and results of forensicanalysis and the disposal of relevant samples and records.

52.(1) Every Magistrate to whom an application is madeunder section 50, subsection (8) of section 51 or section 59shall assist the conduct of an investigation by making andissuing appropriate orders and processes of court and may, inparticular hold, or authorize the holding of, an identificationparade for the purpose of ascertaining the identity of theoffender, and may for such purpose require a suspect or otherperson to participate in such parade, to enable or allow awitness to make his identification from a concealed positionand make or cause to be made a record of the proceedings ofsuch parade.

(2) Confidentiality in respect of any application made tothe Magistrate under subsection (1) shall be maintained andthe proceedings pertaining to the same shall be held in-cameraif requested by the Commission subject to such considerationsas may be necessary for the purposes of justice and not tojeopardize the integrity of any investigation in respect ofwhich the assistance of the Magistrate is sought.

53.(1) The Commission may

(a) prohibit, by written order (hereinafter referredto as the freezing order), any person inrespect of whom an inquiry or investigationis being conducted under section 42, thespouse, other family member of such person

Obtaining theassistance ofMagistrates

Restrainingorders

44Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

or any other person holding any property intrust for such first-mentioned person, or anybank or any non banking financial institutionor designated non finance business inpossession, custody or control of any of hismovable property or a company of which heis a director or a firm in which he is a partner,from parting with, dealing with or otherwisedisposing of such property or any part thereof,from transferring the ownership of, or anyinterest in, any movable or immovableproperty specified in such order, until suchtime such order is revoked by the Commissionand to cause a copy of the freezing order to beserved on any such authority as theCommission may think fit, including

(i) the Registrar of Lands where theimmovable property is situated in thecase of an immovable property;

(ii) the Commissioner of Motor Trafficappointed under section 204 of theMotor Traffic Act (Chapter 203) in thecase of a motor vehicle; and

(iii) the Registrar-General of Companiesappointed under section 471 of theCompanies Act, No. 07 of 2007 and theSecretary of such company in the caseof shares, stocks or debentures of anycompany;

(b) require, by written order, any authority onwhom a copy of the freezing order made underparagraph (a) has been served, to cause suchcopy to be registered or filed in any register orrecord maintained by such authority;

(c) require by written order the Controller ofImmigration and Emigration appointed undersection 4 of the Immigrants and EmigrantsAct (Chapter 351) to impound the passportand other travel documents or to take all such

45Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

steps as may be necessary to prevent thedeparture from Sri Lanka of any person inrespect of whom an information or a compliantor a communication has been received undersection 42 for such period not exceeding threemonths, as may be specified in such writtenorder; and

(d) require by written order, any police officer asshall be specified in that order, whether byname or by office, to take all such steps asmay be necessary to prevent the departurefrom Sri Lanka of any person in respect ofwhom any information or compliant has beenreceived under section 42 for such period notexceeding three months, as may be specifiedin such order.

(2) The Commission shall, within seven days during whichsuch freezing order shall be in force, make an application tothe High Court seeking confirmation of such freezing orderand also if the circumstances so necessitate, request anextension of the original period of seven days.

(3) Where the High Court is satisfied that there aresufficient reasons for the making of such freezing order, theHigh Court may confirm the freezing order and also where anapplication is made for the extension thereof, grant theextension for such periods as it considers necessary, subjecthowever

(a) to any other orders which may be made by the HighCourt; and

(b) to the requirement that the maximum period of anyextension so granted shall not exceed one year fromthe date of the obtaining of the freezing order by theCommission:

Provided that, where an indictment is filed for anoffence under this Act, the freezing order shall unlessvacated by the High Court for reasons to be recorded,remain in force until the conclusion of the trial in

46Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

respect of such offence, or where an appeal ispreferred against a conviction for such offence, untilthe determination of the appeal.

(4) Where the High Court confirms a freezing order undersubsection (3), it shall cause a notice of such order to bepublished in at least one newspaper circulating in the Sinhala,Tamil and English languages, in order to facilitate bona fidethird parties to make application to the High Court in supportof their claims to the account, property or investment whichis subject to the order of freezing.

(5) Where any movable property is seized under this Act,the seizure shall be effected by removing the movableproperty from the possession, custody or control of the personfrom whom it is seized and placing it under the custody ofsuch person or authority and at such place as may bedetermined by the Commission:Provided however, where it appears to the satisfaction ofthe Commission that it is not practicable, or is not desirable,to effect removal of any property under this subsection,the Commission may leave it at the premises in which it isseized under the custody of an authorized officer of theCommission.

(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (5), whenany movable property, including any movable propertyreferred to in subsection (10), has been seized under this Act,an authorized officer of the Commission other than the officerwho effected the seizure, may-

(a) temporarily return the movable property to the ownerthereof, or to the person from whose possession,custody or control it was seized, or to such person asmay be entitled thereto, subject to such terms andconditions as may be imposed, and subject in anycase to sufficient security being furnished to ensurethat the movable property shall be surrendered onthe demand being made by the officer whoauthorized the release and that such terms andconditions, if any, shall be complied with; or

47Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) return the movable property to the owner thereof, orto the person from whose possession, custody orcontrol it was seized, or to such person as may beentitled thereto, with liberty for the person to whomthe movable property is so returned to dispose ofthe property, such return being subject to securitybeing furnished in an amount not less than an amountwhich represents the open market value of suchproperty on the date on which it is so returned.

(7) Where any person to whom movable property istemporarily returned fails to surrender such property ondemand or comply with any term or condition imposed underthat paragraph,-

(a) the security furnished in respect of such propertyshall be forfeited; and

(b) that person shall commit an offence punishable withimprisonment for a term not exceeding seven yearsor a fine not exceeding one million rupees.

(8) Where an order of forfeiture of security is made by thecourt in respect of property temporarily returned as specifiedin subsection (7), such forfeiture shall be effected by forfeitingthe security furnished by the person to whom the propertywas returned.

(9) When any movable property seized under this Actconsists of money, shares, securities, stocks, debentures orany choose-in-action in the possession or under the custodyor control of any person other than the person against whomthe prosecution is intended to be taken, the seizure shall beeffected by an authorized officer of the Commission servingan order on such other person

(a) prohibiting him from using, transferring, or dealingwith such property; or

(b) requiring him to surrender the property to theCommission in the manner and within the timespecified in the order.

48Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(10) Where any movable property seized or freezed is liableto speedy decay or deterioration, or cannot be maintainedwithout difficulty, or is not practicable to be maintained, andcannot be dealt with under subsection (6), upon an applicationmade in that regard by the Director-General or any officerauthorized by the Commission, the High Court may makeorder to sell or cause to be sold the property and to hold theproceeds of the sale in the manner as may be determined bysuch Court:

Provided that the High Court may order to deduct anycost or expense of the maintenance and sale of property fromthe proceeds of any proceedings under this Act.

(11) A transaction shall not be effected in relation to anyaccount, property or investment where a freezing order is inforce and any transaction which is so effected shall be nulland void.

(12) Before making a freezing order under this section,the High Court may on an application made in that behalf, ifthe High Court is of the opinion that such an order maydamage the legitimate business or any other interest of anyperson affected by such freezing order, make order permittingany essential transaction relating to such account, propertyor investment to be carried out subject to such supervisionand under the direction of an officer authorized by theCommission as may be directed by such court.

54.Where the Commission is satisfied that any propertyis the subject matter of an offence under this Act or was usedin the commission of any such offence, and such property isheld or deposited outside Sri Lanka, the Commission maymake an application to the High Court for an order prohibitingthe person by whom the property is held or with whom it isdeposited from dealing with the property.

55.(1) The Commission may, in an investigation undersection 42 of this Act, use any investigation techniqueincluding the following:-

(a) authorize a person who has reported to theCommission of a demand for a bribe, to directly orindirectly, give or receive it as demanded;

Specialinvestigationtechniques

Prohibition ofdealing withproperty outsideSri Lanka

49Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) surveillance and observation;

(c) undercover operations;

(d) video recording;

(e) using bugging devices; or

(f) controlled deleveries:

Provided that, the Commission shall specify by way ofrules, the procedures to be followed on the use of investigativetechniques under this section.

(2) The Commission shall ex parte obtain an order fromthe High Court for the purposes of paragraphs (d) and (e) ofsubsection (1). Confidentiality in respect of any applicationmade to the High Court shall be maintained and theproceedings pertaining to the same shall be held in-camera.

56.The Commission shall by way of rules specify thecriteria for the protection and preservation of informationreceived or collected by the Commission by way of a datamessage, electronic document, electronic record or othercommunication in electronic form.

57.The Commission may require anytelecommunication, satellite, digital service or data serviceprovider, to provide

(a) information pertaining to services provided or beingprovided by such service provider to any person;

(b) information pertaining to services enjoyed by anyperson to whom such services have been madeavailable;

(c) any information, data or document or record thatmay be stored, archived or otherwise kept, by suchservice provider; and

Protection andpreservation ofinformation

Obtaininginformationfrom serviceproviders

50Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(d) information pertaining to the uploading ordownloading of data or information, to or from anyinstrument through the service provided by suchservice provider,

where in the opinion of the Commission such informationmay be of use in the investigations conducted on any actwhich may amount to an offence under this Act.

58.(1) An authorized officer of the Commission mayapply in writing to the High Court for a warrant authorizingthe covert monitoring of any conduct and recording of anycommunication if such officer has reasonable grounds tosuspect or believe that a person has committed, is committingor is about to commit an offence under this Act.

(2) A High Court Judge may, upon receiving a writtenapplication under subsection (1), issue a warrant after beingsatisfied that there are reasonable grounds for such suspicionor belief to authorize the covert monitoring and recording,by any means, of the conduct and communications, includingtelecommunications, of the person. Confidentiality in respectof any application made to the High Court shall be maintainedand the proceedings pertaining to the same shall be held exparte and in-camera.

(3) A warrant issued under this section may be renewed byfurther application made in that behalf by the authorizedofficer.

(4) A warrant issued under this section may authorize anyofficer-

(a) to overtly or covertly enter or, in the case of a renewedwarrant, re-enter any place specified in the warrant,by force if necessary, for the purpose of executingthe warrant; and

Interception ofcommunication

51Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) in the case of a renewed warrant, to continuemonitoring and recording pursuant to the originalwarrant.

(5) If the circumstances are such that a written applicationunder subsection (1) is not reasonably practicable, an oralapplication may be made.

(6) The format of the application shall be as specified bythe Commission by way of rules.

(7) The Commission shall ensure that any recording madeunder the provisions of this Act shall be used solely for thepurposes of this Act.

59.Director-General may, for the purpose of

(a) determining the identity of a person who hascommitted an offence;

(b) determining the location of a person who hascommitted an offence;

(c) facilitating the conduct of an investigationinto an offence;

(d) gathering evidence against a person who hascommitted an offence;

(e) determining whether one or more persons areconspiring, planning, preparing or attemptingto commit an offence; or

(f) taking measures to prevent the commissionof an offence,

under this Act, make an application to a Magistrateto authorize the Commission to-

Unlocking ofdata andinformation

52Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(i) direct any person who provides lockingor encryption services pertaining to anycommunication or storage services orequipment of any data or informationor other thing, to unlock or unencryptthe service or equipment and provideinformation contained therein;

(ii) intercept, read, listen or record anypostal message or electronic mail or anytelephone, voice, internet, or videoconversation, or video conference orany communication through any othermedium; or

(iii) access any analogue or digital data orinformation, of any exchange or transfersystem.

60.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, the Commission may, if satisfied that thereare reasonable grounds for suspecting that an offenceconsisting of soliciting, accepting or offering by any persona gratification which or the value of which does not exceedten thousand rupees has been committed under this Act by aperson other than a police officer, the Commission may requireany police officer of or above the rank of an AssistantSuperintendent of Police named in such order or an authorizedofficer to conduct an investigation in the matter in suchmanner or mode as may be specified in that order. The ordermay authorize the investigation of any bank account, shareaccount, purchase account, expense account or any otheraccount, or any safe deposit box in any bank, and shall besufficient authority for the disclosure or production by anyperson of all or any information or accounts or documents orarticles as may be required by the officer so authorized.

(2) The Director-General upon the direction of theCommission may provide advice, give directions, or takeover at any stage any investigation which has commencedunder this section in respect of any offence and to conductand direct such investigation.

Assistance ininvestigations

53Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) Upon the conclusion of the investigation under thissection, the police officer from whom the Commission hasrequested an investigation under subsection (1) of this sectionshall submit a report to the Commission in writing on suchinvestigation and such report shall include

(a)a full statement of the circumstances relating to thematter;

(b)copies of the statements of all witnesses; and

(c)such other information, documents, or productionsas may be relevant or as may be called for by theCommission.

(4) The outcome of an investigation concluded under thissection shall forthwith be forwarded to the Commissionenabling the Commission to take steps under section 65.

61.(1) If the circumstances of the case so justify, ajoint investigation team may be formed for a specific periodby an agreement between the Commission and any otherinvestigative authority in Sri Lanka as may be determinedby the Commission for the purpose of conducting aninvestigation into an alleged offence referred to in section41.

(2) The Commission may also establish joint investigationteams in relation to the following, where a request has beenmade by a foreign State:-

(a)matters falling under bilateral or multilateralagreements or arrangements to which Sri Lanka andthe other foreign State are parties; or

(b)in the absence of such agreements or arrangements,on a case-by-case basis.

Jointinvestigations

54Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) A Joint investigation team under the provisions of thissection may be established when-

(a)any person or body of persons assigned with theduties of investigation, law enforcement, regulatorytasks, prosecutions and involving in judicialproceedings on the same subject matter, whichrequires coordinated and harmonized actions by theagencies or States involved in the investigation;and

(b)for the purposes of subsection (2), investigativeactions have to be carried out in Sri Lanka and theother foreign State simultaneously.

(4) Information obtained during joint investigations maybe used by competent courts, where the persons who werebeen investigated are tried in such courts.

62.(1) The Commission, the Director-General or anyother officer or employee of the Commission or any personwhose services are retained under section 27 shall not becompelled to reveal the source of any information receivedunder the provisions of this Act.

(2) The Commission may share information relevant toany investigation with any local law enforcement authorityor any other Government authority or any other lawenforcement authority as provided under internationalbilateral or multilateral agreements or arrangements, or inthe absence of such agreements or arrangements on a case-by-case basis for the purposes of investigation, prosecutionand judicial proceedings under the law of the foreign State.

63.(1) The Commission may

Revealing andsharing ofinformation

Internationalcooperation

55Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(a)communicate with criminal investigative authoritiesor law enforcement authorities in foreign States ona same or connected matter when giving effect tothe provisions of this Act; and

(b)share any report or information with any institutionor agency of a foreign State or of an internationalorganization or body of persons or other institutionor agency established by the Government of a foreignState that has powers and duties similar to those ofthe Commission, on such terms and conditions asare set out in any agreement or arrangement betweenthe Commission and such institutions, agencies orbodies of persons regarding the exchange of suchinformation under an agreement or arrangemententered into under subsection (2).

(2) The Commission may, enter into any agreement orarrangement, in writing, with

(a)an institution or agency of a foreign State or aninternational organization or body of personsestablished by the governments of a foreign Statethat has powers and duties similar to those of theCommission; or

(b)a foreign law enforcement agency,

regarding the exchange of information between theCommission and such institution, agency or authority.

(3) The information communicated, or shared undersubsection (1) or exchanged under an agreement orarrangement entered into under subsection (2) shall be anyinformation that the Commission, the institution, agency orauthority has reasonable grounds to suspect would be

56Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

relevant to the investigation, prosecution or judicialproceedings of an offence of corruption covered by UnitedNations Convention Against Corruption or an offence that issubstantially similar to such an offence.

(4) Agreements or arrangements entered into undersubsection (2) by the Commission shall

(a)include restrictions on the use of information orjudicial proceedings obtained for purposes relevantto investigating, prosecuting into any actconstituting an offence or corruption covered byUnited Nations Convention Against Corruption oran offence that is substantially similar to suchoffence; and

(b)include a provision to the effect that the informationexchanged be treated in a confidential manner andnot to be further disclosed without the expressconsent of the Commission.

64. (1) Every summon issued by the Commission shallbe in writing and in duplicate and signed by the Director-General and shall be in the form specified by rules.

(2) The summons shall be served -

(a)by registered post;

(b)by express post;

(c)by a Grama Niladhari as may be directed by theCommission;

(d)in the case of a company or corporation orincorporated association of persons, on the

Summons

57Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

managing director, secretary or other like officer orthe person in charge of the principal place ofbusiness of such company, corporation orassociation;

(e)in the case of a person who is a public officer or anemployee of a public corporation, on the head ofthe institution in which such person is a publicofficer or an employee;

(f)in the case of any person who is employed underany other person, on the employer of such person; or

(g)by email or facsimile if available.

(3) When the person to be summoned cannot by theexercise of due diligence be found, the summons may beserved by leaving one of the duplicates with some adultmember of such persons family or with such other personresiding with such person.

(4) If the service specified in subsections (2) and (3) cannot,by the exercise of due diligence be effected, the Commissionshall affix one of the duplicates of the summons in someconspicuous part of the house, place or premises in which theperson summoned ordinarily resides and in such case thesummons shall be deemed to have been duly served.

(5) Where any summons is sent by registered post orexpress post, the production of the receipt issued by therelevant post office for such summons shall be prima facieproof of the fact that such summons was received by theaddressee unless such summons is returned undelivered.

(6) Every person on whom a summon is served shall attendbefore the Commission at the time and place mentionedtherein and shall answer any question put to him by theCommission and produce such document or other thing asare required of him by the summon.

58Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

65.(1) Where the material received by the Commissionin the course of an investigation conducted by it under thisAct, discloses the commission of an offence under theprovisions of this Act by any person, the Commission shalldirect the Director-General to institute criminal proceedingsagainst such person in the appropriate court.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, the Director-General in accordance withsubsection (1) of this section shall have the power to instituteproceedings in the Magistrates Court through a charge sheetsigned by the Director-General and section 136 of the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall not apply forthe purposes of this section.

(3) The provisions of section 162 of the Code of CriminalProcedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall mutatis mutandisapply in respect of any charge sheet signed by the Director-General.

(4) Upon proceedings being instituted through a chargesheet under subsection (2), the Magistrate shall

(a)cause the accused to appear, or to be brought, beforehim;

(b)cause a copy of the charge sheet with its annexuresto be served on each of the accused who shall betried upon that charge sheet;

(c)inform the accused of the date of the trial;

(d)where the accused is brought or appears before thecourt, read and explain the charge to the accusedand shall be asked whether he is guilty or not guiltyof the offence charged;

(e)if the accused pleads guilty and it appears to thesatisfaction of the Magistrate that he rightly

Prosecutions

59Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

comprehends the effect of his plea, record a verdictof guilty and pass sentence upon him according tothe provisions of the relevant law and record suchsentence; and

(f)if the accused does not make any plea or if he pleadsnot guilty, he shall be tried and the provisions ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979shall mutatis mutandis apply to the proceedings inthe Magistrate Court.

(5) Where proceedings are instituted in a High Court inpursuance of a direction made by the Commission undersubsection (1) by an indictment signed by the Director-General, such High Court shall on receipt of such indictment,have jurisdiction to try the offence described in suchindictment in all respects as if such indictment were anindictment presented by the Attorney-General to such court.

(6) There shall be annexed to every such indictment, inaddition to the documents which are required by the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 to be annexed thereto,a copy of the statements, if any, made before the Commissionby the accused and by every person intended to be called asa witness by the prosecution.

(7) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, an officer of the Commission authorized by theCommission, the Attorney-General upon request of theCommission or any other Attorney-at-Law speciallyauthorized by the Commission shall be entitled to

(a)conduct the prosecution at a trial of an offence held-

(i)in the Magistrate Court on a charge sheet;and

(ii)in the High Court on an indictment, signedby the Director-General; or

60Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b)appear on behalf of the Commission in any otherlitigation which may have a bearing on theCommission:

Provided that, where the Commission has requested theAttorney-General to conduct the prosecution or appear onbehalf of the Commission in any other litigation, in theabsence of the Attorney-General, an officer of the Commissionauthorized by the Commission is entitled to conduct suchprosecution or appear on behalf of the Commission:

Provided further, where an officer of the Commissionauthorized by the Commission is conducting a prosecutionor appearing on behalf of the Commission, the Attorney-General may assist such officer.

66.At the trial of a person for an offence referred to insection 41, on the request of the Commission, the relevantcourt may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, call any witness, or allow the Commissionto produce any document, as is not specified in the list ofwitnesses or documents respectively, where the court issatisfied that calling of such witness or document is requiredin the interest of Justice.

67.(1) If at any time before the judgement is given bythe High Court against a person who has been indicted forhaving committed one or more offences under this Act, theDirector-General may with the sanction of the Commission,having due regard to the facts specified in subsection (2) andsubject to one or more conditions referred to in subsection(3), with the permission of the High Court, withdraw theindictment against such accused.

Call any witness,or use orproduce anydocument, whichis not specifiedin the list ofwitnesses or listof documents

Withdrawal of

indictments

61Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) When the Director-General withdraws the indictmentunder subsection (1), he shall have due regard to

(i)the national interest and public interest;

(ii)views of the victims of the offence; and

(iii)representations that may be made by the accusedperson or on his behalf by his Attorney-at-Law.

(3) The Director-General may when withdrawing anindictment under subsection (1), impose on the accused oneor more of the following conditions to be fulfilled within astipulated period:-

(i)to publicly express remorse and apology before theHigh Court, using a text issued by the Commission;

(ii)to provide reparation to victims of the offence, asspecified by the Commission;

(iii)to publicly undertake that he refrains fromcommitting an offence under this Act; or

(iv)to permanently refrain from holding public office,both elected and appointed.

(4) If such person fulfills the conditions imposed undersubsection (3), during the period stipulated for fulfilling suchconditions, the Director-General shall not present a freshindictment against the accused thereafter on the same chargesspecified in the original indictment.

(5) If the accused fails without reasonable cause to complywith the said conditions, the Director-General shall file afresh indictment against the accused on the same chargesspecified in the original indictment and proceed to prosecutethe accused after the lapse of the period given for the accusedto fulfil such conditions.

62Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

68.(1) Where proceedings are instituted in the HighCourt by an indictment signed by the Director-General, theDirector-General shall have the right to appeal against ajudgment, order or sentence of such High Court in all casesin which the Attorney-General would have had the right toappeal against such judgment, order or sentence had anindictment for such offence been presented to such Court bythe Attorney-General.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, where proceedings are instituted in theMagistrates Court by a charge sheet signed by the Director-General, the Director-General shall have the right to appealagainst a judgment, order or sentence of such MagistratesCourt.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, an officer of the Commission authorized by theCommission, the Attorney-General upon a request by theCommission or any other Attorney-at-Law speciallyauthorized by the Commission shall be entitled to

(a)conduct appeals in respect of offences under thisAct; and

(b)appear on behalf of the Commission in the appealsof any other litigation which may have a bearing onthe Commission:

Provided that, where the Commission has requested theAttorney-General to conduct any appeal or appear on behalfof the Commission in the appeals of any other litigation, inthe absence of the Attorney-General, an officer of theCommission authorized by the Commission is entitled toconduct such appeal or appear on behalf of the Commission:

Appeals

63Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Provided further, where an officer of the Commissionauthorized by the Commission is conducting an appeal orappearing on behalf of the Commission, the Attorney-Generalmay assist such officer.

69.(1) The Commission may prior to or during aninvestigation or after the conclusion of an investigation,during prosecution, in an appeal or in any issue relevant tothe subject matter of such investigation solicit, receive andconsider the observations, views, opinions, advise orcomments of the Attorney-General.

(2) The Commission may request the opinion of theAttorney-General in any matter relating to the discharge ofits powers and functions under this Act.

(3) It shall be lawful for the Attorney-General to rendersuch assistance as requested by the Commission.

70.(1) During any stage of the investigation or at anytime before the conclusion of the trial of a person chargedwith bribery under the provisions of Part III of this Act, theCommission may, with the view of obtaining at the trial theevidence of any person supposed to have been directly orindirectly concerned in or privy to the offence by writingunder its hand authorize any Magistrate named therein notto charge or prosecute such person on condition of his makinga full and true disclosure of the whole of the circumstanceswithin his knowledge relating to the offence and to everyother person concerned whether as principal or as abettor inthe commission thereof.

(2) The Magistrate shall record, in the manner specified inthe Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, theevidence on oath of every person referred to in subsection (1)and transmit the record to the Commission.

Requesting theassistance of theAttorney-General

Not to charge orprosecuteaccomplices

64Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) Every person referred to in subsection (1) shall beexamined as a witness in the case.

(4) Such person if not on bail, shall be detained in custodyuntil the termination of the trial.

(5) Where a person referred to in subsection (1) has willfullyconcealed anything essential or has given false evidence, hemay be tried for the offence in respect of which he was chargedwith or for any other offence of which he appears to havebeen guilty in connection with the same matter.

(6) The statement made by a person referred to insubsection (1) may be given in evidence against him whenhe is tried as stated in subsection (5).

71.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, where the offence committed falls undersections 106 and 108 of this Act, the Commission may, havingdue regard to the facts specified in subsection (2), and subjectto one or more conditions referred to in subsection (3), enterinto an agreement with any person referred to in subsection(8) of this section alleged to have committed an offence undersuch sections to suspend and defer the Criminal Proceedingsagainst such person for a period not less than five years andnot exceeding ten years.

(2) Where the Commission agrees to suspend or defer thecriminal proceedings under subsection (1), it shall pay dueregard to-

(a)the state policy on prevention of bribery andcorruption;

(b)the national interest and public interest;

DeferredProsecutionAgreements

65Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(c)views of the victims of the offence, if any; and

(d)the representations that may be made by the accusedperson or on his behalf by his Attorney-at-Law.

(3) Where the Commission agrees in terms of subsection(1) to suspend or defer the criminal proceedings against anyperson alleged to have committed an offence under this Act,the Commission shall prefer an application to the High Court,to obtain the sanction of such Court for the imposition of oneor more of the following conditions to be fulfilled within astipulated period, on such person as consideration for thesuspension and deferment of the criminal proceedings againstsuch person

(a)to publicly express remorse and apology before theHigh Court, using a text issued by the Commission;

(b)to provide reparation to victims of the offence, asspecified by the Commission;

(c)to publicly undertake that such person refrains fromcommitting an offence under this Act; or

(d)to pay as compensation to the State the full amountrelating to the offence of which twenty five percentum shall be credited to the Fund of theCommission.

(4) (a) The High Court may upon consideration of theapplication made by the Commission under subsection (3),and upon being satisfied that the agreement is in the interestof justice and the terms of the agreement are fair, reasonableand proportionate and approve such agreement and notifysuch person of the agreement.

66Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) The agreement shall come into effect on the date onwhich the agreement is approved by the High Court.

(5) If such person fulfills the conditions imposed undersubsection (3) during the period stipulated in the agreementfor fulfilling such conditions, the Commission shall notproceed against such person in respect of the offence allegedto have been committed.

(6) If the person fails without valid excuse to comply withsuch conditions, the Commission shall upon making anapplication to the High Court, commence criminalproceedings against such person upon indictment.

(7) At the expiration of the period stipulated in theagreement, the Director-General shall, having informed andobtained the permission from the High Court shalldiscontinue the proceedings against such person.

(8) Where the person referred to in this section is a bodycorporate, an agreement under this section shall be enteredinto between the Director-General and such body corporate.

72.The Commission may take any other appropriatesteps not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act toachieve the objectives of this Act and carry out the powersand functions vested in the Commission under this Act orany other written law.

CHAPTER V

PROTECTION OF INFORMERS, wHISTLEBLOWERS, wITNESSES, AND OTHER

PERSONS ASSISTING THE COMMISSION

73.(1) Where the Commission confidentially receivesinformation to the effect that an offence under this Act hasbeen committed or suspected to have been committed or islikely to be committed, such information and the identity of

General power

Protection ofinformers of theCommission

67Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

the informer shall not be revealed and the informer and thematters relating to such information shall not be disclosed inany proceedings before any court, tribunal, or other authority.

(2) Where any record, written or electronic, which is givenin evidence or liable for inspection in any civil, criminal orother proceedings, contains an entry relating to the informeror the information given by the informer, the relevant court,tribunal, or other authority shall cause the parts in such recordrelating to the informer or the information given, to beconcealed from view so as to protect the identity of suchinformer.

(3) If on a trial for any offence under this Act, the court,after full inquiry into the case, is of the opinion that theinformer willfully made in his complaint a material statementwhich he knew to be false or did not believe to be true, or if inany other proceedings the court is of the opinion that justicecannot be fully administered between the parties theretowithout the discovery of the informer, the court may requirethe production of the original complaint, if in writing, andpermit inquiry and require full disclosure concerning theinformer.

(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1), commits an offence and on conviction by theHigh Court be liable to a fine of one hundred thousand rupeesor to a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months or toboth such fine and imprisonment.

(5) Where a person-

(a)provides information to the Commission or anyofficer of the Commission or to any other law

68Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

enforcement authority that a person, public official,a body corporate or unincorporate, public or privatesector entity will commit or is committing or hascommitted or is likely to commit an offence underthis Act; and

(b)at the time such information is provided, believeson reasonable grounds that such information is trueand is of such a nature as to warrant an investigationunder this Act,

such person shall not be subject to civil or criminal liabilityas a result of providing such information.

(6) An informer shall not be subject to adverse conditionsof employment, reprisal, coercion, intimidation, retaliation,harassment, any injury to his person, or threatening or any ofthe foregoing for providing such information. Where aninformation is provided under section 74 by a whistleblower,no disciplinary action shall be taken against him for providingsuch information.

(7) Despite any prohibition of or restriction on thedisclosure of information under any other law, contract, oathor practice, a whistleblower shall not be subject to detrimentalaction on account of having provided information undersubsection (1) of section 74 or subsection (5) of this section.

(8) Any provision in a contract of service or otheragreement between an employer and an employee is void inso far as it

(a)purports to exclude any provision of this Act,including an agreement to refrain from institutingor continuing any proceedings under this Act orany proceedings for breach of contract; or

69Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b)purports to preclude the employee or has the effectof discouraging the employee from providinginformation.

(9) For the purposes of subsection (6) it shall be presumeduntil the contrary is proved that the adverse conditions ofemployment, reprisal, coercion, intimidation, retaliation,harassment, any injury to his person, or threatening or any ofthe foregoing has occurred.

(10) A whistleblower shall assist the Commission in anyinvestigation which the Commission may make in relationto the information provided by him.

74.(1) Where a public official or an employee of a privatesector entity-

(a)provides information to his superior officer that anoffence under this Act has been committed or isbeing committed or is likely to be committed in orin connection with the public institution or theprivate sector entity or any person, as the case maybe, in which he is employed; and

(b)at the time such person provides information hebelieves on reasonable grounds that the informationhe provides is true and is of such a nature as towarrant an investigation under this Act,

such public official or the employee of a private sector entity(hereinafter reffered to as a whistleblower) shall not besubject to any civil or criminal liability as a result of providingsuch information.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of thissection commits an offence under this Act and on convictionby the High Court be liable to a fine not exceeding onemillion rupees or to a term of imprisonment not exceedingseven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Protection ofwhistleblowers

70Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

75.(1) If it appears to the Commission that, the safety ofa person who assist the Commission is adversely affected orsuch person or any other person may be subject tointimidation, harassment, injury or threat, the Commissionmay make such arrangements as are necessary

(a)to provide physical safety to such person; or

(b)to protect such person or any other person fromintimidation, harassment, injury or threat.(2) In this section, a person who is assisting theCommission means

(a)an informer in terms of section 73 of this Act;

(b)a witness;

(c)a person who has appeared, is appearing or is toappear before the Commission to give evidence orto produce a document or any other thing in aninquiry or investigation conducted or to beconducted or any other measure taken or to be takenby the Commission under this Act;

(d)a person who has produced or proposes to produce adocument or any other thing to the Commission inany inquiry or investigation conducted or to beconducted or any other measure taken or to be takenby the Commission under this Act; or

(e)a person who has assisted, is assisting, or is to assistthe Commission in any other manner in an inquiryor investigation conducted or to be conducted orany other measure taken or to be taken by theCommission under this Act.

(3) Any such arrangement referred to in subsection (1)may involve any one of the following:

Safety of personsassisting theCommission

71Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(a)issuing directions to the Inspector-General of Policeor any public authority or any public official

(i)to provide any protection referred to insubsection (1);

(ii)to provide personnel assistance or facilitiesor both, to assist in providing such protection;or

(iii)to otherwise assist in the provision of suchprotection;

(b)making orders applying to a specified person forthe purpose of protecting the physical safety of aperson referred to in subsection (1) or of protectingsuch person from intimidation or harassment. Suchan order is not limited to directions of a kind referredto in paragraph (a).

(4) It shall be the duty of the Inspector-General of Police,or such public authority or public official, to comply withany such direction given by the Commission as far asreasonably possible.

(5) Any person who contravenes an order made, to beapplicable to a specified person under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (3) of this section without a reasonable excuse,commits an offence and shall on conviction by the HighCourt be liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees orto a term of imprisonment not exceeding seven years or toboth such fine and imprisonment.

76.(1) A person shall, in respect of any statement made,information or answer given, or any document or any otherthing produced, to or before the Commission not to be liableto any action, prosecution or other proceeding, civil orcriminal, in any court.

(2) No evidence of a statement made or answer orinformation given, by any person, to or before the Commissionshall be admissible against such person in any action,prosecution or other proceeding civil or criminal, in any court:

Immunity towitnesses

72Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Provided that, nothing in the preceding provisions of thissection shall

(i)abridge or affect, or be deemed or construed toabridge or affect the liability of any person to anyaction, prosecution or penalty for any offence underChapter XI of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) read withsection 119 of this Act or for an offence under thisAct;

(ii)prohibit or be deemed or construed to prohibit thepublication or disclosure of the name, or of thestatement or of any part of the statement of anyperson for the purposes of any such action orprosecution; or

(iii)affect the admissibility of any statement admissibleunder section 147.

77.The Commission shall have the power to providelegal representation to any informer, whistleblower or witnessduring an investigation, including inquiries at MagistratesCourt, without prejudice to such investigations and at a trialin the High Court into an alleged offence committed againstsuch whistleblower or witness in terms of sections 73, 74 and75 of this Act.

78. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice therights of victims and witnesses ensured under the provisionsof the Assistance to and Protection of Victims of Crime andWitnesses Act, No. 4 of 2015.

PART II

DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

79.Subject to section 2 of this Act, the objects of thisPart shall be to

Protection ofwitnesses andpersons assistingthe Commissionand providinglegalrepresentationwhere necessary

Protection ofvictims rights

Objects of this

Part

73Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(a)compel all public officials to make periodicdeclarations of their assets and liabilities within andoutside Sri Lanka;

(b)provide for a centralized electronic system forsubmission of such declarations;

(c)provide for reference to be made to such declarationsby appropriate authorities and for investigations tobe conducted, upon the receipt of any informationagainst a person to whom this Part applies;

(d)provide for appropriate measures to be taken inrespect of late submissions and non-declaration ofassets and liabilities, and for furnishing falsedeclarations;

(e)prevent illicit enrichment and conflicts of interestarising in the discharge of public functions or officialactivities, through public scrutiny; and

(f)provide for matters connected therewith orincidental thereto.

80.(1) The provisions of this Part shall apply to everyperson belonging to any one of the following classes ordescriptions:-

(a)the President;

(b)the Prime Minister;

(c)Members of Parliament;

(d)Governors of provinces;

(e)members of Provincial Councils and staff officers ofthe Provincial Public Service;

Application ofthis Part

74Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(f)elected members and staff officers of localauthorities;

(g)Judges and public officers appointed by thePresident;

(h)public officers appointed by the Cabinet ofMinisters;

(i)judicial officers and scheduled public officersappointed by the Judicial Service Commission;

(j)staff officers in Ministries and GovernmentDepartments;

(k)members of the Constitutional Council appointedin terms of Article 41A (1) (e) of the Constitution,who are not members of Parliament;

(l)persons appointed as Chairmen or members as thecase may be of any of the Commissions specified inthe Schedule to Article 41B of the Constitution;

(m)staff officers of the Central Bank of Sri Lankan andState Banks;

(n)staff officers of the Independent Commissionsestablished under Article 41A (1)(c) of theConstitution or under any Statute;

(o)Chairpersons, Commissioners, members and staffofficers of independent regulatory and supervisoryCommissions or bodies established by or under anyStatute;

(p)Chairmen, Directors, members of the Boards andexecutive officers of any public corporationestablished by or under any Statute;

(q)private staff members of the Members of Parliament,members of Provincial Councils and members oflocal authorities;

75Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(r)officers of the Sri Lanka Army raised and maintainedin accordance with the provisions of the Army Act(Chapter 357);

(s)officers of the Sri Lanka Navy raised and maintainedin accordance with the provisions of the Navy Act(Chapter 358);

(t)commissioned officers of the Sri Lanka Air Forceraised and maintained in accordance with theprovisions of the Air Force Act (Chapter 359);

(u)office- bearers of recognized political parties for thepurposes of elections under the PresidentialElections Act, No.15 of 1981, the ParliamentaryElections Act, No. 1 of 1981, the ProvincialCouncils Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988, LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262) orthe Trade Unions Ordinance (Chapter 138);

(v)Executives of trade unions registered under the TradeUnions Ordinance (Chapter 138);

(w)candidates nominated for election at elections to beheld under the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of1981, the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of1981, the Provincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2of 1988 or the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance(Chapter 262);

(x)Chairmen, Directors and staff officers of Companiesregistered under the provisions of the CompaniesAct, No. 07 of 2007, in which not less than twentyfive per centum of shares are held by the State or bya public corporation;

(y)staff in managerial or supervisory roles of financialinstitutions which are scheduled institutions withinthe meaning of this Act;

76Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(z)Heads of Sri Lankan Diplomatic Missions;

(aa)officers appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers toSri Lankan Diplomatic Missions;

(bb)proprietors, editors and members of the editorial staffof newspapers in respect of which declarations havebeen made under section 2 of the NewspaperOrdinance (Chapter 180);

(cc)proprietors, editors and members of the editorial staffof media companies licensed under section 17 ofthe Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of1991;

(dd)office bearers of National Associations of Sportsestablished in terms of the Sports Law, No. 25 of1973; and

(ee)such categories of other officers as may be prescribedby regulations as high risk categories by taking intoconsideration the vulnerability of such officers tobribery or corruption having regard to the nature ofthe work they perform in their respective offices.

(2) A person to whom the provisions of this Part appliesby virtue of the operation of subsection (1), is hereinafter inthis Part referred to as a person to whom this Part applies.

81. Every person to whom this Part applies shall, make adeclaration, in accordance with the provisions of section 82,(hereinafter in this Part referred to as a declaration of assetsand liabilities), of all-

(a)his assets and liabilities;

(b)the assets and liabilities of his spouse;

Duty of personsto whom thisPart applies tomakedeclarations ofassets andliabilities

77Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(c)the assets and liabilities of each of his dependantchildren irrespective of their age;

(d)assets and liabilities of any other persons dependanton him irrespective of their age; and

(e)the assets and liabilities of any other person whocohabits and shares the common household withthe person to whom this Part applies for at least sixmonths prior to the date of declaration except wheresuch person does not share mutual rights andobligations with person to whom this Part applies.

82.(1) Every person to whom this Part applies shall, inthe form as may be prescribed by regulations makedeclarations of assets and liabilities-

(a)within three months of the date of appointment(hereinafter referred to as the first appointmentdeclaration);

(b)annually in terms of subsection (3) (hereinafterreferred to as the annual declaration);

(c)within a period of fourteen days immediately afterthe end of the tenure of his employment or the dateof his retirement or the date of dismissal from officeas the case may be (hereinafter referred to as theend of tenure or retirement declaration);

(d)in two consecutive years immediately succeedingthe year of making the declaration underparagraph (c) (hereinafter referred to as the postretirement declaration);

(e)where a significant change in the value of assetsand liabilities amounting to ten million rupees ormore than ten million rupees occurs, within onemonth from the date of such occurrence (hereinafterreferred to as the ad-hoc declaration); and

When to makedeclarations ofassets andliabilities

78Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(f)when nomination papers are submitted for elections,under the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981,the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981, theProvincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988 orthe Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter262) as the case may be.

(2) Where a person who on the appointed date is not aperson to whom this Part applies, he shall, within three monthsof the date on which he becomes a person to whom this Partapplies, make a declaration of assets and liabilities as at thedate such person becomes a person to whom this Act applies:

Provided that, a person to whom this Part applies as isreferred to in paragraph (w) of subsection (1) of section 80shall submit his declaration for the period up to the date ofthe declaration made under the relevant law declaring thedate of election.

(3) Every person who is required to make the firstdeclaration of assets and liabilities under subsection (1) or(2) shall, unless such person ceases to be a person to whomthis Part applies, by the thirtieth day of June in each year,make in the Form as may be prescribed by regulations adeclaration of his assets and liabilities as at the thirty firstday of March of such year and include in such declarationthe assets and liabilities he held on the date on which he wasfirst required to make a declaration of his assets and liabilitiesunder this Part:

Provided that, where a person who is required to make adeclaration of assets and liabilities under subsection (2) hasmade the first declaration as at any date within six monthspreceding the thirty first day of March in any year, he shallnot be required to make another declaration for such yearother than an ad- hoc declaration where a significant changereferred to in paragraph (e) of subsection (1) occurs in hisassets and liabilities.

79Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

83.(1) The submission and verification of declarationsof assets and liabilities shall be made through the centralizedelectronic system administered by the Commission(hereinafter in this Part referred to as the Central Authority).

(2) Electronic assets and liabilities declarations (hereinafterreferred to as electronic declaration) shall be submittedeither in Sinhala, Tamil or English language.

(3) The provisions of the Electronic Transactions Act,No. 19 of 2006 which are not expressly excluded by theprovisions of this Act or are not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act shall apply to this Part.

(4) A person who has made an electronic assets andliabilities declaration may make alterations in suchdeclaration-

(a)within fifteen days for first or subsequentdeclarations; and

(b)within seven days for ad-hoc declarations,

and the system will automatically close after that period:

Provided however, the person to whom this Part appliesmay be allowed access to the centralised electronicsubmission system to make alterations in his electronicdeclaration after fifteen days or seven days as the case maybe with the special sanction of the Central Authority, wherethe Central Authority deems that a justifiable reason exists.

(5) Where a person to whom this Part applies makes analteration in his declaration under subsection (4), such personshall be provided with copies of his original declaration tomake the required alterations and the last copy of such personsdeclaration shall be regarded as the true and final declaration.

Submissionprocess ofdeclarations ofassets andliabilities

80Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(6) A person to whom this Part applies may seek assistancein submitting the declaration to be submitted undersubsection (2), from the Central Authority or from any officerassigned by the Central Authority.

(7) Manual submission of declarations of assets andliabilities shall be allowed during the transitional period untilthe centralised electronic submission system comes into effector in instances in which the electronic system has collapseddue to technical failures.

84.(1) The Central Authority shall conduct a verificationof the declarations of assets and liabilities to detect primafacie proof of illicit enrichment, and conflicts of interests inthe circumstances referred to in subsection (2).

(2) The Central Authority shall conduct a verification ofthe declarations of asset and liabilities in the followingcircumstances:-

(a)when such declarations are selected for suchverification according to the procedure prescribedby regulations;

(b)upon discrepancies and red flags automaticallydetected in the electronic system;

(c)upon receipt of a complaint from any person on anillicit enrichment or conflict of interest with regardto a person to whom this Part applies; or

(d)when the Central Authority ex mero motu detectsprima facie proofs of possible violation throughpublic sources or its own investigations.

(3) The detection of illicit enrichment upon anyverification conducted under subsection (2) shall lead to aninvestigation under section 42.

Verificationprocess

81Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

85.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law,the Central Authority shall have access to records anddatabases of any other public authority within Sri Lanka forthe purpose of verification of declarations of assets andliabilities in so far as the information accessed pertains toassets, liabilities, income, expenditure, and interests whichgives rise to or may give rise to conflicts of interest.

(2) For the purpose of this Part, public authority shallhave the same meaning as in the Right to Information Act,No. 12 of 2016 and shall include the Department of InlandRevenue, Department of Motor Traffic, Department ofCustoms and Registrar General of Lands and RegistrarGeneral of Title.

86.The Attorney-General, the Commission, theCommissioner-General of Inland Revenue, the Head of theDepartment of Exchange Control, Inspector General of Police,designated officers of special police units, Director-Generalof Customs and designated officers of Financial IntelligenceUnit shall have the right to call for and refer to any declarationof assets and liabilities submitted under this Part with thesanction of the Central Authority.

87.(1) There shall be a data base maintained by theCentral Authority for the purpose of securing information inelectronic form relating to assets and liabilities of every personto whom this Part applies (hereinafter referred to as thecentralized electronic system).

(2) Regulations may be made to prescribe the manner ofmaintaining the centralized electronic system.

(3) Nothing contained in the Evidence (Special Provisions)Act, No. 14 of 1995 shall apply to and in relation to any data,message, electronic document, electronic record or otherdocument to which the provisions of this Act apply.

Access to otherrecords

Power to referdeclaration ofassets andliabilities

CentralizedElectronicSystem

82Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(4) The Commission shall specify by way of rules theauthorizing or facilitating the use of the centralized electronicsystem.

88.(1) The centralized electronic system shallautomatically generate redacted version of every declarationof assets and liabilities which is accessible to the generalpublic within one month of its submission through the officialwebsite of the Commission. Such redacted version shall notinclude

(a)the address of the residence of the declarant or ofany other person, whose assets are declared by thedeclarant;

(b)full address/es of declared real estate exceptinformation pertaining to the ward and district inwhich the real estate is situated;

(c)date of birth, National Identity Card Number,Passport Number or any other number recognizedby the relevant authorities for the purpose ofidentification of individuals mentioned in thedeclaration;

(d)bank account numbers; or

(e)any other deposit details:

Provided that, when generating the aforementionedredacted version of a declaration of assets and liabilities, thecommission shall ascertain the identity of the personobtaining the redacted version and the identity of such personshall be recorded.

(2) The Central Authority shall, within a period of threemonths of the commencement of the functions of the CentralAuthority, appoint an officer as the Information Officer ofthe Central Authority in terms of section 23 of the Right toInformation Act, No. 12 of 2016 and the Head of the CentralAuthority shall be the Designated Officer for the purposes ofthe said Act.

89.Every candidate of elections referred to in paragraph(w) of subsection (1) of section 80 shall, submit a copy of theform and a summary of the declaration of assets, and liabilities,to the Commissioner of Elections together with suchcandidates nomination papers.

Public Access

Access todeclarations ofcandidates ofelections

83Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

90.(1) If a person whom declarations of assets andliabilities are to be made under this Part fails to comply withthe requirements of this Part, within two weeks from thirtiethJune each year, such person shall be warned by sending lettersby the Central Authority.

(2) Any person who fails to submit his annual declarationor the post retirement declaration under section 82 of thisAct on due date, shall be liable to a daily administrative fineimposed by the Central Authority equivalent to one thirtiethof the last drawn gross monthly salary of the declarant for theperiod commencing from the due date of the declaration upto thirty first day of July. An enhanced daily administrativefine equivalent to one thirtieth of last drawn gross salary forlast six months will be imposed for late submissions fromfirst of August to thirty first of August. The fine shall be asurcharge on the remuneration or the retirement benefit asthe case may be.

(3) Any person who fails to submit his first appointmentdeclaration, ad-hoc declaration or the end of tenure orretirement declaration under section 82 of this Act on duedate, shall be liable to a daily administrative fine imposed bythe Central Authority equivalent to one thirtieth of the lastdrown gross monthly salary of the declarant. A fine will beimposed for late submissions up to fourteen days after thedue date for the submissions. An enhanced dailyadministrative fine equivalent to one thirtieth of the last drawngross monthly salaries for last six months shall be imposedfor late submissions between fourteen days and twenty eightdays after the due date for the submission of such declaration.

(4) Any person who fails to submit his declaration of assetsand liabilities along with his application form for nominationfor an election, shall be liable to sanctions in accordancewith the provisions of the relevant written laws.

Offences relatedto the declarationof Assets andLiabilities

84Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(5) Any person who fails to submit the annual declarationor the post retirement declaration as the case may be until thefirst of September of the relevant year commits an offenceand shall, on conviction after summary trial before aMagistrate, be liable to a fine equivalent to last drawn grosssalaries for twelve months of that person or to a term ofimprisonment of either description not exceeding one yearor to both such fine and imprisonment:

Provided that, the Commission shall investigate of suchnon-submission, for the purposes of verifications.

(6) Any person who fails to submit the first appointmentdeclaration, ad-hoc declaration or the end of tenure orretirement declaration until twenty eight days after the duedate, commits an offence and shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fineequivalent to-

(a)one hundred thousand rupees, where any person failsto submit his first appointment declaration;

(b)one hundred thousand rupees, where any person failsto submit his ad-hoc declaration; or

(c)last drawn gross salary of that person, where anyperson fails to submit his end of tenure or retirementdeclaration,

or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment:

Provided that, the Commission shall investigate, of thenon submission for the purposes of verifications.

(7) Any person -

(a)who makes any false statement in any declaration;or

85Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b)who willfully omits any asset or liability from anydeclaration,

commits an offence and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand rupees or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(8) Any person who fails without reasonable cause to provide any additional information as may be required by the Commission, commits an offence and shall on conviction after summary trail before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to a term of imprisonment of either description not exceeding one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(9) A person who is convicted of an offence under subsection (6) or (7) shall, within a period of fourteen days after the date of conviction, or in the event of an appeal against such conviction, within a period of fourteen days after the date of affirmation of such conviction, make the declaration of assets and liabilities referred to in section 81. The provisions of section 79 and the provisions of the other preceding sections of this Part shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to any declaration of assets and liabilities made by such person under this subsection in like manner and to the same extent as they apply to any declaration of assets and liabilities made under section 81.

(10) Where any person is convicted of an offence under paragraph (b) of subsection (7), the asset in respect of which the offence was committed shall by virtue of such conviction be vested in the State free of all encumbrances.

(11) The vesting of any assets in the State under preceding subsection (10) shall take effect-

86Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(a)where an appeal has been preferred to the Court ofAppeal or the Supreme Court against the order offorfeiture, upon the determination of the appeal,confirming or upholding the order of forfeiture;

(b)where no appeal has been preferred to the Court ofAppeal against the order of forfeiture, after theexpiration of the period within which an appeal maybe preferred to the Supreme Court against the orderof forfeiture.

(12) All administrative fines under this Chapter imposedupon any person by the Central Authority shall be surchargedon the remuneration or the retirement benefit as the case maybe of such person, and shall be remitted to the Fund of theCommission.

91.The Central Authority may, at any time, call for suchadditional information as the Commission may requirefrom

(a)any person who has made a declaration of assetsand liabilities under this Part, and utilize suchinformation or the declaration made under this Part;or

(b)any other person, any information, record ordocument,

for the performance of its functions under Part I of this Act.

92.In this Part unless the context otherwise requiresassets and liabilities means assets, liabilities, income,expenditure and interests directly or beneficially owned inor outside Sri Lanka, the details of which shall be prescribedby regulations.

Power of theCommission tocall foradditionalinformation

Assets andLiabilities

87Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

PART III

CHAPTER I

OFFENCES RELATING TO BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION

93.A person

(a)who offers any gratification to a Judge of the SupremeCourt, Court of Appeal or High Court or a judicialofficer, or a member of a tribunal or an institution ora person exercising quasi-judicial power, or amember of Parliament or a member of a ProvincialCouncil or a local authority as an inducement or areward for such Judges or officers or Members doingor for bearing to do any act in his judicial capacity orin his capacity as such Member, or

(b)who, being a Judge of the Supreme Court, Court ofAppeal, High Court or a judicial officer, or a memberof tribunal or an institution or a person exercisingquasi-judicial power, or a Member of Parliament, ora member of Provincial Council or a local authoritysolictis or accepts any gratification as an inducementor a reward for his doing or forbearing to do any actin his judicial capacity or in his capacity as suchMember,

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and on convictionbe liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees and to aterm of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding seven years.

94.A Member of Parliament, a member of a ProvincialCouncil or a local authority who solicits or accepts anygratification as an inducement or a reward for

(a)interviewing a public official on behalf of anyperson; or

(b)appearing on behalf of any person before a publicofficial exercising judicial or quasi-judicialfunctions,

Bribery ofJudges of theSupreme Court,Court of Appeal,High Courts,judicial officers,members oftribunals orinstitutions andpersonsexercising quasi-judicial powersand Members ofParliament,ProvincialCouncils andloacal authorities

Acceptance ofgratification byMembers ofParliament aProvincialCouncil or alocal authorityfor interviewingpublic officials

88Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees and for a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years:

Provided however, that it shall not be an offence underthe preceding provisions of this section for a Member ofParliament to appear as an attorney-at-law before a court oflaw or before a statutory tribunal of which a public official isnot a member.

95.Any person who accesses the centralized electronicsystem illegally or without due authority commits an offenceand on conviction be liable to fine not exceeding one millionrupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years.

96.A person -

(a)who offers any gratification to any police officer,peace officer, or other public official, employed inany capacity for the prosecution, detection orpunishment of offenders, or to an officer of a court,as an inducement or a reward for such officers orofficials interfering with the due administration ofjustice, or procuring or facilitating the commissionof any offence, or protecting from detection orpunishment the perpetrator of any offence, orabusing his official powers to the injury or detrimentof any person; or

(b)who, being any such officer or official, solicits oraccepts any gratification as an inducement or areward for such interfering, procuring, facilitating,protecting, or abusing as is referred to in paragraph(a) of this section,

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and on convictionbe liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees and to aterm of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding seven years.

Illegal access etcto electronicassets declarationsystem to be anoffence

Bribery of policeofficers, peaceofficers andother publicofficials

89Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

97.A person -

(a)who offers any gratification to a public official asan inducement or reward for such public officialgiving assistance or using influence in thepromotion of the procuring of any contract with theGovernment, for the performance of any work, theproviding of any service, the doing of anything, orthe supplying of any article, material or substance,or in the execution of any such contract, or in thepayment of the price or consideration stipulatedtherein or of any subsidy payable in respect thereof;or

(b)who, being a public official, solicits or accepts anygratification as an inducement or a reward for hisgiving assistance or using influence in thepromotion of the procuring of any such contract asis referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, or inthe execution of any such contract, or in the paymentof the price or consideration stipulated therein or ofany subsidy payable in respect thereof,

commits an offence and on conviction be liable to a fine notexceeding one million rupees and to a term of rigorousimprisonment not exceeding seven years.

98.A person

(a)who, with intent to obtain from the Government acontract for performing any work, providing anyservice, doing anything, or supplying any article,material or substance, offers any gratification to anyperson who has made a tender for such contract, asan inducement or a reward for his withdrawing suchtender; or

Bribery forgiving assistanceor usinginfluence withregard tocontracts

Bribery forprocuringwithdrawal oftenders

90Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b)who solicits or accepts any gratification as aninducement or a reward for his withdrawing a tendermade by him for such contract as is specified inparagraph (a),

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years.

99.A person -

(a)who offers any gratification to a public official asan inducement or a reward for that public officialperforming or abstaining from performing anyofficial act, or expediting, delaying, hindering orpreventing the performance of any official actwhether by that public official or by any other publicofficial, or assisting, favouring, hindering ordelaying any person in the transaction of anybusiness with the Government;

(b)who, being a public official, solicits or accepts anygratification as an inducement or a reward for hisperforming or abstaining from performing anyofficial act or for such expediting, delaying,hindering, preventing, assisting or favouring anysuch official act as is referred to in paragraph (a) ofthis section; or

(c)who, being a public official solicits or accepts anygratification,

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years.

Bribery inrespect ofGovernmentbusiness

91Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Provided that, section 35 of the Medical Ordinance(Chapter 105) shall not entitle a medical practitioner who isa public official to solicit or accept any gratification.

100. A person-

(a)who offers any gratification to any person as aninducement or a reward for

(i)his procuring from the Government thepayment of the whole or a part of any claim;

(ii)his procuring or furthering the appointmentof the first-mentioned person or of any otherperson to any office;

(iii)his preventing the appointment of any otherperson to any office;

(iv)his procuring, or furthering the securing of,any employment for the first-mentionedperson or for any other person in anydepartment, office or establishment of theGovernment;

(v)his preventing the securing of anyemployment for any other person in anydepartment, office or establishment of theGovernment;

(vi)his procuring, or furthering the securing ofany grant, lease, service, favour, advantage orother benefit from the Government for the first-mentioned person or for any other person; or

(vii)his preventing the securing of any such grant,lease, service, favour, advantage or otherbenefit for any other person; or

Bribery of publicofficials bypersons havingdealings with theGovernment

92Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b)who solicits or accepts any gratification as aninducement or a reward for his doing any of the actsspecified in subparagraphs (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi)and (vii) of paragraph (a) of this section,

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years.

101. A person

(a)who, while having dealings of any kind with theGovernment through any department, office orestablishment of the Government, offers anygratification to any public official employed in thatdepartment, office or establishment;

(b)who, within one year before or after his havingdealings of any kind with the Government throughany department, office or establishment of theGovernment, offers any gratification to any publicofficial employed in that department, office orestablishment; or

(c)who, being a public official, solicits or accepts anygratification, the offer of which is an offence underthis section,

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years:

Bribery of publicofficials bypersons havingdealings with theGovernment

93Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

102. A person -

(a)who offers any gratification to any member of aProvincial Council or a local authority, or of ascheduled institution, or of the governing body of ascheduled institution, as an inducement or a rewardfor -

(i)such members voting or abstaining fromvoting at any meeting of such ProvincialCouncil, local authority, scheduledinstitution, or governing body or of acommittee thereof in favour of or against anymeasure, resolution or question submitted tosuch Provincial Council, local authority,scheduled institution, governing body orcommittee;

(ii)such members performing, or abstaining fromperforming, or his aid in procuring,expediting, delaying, hindering or preventingthe performance of any official act; or

(iii)such members aid in procuring or preventingthe passing of any vote or the granting of anycontract or advantage in favour of any person;

(b)who offers any gratification to any officer oremployee of any local authority or a ProvincialCouncil, or of any scheduled institution, as aninducement or a reward for

(i)such officers or employees performing orabstaining from performing, or his aid inprocuring, expediting, delaying, hindering orpreventing the performance of, any officialact; or

(ii)such officers or employees procuring orpreventing the passing of any vote or the

Bribery of amember of aProvincialCouncil or alocal authority,or of a scheduledinstitution, or ofa governingbody of ascheduledinstitution, andbribery ofofficial of aProvincialCouncil or alocal authority ora shceduledinstitution or agoverning bodyof suchscheduledinstitution

94Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

granting of any contract or advantage in favourof any person;

(c)who, being such member as is referred to in paragraph(a) of this section, solicits or accepts any gratificationas an inducement or a reward for any such act, orany such abstaining, as is referred to insubparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of that paragraph; or

(d)who, being such officer or employee as is referred toin paragraph (b) of this section, solicits or acceptsany gratification as an inducement or a reward forany such act, or any such abstaining, as is referred toin subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of that paragraph,

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees and to term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years.

103. A person -

(a)who, attempts by any threat, deceit, suppression ofthe truth or other unlawful means to influence anymember of a Provincial Council, a local authority,or of a scheduled institution or of the governingbody of a scheduled institution or a committeethereof in giving or withholding his vote in favourof or against any measure, motion, resolution orquestion submitted to any meeting, or in notattending any meeting, of such Provincial Council,local authority, scheduled institution, or governingbody or of any committee thereof; or

(b)who attempts by any such means as in the paragraph(a) to influence any member or any officer oremployee of a Provincial Council, a local authority,or of a scheduled institution, or of the governingbody of a scheduled institution to aid in procuringor preventing the passing of any vote or the grantingof any contract or advantage in favour of any person,

Use of threats orfraud toinfluence vote ofmember of aProvincialCouncil, localauthority, or of ascheduledinstitution, or ofa governingbody of ascheduledinstitution

95Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

or to perform or abstain from performing, or to aid inprocuring, expediting, delaying, hindering orpreventing the performance of, any official act,

commits an offence under this Act and on conviction beliable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees and to aterm of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding seven years.

104. (1) A person who offers to a public official or anyother person, directly or indirectly any gratification in orderto influence such public official or other person with a viewto obtaining from the Government any benefit or service forhimself or any other person commits the offence of briberyand on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years.

(2) A public official or any other person who, directly orindirectly, solicits or accepts any gratification as is referredto in subsection (1) commits an offence of bribery and onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years.

105. (1) A person who offers to a foreign public official agratification, for him-

(a)to obtain or retain a contract, business or anadvantage in the conduct of international business;and

(b)to act or refrains from acting in the exercise of suchforeign public officials official duties in a mannerthat breaches an official duty or uses such foreignpublic officials or another persons position toinfluence any act or decision of the foreign State orpublic international organization concerned,

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees or to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Trading ininfluence

Bribery of aforeign publicofficial

96Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) For the purposes of this section, international businessincludes the provision of international aid.

(3) A person who offers a gratification under this sectioncommits an offence under this section, irrespective of

(a)whether the gratification is offered for the benefit ofthe foreign public official who is to act or refrainfrom acting or act or refrain from acting for anotherperson;

(b)whether the gratification offered has actuallyinfluenced the foreign public officials actions oromissions; or

(c)whether the gratification offered to the foreignpublic official is neither permitted nor required bythe written law applicable to him to be influencedin his capacity as a foreign public official.

(4) For the purposes of paragraph (c) of subsection (3), thewritten law applicable to the foreign public official shallmean

(a)where the performance of the functions of the foreignpublic official which the person intends to influencewould be subject to the laws of Sri Lanka; and

(b)where paragraph (a) does not apply and the foreignpublic official is an official or agent of a publicinternational organization, the applicable writtenrules of that organization:

Provided however, where paragraphs (a) and (b) do notapply, the law of the country or territory in relation to whichthe foreign public official is a foreign public official so far asthat law is contained in

97Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(i)any written Constitution, or any provisionmade by or under legislation, applicable tothe country or territory concerned; or

(ii)any judicial decision which is so applicableand is evidenced in published written sources.

106.(1) Any person who, in the course of any economic,financial or commercial activity, offers, directly or indirectly,a gratification on behalf of himself or another person to anyemployee in any capacity or a director in a private sectorentity, in order to commit any act or refrain from committingany act in breach of his duties, commits an offence of briberyunder this Act and on conviction be liable to a fine notexceeding one million rupees or to a term of rigorousimprisonment not exceeding seven years or to both such fineand imprisonment.

(2) An employee in any capacity or a director in a privatesector entity, in the course of economic, financial orcommercial activities, solicits or accepts, directly or indirectlyan advantage, for himself or for another person, in order to actor refrain from doing any act in breach of the duties of suchemployee or director, commits an offence of bribery underthis Act and on conviction be liable to a fine not exceedingone million rupees or to a term of rigorous imprisonment notexceeding seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

107. (1) Where a public authority in which a publicofficial is a member, director, or employee proposes to dealwith a person, company, partnership or other undertaking inwhich that public official or a relative or associate of suchpublic official has a direct or indirect interest which interestis within his knowledge of that public official shall forthwithdisclose to that authority the nature of such interest in themanner as may be prescribed by regulations.

Bribery in theprivate sector

Failure to declareconflicts ofinterest

98Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) Where a public official or a relative or associate ofsuch public official has a personal interest in a decision whicha public authority is to take regarding a person, company,partnership or other undertaking, that public official shallnot vote or take part in any proceedings of that publicauthority relating to such decision.

(3) Any public official who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) or (2) commits an offence and shall onconviction by the High Court be liable to a fine not exceedingone million rupees or to a term of rigorous imprisonment notexceeding seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(4) The Commission shall specify by way of rules thehandling and management of conflict of interest of publicofficials.

108. (1) Any person who, directly or indirectly accepts oragrees or offers to accept any gratification from any otherperson, whether for the benefit of himself or for the benefit ofthat other person or of another person-

(a)in return for-

(i)engaging in any act which constitutes a threatto or undermines the integrity of any sportingevent, including, in any way, influencing therun of play or the outcome of a sporting event;or(ii)not reporting the act contemplated in thissection to the managing director, chiefexecutive officer or to any other personholding a similar post in the sporting body orregulatory authority concerned or to thenearest police station; or

(b)as a reward for acting as contemplated insubparagraph (i) of paragraph (a),

Offences relatingto sportingevents

99Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

commits an offence and shall on conviction by the HighCourt be liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees orto a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding seven yearsor to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Any person who, directly or indirectly gives or agreesor offers to give to any other person any gratification, whetherfor the benefit of that other person or for the benefit of anotherperson-

(a)in return for-

(i)engaging in any act which constitutes a threatto or undermines the integrity of any sportingevent, including, in any way, influencing therun of play or the outcome of a sporting event;or

(ii)not reporting the act contemplated in thissection to the managing director, chiefexecutive officer or to any other personholding a similar post in the sporting body orregulatory authority concerned or to suchpersons nearest police station; or

(b)as a reward for acting as contemplated in paragraph(a),

commits an offence and shall on conviction by the HighCourt be liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees orto a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding seven yearsor to both such fine and imprisonment.

100Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) Any person who directly or indirectly carries into effectany scheme which constitutes a threat to or undermines theintegrity of any sporting event, including, in any way,influencing the run of play or the outcome of a sportingevent, commits an offence and shall on conviction by theHigh Court be liable to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees or to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceedingseven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in thissection, the offences of Chapter 1 of Part II of the Preventionof Offences relating to Sports Act, No. 24 of 2019, shall havethe same meaning as in the respective sections and shallcarry the same punishment as specified in the respectivesections.

109. (1) Where a person has or had acquired any property,and such property

(a)being money, which cannot be or could not havebeen

(i)part of such persons known income orreceipts; or

(ii)money to which any part of his known receiptshas or had been converted; or

(b)being property other than money, which cannot beor could not have been -

(i)property acquired using any part of suchpersons known income;

(ii)property which is or was part of such personsknown receipts; or

Accumulation ofwealth by anoffence underthis Act

101Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(iii)property to which any part of such personsknown receipts has or had been converted,

then, for the purposes of any prosecution under thissection, it shall be deemed, until the contrary isproved by such person, that such property is or wasproperty which such person has or had acquired bythe commission of any of the offences under thisChapter of this Act or to which such person has orhad converted any property acquired by committingan offence under this Act.

(2) In subsection (1) income does not include incomefrom proceeds of an offence under this Act, and ''receipts'' donot include recipts from proceeds of an offence under thisAct.

(3) A person who is or had been the owner of any propertywhich is deemed under subsection (1) to be property whichsuch person has or had acquired by committing an offenceunder this Act or to which such person has or had convertedany property acquired by such person by committing anyoffence under this Act, commits an offence and shall onconviction by the High Court be liable to a fine not exceedingone million rupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonmentnot exceeding seven years:

Provided that, where such property is or was moneydeposited to the credit of such persons account in any bankand such person satisfies the court that such deposit has orhad been made by any other person without such personsconsent or knowledge, such person shall not be consideredas a person who commits or who has committed an offenceunder the preceding provisions of this subsection.

102Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(4) No prosecution for an offence under this section shallbe instituted against any person unless the Commission hasgiven such person an opportunity to show cause as to whysuch person should not be prosecuted for such offence andwhere such person has failed to show cause as such or thecause shown by such person is unsatisfactory in the opinionof such Commission a prosecution shall then be institutedagainst such person under this section.

(5) For the purposes of this section, where a spouse or anunmarried child under the age of eighteen years of a personhas or had acquired any property movable or immovable onor after the date of commencement of this Act, it shall bepresumed until the contrary is proved that such property wasacquired by such person aforesaid and not by such spouse orunmarried child, as the case may be.

(6) (a) In any prosecution for an offence under this section,a certificate from the Chief Valuer with regard to the value ofany immovable property or the cost of construction of anybuilding on such property shall be sufficient proof of suchvalue and such cost of construction unless and until thecontrary is proved.

(b) In this subsection, Chief Valuer means the ChiefValuer of the Government, and includes any Senior AssistantValuer, or Assistant Valuer of the Government ValuationDepartment.

(7) For the purpose of this section a person shall meanany person whomsoever, whether or not such person can beshown to have been concerned with any act referred to in thisChapter or whether or not he is a public official within themeaning of this Act.

103Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(8) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherprovision of this Part, where a court convicts a person of anoffence under this Part, the court may in lieu of imposing apenalty or fine, make order that any movable or immovableproperty found to have been acquired by bribery or by theproceeds of bribery, be forfeited to the State free from allencumbrances:

Provided however, that, in determining whether an orderof forfeiture should be made, the court shall be entitled totake into consideration whether such an order is likely toprejudice the rights of a bona fide purchaser for value or anyother person who has acquired, for value a bona fide interestin such property.

(9) An order made under subsection (8) shall take effect

(a)where an appeal has been made to the Courtof Appeal or the Supreme Court against the orderof forfeiture, upon the determination of suchappeal confirming or upholding the order offorfeiture; or

(b)where no appeal has been preferred to the Courtof Appeal or the Supreme Court against the orderof forfeiture, after the expiration of the periodwithin which an appeal may be preferred to the Courtof Appeal or the Supreme Court against suchorder.

(10) A person, who conceals or retains proceeds or anypart thereof of an offence committed under this Act, knowingthat property is the result of proceeds of an offence under thisAct shall commit an offence and shall be liable on convictionto a rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding sevenyears or to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment:

104Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Provided that, a person conceals or retains proceeds orany part thereof whether or not he conceals or retains suchproceeds directly or indirectly through intermediaries or forhis own benefit or for the benefit of another or of an entity.

110. (1) A person offers a gratification if he or any otherperson acting with his knowledge or consent directly orindirectly gives, affords or holds out, or agrees, undertakes orpromises to give, afford or hold out, any gratification to orfor the benefit of or in trust for any other person.

(2) A person solicits a gratification if he, or any otherperson acting with his knowledge or consent, directly orindirectly demands, invites, asks for, or indicates willingnessto receive, any gratification, whether for the first-mentionedperson or for any other person.

(3) A person accepts a gratification if he, or any otherperson acting with his knowledge or consent, directly orindirectly takes, receives or obtains, or agrees to take, receiveor obtain any gratification, whether for the first-mentionedperson or for any other person.

(4) Any person who offers, solicits or accepts a gratificationwhich is an offence under this Act shall, if such offer,solicitation or acceptance was made outside Sri Lanka, bedeemed to have committed such offence within Sri Lanka,and accordingly the High Court holden in Colombo shallhave jurisdiction to try such offence notwithstanding anythingto the contrary in any other written law.

111. Any public official who, with intent or knowledge tocause wrongful or unlawful loss to the Government, or toconfer a wrongful or unlawful benefit, favour or advantage

Gratification

Corruption

105Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

on himself or on any other person, or with intent or knowledge,that any wrongful or unlawful loss will be caused to anyperson or to the Government, or that any wrongful or unlawfulbenefit, favour or advantage will be conferred on any person-

(a)does, or forbears to do, any act by virtue of his officeas a public official or by use of such office with orwithout any power therefor vested with such officer;

(b)induces any other public official to perform, orrefrain from performing, any act by virtue of hisoffice as a public official;

(c)uses any information coming to his knowledge byvirtue of his office as a public official;

(d)participates in the making of any decision by virtueof his office as a public official; or

(e)induces any other person, by the use, whether directlyor indirectly, of his office as such public official toperform, or refrain from performing any act,

commits the offence of corruption and shall upon trial andconviction by a High Court or upon summary trial andconviction by a Magistrate be liable to rigorous imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding ten years or to a fine not exceedingone million rupees or to both such imprisonment and fine.

112. (1) Where any person commits an offence under thisAct, which amounts to an unlawful activity within themeaning of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5of 2006, such person may be charged for an offence underthat Act in addition to an offence under this Act.

An offenderunder this Act,may be chargedwith an offenceunder thePrerention ofMoneyLaundering Act

106Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The provisions of the Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 2006 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to theinquries, investigtions and proceedings respect of suchoffence under that Act and any reference in the said Act tothe Assistant Superintendent of Police or any other policeofficer shall be read and construed as a reference to an officerdesignated by the Commission under this Act.

113. (1) Where in any proceedings against any person forany offence under this Act, it is proved that such personsolicited or accepted any gratification, having grounds tobelieve or suspect that the gratification was offered inconsideration of such persons doing or forbearing to do anyact referred to in that section, such person commits an offenceunder that section notwithstanding that such person did notactually have the power, right or opportunity so to do orforbear or that such person accepted the gratification withoutintending so to do or forbear or that such person did not infact so do or forbear.

(2) Where in any proceedings against any person for anoffence under section 111 of this Act, it is proved that suchperson intended to cause wrongful or unlawful loss to theGovernment, or to confer a wrongful or unlawful benefit,favour or advantage on such person or any other person, orhad knowledge, that any wrongful or unlawful loss will becaused to any person or to the Government, or that anywrongful or unlawful benefit, favour or advantage will beconferred on any person by such persons doing or forbearingto do any act referred to in that section, such person commitsan offence under that section notwithstanding that suchperson did not actually have the power, right or opportunityso to do or forbear or that such person did not in fact so do orforbear.

Acceptance ofgratificationwithout power

107Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

114. (1) Where a court convicts any person for an offencecommitted by the offer or acceptance of any gratification incontravention of any provision of this Act, then, if thatgratification is a sum of money or if the value of thatgratification can be assessed, the court shall, in addition toimposing on that person any other punishment, order him topay as a penalty, within such time as may be specified inthe order, a sum which is equal to the amount of thatgratification or is, in the opinion of the court, the value ofthat gratification.

(2) Where the High Court convicts any person forcommitting an offence under section 109 it shall, inaddition to any other penalty that it is required to imposeunder this Act, impose a fine of not less than the amountwhich such Court has found, to have been acquired by briberyor by the proceeds of bribery or to have converted toproperty by bribery, and shall not exceed three times suchamount.

(3) A fine or a penalty imposed by a court on any personfor the commission of any offence under this Act may berecovered as if the order imposing the fine or the penaltywere a decree entered by District Court in favour of the Stateand against that person, where the fine or penalty exceedsone million rupees and the person charged with such fine orpenalty fails to pay such fine or penalty.

(4) Where the person liable to pay the fine or penaltyreferred to in the preceding provisions of this section was apublic official on the date of commission of the offence for

Additionalpenalties

108Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

which the fine or penalty was imposed, then, notwithstandinganything to the contrary in any other written law, any movableor immovable property acquired after the said date by thespouse of, or a son or daughter maintained by such personshall, in addition to the movable and immovable property ofsuch person, be liable to be seized and sold for the recoveryof the amount of such fine or penalty, if the property soacquired

(a)was purchased by such spouse, son or daughter;

(b)was purchased in the name of such spouse, son ordaughter by the person liable to pay such fine orpenalty;

(c)was acquired by such spouse, son or daughter bypurchase, gift or otherwise from the person whooffered the gratification for the acceptance of whichthe person liable to pay such fine or penalty becameso liable; or

(d)was acquired by testate or intestate successionfrom the person liable to pay such fine orpenalty.

(5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherprovision of this Act, where a court convicts a person, thecourt may, for any offence under this Act, make order thatany movable or immovable property found to have beenacquired by the commission of such offence or by theproceeds of such offence, be forfeited to the State free fromall encumbrances:

109Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Provided however that, in determining whether an orderof forfeiture should be made, the court shall be entitled totake into consideration whether such an order is likely toprejudice the rights of a bona fide purchaser for value or anyother person who has acquired for value, a bona fide interestin such property.

(6) An order made under subsection (5) shall take effect

(a)where an appeal has been made to the Court ofAppeal or the Supreme Court against the order offorfeiture, upon the determination of such appealconfirming or upholding the order of forfeiture; or

(b)where no appeal has been preferred to the Court ofAppeal or the Supreme Court against the order offorfeiture, after the expiration of the period withinwhich an appeal may be preferred to the Court ofAppeal or the Supreme Court, against such order.

(7) Where a person is convicted of an offence under thisChapter of this Part, notwithstanding anything to the contraryin subsections (7) and (8) of section 303 of the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, by reason of suchconviction or finding-

(a)such person shall become incapable of being-

(i)registered as an elector or of voting at anyelection for a period of seven years from thedate of such conviction or finding underParliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981and Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of1981; or for a period of five years underProvincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of1988, or the Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Chapter 262), or

110Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Non convictionbased forfeitureof property

(ii)elected or appointed as a Member ofParliament or as a member of a local authorityor a Provincial Council from the date of suchconviction or finding and, if at that date suchperson has been elected or appointed as aMember of Parliament or member of a localauthority, or of a Provincial Council suchpersons election or appointment as suchmember shall be vacated from that date;

(b)such person shall be disqualified for life from beingemployed as a public official and from being electedor appointed to a scheduled institution or to thegoverning body of a scheduled institution;

(c)such person shall, if he is a member of a scheduledinstitution or of the governing body of a scheduledinstitution, ceases to be a member of either of suchinstitutions from the date of such conviction orfinding; and(d)such person shall, if he is a public official, ceases tobe a public official from the date of such convictionor finding and, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other written law, be deemed to havebeen dismissed on that date by the authorityempowered by law to dismiss him.

115. (1) The High Court shall, on an application made bythe Director-General or any officer authorized by theCommission within a reasonable period grant a nonconviction based forfeiture order in respect of any propertywithin the jurisdiction of such court where the court issatisfied prima facie on the balance of probabilities that suchproperty is or such property represents property obtainedthrough any of the offences committed under this Act orproperty intended to be used in committing any of theoffences under this Act.

111Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), to be satisfied thata property is subject to the provision of subsection (1), it isnot necessary to show that-

(a)the property was derived directly or indirectly, inwhole or in part, from the commission of a particularoffence under this Act; or

(b)any person has been prosecuted or convicted inrelation to such an offence,

but only that it is the proceeds from any offence under thisAct or it was used or intended to be used to commit an offenceunder this Act.

(3) An application for forfeiture may be made in respect ofproperty into which original proceeds of an offence underthis Act have been converted either by sale or otherwise.

(4) The Director-General shall give notice in writingregarding an application made under subsection (1) to anyperson who claims an interest in such property which is thesubject matter of such application or to any person who isknown to have an interest in such property or where theDirector-General reasonably believes that a person may havean interest in such property, to such person not less thanthirty days of making such application:

Provided however, the Director-General may dispensewith the notice if that person has absconded from theproceedings.

(5) Any person who claims an interest in a property whichis the subject matter of the application made under subsection(1), may appear and adduce evidence at the hearing of suchapplication.

112Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(6) The Court may, at any time before a decision is madeon the application made under subsection (1), order theDirector-General to publish a notice of such application in adaily news paper circulating in the island in Sinhala, Tamiland English languages, for the benefit of any person who, inthe opinion of the court, appears to have any interest in suchapplication.

(7) Where a person claiming an interest in any propertywhich is the subject matter of any application made undersubsection (1), satisfies the court that such person hasacquired

(a)the interest in such property before any offencerelating to such property under this Act has beencommitted; or

(b)the interest for a fair value after any offence relatingto such property under this Act was committed butdid not know or could not reasonably have knownbefore obtaining such interest that the property wasthe proceeds of any offence committed under thisAct,

the court may make such order regarding such interestdeclaring that the forfeiture order shall not affect such interestto such extent or in such manner.

(8) The court may when it makes a forfeiture order underthis section or any time thereafter, make any other order whichthe court may consider appropriate, including orders for andin respect of facilitating the transfer of such property.

(9) Any order made under this section shall not be affectedby any decision of any criminal proceeding or of aninvestigation conducted to determine whether criminalproceedings shall be instituted or not, in respect of the propertywhich is the subject matter of this application.

113Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(10) The provisions of subsection (4) of section 114 relatingto forfeiture order shall mutatis mutandis apply for forfeitureorders under this section.

116. Where a body of persons is convicted of an offenceunder this Act, then-

(a)if such body of persons is a body incorporate orunincorporate or a corporation, every director orofficer or agent thereof; and

(b)if such body of persons is a firm, every partner,

shall be liable to a fine as specified for the respective offences:

Provided however, a director or an officer or agent of suchbody incorporate, unincorporate or of such corporation orpartner of such firm shall not be deemed to be guilty of suchoffence if he proves that such offence was committed withouthis knowledge or that he used all due diligence to preventthe commission of such offence.

117. For the purposes of this Part, a public official or anemployee of a private sector entity shall include

(a)a former employee;

(b)a person seconded to the public authority or privatesector entity;

(c)an individual who is engaged or contracted under acontract for services to do work for the publicauthority or private sector entity;

(d)a person concerned in the management of the publicauthority or private sector entity (including a personwho is a member of the board or governing body ofthe public authority or private sector entity);

Offences bybody of persons

Employee shallinclude formeremployees, etc.

114Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(e)a person who works for the public authority orprivate sector entity as a volunteer without rewardor expectation of reward for that work; or

(f)a trainee or an apprentice of the public authority orprivate sector entity.

CHAPTER II

PROCEDURAL OFFENCES

118. (1) Every offence of contempt committed against orin disrespect of, the authority of the Commission shall bepunishable by the Supreme Court as though it were an offenceof contempt committed against, or in disrespect of theauthority of such court, and the Supreme Court is herebyvested with jurisdiction to try every such offence.

(2) An act done or omitted to be done in relation to theCommission, whether in the presence of the Commission orotherwise, shall constitute an offence of contempt against, orin disrespect of the authority of the Commission, if such actwould, if done or omitted to be done in relation to the SupremeCourt, have constituted an offence of contempt against or indisrespect of the authority of such court.

(3) If any person-

(a)fails to appear before the Commission without acause reasonable enough in the opinion of theCommission, at the time and place mentioned in asummon served under this Act;

(b)refuses to be sworn or affirmed or, having been dulysworn or affirmed, refuses or fails without a causereasonable enough in the opinion of the Commission,to answer any question put to such person touchingthe matters being investigated by the Commission;

Contempt

115Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(c)refuses or fails without a cause reasonable enoughin the opinion of the Commission, to comply withthe requirements of a notice or written order issuedor made to such person by the Commission; or

(d)upon whom a summons is served under this Act,refuses or fails without a cause reasonable enoughin the opinion of the Commission, to produce andshow to the Commission any document or otherthing which is in such persons possession or controland which is in the opinion of the Commissionnecessary for arriving at the truth of the matters beinginvestigated,

such person commits the offence of contempt against or indisrespect of the authority of the Commission.

(4) For the purposes of this section, it shall not be deemedto be a reasonable cause for a person to refuse or fail to answerany question or to produce and show any document or otherthing on the ground that the matter being investigated by theCommission is the same or substantially the same matterwhich is the subject of, or is likely to be the subject of aninquiry in any proceeding in any court or on the ground thatthe answer to such question or the production or showing ofsuch document or other thing may directly or indirectlyaffect, or cause prejudice to such person in any otherproceedings.

(5) Where a Commission determines that a person hascommitted any offence of contempt under subsection (2) orsubsection (3) against or in disrespect of its authority, theCommission may cause the Director-General to transmit tothe Supreme Court, a certificate setting out suchdetermination, which certificate shall be signed by theChairman of the Commission.

116Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(6) In any proceeding for the punishment for an offence ofcontempt which the Supreme Court may think fit to takecognizance of as provided in this section, any documentpurporting to be a certificate signed and transmitted to thecourt under subsection (5) shall

(a)be received in evidence, and be deemed to be sucha certificate without further proof unless the contraryis proved; and

(b)be evidence that the determination set out in thecertificate was made by the Commission and of thefacts stated in the determination.

(7) In any proceedings taken as provided in this sectionfor the punishment of any alleged offence of contempt against,or in disrespect of the authority of the Commission,notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, nomember of the Commission shall, except with such personsown consent, be summoned or examined as a witness.

119. Every person who makes an allegation in anyinformation or complaint made by him to the Commissionunder section 43 knowing such allegation to be false orhaving reason to believe that such allegation does notconstitute an offence under this Act shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding one million rupees or imprisonment for a term notexceeding three years or to both such fine and imprisonmentand shall in addition, be liable to the payment to the personin respect of whom the allegation was made, of a sum ofmoney as compensation as the court may think fit.

120. Every person who acts in contravention of the dutyimposed on him under subsections (1) and (2) of section 28to maintain secrecy commits an offence and shall on

False allegations

ContraveningSecrecy

117Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liableto a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

121. Any person who

(a)refuses the Director- General or any officer appointedto assist the Commission to enter, search, or haveaccess to any place;

(b)assaults, obstructs, hinders or delays Director-Generalor any officer appointed to assist the Commission ineffecting any entrance which the Director-General orsuch officer is entitled to effect under this Act, or inthe execution of any duty imposed or power conferredon such officer by this Act;

(c)fails to comply with any lawful demand of theDirector-General or any officer appointed to assistthe Commission in the execution of such personsduty under this Act;

(d)refuses or neglects to give any information whichmay reasonably be required of such person andwhich such person has in such persons power togive; or

(e)resists or obstructs an officer in the executionof such officers duty under the provisions of thisAct,

commits an offence and on conviction after summary trailbefore a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding onemillion rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceedingseven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Resisting orobstructingduties ofDirector-Generalor other officer

118Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

122. Any person who knowingly

(a)gives or causes to be given any false or misleadinginformation relating to the commission of anyoffence under this Act or under any other law inrelation to which an investigation discloses thecommission of any offence by any person; or

(b)gives or causes to be given to the Director- Generalor any other officer appointed to assist theCommission false or misleading information,

commits an offence and shall on conviction after summarytrail before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding onemillion rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceedingseven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

123. (1) The provisions of Chapter XI of the Penal Code(Chapter 19) shall apply in respect of any person who givesfalse evidence in any proceeding under this Act.

(2) Prior sanction of the Attorney-General, required to beobtained under section 135 of the Criminal Procedure Code,Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall not apply to any prosecution underthis section.

124. Any person who falsely pretends that he is an officeror employee of the Commission or a person whose servicesare retained under section 27 or has any of the powers of suchofficer, employee or person under this Act or that he is able toinfluence such officer, employee or person to do or refrainfrom doing anything in connection with the duty of suchofficer, employee or person under this Act commits an offenceand shall on conviction after summary trial before aMagistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupeesor to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years or toboth such fine and imprisonment.

False statements,information, etc.

Giving Falseevidence

Falsely pretendone to be anofficer

119Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

125. (1) A person who directly or indirectly influencesany member of the Commission, the Director-General, officeror employee of the Commission or a person whose servicesare retained under section 27 in the performance of suchmembers, the Director-Generals or officers or employeesor persons duty commits an offence and shall, uponconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liableto a fine of one hundred thousand rupees.

(2) A person who directly or indirectly by words written orspoken or by any act threatens any member of theCommission, the Director-General or any officer or employeeof the Commission or a person whose services are retainedunder section 27 with any injury to such members, theDirector-Generals or any other officers or employees orpersons body, mind or reputation in order to deter suchmember, Director-General, officer or employee or person fromthe performance of such members, the Director-Generals orany other officers, employees or the persons duty underthis Act commits an offence and shall, upon conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine notexceeding one million rupees, and upon a second orsubsequent conviction for an offence under this subsectionshall, in addition to such fine, be liable to imprisonment fora term not exceeding seven years.

(3) A person who causes injury to the body, mind orreputation of a member of the Commission, the DirectorGeneral, any other officer or employee of the Commission ora person whose services are retained under section 27 in orderto deter such member, Director-General, any other officer oremployee of the Commission or a person whose services areretained under section 27 from the performance of their dutyunder this Act shall, upon conviction after summary trialbefore a Magistrate, be liable to a fine of not less than fivehundred thousand rupees and not more than one millionrupees or to rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceedingseven years.

Obstructingjustice

120Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

126. (1) A person who fails or neglects, without reasonableexcuse, to comply with any lawful demand, notice, order,direction or request of the Commission, the Director-Generalor the officers thereof in the exercise of the powers andfunctions under this Act commits an offence and shall, uponconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liableto a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to rigorousimprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.

(2) A prosecution for an offence under subsection (1) maybe instituted in such Magistrates Court as may be determinedby the Commission.

127. (1) Any person who

(a)interferes with a person who is to be, or has been,examined by the Commission;

(b)interferes with a person summoned in anyproceedings instituted under this Act in or before acourt of law;

(c)induces a person to refrain from giving evidence inany proceedings under the Act, in any court;

(d)threatens a person with injury to such persons body,mind or reputation in order to deter such personfrom giving evidence in any proceedings under theAct in any court;

(e)injures a person in body, mind or reputation in orderto deter such person from giving evidence in anyproceedings under the Act in any court;

(f)compels a person not to give evidence in anyproceedings under the Act in any court;

Refuses,neglects, oromits to carryout an order ofthe Commission

Miscellaneousoffences

121Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(g)without reasonable cause fails to appear before theCommission at the time and place mentioned in arequest served under this Act;

(h)without reasonable cause refuses to be sworn oraffirmed or, having been duly sworn or affirmed,refuses or fails to answer any question put to suchperson regarding the matters being investigated bythe Commission;

(i)without reasonable cause refuses or fails to complywith the requirement of a notice or written orderissued or made to such person by the Commission;

(j)falsifies, conceals, destroys or otherwise disposes ofor causes or permits the falsification, concealment,destruction or disposal of any document or materialor thing which is or is likely to be relevant to theexercise, performance or discharge of any power,duty or function under this Act;

(k)falsifies, conceals, destroys or otherwise disposes ofor causes or permits the falsification, concealment,destruction or disposal of any document or materialor thing which is or is likely to be relevant to theexecution of any order made in accordance with theprovisions of this Act;

(l)destroys or otherwise disposes of any document ormaterial which such person knows or has reason tobelieve is relevant to an investigation under thePrevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006or the Convention for the Suppression of Financingof Terrorism Act, No. 25 of 2005;

122Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(m)divulges the fact that a report has been made or anyinformation has been provided to the Commissionin terms of any provision of this Act, or that aninvestigation into an offence is being, or is about tobe made, or divulges any other information toanother person whereby such investigation is likelyto be prejudiced; or

(n)conceals or retains proceeds or any part thereof ofthe results of the proceeds of an offence under thisAct, whether or not he conceals or retains suchproceeds directly or indirectly throughintermediaries or conceals or retains for his ownbenefit or for the benefit of another person or anentity,

commits an offence and shall on conviction after summarytrial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding onemillion rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceedingseven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply todisclosures made to -

(a)an officer or employee or agent of the person makinga report under this Act for any purpose connectedwith the performance of that persons duties;

(b)an attorney at law or legal advisor for the purpose ofobtaining legal advice or representation in relationto any matter; or

(c)the supervisory authority of the relevant institution,in so far as it is related to the discharge of thefunctions of the supervisory authority.

123Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) No person referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection(2) to whom any disclosure of information has been made,shall disclose that information other than to a person referredto therein, in so far as it is necessary for -

(a)the performance of the first-mentioned personsduties; or

(b)obtaining legal advice or representation in relationto the matter.

(4) No person referred to in paragraph (c) of subsection (2)to whom the disclosure of any information has been madeshall disclose that information except for the purpose referredto in that subsection, or for the purpose of obtaining legaladvice or making representation in relation to a matter to theFinancial Intelligence Unit established in terms of theFinancial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006.

128. Any person who contravenes the provisions of section145 of this Act commits an offence and shall, upon convictionafter summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine notexceeding one million rupees or to rigorous imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding seven years.

129. Any person who commits an offence referred to insection 41 for which no penalty is expressly provided for bythis Act or other relevant law, shall upon conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonmentof either description for a term not exceeding six months orto both such fine and imprisonment.

Contravention of

the legal

obligation to

give information

General Offence

124Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

PART IV

GENERAL

130. A Magistrates Court shall not entertain anyprosecution for an offence under this Act except institutedby the Director- General on the direction of the Commission.

131. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother provision of this Act, any person who is convicted ofany offence under this Act may be ordered by the court topay such sum of money as compensation to the Fund of theCommission or to any person affected by such offence.

(2) The compensation payable under subsection (1) shallbe recovered as a fine imposed by the court.

(3) The Court may order that such sum of money payableas compensation under subsection (1), shall be paid within astipulated period of time or in such instalments as may bespecified by court.

132. All offences under this Act shall be cognizableoffences for the purposes of the application of the provisionsof the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

133. Whoever abets

(a)the commission of an offence under this Act; or

Cognizable

offences

Abetment of the

commission of

an offence

Compensation

Director-General

on the direction

of the

Commission to

initiate

proceedings in

Magistrates

Courts

125Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b)the commission outside Sri Lanka of any act, inrelation to the affairs or business or on behalf of aprincipal residing in Sri Lanka, which if committedin Sri Lanka would be an offence under this Act,

commits an offence and shall be tried in the same manner andshall upon conviction be liable to the same punishment as isspecified by this Act for the first mentioned offence.

In this section the expression abet shall have the samemeaning as in sections 100 and 101 of the Penal Code(Chapter 19).

134. A person who attempts to commit or to cause thecommission of an offence under this Act and in such attemptdoes any other act towards the commission of that offencecommits an offence and shall be tried in the same manner andshall upon conviction be liable to the same punishment as isspecified by this Act for the first mentioned offence.

135. Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commitan offence under this Act shall commit an offence under thisAct and shall be tried in the same manner and shall uponconviction be liable to the same punishment as is specifiedby this Act for the first mentioned offence.

For the purpose of this section, conspiracy shall havethe same meaning assigned to it under section 113A of thePenal Code (Chapter 19).

136. (1) Such of the provisions of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 as are not excluded by this Actor are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act shallgenerally apply to this Act.

Attempts

Conspiracy

Applicability of

the Code of

Criminal

Procedure Act

and etc.

126Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The provisions of the Electronic Transactions Act,No. 19 of 2006 which are not expressly excluded by theprovisions of this Act or are not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act shall apply to this Act.

(3) The offences specified in Schedule A and Schedule Bto this Act where such offences have been committed in thesame transaction together with an act which constitutes anoffence in terms of this Act, shall have the same meaningassigned to such offences in those respective enactments andshall carry the same punishments as specified in thoseenactments:

Provided however, where the punishment for any offencespecified in those respective enactments is less than a fine,not exceeding one million rupees or a term of imprisonmentnot exceeding seven years or both such fine andimprisonment, a fine not exceeding one million rupees or aterm of imprisonment not exceeding seven years or both suchfine and imprisonment shall apply to such offence.

(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the PenalCode (Chapter 19), for the purposes of this Act, the wordproperty shall mean and include assets of every kind,whether corporeal or incorporeal, movable or immovable,tangible or intangible and legal documents or instrumentsevidencing title to or interest in such assets.

(5) The provisions of the Right to Information Act, No. 12of 2016 shall apply to this Act.

137. As regards matters of procedure for which specialprovisions have not been made by this Act or by any otherlaw for the time being in force, such procedure as the justiceof the case may require and as is not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act may be followed.

Cases notprovided for inany other law

127Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

138. Section 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979 shall not apply to proceedings in theMagistrates Court in respect of offences under this Act.

139. For the purposes of this Act, every reference underany of the other law referred to in this Act

(a)to an Assistant Superintendent of Police shall beconstrued as a reference to an authorized officerspecially authorized by the Commission; and

(b)to a police officer shall be construed as a referenceto an authorized officer of the Commission.

140. A person who attends any trial or inquiry of theCommission under this Act to give evidence may be paid outof the Fund the expenses of attending the trial or inquiry atsuch rates and subject to such conditions as are from time totime determined by the Commission.

141. In the interest of the national economy, to fosterintegrity, transparency and accountability in governance andto promote integrity in the affairs of the private sector,considering the gravity and impact on the State, theproceedings in a court for offences under this Act shall betaken before any other business of the court unless in theopinion of the court special circumstances of urgency in suchother business prevents it.

142. Upon application made in that behalf by theCommission or any officer authorized by it, the whole or anypart of the proceedings in any court for offences under thisAct may be held in camera, subject to Article 106 of theConstitution.

Non applicationof section 306 ofthe Code ofCriminalProcedure Act

Reference to anAssistantSuperintendentof Police, etc.

Expenses ofpersonsattending anytrial or inquiry

Proceedings foroffences underthis Act to betaken before anyother business ofthe court

In cameraproceedings

128Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

143. In any proceedings for offences under this Act beforea court, the giver of a gratification shall be a competentwitness against the person accused of taking the gratificationand shall not be regarded as an accomplice, and the decisionor finding of the court or Commission shall not be illegalmerely because it proceeds upon the uncorroboratedtestimony of such giver.

144. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, in any proceedings against any personunder this Act, the spouse of that person shall be a competentwitness.

145. (1) Every person required by the Commission togive any information on any subject which it is the duty ofthe Commission to inquire into under this Act and which isin his power to give, shall be legally bound to give thatinformation.

(2) A person shall comply with the provisions ofsubsection (1), notwithstanding any obligation as to secrecyor other restriction on the disclosure of information imposedby any written law, agreement, contract or otherwise.

146. A person shall, comply with any lawful demand,notice, order, direction or request of the Commission, theDirector-General or the officers thereof in the exercise of thepowers and functions under this Act without any exception.

147. (1) Every person required by the Commission togive a statement or other evidence on any subject which it isthe duty of the Commission to inquire into under this Actand which is in his power to give, shall be legally bound notto utter falsehoods:

Provided however, it shall not be an obligation for a personaccused of committing an offence under this Act to give self-incriminating or confessional statements or evidence and ifso given such statements or evidence shall not be admissiblein any investigation or proceeding under this Act.

Giver of agratification tobe a competentwitness

Duty to complywith orders ofthe Commission

Statutoryobligation not toutter falsehoods

Spouse to be acompetentwitness

Legal obligationto giveinformation

129Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of thepreceding subsection shall be subject to the provisions ofsection 119 of this Act and be dealt with accordingly.

(3) Where in the course of a trial for an offence under thisAct, any witness contradicts either expressly or by necessaryimplication the statement previously given by him in thecourse of any investigation conducted by the Commissionunder this Act, or the statement previously given by him inthe course of any investigation conducted by a Commissionof Inquiry appointed under the Commission of Inquiry Act(Chapter 393) or by a Commission appointed under theSpecial Presidential Commission of Inquiry Law, No. 7 of1978 on any material point, it shall be lawful for the presidingJudge or Magistrate if he considers it safe and just in all thecircumstances to act upon such statement where suchstatement is corroborated in material particulars by evidencefrom an independent source and to have such witness at theconclusion of such trial tried before such court upon a chargesheet, or if such court is the High Court, tried on an indictmentfiled by the Director-General, for intentionally giving falseevidence in a stage of a judicial proceeding:

Provided however, that it shall not be necessary for thepresiding Judge to discredit the witness in toto, before actingunder this section.

(4) At any trial under subsection (3), it shall be sufficientto prove that the accused made statements contradictory tothose alleged in the indictment or charge sheet and it shallnot be necessary to prove which of such statements is false.

(5) The presiding Judge or Magistrate may, if he considersit expedient, adjourn the trial of any accused under subsection(3) for such period as he may think fit and in any such casethe accused shall be remanded until the conclusion of suchtrial:

130Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Provided that, the Court of Appeal may in exceptionalcircumstances release such person on bail pending theconclusion of the trial.

(6) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anywritten law

(a)an affidavit or sworn statement; or

(b)any book, document, cheque, record or register or acertified copy thereof or of any entry in any suchbook, document, record or register produced,delivered or furnished to the Commission in thecourse of an investigation conducted by it underthis Act,

shall be relevant and admissible at the trial of any person foran offence under this Act and shall be prima facie proof ofthe fact of its execution and the contents therein.

148. Every officer of the Commission shall, for thepurposes of this Act, be deemed to be always on duty whenrequired to perform his duties or functions and may performthe duties or functions and exercise the powers conferred onhim under this Act or under any other written law at anyplace within or outside Sri Lanka.

149. (1) All offences under this Act shall be congnizableand non-bailable and where any person suspected or accusedof, being concerned in committing or having committed anoffence under this Act, appears, is brought before or producesor surrenders before a Magistrate shall grant bail as per theprovisions of the Bail Act, No. 30 of 1997:

Provided that any person detected of having committedan offence under this Act consisting of soliciting, acceptingor offering a gratification is brought before or produced orsurrenders before any Magistrate with a certificate of theDirector-General confirming such detection, the Magistrateshall remand such person until the conclusion of the trail:

Officers alwayson duty

Bail

131Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Provided however, that the Magistrate may, in exceptionalcircumstances and for reasons to be recorded release suchperson on bail at any time prior to the conclusion of the trial.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), inany proceeding under such subsection, where theCommission informs the Magistrate that it does not intend toinstitute proceedings against the person in custody, suchperson shall be discharged forthwith.

150. (1) When determining the term of imprisonment tobe imposed on a person convicted of having committed anoffence under this Act, the following factors shall be takeninto account as aggravating factors which warrant theimposing of an enhanced term of imprisonment, subject tothe provisions of this Act: -

(a)whether the commission of the offence has had anadverse impact on the community;

(b)whether any financial and material loss caused tothe Government of Sri Lanka and to the generalpublic;

(c)whether any financial and other resources arerequired for the reparation and restoration of thedamages caused; and

(d)whether the commission of the offence has adverselyaffected the country.

(2) When determining the term of imprisonment to beimposed on a person convicted of having committed anoffence under this Act, the following factors shall be takeninto account as mitigating factors which warrant a reducedterm of imprisonment subject to the provisions of this Act: -

(a)expression of remorse;

(b)time period spent in detention or remand;

Sentencingguidelines

132Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(c)coercion or duress under which the offence had beencommitted;

(d)voluntarily providing of reparation by the accusedto the victims of the offence; or

(e)public denouncement of the offences in respect ofwhich the accused was convicted of guilty.

151. (1) Nothing in this Act shall be construed asaffecting the rights of a person who suffers loss or damage byreason of or by relying on the conduct of another person whohas contravened the provisions of this Act to recover theamount of loss or damage suffered by, instituting civilproceedings against the other person whether or not the otherperson has been charged with an offence in respect of thecontravention or whether or not a contravention has beenproved in a prosecution.

(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall be construed asaffecting the liability under any other law in respect of theconduct constituting the contravention.

152. (1) The Commission shall be exempt from paymentof any duty, levy, rate, charge, fee or tax.

(2) No registration fee shall be payable in respect of anydocument signed or executed by the Commission under whichthe Commission is a beneficiary.

(3) The court shall issue proceedings and certified copiesof journal entries to the Commission free of charge.

153. (1) The provisions of this Act shall apply to-

(a)any citizen of Sri Lanka, who commits an offenceunder this Act within or outside Sri Lanka;

(b)any person who commits an offence under this Act

Civil liability forcontravention ofcertain sections

Exemptions

Jurisdiction

133Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(i) wholly or partly, in Sri Lanka;

(ii) in or over territorial waters of Sri Lanka;

(iii) in the airspace of Sri Lanka;

(iv) on-board or in respect of an aircraft or vesselregistered in Sri Lanka or belonging to or usedby the Government of Sri Lanka;

(v) wholly or partly within the office premises of adiplomatic mission of Sri Lanka, or a ConsularPost or office of Sri Lanka, or at the residence ofthe Head of such diplomatic mission or consularpost or at the residence of any diplomatic orconsular officer or any other employee of suchmission or post subject to the provisions of theDiplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996; or

(vi) wholly or partly within the office premisessituated outside Sri Lanka of a statutory boardof the Government of Sri Lanka or within theresidence of an employee of such statutoryboard; or

(c)any person, who commits an offence under this Act,within or outside Sri Lanka in respect of

(i) a citizen of Sri Lanka; or

(ii) an asset owned by the Government of Sri Lanka.

(2) A citizen of Sri Lanka shall be liable to punishmentunder this Act and not otherwise, for every offence thereof,committed outside Sri Lanka of which he shall be guilty,whether or not such citizen enjoys diplomatic immunity inrespect of such act or omission, which is granted by a foreignState by reason of his diplomatic status in such State.

134Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed, as affectingthe liability of any of Sri Lankan citizen under the laws of thecountry in which such act was done or omitted to be done inrespect of such act or omission.

154. (1) The Extradition Law No. 8 of 1977 is herebyamended in Schedule to that Law, by the additionimmediately after item of the items appearingimmediately before Part B of that Schedule, of the followingitem:

( ) An offence covered by the Anti-CorruptionAct, No 9 of 2023;.

(2) Where there is an extradition arrangement made by theGovernment of Sri Lanka with any State in force on the dateon which this Act comes into operation, such arrangementshall be deemed, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No.8 of 1977, to include provision for extradition in respect ofthe offences under this Act.

(3) Where there is no extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any State, the Commissionmay, by Order published in the Gazette, treat the UnitedNations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC), for thepurposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, as anextradition arrangement made by the Government of SriLanka with that State, providing for extradition in respect ofthe offences specified in this Act.

(4) Where a request is made to the Government of SriLanka by or on behalf of the Government of another State forthe extradition of any person accused or convicted of anoffence under this Act, the Commission shall, on behalf ofthe Government of Sri Lanka, forthwith notify theGovernment of the requesting State, of the measures theGovernment of Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take, forthe prosecution or extradition of that person for that offence.

Extradition

135Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

155. The provisions of the Mutual Assistance in CriminalMatters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall, wherever it is necessary forthe investigation and prosecution of an offence under thisAct, and for any of the objectives under the said Act mutatismutandis be applicable in respect of the provision ofassistance between the Government of Sri Lanka and otherStates designated under the aforesaid Act.

156. (1) The Minister may make regulations in consultationwith the Commission in respect of matters required by thisAct to be prescribed or in respect of which regulations areauthorized to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, withinthree months of its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

157. (1) The Commission may make rules in respect of allor any matter for which rules are authorized or required bythis Act to be made.

(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall come intoforce upon publication in the Gazette.

158. (1) The financial year of the Commission shall be theperiod of twelve months commencing on the first day ofJanuary each year.

(2) The Commission shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Commission.

Mutual LegalAssistance

Regulations

Power of theCommission tomake rules

Financial year

136Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) The provision of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of Commissions referred toin the Schedule to Article 41B shall apply to the audit of theaccounts of the Commission.

159. (1) The Commission shall prepare reports of itsactivities as often as it may consider necessary, and shallprepare at least one report in each calendar year.

(2) The Commission shall prepare quarterly in eachcalendar year, its performance evaluation reports.

(3) The Commission shall cause every report so preparedto be sent to the President who shall cause the same to beplaced before Parliament.

(4) The reports of the Commission placed beforeParliament shall be made available to the public through theofficial website of the Commission with due regard to privacyand personal data.

160. (1) The jurisdiction vested in the Court of Appeal byArticle 140 of the Constitution shall, in respect of applicationsin which relief is sought against the Commission be exercisedby the Supreme Court and not by the Court of Appeal.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), noinjunction or enjoining order shall be granted by any courtrestraining or staying, or having the effect of restraining orstaying, the Commission, from commencing or continuing,the conduct of an investigation under this Act or fromexercising any of the powers conferred on it by this Act orfrom giving any direction under this Act.

161. Where the provisions of this Act are in conflict or areinconsistent with any other written law, the provisions ofthis Act shall prevail.

162. (1) For the purpose of this Act,

Reports

Application ofArticle 140 of theConstitution

Provisions of thisAct to prevailover other law

Interpretation

137Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(a)property which is held by or in the name of a personin trust for or for the benefit of any other personshall be deemed to be indirectly owned by suchother person; and

(b)every reference in this Act to the Government shallbe construed in a mannar that does not causeinterference with the judiciary and shall be subjectto Article 111C of the Constitution.;

(2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

adverse conditions of employment shall includeharassment by co-workers. It is treated as doneby the employer. It is immaterial whether suchact is done with the knowledge or approval ofthe employer;

associated offences means offences referred to insection 41 of this Act other than any offencespecified in this Act;

bribery means the offer, solicitation or acceptanceof any gratification in contravention of anyprovision of Part III of this Act;

child includes a step-child or a child who has beenadopted under the Adoption of ChildrenOrdinance (Chapter 61);

Commissioner of Local Government includes anyDeputy Commissioner of Local Government andany Assistant Commissioner of LocalGovernment;

complaint shall mean any written or oralcommunication with statement received throughelectronic means or otherwise to the Commissionin relation to the commission of an offence underthis Act in which the communicator divulges his

138Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

identity. This does not include any materialwhich comes to the attention of the Commissionthrough the channels stipulated in paragraph (a),(c), or (d) of subsection (1) of section 42;

documents include information recorded in any formand, in relation to information recorded otherwisethan in legible form, references to its productionincluding references to producing a copy of theinformation in legible form;

electronic communication means anycommunication made by means of data messagegenerated, sent, received or stored by electronic,magnetic, optical or other similar means;

executive when used with reference to a trade unionhas the same meaning as in the Trade UnionsOrdinance (Chapter 138);

foreign public official means an individual who -

(a)holds a legislative, administrative orjudicial position of any kind, whetherappointed or elected, of a country orterritory outside Sri Lanka (or anysubdivision of such a country or territory);

(b)exercises a public function

(i)for or on behalf of a country orterritory outside Sri Lanka or anysubdivision of such a country orterritory, or

(ii)for any public agency or publicenterprise of that country or territoryor subdivision, or

(c)is an official or agent of a publicinternational organisation;

139Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Government includes the Legislature, Executive andthe Judiciary;

gratification includes -

(a)money or any gift, loan, fee, reward,commission, valuable security or otherproperty or interest in property of anydescription, whether movable, intangibleand unreal or immovable;

For the purposes of this paragraph,money includes currency which is indigital or virtual form recognized as legaltender, whether or not such currency isrecognized in Sri Lanka.

(b)any office, employment or contract;

(c)any payment, release, discharge orliquidation of any loan, obligation or otherliability whatsoever whether in whole orin part;

(d)sexual favour;

(e)any other service, favour or advantage ofany description whatsoever includingprotection from any penalty or disabilityincurred or apprehended from any actionor proceedings of a disciplinary or penalnature, whether or not already instituted,including the exercise, or the forbearancefrom the exercise of any right or any officialpower or duty; and

(f)any offer, undertaking or promise of anygratification within the meaning of thepreceding paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e);

high risk categories means categories that areprescribed by regulations as such;

information for the purposes of section 42 and 43means anything except a complaint and materialreceived under the provisions of paragraphs (c)and (d) of subsection (1) of section 42 and in allother circumstances information shall carry itsgeneric meaning;

140Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

informer includes a whistleblower;

judicial officer shall have the same meaningassigned to such expression in the Constitution;

listed Company shall have the same meaningassigned to such expression in the CompaniesAct, No.07 of 2007;

local authority means a Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyauthority created or established by or under anylaw to exercise, perform and discharge, powers,duties and functions, corresponding to, or similarto the powers, duties and functions exercised,performed and discharged by any such Councilor Sabha;

local or foreign expert includes any expert specifiedin section 45 of the Evidence Ordinance(Chapter 14);

Minister means the Minister assigned the subject ofJustice under Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution;

non-intimate sample means

(a)a sample of head hair;

(b)a sample taken from a nail or from under anail;

(c)a swab taken from any part, other than aprivate part, of a persons body or from themouth but not any other body orifice;

(d)saliva; or

(e)an impression of any part of a persons bodyother than

141Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(i)an impression of a private part;

(ii)an impression of the face; or

(iii)the identifying particulars;

private part in relation to a persons body, meansthe genital or anal area and includes the breastsin the case of a woman;

identifying particulars include photographs, finger-prints, palm-prints, sole-prints, toe-prints and theweight and height measurements of a person;

office-bearers in relation to a recognized politicalparty means the President, Vice-President,Secretary or a member of the Executivecommittee of such recognized political party andany other person who is duly empowered to givedirections in regard to such political party, andincludes the leader of such political party,howsoever designated, whether as Patron,President, Advisor or otherwise;

person includes both natural and legal persons;

person assisting the Commission for the purposesof this Act means any person who assists theCommission in any manner;

prescribed means prescribed by regulations;

private sector entity means a specified businessenterprise as defined in section 5 of the Sri LankaAccounting and Auditing Standards Act, No. 15of 1995;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished by Chapter XVIIA of theConstitution;

142Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

public authority includes a Government Ministry,Government Department, Provincial Council,local authority or public corporation;

public corporation means any corporation, board orother body which was or is established by or underany written law other than the Companies Act,No. 07 of 2007 with capital partly or whollyprovided by the Government by way of grant,loan or other form, and includes all scheduledinstitutions under this Act;

public international organisation means anorganisation whose members are

(a)countries or territories outside Sri Lanka;

(b)governments of countries or territoriesoutside Sri Lanka; and

(c)a mixture of any of the above;

public officer shall have the same meaning assignedto such expression in the Constitution;

public official include the President, the PrimeMinister, a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers,a Minister appointed under Article 45 of theConstitution, Speaker, Deputy Speaker,Chairman of a Committee, Deputy Chairman ofa Committee, a Deputy Minister, the Governorof a Province, a Minister of the Board of Ministersof a Provincial Council, a Member of Parliament,a Judge of the Supreme Court, a Judge of theCourt of Appeal, Judge of the High Court or aJudge, presiding officer, or member of any otherCourt of first Instance, tribunal or institutioncreated and established for the administration ofJustice or for the adjudication of any labour or

143Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

other dispute, every officer, official or employeeof the State or any Chairman, member, officer,official or employee of any IndependentCommission established by the Constitution, orany other diplomatic agent appointed by theConstitution, or any Chairman, member, officer,official or employee of any Commissionappointed under any other law; or any Chairman,director, Governor, member, officer, official oremployee, whether in receipt of remuneration ornot, of a Provincial Council, local authority or ofa scheduled institution, or of a companyincorporated under the Companies Act, No. 07of 2007, in which over twenty five per centum ofthe shares are held by the Government, a memberof a Provincial Public Service, every juror, everylicensed surveyor and every arbitrator or otherperson to whom any cause or matter has beenreferred for decision or report by any court or anyother competent public authority:

Provided that, where any local authority hasbeen dissolved and the administration of theaffairs of that authority has been vested in anyperson, every employee of that local authorityimmediately before its dissolution who continuesin employment after such dissolution, shall bedeemed for the purpose of this Act, to be a publicofficial;

Registrar General of Lands means the RegistrarGeneral of Lands appointed under section 2 ofthe Registration of Documents Ordinance(Chapter 117);

Registrar General of Title means the RegistrarGeneral of Title appointed under section 3 of theRegistration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998;

scheduled institution means any public authorityor public corporation and includes any privatesector entity or any body-

144Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(a)in which any such public authority or publiccorporation; or

(b)in which more than one such publicauthority or public corporation,

in the aggregate, holds, not less than twenty fivepercent of the shares;

sexual favour means -

(a)sexual intercourse; or

(b)any act that may not amount to sexualintercourse, but may amount to orconstitute physical, verbal or non-verbalconduct of a sexual nature, including theexposure of a private body part or any actperformed by the use of information andcommunication technology or any othermeans.

sporting event means any event or contest in anysport between individuals or teams or in whichan animal competes and which is usuallyattended by the public and is governed by ruleswhich include the constitution, rules or code ofconduct of any sporting body which stages anysporting event or of any regulatory body underwhose constitution, rules or code of conduct thesporting event is conducted;

staff officer means any employee of the Governmentor a Provincial Council or a local authority orany employee of a public corporation as may bespecified by rules made under section 157;

victim means a person who has suffered any injury,harm whether physical or mental, emotional,economic or other loss as a result of an act oromission which constitute an offence under thisAct;

145Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

whistleblower shall include persons assisting suchwhistleblower, persons providing supportinginformation to such whistleblower, a familymember or dependant of such whistleblower orany other person of significant importance tosuch whistleblower;

witness for purposes of section 75 means any personwho

(a)has provided information or lodged acomplaint with any law enforcementofficer and based upon such informationor complaint, an investigation or inquirycould or has commenced or is likely tocommence, in connection with the allegedcommission of an offence under this Act;

(b)in the course of an investigation or inquiryconducted by the Commission or a lawenforcement authority into the allegedcommission of an offence under this Act,has provided information or made astatement containing an account of mattersin respect to which such person had beenquestioned;

(c)has provided an affidavit or submitted astatement in support of a complaint madeor any legal action instituted by theCommission;

(d)has provided information or anycommunication to the Commission;

(e)has reasonable grounds to believe that heshall be summoned by a court or theCommission to make a statement or testifyin any judicial or quasi-judicial

146Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

proceedings against a person, based oninformation provided or a statement madeto a law enforcement authority or theCommission by such person;

(f)has received summons from a court or theCommission to make a statement, testifyor produce any document, report or objectin any judicial or quasi-judicial proceedingbefore such court or the Commission; or

(g)being a public officer, has investigated intothe alleged commission of an offence or analleged infringement of a fundamentalright or the violation of a human right,

and includes a victim of a crime, a child witness,the parent or guardian of a child witness, a familymember or a dependant of such witness or anyother person of significant importance to suchperson, an expert witness, a person who has beensummoned to testify before a court or theCommission on behalf of a person suspected oraccused of the alleged commission of an offenceunder this Act; and

written shall include electronically generateddocuments.

PART V

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS AND SAVINGS

163. (1) (a)The Commission to InvestigateAllegations of Bribery or Corruption Act,No. 19 of 1994;

(b)Declaration of Assets and Liabilities Law,No. 1 of 1975; and

(c)The Bribery Act (Chapter 26),

Repeals, savingsand transitionalprovisions

147Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

are hereby repealed (hereinafter referred to as the repealedActs).

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Commission toInvestigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19of 1994-

(a)the Commission established under the Commissionto Investigate Allegations of Bribery or CorruptionAct, No. 19 of 1994 and functioning as such on thedate of commencement of this Act shall be deemedto be the Commission for the purposes of this Actuntil a new Commission is established under Part Iof this Act, and the members holding officeimmediately prior to the date of commencement ofthis Act shall be deemed to have been appointed assuch under this Act and continue to hold office untilnew members are appointed;

(b)all regulations and rules made under the repealedActs and are in force on the day immediately priorto the date of commencement of this Act and notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act shall bedeemed to be regulations and rules made under thisAct and shall continue to be valid;

(c)all contracts, agreements and other instrumentsmade under the repealed Acts and subsisting on theday immediately prior to the date of commencementof this Act, shall be deemed to be contracts,agreements and other instruments made by theCommission under this Act;

(d)all suits, actions, and other legal proceedingsinstituted or inquiries or investigations commencedby or against the Commission to InvestigateAllegations of Bribery or Corruption establishedunder the Commission to Investigate Allegationsof Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994 andpending on the day, immediately prior to the dateof commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to besuits, actions and other legal proceedings instituted

148Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

or inquiries or investigations commenced by oragainst the Commission under this Act and may becontinued after the appointed date as if they weresuits, actions and other legal proceedings institutedor inquiries or investigations commenced andcontinued under this Act;

(e)all movable and immovable property vested in theCommission to Investigate Allegations of Briberyor Corruption established under the Commission toInvestigate Allegations of Bribery or CorruptionAct, No. 19 of 1994 and existing on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall, with effect from the date ofcommencement of this Act, be vested with theCommission;

(f)all contraventions or proceedings initiated underthe provisions of the repealed Acts, regulations orrules made thereunder prior to the commencementof this Act, shall be offences committed orproceedings initiated under the repealed Acts andbe tried accordingly;

(g)all interests, rights, assets, obligations, debts andliabilities of the Commission to InvestigateAllegations of Bribery or Corruption establishedunder the Commission to Investigate Allegationsof Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994 priorto the date of commencement of this Act, shall bedeemed with effect from the date of commencementof this Act to be the interests, rights, assets,obligations, debts and liabilities of the Commission;and

(h)all officers and officials of the Commission toInvestigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruptionestablished under the Commission to InvestigateAllegations of Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19 of1994 holding office prior to the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed witheffect from the date of commencement of this Act tobe the officers and officials of the Commissionestablished under this Act, on terms not less

149Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

favourable than the terms and conditions ofemployment to which they were entitled under theCommission to Investigate Allegations of Briberyor Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994, and shallcommunicate to the Commission, within threemonths of the establishment of the Commission,whether they opt to join the service of theCommission:

provided that,

(i)every officer and official who opts to jointhe service of the Commission shall, forpurposes of calculating pension and otherretirement benefits only, be deemed to havecontinued in office as a public officer inthe Commission to Investigate Allegationsof Bribey or Corruption estalished underthe Commission to Investigate Allegationsof Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19 of1994 from the date on which he wasemployed by that Commission until theend of his period of service in theCommission established under this Act andshall, if his period of service in theCommission when added to his previousperiod of services as a public officeramounts to twenty years or more, beeligible, at the end of his period of servicein the Commission, for the grant of pensionand retirement benefits which may beapplicable to such officers and officialsunder the provisions of any other writtenlaw including the Minutes on Pensions;

(ii)every officer and official who opts forvoluntary resignation from the service ofthe Commission, shall be entitled to suchcompensation as shall be paid in terms of aVoluntary Retrenchment Scheme as shallbe prescribed by the Minister and beentitled to pension and other retirementbenefits which may be applicable to suchofficers and officials under the provisionsof any written law including the Minuteson Pensions,

150Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) All investigations under the repealed Acts commencedby the Commission under the Commission to InvestigateAllegations of Bribery or Corruption Act, No.19 of 1994,and pending on the day preceding the appointed date shallbe deemed to be investigations commenced by theCommission under this Act, and all such investigations maybe continued after the appointed date, as if they wereinvestigations commenced and continued on the directionof the Commission, and all statements and documentsfurnished to the Commission in the course of investigationsor certified copies thereof shall be admissible in proceedingsinstituted under the Commission to Investigate Allegationsof Bribery or Corruption Act, No.19 of 1994, as if suchinvestigations were conducted and the proceedings wereinstituted under this Act.

(4) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Commission toInvestigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19of 1994, the Bribery Act (Chapter 26) and the Declaration ofAssets and Liabilities Law No.1 of 1975

(a)every reference to the Commission to InvestigateAllegations of Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19 of1994 in any other written law shall be construed asa reference to this Act;

(b)every reference to the Bribery Act (Chapter 26) inany other written law shall be construed as referringto the corresponding provisions contained in thisAct; and

(c)every reference to the Declaration of Assets andLiabilities Law, No. 1 of 1975 in any other writtenlaw shall be construed as a reference to this Act.

164. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

SCHEDULE A

[Section 41]

1. Sections 372 and 378 of thePenal Code (Chapter 19)- extortion

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

151Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

2. Section 386 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- dishonest misappropriation ofproperty

3. Section 388 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- criminal breach of trust

4. Section 389 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- punishment for criminal breachof trust5. Section 390 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- criminal breach of trust by acarrier, &c.

6. Section 391 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- criminal breach of trust by a clerkor servant

7. Section 392 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- criminal breach of trust by apublic servant or by bankers,merchant or agent

8. Section 392A of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- criminal breach of trust by apublic servant in respect of moneyor balance of money

9. Sections 398 to 403 of thePenal Code (Chapter 19)- cheating

10. Section 406 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- dishonest or fraudulent executionof a deed of transfer containing afalse statement of consideration

11.Section 452 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- forgery

12. Section 453 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- making a false document

13. Section 454 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- punishment for forgery

14. Section 455 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- forgery of a record of a court ofjustice or of a public register orbirths, &c.

152Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

15. Section 457 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- forgery for the purpose ofcheating

16. Section 458 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- a forged document

17. Section 459 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- using as genuine a forgeddocument

18. Section 462 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- having possession of a forgedrecord or valuable security or willknown to be forged, with intentto use it as genuine; and

19. Section 467 of the PenalCode (Chapter 19)- falsification of accounts

SCHEDULE B

[Section 41]

1. any offence under Chapter XI of the Penal Code (Chapter 19);

2. any offence under the Offences Against Public Property Act, No.12 of 1982; and

3. any offence under the Computer Crime Act, No. 24 of 2007.

153Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.