PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ist Session 1956-57

Gaming (Amendment) Act,
No. 26 of 1957

Date of Assent : April 13, 1957-

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
BureEAU, Post OrricE Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 15 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Gaming (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1957 3

L. D.—O. 84/56.
_ An ACT TO AMEND THE GAMING ORDINANCE. Chapter 38,
; olume [.,

j page 676.

[Date of Assent: April 13, 1957]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
‘by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
saine, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Gaming Short title.
(Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1957. | eitta
Insertion of Es

_ 2. The following new sections are hereby inserted Insertion. of
Immediately after section 3, and shall have effect as 3, and 3p in

sections 3a and 33, of the Gaming Ordinance, herein- Cbapter 38.
after referred to as the ‘‘ principal enactment ’’ :—
" Power to 3a. (1) The Minister may, by Order
hibit th at
importation, published in the Gazette, prohibit the
Of jcertann importation into Ceylon of any instru- .

instruments E

or appliances. | Ment or appliance that may be used for
the playing of any game of chance or of
mixed chance and skill.

f.. | (2) The provisions of this section shall
_. be read and construed as one with the
Cap. 185. Customs Ordinance, and, for the purpose

of the application of that Ordinance, any

instrument or appliance the importation

of which is prohibited by Order made

under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to

be goods the importation of which is
. prohibited by Ordinance.

(3) No Order made by the Minister
under sub-section .(1) shall come into
force until it has been approved by the
Senate and the House of Representatives.

Prohibition. 3B. (1) No person shall manufacture
manufacture | ay instrument or appliance the import-

of instruments: . ation of which is prohibited by Order
or appliances =< - = :
the importation Made under sub-section (1) of.section 3a.
of ‘which is a : aa
prohibited. . _ _
a ale (2) Any person who contravenes the
et - provisions of sub-section (1) of this
‘section shall be guilty of an offence and
- shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not
--- exceeding five .hundred. rupees or to
: imprisonment of either description for a,
term not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonmerit.’’.
J. N. R 9987-2,576 (2/57) .


4 Gaming (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1957

Amendment of 8. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby

section 16 ‘ i
the prineipel amended by the substitution, for the word
enactment, *“ exercise. ’’, of the words ‘‘ exercise, unless such

games or game are or is played with any instrument
or appliance the importation of which is prohibited by
7 Order made under sub-section (1) of section 38a, whether.
or not such instrument or appliance is one that has
been actually imported into Ceylon and whether or not
it is one the importation of which into Ceylon has
been before the coming into force of such Order. ’’.

eamenc many of 4. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
the principal amended as follows : —
enactment.

(1) by the. renumbering of that section as sub-
section (1) of section 21;

(2) by the substitution, for the words ‘‘ Nothing

- in this Ordinance contained shall ’’, of the
words ‘‘ The provisions of this Ordinance, ~

other than sub-section (2) of this section,

shall not ’’; 5;

(3) by the addition, at the end of that section, of
the following new sub-section : — iL.

-

‘* (2) No person shall, in any resthouse,
proprietary club or hotel referred to in sub-
section (1), play a game of chance or of

ps : mixed chance and skill with any instrument
Veo or appliance the importation of which is
. prohibited by Order made under sub-
section (1) of section 3a, whether or not such
instrument or appliance is one that has
been actually imported into Ceylon and
whether or not itis one the importation of
fe” which into Ceylon has been before the
| coming into force of such Order. Any
person who contravenes the provisions of
this sub-section shall be guilty of an offence
and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine
not exceeding five hundred rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for
a term not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonment. ”’ ;

(4) in the marginal note to that section, by the

_. substitution, for the word ‘‘ Ordinance ",

of the words ‘‘ Certain provisions of the
Ordinance ’’.


Guming (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1957 = 5
Amendment of :

5. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby vette?
amended as follows: — the principal
i enactment.

(2) in the definition of ‘‘ unlawful gaming ”’ by
the addition, immediately after paragraph
(2) of the definition, of the following new
paragraph :—

‘* (3) the act of playing, in any place what-
soever whether for a stake or not, a
game of chance or of mixed chance
and skill with any instrument or
appliance the importation of which
is prohibited by Order made under
sub-section (1) of section 3a,
whether or not such instrument or
appliance is one that has been
actually imported into Ceylon and
whether or not it is one the
importation of which into Ceylon
has been before the coming into force
of such Order; ’’; and

(0) by the substitution, for the definition of
“* common gaming place ’’, of the following
definition : —

‘** common gaming place ’’ shall include
any place to which the public may
have access with or without payment
and which is kept or used for betting
or the playing of any game for a
stake, or the playing, whether for a
stake or not, of any game of chance
or of mixed chance and skill with
any instrument .or appliance the
importation of which is prohibited
by Order made under sub-section (1)
of section 3A, whether or not such
instrument or appliance is one that
has been actually imported into
Ceylon and whether or not it is one
the importation of which into
Ceylon has been before the coming
into force of such Order; and a place
shall be deemed to be kept or used for
betting or the playing of any game
for a stake, or the playing, whether
for a stake or not, of any game of
chance or of mixed chance and skill ‘

ae with any such instrument or ee
oa appliance as aforesaid, if it is so
used even on one occasion only; ’.

i
?
