Appropriation Act, No. 61 of 2007 3

(4) The debit balance outstanding at the end o f the financial year2008 of any activity specified in Column I of the Second Schedule to this Act, shall not exceed the maximum limit specified in the corresponding entry in Column I V o f that Schedule, and the total liabilities of that activity at the end of that financial year shall not exceed the maximum limit specified in the corresponding entry in Column V of that Schedule.

Payment from the Consolidated Fund or any other fund or moneys of or al the disposal of the Government, of advances for expenditure on !he activities referred to in section 3, during the financial year 2008.

4. Whenever at any time during the financial year 2008, the receipts of1he Government from any activity specified in Column r of the Second Schedule to this Act are insufficient to meet t.he expenditure incurred by the Government on such activity, the Minister may from time to time by Order, direct that such sums as he may deem necessary to meet such expenditure shall be payable by way o f advances, out o f the Consolidated Fund or any other fund or moneys o f or at the disposal o f the Government, so however that the aggregate o f the sums so advanced shall not exceed the maximum limit o f expenditure specilied in the corresponding entry in Column 11 of that Schedule. Any sum so advanced in respect o f such activity shall be refunded to the Consolidated Fund in such manner, as the Minister may by Order direct.

5. ( I) Any moneys which by virtue o f the provisions o f the First Schedule to this Act, have been allocated to Recurrent Expenditure under any Programme appearing under any Head specified in that Schedule, but have not been expended or are not likely to be expended, may be transferred to the allocation of Capital Expenditure within that Programme or to the allocation o f Recurrent Expenditure or Capital Expenditure under any other Programme within that Head, by Order o f the Secretary to the Treasury or any other officer authorised by him.

Power lo transfer unexpended moneys allocated lo Recurrent Expenditure, to another allocation within the same Programme or lo another Programme under the same Head of expenditure.

(2) No moneys allocated to Capital Expenditure under any Programme appearing under any Head specified in the First Schedule to this Act. shall be transfe1Ted out of that Programme or to any allo<.:ation o f Recurrent Expenditure o f that Programme.

Approprimion Act, No. 61 of 2007 5

(3) Any Order made under subsection (I) shall, i f so expressed therein. be deemed to have had effect from such date prior to the date of making such Order as may be specified therein.

9. Parliament may by resolution amend the Second Schedule to this Act, by adding to the appropriate Columns of that Schedule any activity and providing for -

Power of Parli:iment to amend 1hc Second Schedule to 1his Act.

(a) all or any of the maximum limits relating to such activity;

(b) the minimum limit relating to such activity.

IO. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhal:i text to prevail in c:ise of inconsistency.