PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
| 3rd Session 1967-68 ~..

Colombo District (Low-lying
Areas) Reclamation and
Development Board

Act, No. 15 of 1968

Date of Assent: May 17, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government
and published as a Supplement to Ceylon Government Gazette,
Part II of May 24, 1968

Printed at the GoverNnmenr Press, Ceryion. To he
purchased at the GoveRNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, CoLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS BurEAU, P. O. Box 500, CoLtomso 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.


Colombo District (Low-lying Areas)
Reclamation and Development Board
Act, No. 15 of 1968

L. D.—O. 48/66.

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
BoaRD TO BE KNOWN AS THE CoLomso District (Low-
LYING AREAS) RECLAMATION AND DEVELOPMENT
BoaRD FOR THE RECLAMATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF
SUCH AREAS AS MAY BE DECLARED BY ORDER OF THE
MINISTER SO THAT SUCH AREAS MAY BE RENDERED
SUITABLE FOR BUILDING PURPOSES, AND FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: May 17, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Colombo District
(Low-lying Areas) Reclamation and Development
Board Act, No. 15 of 1968, and shall come into
operation on such date as the Minister may, by Order
published in the Gazette, appoint.

PART I.

PowER OF MINISTER TO DECLARE RECLAMATION AND
DEVELOPMENT AREAS.

2. (1) Where the Minister is satisfied that any
area of land situated within the jurisdiction of any
local authority specified in the First Schedule to this
Act is a low-lying, marshy, waste or swampy area, he
shall after consultation with the Minister of Local
Government and the local authority or authorities
within which such area of land is situated, by Order
published in the Gazette, declare such area to be a
Reclamation and Development Area for the purposes
of this Act. |

(2) An Order declaring a Reclamation and
Development Area under sub-section (1) shall define
_ the area by setting out the metes and bounds of the

land or lands comprised in the Area.
B 68021—5,583 (6/68)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Declaration of
Reclamation

and Develop-

ment Areas by
Order of the

Minister and

effect of such
declaration.


Vesting in the
Boards of lands
which are
situated within
the jurisdiction
of local
authorities and
which comprise
Reclamation
and Develop-
ment Areas.

Compulsory
acquisition of
any land
which comprises
a Reclamation
and Develop-
ment Area

and which is
not vested in
the local
authority withio
the jurisdiction
of which that
land is
sitnated.

2 Colombo District (Low-lying Areas)
Reclamation and Development Board
Act, No. 15 of 1968

(3) Upon the publication of an Order declaring a
Reclamation and Development Area under sub-section
(1) it shall be the duty of the Board hereinafter
established by this Act to reclaim and develop that
Area and render it suitable for building purposes.

(4) The House of Representatives may by resolution
revoke any Order made by the Minister under this
section within fifty days of the publication of such
Order in the Gazette, and in the computation of such
period of fifty days no account shall be taken of any
period during which Parliament is prorogued. Such
revocation shall be without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.

VESTING AND ACQUISITION OF LAND.

8. (1) Any land or lands which comprises or
comprise a Reclamation and Development Area
declared by an Order under section 2 and which is or
are vested in the local authority within the jurisdiction
of which such land or lands is or are situated shall,
from the date on which that Order is made, without
any formal transfer thereof vest absolutely in the
Board free from all encumbrances.

(2) No compensation shall be payable by the Board
in respect of any land which vests in the Board by
reason of the operation of the provisions of
sub-section (1).

4%, (1) Where any Reclamation and Development
Area declared by an Order under section 2 comprises
any land which is not vested in a local authority
within the jurisdiction of which such land is situated,
such land may be acquired under the Land Acquisition
Act by the Government for the Board, and the
provisions of that Act shall, save as otherwise
provided in sub-section (2), apply for the purpose of
the acquisition of that land.

(2) In any case where any land referred to in
sub-section (1) is to be acquired under the Land
Acquisition Act and public notice of the intention
to acquire that land is published as required by that
Act at any time within the period of five years
reckoned from the date of commencement of this Act,
the market value of that land for the purposes of
determining the amount of compensation to be paid in
respect of that land shall, notwithstanding anything


Colombo District (Low-lying Areas) 3
Reclamation and Development Board
Act, No. 15 of 1968

to the contrary in that Act, be deemed to be the
market value which that land would have had at the
date of commencement of this Act if it then was in the
same condition as it is at the time of acquisition.

PART II.

EstaBLISHMENT OF THE CoLomso District (Low-
LYING AREAS) RECLAMATION AND DEVELOPMENT Boar.

5. (1) A Board to be called the Colombo
District (Low-lying Areas) Reclamation and Develop-
ment Board is hereby established.

(2) The Board shall be a body corporate having
perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue
and be sued in the name assigned to it by sub-section
(1).

6. (1) The Board shall consist of the following—

(a) three ex officio members, namely,

(i) the Director of Irrigation,

(ii) the Director of Town and Country
Planning, and

(iii) the Commissioner of National Housing; |

and

(b) four other members appointed by the Minister,
one of whom at least shall be a qualified Civil
Engineer.

(2) A person shall be disqualified for appointment
by the Minister as a member of the Board or for
continuing as a member so appointed—

(i) if he is a Senator or Member of Parliament, or

(ii) if he, directly or indirectly, has any interest in

a subsisting contract with, or in any work
being done for, the Board except as a
shareholder (other than a director) in an
incorporated company, or

(iii) if he has any such financial or other interest as
is likely to affect prejudicially the discharge
by him of his duties as a member of the
Board.

(3) If a member of the Board other than an ex
officio member is temporarily unable to function as
such member, the Minister may appoint any person
act as a member of the Board.

Establishment
of the Colombe
District
(Low-lying
Areas)
Reclamation
and Develop-
ment Board.

Members of the
Board


Chairman of
the Board.

4 Colombo District (Low-lying Areas)
Reclamation and Development Board :
Act, No. 15 of 1968

(4) Every member of the Board other than an
ex officio member shall, unless he vacates the office of
member of the Board earlier, hold such office for a
period of three years commencing on the date of his
appointment :

Provided that a person who is appointed as a
member of the Board in place of a member who has
vacated office before the end of his term of office shall,
unless the member so appointed vacates the office of
member of the Board earlier, hold such office during
the unexpired part of such term.

(5) A member of the Board other than an ex officio
member may resign the office of such member by letter
addressed to the Minister.

(6) The Minister may, without assigning any
reason, remove from office a member of the Board
other than an ez officio member.

(7) A member of the Board other than an ex officio
member shall be deemed to have vacated office—

(a) on sending his resignation in writing to the
Minister; or

(b) on his removal from office by the Minister; or

(c) on the expiry of his term of office.

(8) All or any of the members of the Board may be
paid such remuneration as may be determined by the
Minister with the concurrence of the Minister of
Finance.

(9) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be
invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy
amongst its members or any defect in the appointment
thereof.

7. (1) The Minister shall appoint as the Chairman
of the Board one of the members of the Board other
than an ex officio member.

(2) If the Chairman of the Board is temporarily
unable to function as such Chairman, the Minister
may appoint any member of the Board, other than an
ex officio member, to act as the Chairman of the
Board. ;

(3) The Chairman of the Board shall, unless he
vacates the office of Chairman earlier, hold such office
during the term for which he is a member of the
Board: “l


Colombo District (Low-lying Areas) 5
Reclamation and Development Board
Act, No. 15 of 1968

Provided that a person appointed to act as the
Chairman of the Board during the absence of the
Chairman of the Board who is temporarily unable to
function as such Chairman shall, unless he vacates the
office of Chairman earlier, hold such office during such
absence.

(4) The Chairman of the Board may resign the
office of Chairman by letter addressed to the Minister.

(5) The Minister may, without assigning any
reason, terminate the appointment of any member of
the Board as the Chairman of the Board.

(6) The Chairman of the Board shall be deemed to
vacate the office of Chairman if he resigns such office
or if his appointment as such Chairman is terminated

by the Minister or if he ceases to be a member of the
Board.

8. The objects of the Board shall be—

(a) to reclaim and develop every Reclamation and
Development Area declared by Order under
section 2, and to render such Area suitable
for building purposes; and

(b) to have the custody, management and control,
pending such reclamation and development,
of lands comprising such Area which are
us the provisions of this Act vested in the
Board.

9. The Board may exercise all or any of the
following powers :—

(a) to acquire, hold or take on lease any property,
or mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose
of any property;

(b) to undertake the preparation and execution of

| development schemes in the Reclamation and
Development Areas declared under section 2;

(c) to cause the construction of roads in such Areas;

(d) to cause the construction of works for the provi-
sion of public services in such Areas
including— .. |
(i) surface water drainage, sewerage and.

_ disposal of sewage, |
(ii) lighting, and
(iii) water supply;

Objects of
the Board.

General powers
of the Board.


Borrowing
powers of
the Board.

Capital of
the Board.

Seal of
the Board.

Procedure at
mectings of
the Board.

6 Colombo’ District (Low-lying Areas)
Reclamation and Development Board
Act, No. 15 of 1968

(e) to enter into and perform all such contracts ag
may be necessary for carrying out the objects
and for the exercise of the powers, of the
Board ;.
(f) to make rules in respect of the administration
of the affairs of the Board;
(y) to do all other things which in the opinion of
“. "the Board are necessary to facilitate the
proper carrying out of its objects.

40. The Board may, with the consent of the
Minister, or in accordance with the terms of any
general authority given by him, borrow by way of
overdraft or otherwise, such sums as the Board may
require for meeting its obligations:

Provided that the aggregate of the amounts out-
standing in respect of any loans raised by the Board
under this section shall not at any time exceed such
sum as may be determined by the Minister in consul-
tation with the Minister of Finance.

44. (1) The initial capital of the Board shall be
determined by resolution of the House of Representa-
tives and the amount of such capital shall be paid to
the Board out of the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

(2) The capital of the Board may be increased from
time to time by such amount as may be determined by
resolution of the House of Representatives, and that
amount shall be paid to the Board out of the
Consolidated Fund of Ceylon. ) :

42. (1) The seal of the Board shall be in the
custody of such person as the Board may decide from
time to time.

(2) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except in the presence of the
Chairman, or some other member, of the Board and the
chief executive officer of the Board, both of whom shall
sign the instrument or document in token of their
presence.

43. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2),
the members of the Board may regulate the procedure
to be followed at meetings of the Board. _

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall
be five. Pee 4


Colombo District (Low-lying Areas) 7
Reclamation and Development Board
Act, No. 15 of 1968

PART III.
STAFF OF THE BOARD.

44%, (1) The Board may appoint such officers and
servants as it considers necessary for the efficient
discharge of its functions.

(2) ‘The officers and servants of the Board shall be
remunerated in such manner and at such rates, and
shall be subject to such conditions of service, as may
be determined by the Board.

(3) At the request of the Board, any officer of the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and
of the Secretary to the Treasury, be temporarily
anpointed to the staff of the Board for such period as
may be determined by the Board with like consent or
be permanently appointed! to such staff. The provisions
of sub-sections (2) and (8) of section 26 of the Govern-
ment-Sponsored Corporations Act shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply in relation to any officer in the public
service who is temporarily or permanently appointed
to the staff of the Board.

(4) Where the Board employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which
he has agreed to serve the Government for a specified
period, any period of service to the Board by that
person shall be regarded as service to the Government
for the purpose of discharging the obligations of such
contract.

PART IV.
FINANCE AND ACCOUNTS.

145. The Board shall have its own fund. All
mouevs received by the Board, including such sums as
miav be paid to the Board out of the Consolidated Fund
of Ceylon, shall be credited to the fund, and all pay-
ments made by the Board shall be made therefrom.

_ 46. The Board shall cause its accounts to be kept
in such form and in such manner as the Minister may
1rect.

47. (1) The accounts of the Board shall be audited
annually by an auditor (hereinafter referred to as
“the auditor ’’) appointed by the Minister on the
advice of the Auditor-General. The auditor shall be
paid by the Board such remuneration as the Minister
may, with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance,
determine.

Appointment of
ofiicers and
servants.

Fund of
the Board.

Accounts of
the Board,

Audit.


8 Colombo District (Low-lying Areas)
Reclamation and Development Board
Act, No. 15 of 1968

(2) The Auditor-General shall have power—

(2) to direct the manner in which the accounts of
the Board shall be audited by the auditor
and to give the auditor instructions in regard
to any matter relating to the performance of
his functions as the auditor; and

(5) to conduct a supplementary or test audit of the
accounts of the Board by such person or
persons as the Auditor-General may autho-
rize in that behalf, and for the purposes of
such audit to require any person to furnish
information or additional information to the
person or persons so authorized, on such
matters, and in such form, as the Auditor-
General may, by general or special order,
direct.

(3) The auditor shall examine the accounts of the
Board and ascertain the correctness of the balance
sheet and furnish a report to the Auditor-General.

stating—

(a) whether he has or has not obtained all the infor-
mation and explanations required by him;
and

(b) whether in his opinion the balance sheet and the
accounts referred to in the report are properly
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair
view of the affairs of the Board.

(4) The auditor shall submit a copy of his report
to the Auditor-General who shall have the right to
comment upon, or supplement, the auditor’s report in
such a manner as the Auditor-General may think fit.

(5) The Auditor-General shall transmit the
auditor’s report together with his comments upon, or
his supplement to, such report to the Board.

(6) For the purposes of this section the expression
** auditor ’’ means—

(2) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Ceylon, possesses a certificate to practise as
an Accountant issued by the Council of that
Institute; or


Colombo District (Low-lying Areas) 9
Reclamation and Development Board
Act, No. 15 of 1968

(b) a firm of Chartered Accountants each of the
partners of which, being a member of that
Institute, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of
that Institute.

18. (1) The Board shall, on receipt of the auditor’s
report in respect of any year, transmit to the
Minister within nine months of the expiry of that
year—

(a) a copy of such report together with the Auditor-
General’s comments (if any) upon, and his
supplement (if any) to, such report;

(6) a copy of the revenue and expenditure account;

(c) a copy of the balance sheet; and

(zd) a report by such Board on its work for the
period for which the revenue and expenditure
account and the balance sheet have been made
up.

(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the documents
transmitted to him under sub-section (1) before the
Senate and the House of Representatives within two
months of the receipt of such documents by the
Minister.

PART V.

MISCELLANEOUS.

19. Where any land (other than land referred to
in section 4) or any interest in such land is required
by the Board for any of its purposes, such land or
interest may be acquired under the Land Acquisition
Act by the Government for the Board, and the provi-
sions of that Act shall apply for the purposes of the
acquisition of that land or interest.

20. Where any immovable property of the Crown
is required for any purpose of the Board, such purpose
shall be deemed to be a purpose for which a special
grant or lease of such property may be made under
section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordinance and
accordingly the provisions of that Ordinance shall
apply to a grant or lease of such property to the

oard. |

24. In the exercise of its duties and powers under
this Act the Board shall be subject to and act in
accordance with such general or special directions as
the Minister may from time to time issue.

Documents to be
transmitted to
the Minister and
to be placed
before the
Senate and

the House of
Representatives.

Compulsory
acquisition of
any land other
than land
referred to in
section 4 or
any interest in
such land for
any purpose of
the Board.

Special grant
or lease of
Crown property
to the Board.

Minister's
directions to
the Board.


Power to
enter land or
premises.

Power of
Minister to
modify certain
written laws.

Effect of
other laws.

Amendment of
Schedules.

Revocation by
House of
Representatives
of Orders under
section 23 and
section 26.

10 Colombo District (Low-lying Areas)
Reclamation and Development Board
Act, No. 15 of 1968

22. (1) Any officer or servant of the Board who is
generally or specially authorized in that behalf by the
Board may at all reasonable times enter upon any
land or premises and there do such acts as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of carrying out
any work of the Board or of making any survey,
examination or investigation, preliminary or
incidental to the exercise of any power, or the
discharge of any function, of the Board.

(2) Any person who without lawful exercise
obstructs any officer of the Board while acting in
pursuance of sub-section (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall, on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding six
months or to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees
or to both such imprisonment and fine.

23. For the purpose of enabling the Board to
exercise, perform or discharge, within any Reclama-
tion and Development Area declared by Order under
section 2, any power, duty or function under any of
the enactments referred to in the Second Schedule to
this Act, the Minister may, by Order published in the
Gazette, declare that any such enactment shall, in its
application within that Area, have effect subject to
such modifications as may be specified in the Order.

24%. The provisions of this Act or any regulation or
Order made under this Act shall have effect notwith-
standing anything in any other written law.

95. The Minister may, by Order published in the
Gazette, amend any Schedule to this Act.

-96. The House of Representatives may by
resolution revoke any Order made by the Minister
under section 23 or section 25 of this Act within fifty
days of the publication of such Order in the Gazetie,
and in the computation of such period of fifty days
no account shall be taken of any period during which
Parliament is prorogued. Such revocation shall be
without prejudice to anything previously done

thereunder.


Colombo District (Low-lying Areas) 11
Reclamation ani Development Board
Act, No. 15 of 1968

27. (1) The Minister may make regulations to Regulations.
give effect to the principles and provisions of tnis Act.

(2) No regulation made by the Minister shall have
effect until it is approved by the Senate and the
House of Representatives and notification of such
approval is published in the Gazette.

98. In this Act unless the context otherwise Interpretation.
requires, ‘‘ Board ’’ means the Colombo District (Low-
lying Areas) Reclamation and Development Board
established by this Act.

FIRST SCHEDULE [Section 2}

The Colombo Municipal Council.

Tho Dehiwela-Mount Lavinia Municipal Council.
The Kotte Urban Council.

The Kolonnawa Urban Council.

The Peliyagoda Urban Council.

The Wattala-Mabole Urban Council.

The Moratuwa Urban Council.

The Piliyandala Town Council.

The Maharagama Town Council.

The Hendala Town Council.

The Dalugama Town Council.

The Kelaniya Town Council.

The Battaramulla-Talangama Town Council.
The Mulleriyawa Town Council.

The Kotikawatte Town Council.

The Ambatalen Pahala Village Council.

The Kotte-Galkissa Village Council.

The Mampe-Kesbewa Village Council.

SECOND SCHEDULE [Section 23}

The Municipal Councils Ordinance.

The Urban Councils Ordinance.

The Town Councils Ordinance.

The Village Councils Ordinance.

The Town and Country Planning Ordinance.

The Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance.
The National Housing Act.
