PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
: SRI LANKA

GOVERNMENT ANALYST -
(DISPOSAL OF ARTICLES)

ACT, No. 69 OF 1988

{Certified on 17th December, 1988]

- Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part-II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988 .

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 60 cents,  - Postage : 75 cents °


Government Analyst (Disposal of Articles)
Act, No. 69 of 1988

-. [Certified on 17th December 1988]
 L. DO, 44/85 |

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE DISPOSAL OF ARTICLES FORWARDED

TO THE GOVERNMENT ANALYST FOR ANALYSIS AND REPORT;

AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO.

BE it enacted by fie Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Government Andivee
{Disposal of Articles) Act, No. 69 of 1988.

2. (1) Where any article is forwarded by a court to the
Government Analyst for purpose of analysis and report,
such court shall, within one month of the receipt of the
report, make an order relating to the custody or disposal
by the Government Analyst as the case may be, of such
article. A copy of such order shall be served on the Govern-
ment Analyst and it shall be the duty of the Government
Analyst to carry out such order.

(2) Where an order is made under subsection (1) for the
disposal of an article, the manner of disposal shall be speci-
fied in the order, and where disposal is to be by way of a
sale, the Government Analyst shall remit the proceeds of
the sale to the court which made the order.

3. (1) Where a court makes an order relating to the
custody of an article, a copy of such order shall be sent to
the person to whom the custody of that article is given, and
it shall be his duty to remove the same from the possession
of the Government Analyst, within a period of two months
from the date of receipt of such copy. -

(2) If the person to whom the custody of an article is ;

given fails to remove the same within the specified
period, the Government Analyst may, where he considers it
appropriate to do so—

" (a) transmit such article to any Government department
or public corporation for its use ; or

(b) dispose of such article in any manner as he may
deem fit, notwithstanding the "Provisions of any law
to the contrary.

(3) A person who fails to remove the article within the
time specified in subsection (1) shall thereafter have no
further right to such article or to claim the value of such

article except as provided in section 7.

Short title.

Court to
make order
relating to
the custody
or disposal
of an

article

sent to the
Government
Analyst.

Where
court
makes an
order rela-
ting to the
custody of
an article.


2 Government Analyst (Disposal of Articles)
Act, No, 69 of 1988

(4) Where a court fails to make an ‘order under subsec-
tion (1) of section 2 for the custody or disposal of an article, -_
within six months of the forwarding of a report with respect

-to such article, by the Government Analyst to such court,
it shail be lawful for the Government Analyst to dispose of
the same in the .manner set- out in .subsection (2) of

section 3. . WAST
Article is . 4, (1) Where any article is forwarded by any individual
forwarded ar authority to the Government Analyst for purpose of
be dividual analysis and report, it shall be the duty of such individual

or HBUOUy er authority to remove the same from the possession of the
ment Government Analyst, within a period of one month from
Analyst. . the date of-receipt of the report, by such individual or autho- ©

rity, as the case may be.’

(2) ‘Te the individual or alithozity fails to remove an ati
cle within the specified period, the Government Analyst
shall, by written notice, call upon such individual] or autho-
rity to remove-the sarne from his possession within two
weeks of the date of receipt of such notice, and if not remo-
ved within that period, he shall take all necessary steps

-to dispose of the same and the provisions of subsections (2)
and (3) of section 3 shall apply in respect of such disposal.

Government . 5. (1) Where the Government Analyst disposes of any
oe article under the provisions of this Act; he shall, prior. to

register to such disposal, enter in a register especially maintained for
. eceen pe ir that purpose, all particulars relating to such article as may

any article appear to him to be relevant for purposes of record.

disposed of. “(2) An extract from the register maintained under sub-
_ by him.

section (1), certified by the Government Analyst shall be
edmissible in evidence in any legal proceedings and shall
be prima facie proof of the matters stated therein.

Government - 6. Where the Government Analyst disposes of any article

Analyst to by way of a-sale, under subsection (2) of section 3 he shall

a special credit the amount of money realised from such sale to a

emia special account maintained for that purpose, (hereinafter
referred to as the “special account”) after deducting any
expenses he may have incurred in carrying out such sale.

Payments tc xe Where any ar fale; is sold— ae

be made

from the (a) under subsection (2) of section 4 or aetiion 11 and

special 7 + a request is made within six months of such sale,

_ by the individual or authority forwarding the arti-
cle for report, for a remittance of the proceeds of
such sale; or - 7


Government “Analyst (Disposal of Articles) 3
Act, No. 69 of 1988

(b) under paragraph. (b) of subsection .(2) of section 3
and a request is made, within six months of such
sale, by the person to whom the custody of the arti-
cle was given under subsection (1) of section 3,
_ for a remittance of the proceeds of such sale,

the Government Analyst shall make such payment or re- —

mittance as the case may be, from and out of the moneys
‘lying to the credit of the special. ‘account.

8. (1) The Governmerit Analyst may, after such period
as may be specified by Order made by the Minister utilize

the moneys lying to the credit of the special account for
any one or more of, the following purposes :—

(a) purchase of equipment, chemicals and other materials
that are needed for use of the Government Analyst’s
Department ;

(b) maintaining equipment and other materials used in
the discharge of the functions of the Government
Analyst's Department ;

“(c) maintaining the buildings of the depar tient and all
its other movable and immovable properties ; and

(d) improving the scientific facili ties of the Government
Analyst’s Department. .

(2) No person shall be entitled to make any claim to
any moneys lying to the credit of the special account atter
the expiry of the period specified by the Minister under
subsection (1). ;

9. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall be
instituted against the Government Analyst or any person
acting under his authority for anything done or purported
- to be done in good-faith under this Act. | ee

10. (1) Any notice required to be given under this Act,
may be given by registered letter addressed to the person

to whom it is required to be given. at his usual or last known
place of abode.

(2) Every notice sent by registered post, shall be deemed
to have been delivered at the time when the letter would
have been delivered in the ordinary course of post, and in
proving delivery, it shall be sufficient to prove that the
letter was properly addressed and posted. |

Money
remaining
unclaimed,

Immunity
from ;
prosccution.

Notice to
be given
by regis-
tered letter.


4 Government Analyst (Disposal of Articles)
Act, No. 69 of 1988

Saving _ WU, (1) The Government Analyst shall, in regard to any
use
, article in his possession on the date of commencement of
this Act— ;

(a) where fear ies are available, send a notice to the
court which forwarded the article, that he would
be taking steps to dispose of the same if it is not
removed from his possession within two months of
the receipt of such notice; a copy of such notice
shall also be sent to the owner of such article
where the Government Analyst is aware of his
identity ; .

(b) where records are available, send a notice to the
individual or authority which forwarded the article
that he would be taking steps to dispose of such

article if it is not removed from his possession
within two months of the receipt of such notice.

(2) Where any article in respect of which 4 notice is sent
under subsection (1) is not removed within the specified
period or where records pertaining to such article are not
available, the Government Analyst shall take all necessary
steps to dispose of the same and the provisions of subsections
(2) and (3) of section 3 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to
such disposal.

Interpre- 12. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
tation, ;
“article” includes any weapon, specimen, sample, arms,

ammunition, blasting accessories, explosives,
furniture, machines, vehicles and containers ;

“ dispose”? includes the sale or destruction of an article ;
and

“ Government Analyst ” includes any person appointed
to be or to act as Government Analyst or as Addi-
tional, Deputy, Senior Assistant or Assistant
Government Analyst. —
