PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST. REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
AIR FORCE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 82 OF 1988
[Certified on 20th December, 1988]
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part I of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988
Se ie aa omc a NG Kae =
Price : 30 cents. Postage : 75 cents.


ve Air Force (Amendment) Act, No. 82 of 1988
[Certified on 20th December, 1988]
L.D.—O. 39/87
Aw Act T0 AMEND THE Am Force Act
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Air Force (Amendment) Short title. *
Act, No. 82 of 1988.

2, Section 40 of the Air Force Act (hereinafter referred Amendment _
to as the “ principal enactment”) is hereby amended by the (A ection,
substitution for subsection (3) of that section, of the Chapter 359.
following subsection :—

“ (3) Where a non-commissioned officer other than a

corporal is charged with any offence set out in this Act,

his commanding officer shall, if the sentence on the con-

viction of the accused will involve forfeiture of pay or

will not consist only of a minor punishment which a

commanding officer is authorized to inflict by regulation

made in that behalf, ask the accused whether he desires

to be dealt with summarily or to be tried by a court

martial, and he shall, if the accused elects to be tried by

a court martial, take steps for the trial of the accused by

‘a court martial, or if the accused does not so elect, proceed

to deal with the accused summarily.”.

3. Section 43 of the principal enactment is hereby amendment
amended by the substitution for paragraph (a) of that 9f section

. a incipal
section of the following paragraph : Shectment.
“(@ (j) if the commanding officer is of the rank of
‘Wing Commander or of higher rank, order the
: acoused to be placed under detention, or imprison-
ment, for a period not exceeding ninety days, and
such order of imprisonment shall not take effect
‘until it is ratified by the Commander of the Air
Force 5
(ii) if the commanding officer is of a rank subordinate
to Wing Commander, order the accused to be placed
under detention for a period not exceeding twenty.
eight days; or”,


a el

Annual subscription of Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 177 (Local),

Rs. 236 (Foreign) payable to the SuPeRrwreNpENT, GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

‘BunrAv, Covomno 1, before 15th December each year in respect of the year
following.
