PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 17.50 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 01, 2006

[Certified on 29th August, 2006]

Printed on the Order of Government

NATIONAL INSURANCE TRUST FUNDACT, NO. 28 OF 2006

1National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

Short title.

[Certified on 29th August, 2006]

L. D.O. 33/2006

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FUND CALLED THENATIONAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Government has provided benefits andsafeguards to officers in the public service and provincialpublic service against unforeseeable risks related to health,personal accident and damage to properties inter alia througha contributory insurance scheme operated by commercialinsurance organizations and other funds established for suchpurpose :

AND WHEREAS the Government is also operating benefitschemes and insurance schemes for the benefit of the morevulnerable segments of society, including Samurdhibeneficiaries, farmers, fishermen and persons engaged in selfemployment :

AND WHEREAS the Government is desirous of streamliningsuch insurance and such other benefit schemes and to thatend the Government intends to set up a National InsuranceTrust Fund in order to be able to provide the aforesaid facilitiesin a more effective and co-ordinated manner whilst ensuringmaximum benefits to all persons eligible for benefits in termsof this Act :

NOW THEREFORE, BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the National Insurance TrustFund Act, No. 28 of 2006.

2.The provisions of this Act shall apply in relation to

(a)public officers;

Preamble.

Application ofthis Act.

2National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(b)persons retired from public office who are in receiptof a pension from the government;

(c)officers of the provincial public service;

(d)persons retired from the provincial public servicewho are in receipt of a pension from the respectiveProvincial Council ;

(e)members of local government service;

(f)persons retired from the local government servicewho are in receipt of a pension from the localgovernment service;

(g)persons receiving benefits under the SamurdhiAuthority Act, No. 30 of 1995;

(h)farmers, fishermen and persons engaged in selfemployment ;

(i)needy persons or group of persons as may from timeto time be identified by the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette subject to any limitationscontained herein; and

(j)any property of the government which may beidentified from time to time by the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

PART I

ESTABLISHEMENT OF NATIONAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND

3.There shall be established a Fund to be called theNational Insurance Trust Fund (hereinafter referred to asthe Fund) from which benefits shall be paid to persons towhom the provisions of this Act shall apply. There shall bepaid into the Fund such moneys as are specified in section 18.

Establishmentof theNationalInsuranceTrust Fund.

3National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

4.(1) There shall be established a body called the NationalInsurance Trust Fund Board (hereinafter referred to as theBoard) consisting of such persons as are specified in section 6.

(2) The Board shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate having perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in itscorporate name, and may perform such acts as bodiescorporate may by law perform.

5.(1) The Seal of the Board shall be in the custody ofsuch person as the Board may decide from time to time.

(2) The Seal of the Board may be altered in such manneras may be determined by the Board.

(3) The Seal of the Board shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except in the presence of theChairman of the Board, and one other member of the Board,both of whom shall sign the instrument or document in tokenof their presence :

Provided that where the Chairman is unable to be presentat the time when the Seal of the Board is affixed to anyinstrument or document, any other member authorized inwriting by the Chairman in that behalf, shall be competent tosign such instrument or document in accordance with thepreceding provisions of this subsection.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of every instrumentor document to which the Seal of the Board is affixed.

6.(1) The Board shall consist of the following memberswho shall be appointed by the Minister

(a)an officer of the Ministry of the Minister to whomthe subject of Finance is assigned;

(b)the Chief Accountant of the Ministry of the Ministerto whom the subject of Finance is assigned;

Seal of theBoard.

Establishment ofthe NationalInsurance TrustFund Board.

Members of theBoard.

4National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(c)an officer of the Ministry of the Minister to whomthe subject of Health is assigned;

(d)an officer from the Ministry of the Minister to whomthe subject of Public Administration is assigned;and

(e)three persons to be nominated by the Minister fromamong persons possessing qualifications or expertisein the fields of finance, banking, insurance,management or law.

(2) The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by theMinister.

7.(1) Every nominated member shall hold office for aperiod of five years from the date of appointment, unless heearlier vacates office by death resignation or removal.

(2) An nominated member may resign from his office bywritten communication addressed to the Minister in thatregard.

(3) The Minister may by written communicationaddressed to any nominated member, remove such memberfrom office for reasons assigned.

(4) A nominated member to whom a communication isaddressed under subsection (3), shall cease to hold officewith effect from such date as may be specified in suchcommunication.

(5) A nominated member who has been removed fromoffice shall not be eligible for re-appointment as a member ofthe Board or to serve the Board in any other capacity.

(6) Upon any nominated member ceasing to hold office,the Minister may appoint any other person to fill suchvacancy and such person shall hold office for the un-expiredperiod of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

Terms of officeof nominatedmembers.

5National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(7) Where any member is temporarily unable to performthe duties of his office on account of ill health, absence fromSri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint anyperson to act in place of such member.

8.A person shall be disqualified from being appointed,or from continuing, as a member if he

(a)is a Member of Parliament, a member of a ProvincialCouncil or a member of a local Authority; or

(b)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any othercountry found or declared to be of unsound mind;or

(c)is a person who, having been declared an insolventor a bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or in anyother country, or is an undischarged insolvent orbankrupt; or

(d)is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by any Court in Sri Lanka or abroad.

9.No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid byreason only of any vacancy among its members or any defectin the appointment of any of its members.

10.The members of the Board may be remunerated insuch manner and shall carry out their functions subject tosuch terms and conditions as may from time to time bedetermined by the Board with the concurrence of the Ministerto whom the subject of Finance has been assigned.

11.(1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, theBoard may regulate its procedure in regard to the meetings ofthe Board and the transaction of business at such meetings.

Vacancy amongmembers not toinvalidate actsand proceedingsof the Board.

Disqualificationfor beingappointed as amember.

Remunerationand terms andconditions ofservice ofmembers.

Meeting andquorum atmeetings of theBoard.

6National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(2) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be threemembers.

12.The objectives of the Board shall be

(a)to provide benefits and safeguards

(i)to public officers, provincial public serviceofficers and local government service officersand to persons retired from the public service,the provincial public service and the localgovernment service, and who are presently inreceipt of a pension from the government, theProvincial Council or the local governmentservice, as the case may be;

(ii)to Samurdhi beneficiaries and their families,in terms of the Samurdhi Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 30 of 1995 ;

(iii)to farmers, fishermen and persons engaged inself employment ;

(iv)to the needy persons or groups of personsidentified by the Minister from time to time onthe recommendation of the Board,

against unforseen helath risks, personal accident anddamage to property through a contributory insurancescheme to be operated by the Board. Different schemeswill be applicable in respect of the different categoriesof beneficiaries. The matters applicable in respect of thedifferent schemes shall be prescribed ;

(b)to promote beneficiary participation in shareacquisition through the acquisition of equityinterests in any incorporated company whoseprimary objective is to build dedicated wards for

The objectives ofthe Board.

7National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

the provision of better health facilities or whereavailable, to upgrade any wards presently providingsuch facilities ;

(c)to guarantee loans of persons entitled to benefitsand safeguards under this Act ;

(d)to provide guarantees in respect of any property orcategory or class of property, of the governmentwhich the Minister may from time to time identifyby Order published in the Gazette ; and

(e)to do all such other acts or things as may be necessaryfor, or conducive to, the attainment of the objectsabove.

13.In giving effect to the principles and provisions ofthis Act, the Board

(a)shall charge and receive all sums paid under thisAct as contributions by the Government, officers ofthe public service and provincial public service andpensioners of public service and provincial publicservice Samurdhi beneficiaries, farmers, fishermenand self-employees and other needy persons orgroups of persons, and any income from theinvestment of moneys of the Fund and shall causesuch sums to be credited to the Fund;

(b)shall have custody of the moneys of the Fund;

(c)shall pay to the persons entitled to benefits underthis Act, such amounts as are due in terms of anyprescribed schemes ;

(d)may invest such of the moneys of the Fund as arenot immediately required for the purposes of thisAct in Government Bonds or Government Securitiesor in shares of any company incorporated primarilyto build or upgrade dedicated wards for theprovision of facilities envisaged in terms hereof;

Powers andduties of theBoard.

8National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(e)shall maintain a general account in respect of theFund and separate individual accounts in respect ofeach member of the Fund;

(f)shall cause the books of accounts relating to theFund to be balanced as on the thirty-first day ofDecember in each year;

(g)shall cause to be prepared in respect of the Fund forevery financial year, a statement of receipts andpayments, a statement of income and expenditure, astatement of assets and liabilities and a statement ofinvestments showing the face value, purchase priceand market value of each of the investments;

(h)shall transmit to the Minister a copy of each of thestatements prepared under paragraph (g) in respectof each year before the thirtieth day of September ofthe succeeding year;

(i)shall deduct from the income received from theinvestment of moneys of the Fund in respect of eachyear, the expenses incurred in that year by the Boardin the implemention of the provisions of this Act;

(j)shall have such other powers and duties inconnection with the Fund, not inconsistent with thisAct as are necessary for the implementation of theabove.

14.Every person who is

(i)a public officer, provincial public service officeror a local government service officer ; and

(ii)a person drawing a pension from the government,a Provincial Council or the local governmentservice, as the case may be ; and

Contributions.

9National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(iii)a member of the Samurdhi Scheme, FarmersPensions Scheme, Fishermens Pension Scheme ora self-employed person,

and who are persons entitled to benefits under the provisionsof this Act, shall pay to the Fund a contribution, in such sumand at such times as may be specified by the Minister byOrder published in the Gazette.

15.The Board may utilize any money in the Fund forthe purpose of this Act

(a)by investing in shares of any company incorporatedprimarily to build or upgrade dedicated wards for theprovision of the facilites envisaged in this Act ; or

(b)in such government bonds or government securitiesas may be approved by the Board.

16.(1) The Auditor-General shall in accordance withthe provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution audit theaccounts of the Board each year.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theMinister may, with the concurrence of the Minister to whomthe subject of Finance has been assigned, and in consultationwith the Auditor-General, appoint a qualified auditor orauditors to audit the accounts of the Board. Where suchappointment has been made by the Minister, the Auditor-General may, in writing inform such auditor or auditors thathe proposes to utilize his or their services for the performanceand discharge of the Auditor-Generals duties and functionsin relation to the Board and thereupon such auditor or auditorsshall act under the direction and control of the Auditor-General.

(3) (a) The Auditor-General may, for the purpose ofassisting him in the audit of the accounts of the Board,employ the services of any qualified auditor or auditors whoshall act under his direction and control.

Audit ofaccounts of theBoard.

Investments.

10National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(b) If the Auditor-General is of opinion that it is necessaryto obtain assistance in the examination of any technical,professional or scientific problem relevent to the audit of theaccounts of the Board, he may engage the services of

(i)a person not being an employee of the Board ; or

(ii)any technical, professional or scientific institutionnot being an institution which has any interest inthe management of the affairs of the Board,

and such person or institution shall act under his directionand control.

(4) (a) The Auditor-General or any person authorized byhim shall, in the audit of the accounts of the Board, beentitled

(i)to have access to all books, records, returns andother documents of the Board ;

(ii)to have access to stores and other property of theBoard ; and

(iii)to be furnished by the Board or its officers withsuch information and explanations as may benecessary for the performance of the audit of theaccounts of the Board.

(b) Every qualified auditor appointed to audit the accountsof the Board or any person authorized by such auditor shallbe entitled to have like access, information and explanationsin relation to Board.

(5) Every qualified auditor appointed under the provisionsof subsection (2) shall submit his report to the Minister andalso submit a copy thereof to the Auditor-General.

11National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(6) For the purposes of this section, the expressionqualified auditor means

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute ; or

(b)a firm of accountants each of the resident partners ofwhich, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

(7) The Auditor-General shall forward his report to theBoard.

17.The Board shall annually prepare a report of thework of the Board and forward such report together with thereport of the Auditor-General, before the lapse of the yearsucceeding the year to which such reports relate, to theMinister who shall table such reports in Parliament.

18.(1) There shall be paid into the Fund

(a)such sums of money out of the Consolidated Fundas may be determined by resolution of Parliamentfor defraying

(i)all expenditure, including capitalexpenditure, incurred by the Board in carryingout the provisions of this Act during the periodof twelve months commencing on the date ofcoming into operation of this Act ; and

(ii)all capital expenditure incurred by the Boardin carrying out the provisions of this Actduring the period of twenty-four months

Annual report ofwork.

Payments into theFund.

12National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

commencing on the day immediatelysucceeding the date of the termination of theperiod referred to in paragraph (a) of thissubsection ;

(b)all monies lying to the credit of the Samurdhi SocialDevelopment Trust Fund created by Trust Deed No.1538 of October 19, 2005 ;

(c)all monies lying to the credit of the Strike, Riot andCivil Commotion and Terrorism Fund establishedin terms of the Cabinet Decision of November 18,1987, in Account No. 014-1-001-1-1194790 at thePeoples Bank, Union Place Account and No.0000001829 at the Bank of Ceylon, CorporateBranch ;

(d)all sums of money presently being deducted fromthe salary of public servants for the AgraharaInsurance Scheme established by PublicAdministration Circular No. 5/97 of January 31,1977 and deposited by the Insurance Corporationof Sri Lanka in the Deputy Secretarys Account titledGovernment Employees Insurance Account 4225at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka ;

(e)the contributions received in terms of section 14and section 20 of the Act, from every-

(i)public officer, provincial public service officerand local government service officer ; and

(ii)person drawing a pension from thegovernment, a Provincial Council or the localgovernment service, as the case may be ; and

(iii)every member of the Samurdhi Scheme, theFarmers Pensions and social security benefitsScheme, the Fishermens Pension Scheme andevery self-employed person ;

13National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(2) Every sum paid out of the Consolidated Fund underparagraph (a) of subsection (1) shall constitute a loan fromthe Government to the Board and shall be repaid in accordancewith such terms and conditions as may from time to time bedetermined by the Minister.

19.There shall be paid out of the Fund

(a)all moneys required for settlement of expenses inrespect of persons entitled to benefits under thisAct, being treated at dedicated wards of hospitals ;

(b)all expenses incurred for treatment of critical illnessand treatment at a hospital where such treatment isavailabe, to persons entitled to benefits under thisAct, in accordance with such rates as shall beprescribed ;

(c)all expenses in cases of death due to accidentoccurring in connection with the occupation of theperson entitled to benefits under this Act, providedthat the death occurs before the age of retirement, inaccordance with such rates as shall be prescribed :

Provided that, in the case of death occurring afterthe date of retirement, no payment of any benefitshall be made to the dependants.

20.All persons to whom the Act applies and who areentitled to receive benefits in terms of this Act, shall be liableto pay in respect of the benefits they will receive in terms ofthis Act, a monthly contribution in such amount as may bespecified by the Minister by Order published in the Gazettewhich contribution shall be credited to the fund, Suchcontribution shall be deductible from the salary, pension,Samurdhi benefit or other benefit, as the case may be, whichsuch eligible person receives from the government or theProvincial Council or other source, respectively.

Payments out ofthe Fund.

Collection ofcontributionsfrom persons towhom the Actapplies.

14National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

PART II

STAFF OF THE BOARD

21.(1) The Board may appoint such other officers andservants as it considers necessary for the efficient dischargeof its functions.

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection(1) shall be remunerated in such manner and at such rates andshall be subject to such conditions of service as may bedetermined by the Board.

(3) At the request of the Board, any officer in the publicservice may, with the consent of that officer and the Secretaryto the Ministry of the minister to whom the subject of PublicAdministration has been assigned, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Board for such period as may be determinedby the Board, or with like consent be permanently appointedto such staff.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

(6) Where the Board employs any person who has agreedto serve the Government for a specified period, any period ofservice to the Board by that person shall be regarded as serviceto the Government for the purpose of discharging theobligations of such agreement.

Appointmentof officersand servants.

15National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(7) At the request of the Board any member of the LocalGovernment Service or any other officer or servant of a localauthority, may, with the consent of such member, officer orservant and the Local Government Service Advisory Board,or the local authority, as the case may be, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Board for such period as may bedetermined by the Board or with like consent be permanentlyappointed to such staff on such terms and conditionsincluding those relating to pension or provident fund rightsas may be agreed upon by the Board and the LocalGovernment Service Board or that local authority as the casemay be.

(8) At the request of the Board any officer or servant of apublic corporation may, with the consent of such officer orservant, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Board forsuch period as may be determined by the Board, or with likeconsent, be permanently appointed to such staff on such termsand conditions including those relating to pension andprovident fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Boardand the said public corporation.

(9) Where any person is temporarily appointed to the staffof the Board in pursuance of subsection (7) or subsection (8),such person shall be subject to the same disciplinary controlas any other member of such staff.

PART III

MISCELLANEOUS

22.The Board or any officer authorized by the Boardmay direct an employer to furnish to the Board or such officerbefore a date specified in the direction,-

(a)a return containing such particulars in respect of allor any of the employees of that employer as may bespecified in the direction;

Board or officerauthorized by itto issuedirections toemployer.

16National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(b)such information or explanation in respect of anyparticulars stated in any return furnished by thatemployer as may be specified in the direction; and

(c)a true copy of any register required by this Act to bekept by that employer or any part of such register.

23.Any member of the Board or any officer authorizedin that behalf by the Board in writing, for the purposes of thisAct may-

(a)enter and inspect at all reasonable hours by day orby night, any premises or place, for examining anyregister or record relating to the earnings of anyemployee ;

(b)take copies of any such register or record or partthereof ;

(c)examine any person whom he has reasonable causeto believe is an employer or any employee ; and

(d)examine any records or other documents relating tocontributions to any provident fund.

24.Every person who

(a)contravenes or fails to comply with any of theprovisions of this Act or any regulations madethereunder ; or

(b)makes default in complying with any direction ororder made or given under this Act ; or

(c)knowingly furnishes or causes to be furnished anyfalse return, or information required to be furnishedunder this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction before aMagistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousandrupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Offences andpenalties.

Powers ofmembers ofthe board orauthorizedofficer toinspectpremises &c.

17National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

25.Where any offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then-

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector and officer of that body corporate ; or

(b)if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of thatfirm ; or

(c)if that body of persons is a trade union, every officerof that trade union ; or

(d)if that body of persons is an unincorporated body,the President, Manager, Secretary and every otherofficer of that unincorporated body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence :

Provided that no such person shall be deemed to be guiltyof such offence if he proves that such offence was committedwithout his knowledge or that he exercised due diligence toprevent the commission of such offence.

26.No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall beinstituted except by or with the written sanction of the Board.

27.No prosecution instituted under this Act against anyperson for any offence under this Act shall be a bar to anycivil action brought against such person in respect of anymatter arising out of this Act.

28.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are stated or required by this Act to beprescribed or in respect of all matters for which regulationsare required or authorized to be made by this Act.

Liability ofcertain personsin respect ofoffencescommitted bybodies corporateorunincorporated.

No prosecutionfor an offence tobe institutedwithout thesanction of theBoard.

Prosecutionunder this Act nobar to a civilaction.

Regulations.

18National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers undersubsection (1), the Minister may make regulations in respectof all or any of the following :

(a)matters connected with or incidental to theprocedure to be followed in the collection ofcontributions and other payments under this Act ;

(b)specifying the criteria to be adhered to indetermining the different categories of persons whowill be beneficiaries under this Act ;

(c)specifying the different types of schemes applicableto the different categories of persons entitled tobenefits under this Act and the different rates payableto such persons as benefits in terms of this Act ;

(d)specifying the forms and other documents whichmay be required for the purpose of administrationof the Fund ;

(e)specifying the manner of making a refund of anysum paid in error to or by the Fund ;

(f)making provision setting out the manner whereby aperson can be appointed to exercise, on behalf of aclaimant to any benefit under this Act who is a childor who may be unable for the time being to so act,any right which the claimant may be entitled toexercise under this Act, and for authorizing a personso appointed to receive and deal with such benefitto which a claimant is entitled ;

(g)the manner of giving notice for the suspension ofthe grant of any benefit under this Act pending thereview by the Court of Appeal, of the determinationupon the claim to such benefit or any appeal underthis Act ;

19National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

(h)setting out guidelines for treating any sum originallypaid to any person under a determination made underthis Act or by virtue of the provisions of anyregulation, in circumstances

(i)where it is subsequently decided that suchsum was not payable, as having been properlypaid; and

(ii)where it is subsequently decided that suchsum has been improperly paid,

for the recovery of the aforesaid sum from such personor fund as the case may be;

(i)specifying the allowances to be paid to officers andservants employed in carrying out the provisions ofthis Act and the method of computing suchallowances.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minster undersubsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation upon such publication or on such laterdate as may be specified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall as soon as convenient after its publicationin the Gazette, be brought before Parliament for approval.Any regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed tobe rescinded from the date of such disapproval but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notice of the date on which a regulation is so rescindedshall be published in the Gazette.

29.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

20National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

30.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

dedicated wards mean wards identified or establishedin specified hospitals for the purpose of providinghealth care and nursing to persons entitled toreceive benefits under this Act.

farmer means a farmer who has joined the benefitscheme in terms of the Farmers Pension and SocialSecurity Benefits Scheme Act, No. 12 of 1987 ;

fisherman means a person who is engaged in fishingas a livelihood ;

local government service member means an personwho is or who is deemed to be a member of thelocal governments service constituted under theLocal Goverment Service Act, No. 16 of 1974 ;

local government service pensioner means a personretired from the local government service and whois in receipt of a pension in respect of such service ;

provincial public service officer means a personemployed in the provincial public service of aProvince in terms of the Provincial Councils Act,No. 42 of 1987 ;

provincial public service pensioner means a personretired from the service of the provincial publicservice and who is in receipt of a pension from aProvincial Council ;

public officer means a public officer who is in serviceand is under sixty years of age ;

public service pensioner means a public officer whohas retired from service and is in receipt of apension from the government;

Interpretation.

21National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

Samurdhi beneficiary means a person entitled toreceive benefits in terms of the Samurdhi Authorityof Sri Lanka Act, No. 30 of 1995 and includes thefamily of such beneficary ; and

self employed person means a person who is engagedin carrying out a livelihood by himself.

22National Insurance Trust FundAct, No. 28 of 2006

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.