PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

REGULATION OF FERTILIZER

ACT, No. 68 OF 1988

| [Certified on 17th December, 1988

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

. TO BE PURCHASED. AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : Re. 1.20 Postage : 75 cents


Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988
[Certified on 17th December, 1968]

L.D..—O. 31/86.
An Act TO REGULATE THE IMPORTATION, MANUFACTURE,

FORMULATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF FERTILIZER AND TO °

PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO |
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Regulation of Fertilizer
Act, No. 68 of 1988, and shall come into operation on such
date (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”) as
the Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.

2. (3) No person shall, after the expiration of three
months from the appointed date, import, manufacture or
formulate fertilizer except under the authority and other-
wise than in accordance with the terms and conditions of a
licence issued under this Act by the Director of the National
- Fertilizer Secretariat (hereinafter referred to as the
“ Director ”).

(2) Every licence issued under this Act shall be subject
to the respective terms and concious set out in the
Schedule to this Act.

3. (1) There shall be a Fertilizer Advisory Committee
appointed by the Minister.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Fertilizer Advisory
Committee to advise the Director on such matters relating
to the administration of the Act as may from time to time
be referred to it by the Secretary to the Minisiey of the
Minister.

4. There may be appointed by name or by office such
number of officers and servants as may be deemed necessary
in the administration of this Act.

. (1) The Director may delegate to any , officer or sex~
vant appuinted under section 4 any of his powers under
this Act.

(2) The officer or servant to whom any of the powers of
the Director have been delegated under subsection (1)
shall exercise such powers so delegated subject to the
_ general or special directions of the Director.

6. (1) Every application for a licence to import, manu-
facture or formulate fertilizer shall be made to the Director
in the prescribed form and be accompanied by the prescribed
fee.

Short title
and date of
operation.

Importation,
manufacture
and formula-
tion of
fertilizer

to be
licensed.

Fertilizer
Advisory
Committee.

Appointment
of officers
and servants.

Delegation
of powers
of the
Director.

Application
for licence.


Form and
duration of
licence.

Renewal of
licence.

Cancellation
of licence.

Director shall

* communicate

his decision
to applicant
or licensee
together
with his
reasons
therefor.

2 Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988

(2) On receipt of an application under subsection (1),
the Director shall either grant a licence or for reasons to be
recorded by him refuse to grant such applicant a licence.

7. Every licence issued urider this Act shall—
(a) be in the prescribed form ; and

(b) unless it is cancelled earlier, be in force for a period
of twelve months from the date of its issue.

 §. A licence may be renewed by the Director for a period

-or periods not exceeding one year at a time on application

made to the Director not less than thirty days before the
expiry of the licence, if—

(a) the Director is satisfied that the licensee has
observed the provisions of this Act and any regu-
lations made thereunder and has not been convicted
of any offence under this Act or any. regulations
made thereunder ; and

(b) the licensee pays the prescribed fee for the renewal
of the licence.
9. (1) The Director may cancel a licence issued under
this Act, if he is satisfied that the licensee—

(i) has contravened any of the provisions of this Act or
of any regulations made thereunder or of any
_ conditions or terms attached to such licence ; or

(ii) has been convicted of an offence under this Act.

(2) The cancellation of a licence under subsection (1)
shall not take effect until the time for appealing against the
decision of the Director has expired or if an appeal has been

made within time, unless and until the appeal is
disallowed.

10. (1) Where the Director decides to refuse the grant

_ or the renewal of a licence or to cancel a licence, the Director

shall communicate to the applicant or the licensee, as the
case may be, his decision with the reasons therefor, by
registered post.

(2) Any decision required to be communicated under the
rreceding provisions of this section to any applicant or
licensee shall be deemed to have been communicated to
him after the expiry of a period of two days reckoned from


Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988 3

the date of despatch of such communication by registered
post to the usual place of business or residence of such
applicant or licensee.

11. (1) The applicant or licensee, as the case may be,
who is aggrieved by a_ decision of the Director under
section 10—

, (a) refusing the grant or renewal of a Jicence; or

(b) cancelling his licence,

may appeal against the decision to the Secretary to the

Ministry of the Minister within thirty days of.the date on
which the decision is communicated to him.

(2) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister may
on an appeal under subsection (1)—

(a) allow the appeal and direct the Director to grant or
renew a licence; or

(b) disallow the appeal.

(3) The Director shall comply with any direction issued
to him under subsection (2) by the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister.

(4) Where an application for a licence or the renewal of
a licence is refused under any of the preceding provisions
of this Act, the Director shall refund to the applicant or the
licensee, as the case may be, the fee accompanying such
application. .

12. (1) The Director shall have the power—

(a) at any reasonable time, to enter any place where he
‘believes fertilizers are manufactured, formulated,
stored or distributed and inspect any equipment,
storage facilities, raw-materials and finished
products found therein ;

(b) to stop and board any vehicle and to make such
investigations thereon as may be necessary to
ascertain whether the provisions of this Act are
being SompMee with ;

(c) on his own motion or on receipt of any complaint or
request in writing by any person, to take samples

for anlaysis from any variety of fertilizer found in ~

Appeals,

Powers of
the Director.


Distribu-
tion of

fertilizer.

4 Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988

any place of manufacture, formulation, storage or
distribution or on board any vehicle and cause
such samples to be analysed in the prescribed
manner at a laboratory approved by the Director,
by an officer authorized in writing by the Director,
for analysis of fertilizer for the purposes of this
Act ;

@ to seize and detain any adulterated fertilizer found
in contravention of the provisions of section 15 (1) ;
and

(e) to require any importer, manufacturer, formulator or
distributor of fertillizer by notice in writing, to
furnish him, within such period as shall be specified,
in such notice, with all such information as may be
necessary for the aeenarES of his functions under
this Act.

(2) For the purpose of —," (c) of subsection (1)
the method of taking samples for analysis would be the
method for sampling fertilizer given in Sri Lanka Standard
559 of 1982, UDC 631.8: 620.113 and determined by the Sri
Lanka Standards Institution established by the Sri Lanka.
Standards Institution Act, No. 6 of 1984.

(3) It shall be the duty of any person who is required to
furnish any information by a notice under paragraph (e)
of subsection (1) to comply with such requirement within .
such ‘time as shall be specified in the notice, except where
such person is precluded from divulging such information
under the provisions of dny other law.

13. No.person shall distribute or offer for distribution
any fertilizer or fertilizer mixture—

(a) except in or from such package or container as
would—

(i) withstand reasonable handling without tearing,
bursting or falling apart ;

ii) prevent physical deterioration of the contents
of such package or container ;
(b) unless such package or container shall have affixed
' to it or printed on it a label containing the following
particulars : i—

(i) brand name and/or name of ermmutuclier or
formulator ;


Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No, 68 of 1988 5

(ii) the net weight of the contents of such package
or container ;

(iii) such information regarding the component
elements and the nutrient percentages in
such fertilizer ;

(c) unless the contents conform with the information
given on the label affixed to the package or con-
tainer ;

(d) unless he is aware of the address of the manufac-
turer or formulator and is in a position to make
available such information to officers authorized
by the Director in writing in that behalf;

(e) unless he indicates the type and price of such fertili-
zer on the label affixed to the package or container ;
and ,

(f) unless the fertilizer is in good physical condition.

14. (1) No distributor of fertilizer who has in his posses-
sion any fertilizer shall refuse to distribute such fertilizer.

(2) In any prosecution for an offence under subsection
(1), it shall be a sufficient defence for the accused to prove->

(a) that on the occasion in question he -supplied 4
reasonable quantity of. the fertilizer or had not
sufficient quantity of {fertilizer in his possessi:=. to
supply the quantity demanded ; or .

(b) that the distribution of the fertilizer on the occasion
in question would have been contrary to the pro-
. visions of this Act or any other law.

(3) In determining for the purpose of paragraph (a) of
subsection (2), what a sufficient quantity is, regard shall
be had to the quantity of such fertilizer required for the
use of the agricultural undertaking of the distributor or
members of his household.

15. (1) (a) No distributor of fertilizer shall, distribute
or offer for distribution any fertilizer which is adulterated.

| (b) No transporter shall with his connivance or
knowledge transport adulterated fertilizer.

Refusal to
distribute
fertilizer,

' Prohibition:

of distribu-
tion of
adulterated
fertilizer,


Seizure and
detention of
adulterated
fertilizer.

Analysis.

6 Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988

(2) For the purpose of this section, fertilizer shall be
deemed to be adulterated-—

(a) if it contains any deleterious ingredients in sufh-
cient amounts harmful to any crop for which it is
intended to be applied ; or

(b) if its composition falls below or differs from that
which it is purported to possess by the label affixed
to the package or container containing the fertilizer.

(3) In a prosecution for an offence under this section a
certificate issued under the hand of an officer authorized

_by the Director in writing to analyse fertilizer for the pur-

pose of this Act, stating the ingredients or the composition
of the fertilizer in relation to which the offence is alleged
to have been committed, shall be prima facie proof of the

statements made therein.

16. (1) Any officer or servant to whom the Director’ has
delegated his powers under section 5 may seize and detain
for such time as may be necessary any adulterated
fertilizer by means of or in relation to which he
believes the Paeiasns of section 15 (1) have been
contravened.

' (2) Any fertilizer peéized under subsection (1) may at
the option of such officer or servant be kept or stored in
the building or place where it was seized or may at his
discretion be removed to any other place.

(3) Any such officer or servant shall forthwith inform
the Director of any seizure made under this Act.

17. (1) The officer or servant who seized the fertilizer
under section 16 shall submit the fertilizer so seized by ©
him or any portion thereof or any sample taken by him to
an Approved Analyst for analysis or examination...

(2) Where an Approved Analyst has made an analysis
ur examination of the fertilizer submitted to him under
subsection (1), he shall issue a certificate or report to
the Director setting out in such certificate or report the
results of his analysis or examination.

(3) For the purposes of this section the Approved
Analyst shall be an officer authorized by the Director in
writing to carry out the analysis or examination referred to
fn subsection (1).


Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988 7

18. No person other than an importer, manufacturer,
formulator or distributor of fertilizer shall have in his
possession any quantity of fertilizer in excess of the
requirements of such person for application for one year
on lands owned or cultivated by him or on his behalf..

_ 19. Every person engaged in the formulation of fertilizer
shall obtain the approval of the Director in writing for
the composition of such mixture,

20. In‘the analysis of fertilizer under this Act, the
standards to be applied shall be the standards determined
by the Sri Lanka Standards Institution established by the
Sri Lanka Standards Institution Act, No. 6 of 1984 and in
the absence of such standards the corresponding standards
adopted in the United Kingdom shall apply.

21. Any person—
(a) who imports, manufactures or’ formulates any

fertilizer in contravention of the provisions of
section 2; - ;

(b) who hinders or obstructs the Director in the exercise

of his powers under paragraphs (a}, (b), (c) and
(d) of subsection (1) of section 12;

(c) who furnishes when required to do so under para-
graph (e) of subsection (1) of section 12, any
information, knowing such information to be
false ; ,

(d) who fails, without reasonable cause, to comply with
the provisions of subsection (3) of section 12;

(e) who distributes or offers for distribution any
fertilizer in contravention of the provisions of
section: 13 ; .

(f) who being a distributor of fertilizer refuses to distri-
bute any fertilizer in his possession in contraven-
tion of the provisions of section 14; —

(g) who distributes or offers for distribution any
fertilizer which is adulterated in contravention of
the provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection (1)

- of section 15;

Prohibition on
possession of
fertilizer in
excess of
requirements
by persons
other than
importers,
manufac-~
turers
formulators

or
distributors.

Formulation
of fertilizer.

Standards
to be
applied in
the analysis
of fertilizer.

Offences.


Penalties,

’ Power of
court to
order
forfeiture.

Disposal of
for‘eited
fertilizer,

8 Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988

(h) who transports fertilizer which is adulterated in
contravention of the provisions of paragraph (b)
of subsection (1) of section 15 ;

(i) who hinders or obstructs any officer or servant in the
exercise of his powers under section 16;

(j) who not being an importer, manufacturer, formula-
tor or distributor of fertilizer has in his possession
any quantity of fertilizer in excess of his require-
ments in contravention of the provisions of
section 18 ;

(k) who formulates any fertilizer without dbtsining the
approval referred to in section 19; or

(l) who fails to comply with any regulation made under
this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

22. Every person guilty of an offence under this Act
shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magis-
trate be liable to a fine of not less than two thousand five
hundred rupees and not more than five thousand rupees .
or to imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding six months ; ard in the case of a second or sub-
sequent offence be liable to a fine of not less than five
thousand rupees and not more than ten thousarid rupees or
to imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding twelve months.

23. The court which convicts any person of an offence
under paragraph (g) or paragraph (h) of section 21 may,
in addition to any punishment that may be imposed under
section 22, order the forfeiture of the adulterated fertilizer
in respect of which the offence was committed.

24. (1) Any adulterated fertilizer forfeited under section

' 28 shall upon forfeiture vest absolutely in the State. Such

vesting shall take effect—

(a) after the expiration of the period within which an
appeal may be preferred to the Court of Appeal
against the order of forfeiture; or _

(b) where an appeal has been preferred to the Court
of Appeal against the order of forfeiture upon
the determination of such appeal, cenfirming or
upholding the order. of forfeiture.


Ail |

ou!

Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988 9

(2) The Director shall take possession of any adultera-

ted fertilizer vested in the State under subsection (1) and
may dispose of such fertilizer as he may think fit.

25. A prosecution for an offence under this Act or any
regulations made thereunder shall not be instituted except
by or with the written sanction of the Director.

26: Where any offence under this Act or any regulations
made thereunder is committed by a body of persons then—

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
person who at the time of commission of the offence
was a Director or officer of that body corporate ; or

(b) if that body of persons is a body other than a body
corporate, every person who at the time of com-
mission of the offence was a member of that body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence :

Provided however that, such Director, officer or member
shall not be deemed to be guilty of that offence if he proves
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or
that he exercised all such diligence to prevent the commis-

sion of such offence as he ought to have exercised in the .

circumstances having regard, to the nature of his functions.

27. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall
be instituted against any person for any act which is done
or purported to be done by him in good faith under this
Act or any regulations made hereunder.

28. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in res-
pect of which regulations are required or authorized to be
made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by thie Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of publication or on such later date as may be

specified therein. <

- (3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall as
soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
brought before Parliament for approval. Every regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of disapproval but without pr snake to any-
thing previously done thereunder.

Institution of
proceedings.

Offences

committed
by a body
of persons:

Protection
for action
taken in

good faith.

Regulations.

co


Interpreta-
tion.

storage space.

10 Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988

(4) The date on which any -regulation shall be deemed
to be su rescinded shall be published in the Gazette,

29. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires-—

“distribute” includes sell and its grammatical varia-
tions and cognate expressions shall be construed
accordingly ; a

“ fertilizer” means any substance containing one or more

recognized plant nutrients which is used for _ its
plant nutrient and which is designed for use, or
claimed to have value, in promoting plant growth
but does not include unmanipulated animal and
vegetable manures ;

“formulate” in relation to fertilizer means any blending
or mixing of different ingredients of fertilizers ;
and .

“formulator” means any person engaged in formulating
- fertilizer.

SCHEDULE [Section 2(2)]

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LICENCE FOR THE IMPORTATION
OF FERTILIZER

1. The licence shall not be transferable to any other person
and shall not be used for the benefit of any person other than
the person to whom it was issued,

2. Every Jicensee shall exhibit the licence issued to him under
this Act in a conspicuous position in his place of business.
3. The licensee shall furnish proof of sufficient warehousing and

4. The licensee shall not, without the prior approval of the
Director, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any interest in the
business covered by the licence, or enter into any ageement with
regard to that business with any other person whereby such other
person acquires a proprietary interest in such business.

5. In the event of loss of licence, a certified copy thereof shall
be issued by the Director on submission of an affidavit by the
licensee, attested by a Justice of the Peace, confirming the loss and
on payment of half the prescribed licence fee.

f. Every licensee who ceases to carry on business for which
the licence has been issued or who changes his place of business
shall forthwith notify the Director of that fact. .

7. The licence issued to an individual shall lapse on the death
of the licensee.


Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988 11

8. The licence issued to a hody corporate shall lapse on the
dissolution of that body.

9. All notices relating to this licence shall be deemed to have
been duly served on the licensee if such notices are sent by post
or are delivered to the person for the time being in charge of the
place of business or are affixed to the door or the gate thereof.

10. The licence shall be liable for cancellation if information

given in the application for licence is found to be false or in-
correct,

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LICENCE FOR THE MANUFACTURE
OF FERTILIZER

1, The licence shall not be transferable to any other person and
shail not be used for the benefit of any person other than the
person to whom it was issued.

2. Every licensee shall exhibit the licence issued to him under
this Act, in a conspicuous position in his place of business.

3. The licensee shall not, without the prior approval of the
Director, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any interest in the
business covered by this licence, or enter into any agreement.
with regard to thet business with any other person whereby such
other person acquires a proprietary interest in such business.

4. In the event of Icss of licence, a certified copy thereof shall
be issued by the Director on submission of an affidavit by the
licensee, attested by a Justice of the Peace, confirming the loss
and on payment of half the prescribed licence fee.

5. Every licensee whe ceases to carry on business for which the
licence has been isstied or who changes his place of business.
shall forthwith notify the Director of that fact.

6. A licence issused to an individual shall lapse on the death of
the licensee. . - :

7, A licence issued to a body corporate shall lapse on the
dissolution of that body.

8. Details of the premises on which fertilizer is to be manufac-
tured shall be furnished by the licensee.

9. The licensee shall carry out manufacturing activities only at
the premises mentioned in the licence.

10. All notices relating to this licence shall be deemed to have
been duly served on the licensee if such notices are sent by post .
or are delivered to the pe1son for the time being in charge of the
place of business or are affixed tc the door or the gate thereof.

11. The licence shall be liable for cancellation if information
given in the application for licence is found to be false om
incorrect.


12 Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988

QERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LICENCE FOR THE FORMULATION
OF FERTILIZER ;

1. The licence shall not be transferable to any other person and
shall not be used for the Lenefit of any person other than the
person to whom it was issued.

2. Every licensee shall exhibit the licence issued to him under
this Act, in a conspicuous pesition in his place of business.

3. The licensee shall not, without the prior approval of the
Director, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any interest in the
business covered by this licence, or enter into any agreement
with regard to that business with any other. person whereby such
other person acquires a proprietary interest in such business,

4, In the event cf loss of licence, a certified copy thereof shall
be issued by the Directur on submission of an affidavit by the
jicensee, altested by a Justice of the Peace, confirming the loss
and on payment of half the prescribed licence fee.

5. Every licensee who ceases to carry on business for which the
licence has been issued or who changes his place of business
shall forthwith notify the Director of that fact.

6. A licence issued to an individual shall lapse on the death of
the licensee.

7. A licence issued to a body corporate shall lapse on the
dissolution of that body.

' 8. Details of the premises on which center’ is to be formulated
shall be furnished by the licensee.

. The licensee shall carry out formulation of fertilizer only at
the premises mentioned in the licence.

10, All notices relating to this licence shall be deemed to have
been duly served on the licensee if such notices are sent by post
or are delivered to the person for the time being in charge of the
place of business or are affixed to the door or the gate thereof.

11. The licence shall be liable for canceliation if information
given in the application for licence is found to be false or
incorrect,
