‘PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

3rd Session 1958-59

Tourist Development Board Act,
No. 9 of 1959

Date of Assent : April 3, 1959

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoverNMENT Press, CryLoN.: To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SuPpeRINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post OrriceE Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price : 30 cents. - Postage: 10 cents.


Tourist Development Board Act,
No. 9 of 1959.

L. D.—O. 31/57.

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
BOARD TO ENCOURAGE, PROMOTE AND DEVELOP TOURIST
TRAVEL TO AND IN CEYLON AND FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH. '

[Date of Assent: April 3, 1959!

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows :— _ -

1. This Act may be cited as the Tourist Develop-
ment Board Act, No. 9 of 1959, and shall come into
Operation on such date (hereafter in this Act referred
to as the appointed date) as the Minister may appoint
by Order published in the Gazette.

2. (1) There shall be established a Board which
shall be called the Tourist Development Board, here-
after in this Act referred to as the Board.

(2) The Board shall consist of ten members
appointed by the Minister.

(3) A person shall not be qualified for appointment
or for continuing as a member of the Board—

(a) if he is a Senator or a Member of Parliament,
or

(6) if he has, directly or indirectly, any interest
in a subsisting contract with the Board
except as a shareholder (other than a
director) in an incorporated company con-
sisting of more than twenty-five members.

(4) The Minister shall appoint one of the members
of the Board to be the Chairman of the Board.

(5) A member of the Board may resign the office of
such member by letter addressed to the Minister.

(6) The Chairman -of the Board may resign the
office of such Chairman by letter addressed to the
_ Minister: | ge es :

(7) The Minister may, without stating any reason,
terminate, by Order published in the Gazette, the
appointment of any member of the Board or the
appointment of the Chairman of the Board.

J. N. R 24838-2,854 (6/68)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Establishment
of the Tourist
Development
Board.


Disclosure by
a member of
the Board of
his share in a
company which
has entered
into a contract

with the Board.

Remuneration
of members of
the Board.

Vacancy in, or
defect in
appointment of
a member of,
the Board not
to invalidate
any act of
the Board.

Purposes of
the Board.

4 Tourist Development Board Act,
No. 9 of 1959.

(8) If the Chairman or any member of the Board is
temporarily unable to discharge the duties of his office
on account of ill-health or absence from Ceylon or for
any other cause, the Minister may appoint some other
member to act in the place of aah Chairman or
member. |

(9) Every member of the Board shall, unless he
earlier vacates office, hold office for a period of five
years. Any such member who vacates office by
effluxion of time shall be eligible for re-appointment.

3. Where a member of the Board is a shareholder
in any such incorporated company referred to in sub-
section (3) (b) of section 2 as has entered into any
contract with the Board, he shall disclose to the Minis-
ter the nature and the extent of the shares held by him

in such company.

_ 4, The members of the Board shall be remunerated
in such manner and at such rates as may be determined
by rules made under this Act.

5. No act or proceeding of the Board shall be in-
valid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy
among its members or any defect in the appointment of
a member thereof.

6. (1) The purposes of the Board shall be—

(a) to encourage, promote and develop tourist
travel to and in Ceylon;

(b) to provide, extend or improve, or assist finan-
cially by way of loan or otherwise the pro-
vision, extension or improvement of,
accommodation for tourists;

(c) to provide or improve, or assist financially by
way of loan or otherwise the provision or
improvement of, amenities, sports, amuse-
ments or other attractions which the Board
considers necessary for the promotion of
tourist travel to and in Ceylon;

(d) to engage, and to co-operate with tourist,
‘travel and other agencies, in the display
and distribution of exhibits and graphic
materials designed to call attention to the
attractions and places of interest in Ceylon,


Tourist Development Board. Act, — 5
No. 9 of 1959.

and in the collection, publication and dis-
semination of information with respect to
places of interest, routes, transportation
facilities, accommodations and such other
matters as the Board deems necessary for
the purpose of encouraging, promoting or
developing tourist travel to and in Ceylon;

(e) to train, or assist financially by way of loan
or otherwise the training of, persons to do
work which is wholly or mainly connected
with tourist travel to and in Ceylon; and

(f) to adopt such other measures as the Board con-
siders advantageous for the purpose of
encouraging, promoting or developing
tourist travel to and in Ceylon.

(2) The Board may subject to such conditions or
restrictions as may be prescribed by regulations made
under this Act—

(a) grant a loan to any local authority or to any
Board or Corporation or Government
Institution for the purpose of assisting
such authority, Board, Corporation or
Institution in the development of any of
the objects referred to in sub-section (1),
and

(b) make a grant of money to such authority,
Board, Corporation or Institution for the
furtherance of any or all of the objects
referred to in sub-section (1).

7. The Board shall in the name assigned to it by
sub-section (1) of section 2 be a body corporate and shall
have perpetual succession and a common seal and may
sue and be sued in such name.

8. (1) The seal of the Board shall be in the custody
of such person as the Board may from time to time
determine.

(2) The seal of the Board may be altered in such
_Manner as may be determined by the Board.

~ (8) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any
document except by the authority of the Board and in
the presence of two members of the Board who shall
sign the document in token of their presence.

The Board to
be a body
corporate.

Seal of the
Board.


Powers and
funds of
the Board.

Appointment
of officers
and servants.

6 Tourist Development Board Act,
No. 9 of 1959.

9. (1) The Board may acquire, hold, take or give
on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge and sell or otherwise
dispose of any movable or immovable property :

Provided that no immovable property of the Board
shall be sold without the approval of the Minister.

(2) The Board may, with the approval of the Minis-
ter given with the concurrence of the Minister of
Finance, raise such loans as may be required for any
of the purposes of the Board.

(3) The Board may do all such other things as are
conducive to the attainment of its purposes.

(4) Such sums as may from time to time be granted
for the purposes of the Board by Parliament or by
resolution of the House of Representatives shall form
part of the funds of the Board.

(5) The Board may utilise its funds for defraying
all expenditure incurred in the exercise of its powers
and the discharge of its functions under this Act.

40. (1) The Board may appoint such officers and
servants as the Board considers necessary for the per-
formance of the work of the Board:

Provided that a person who is not a citizen of Ceylon
shall not be appointed as an officer or a servant of the

‘Board without the written approval of the Minister.

(2) The non-pensionable officers and servants em-
ployed in the Government Tourist Bureau on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date shall, with
effect from’ a date determined by the Minister, be
transferred to the service of the Board, and upon such
transfer, they shall cease to be in the service of the
Government and shall, for the purposes of the Public
Service Provident Fund Ordinance, No. 18 of 1942,
be deemed to have left the service of the Government
on the abolition of office.

(3) At the request of the Board, any officer in the
ublic service may, with the consent of that officer and
of the Secretary to the Treasury, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Board for such period as
may be determined by the Board with like consent, or

be permanently appointed to such staff.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is tem-
porarily appointed to the staff of the Board, sub-

section (2) of section 26 of the Government-

Sponsored Corporations Act, No. 19 of 1955, shall
mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation to him.


Tourist Development Board Act, 7
No. 9 of 1959.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is per-
manently appointed to the staff of the Board, sub-
section (3) of section 26 of the Government-Sponsored
Corporations Act, No. 19 of 1955, shall mutatis
mutandis apply to and in relation to him. -

(6) Where the Board employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which
he has agreed to serve the Government for a specified
period, any period of service to the Board by that
person shall be regarded as service to the Government
for the purpose of discharging the obligations of such
contract.

(7) The officers and servants of the Board shall be
remunerated in such manner and at such rates, and
shall be subject to such conditions of service, as may
be determined by rules made under this Act.

. (8) The Board may, in accordance with the rules
made under this Act, establish and regulate a pro-
vident fund for the benefit of its officers and servants
and make contributions to such fund out of the moneys
of the Board. — 7

(9) No person who has directly or indirectly, by him-
self or his partner or agent, any share or interest in
any contract made by or on behalf of the Board shall
become or remain an officer or a servant of the Board.

11. (1) The control of every resthouse vested in -

the Director of the Government Tourist Bureau on the
day immediately preceding the appointed date is here-
by transferred to and vested in the Board. te

(2) The Minister may, by Order published in the
' Gazette, transfer to and vest in the Board the control
of any resthouse to which sub-section (1) does not
apply...

Vesting of the
control of
certain rest-
houses in the
Board, and
divesting the
Board of such
control, &c.

(3) All such rules relating to any resthouse the con- -

trol of which is transferred to and vested in the Board
by sub-section (1) as have been made, under section 4
(2A) of the Resthouses Act, No. 12 of 1951, as amended
by Act No. 48 of 1956, or are deemed to have been
‘made, under section 3 of the Resthouses (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of.1956, by: the Minister in charge of the
“Subject of tourism and are.in force on the day im-
mediately preceding the appointed -date shall, in so


soy.

Transfer of the
possession and
use of certain
Crown property
and certain
contracts to
the Board.

8 Tourist Development Board Act,
No. 9 of 1959.

far as those rules are not inconsistent with the provi-
sions of this Act, be deemed to be rules made by the
Board under this Act, and may accordingly be
amended, added to or repealed by the Board by rules
made under this Act.

(4) So long as the Board continues to have the
control of any resthouse by virtue of sub-section (1) or
of any Order made and published under sub-section
(2), the Resthouses Act, No. 12 of 1951, shall not apply
to or in relation to that resthouse.

(5) The Minister may, by Order published in the
Gazette, divest the Board of the control of any rest-
house the control of which has been transferred to and
vested in the Board by sub-section (1) or by Order of
the Minister made and published under sub-section (2).
The Order by which the Board is divested of the control
of such resthouse may provide for the transfer to the
Crown of any contract entered into by the Board in

respect of such resthouse, and where such contract is

so transferred to the Crown, such contract shall be
deemed to be a contract of the Crown and the subsist-
ing rights and liabilities of the Board under such con-
tract shall be deemed to be the rights and liabilities of
the Crown. ;

(6) Where the Board is divested of the control of any
resthouse by Order of the Minister made and published
under sub-section (5), the rules relating to that rest-
house which are in force on the day immediately pre-
ceding the date on which that Order takes effect shall,
in so far as such rules are not inconsistent with the
provisions of the Resthouses Act, No. 12 of 1951, as
amended by Act No. 48 of 1956, be deemed to be rules
made under section 4 (2A) of that Act, and may be
amended, added to or repealed by rules made under
that section.

12. (1) Where the control of a resthouse is vested
in the Board by or under section 11, the Minister may,
by Order published in the Gazette,—

(a) transfer to and vest in the Board the possession
and use of any such movable or immovable
property of the Crown as may be appur-
tenant to that resthouse, and

(b) transfer to the Board any contract entered into

|... by the Crown in respect of that resthousé::


Tourist..Development,.Board At, 9.

No. 9 of 1959.

Provided that no Order affecting any immovable pro-
perty of the Crown shall be made by the Minister under
the preceding provisions of this sub-section without the
concurrence of the Minister for the time being in
charge of the subject of Crown lands.

(2) Where any contract of the Crown is transferred
to the Board by Order of the Minister made and pub-
lished under sub-section (1), that contract shall be
deemed to be a contract of the Board and all the sub-
sisting rights and liabilities of the Crown under that
contract shall be deemed to be the rights and
liabilities of the Board.

13. Where the Board is divested of the control of
any resthouse by Order of the Minister made and
published under sub-section (5) of section 11, then,
if the possession and use of any such movable
or immovable property of the Crown as may be appur-
tenant to that resthouse have been transferred to and
vested in the Board by Order of the Minister made
and published under sub-section (1) of section 12, the
Board shall, with effect from the date on which the
Board is divested of the control of that resthouse, be
deemed to be divested of the possession and use of
such movable or immovable property of the Crown,
and such possession and use shall revert to the Crown.

14%. (1) The Board shall constitute a General
Reserve out of the funds of the Board,
and any sum out of the General Reserve shall not be
expended for any purpose except with the approval
of the Minister.

(2) The amount standing to the credit of the
General Reserve may be invested in securities of any
description referred to in section 20 of the Trusts
Ordinance; and the moneys realised from the sale of
any such securities may be re-invested in securities of
the like description.

15. (1) The Board shall cause its accounts to be
kept in such form and in such manner as may be
approved by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance. —

(2) The books of account of the Boake shall be kept
at Auile head office of the Board.

Reversion to
the Crown of
the possession
and use of
Crown property
possessed and
used by the
Board.

General Reserve.

Cap. 72.

Accounts of
the Board.


Audit.

Documents to
be transmitted
to the Minister
and to be
placed before
the Senate
and the

House of : -’

Representatives.

Receipts of
the Board.

10 Lourist Development Board. Act,
No. 9 of 1959.

(3) The Board shall cause its books to be balanced
as on the thirty-first day of December in each year
and shall, before the first day of July of the following
year, cause to be prepared a profit and loss account

- and a balance sheet containing a summary of the assets

and liabilities of the Board made up to the first-
mentioned day. The profit and loss account and the
balance sheet shall be signed by the Accountant of the
Board and such other officer of the Board as may be
authorised by the Board to do so. |

46. -(1) The accounts of the Board shall be audited
by the Auditor-General, and the report of the Auditor-
General on such accounts shall be transmitted by him
to the Board.

(2) The Auditor-General or any officer authorised
by the Auditor-General shall have access to all such
books, deeds, contracts, accounts, vouchers and other
documents of the Board as the Auditor-General or such
authorised officer may consider necessary for the
purposes of the audit of the accounts of the Board and
shall be furnished by the members and employees of
the Board with such information within their
knowledge as may be required for such purposes.

(3) The Auditor-General shall be paid by the Board
such fee for auditing the accounts of the Board as the
Minister may determine with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance. Any fee paid to the Auditor-
General under this sub-section shall be credited to the
Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

17. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall, on
receipt of the Auditor-General’s report in respect of
any year, cause a copy of each of the following docu-
ments relating to that year to be transmitted to the
Minister : —

(a2) Auditor-General’s Report.
'(b) Profit and Loss Account.
(c) Balance Sheet.

(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the documents
transmitted to him under sub-section (1) before the
Senate and the House of Representatives.

18. <A receipt acknowledging the payment of any
sum of money to the Board may be signed by any
member of the Board or by an officer of the Board
authorised by the Board to grant receipts.


Tourist Development Board Act, 11
No. 9 of 1959.

19. The net annual profits of the Board may be
applied to such purposes, including the payment of
bonuses to employees of the Board, as may be deter-
mined by the Board with the approval of the Minister
given with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance,
and any such profits which are not so applied shall be
credited to the General Reserve.

20. Contracts on behalf of the Board may be made
as follows:—

(a) a contract which if made between private
persons would be by law required to be in
writing, may be made on behalf of the
Board in writing under the common seal
of the Board;

(b) a contract which if made between private
persons would be by law required to be in
writing signed by the parties to be charged
therewith, may be made on behalf of the
Board in writing, signed by the Chairman
of the Board or by any member or employee
of the Board duly authorised thereto by the
Board; and

(c) a contract which if made between private
persons would in law be valid although
made by parol only and not reduced into
writing, may be made by parol on behalf of
the Board by the Chairman of the Board
or by any member or employee of the Board
duly authorised thereto by the Board.

21. (1) The Board may delegate any of its powers
{other than the power to make rules) or any of its
duties to any member or officer of the Board, and may
revoke any such delegation either wholly or in part
and either as to persons or purposes.

(2) A person to whom any power or duty of the
Board is delegated under this section shall, in the
exercise or performance of that power or duty, con-
form to all such directions as may be given by the
Board. All acts done by such person in conformity
with such directions and in fulfilment of the purposes
of the delegation made to him, but not otherwise,
Seals the like force and efiect as if done by the

oard. Ae Ree

3

Application
of profits.

Contracts.

Delegation of
owers and
uties of the
oard.


Use of the
expression

‘‘ approved by
the Tourist
Development
Board *’.

Minister's
directions to
the Board.

Power to
make rules.

12 Tourist Development Board Act,
No. 9 of 1959.

22. (1) Except with the written approval of the
Board, no person shall use the expression ‘‘ approved
by the Tourist Development Board ’’ or any other
cognate expression.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
sub-section (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall,
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,
be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees.

23. In the exercise of its powers and the perfor-
mance of its duties under this Act, the Board shall
be subject to, and act in accordance with, such general
or special directions as the Minister may issue from
time to time.

24. (1) The Board may make rules in respect of
all or any of the following matters :—

(a) the matters referred to in section 4 and
section 10 (7);

(b) the matters referred to in section 10 (8),
including the contributions to be made to
the provident fund by officers and servants
of the Board and the deduction of such
contributions from the salaries of such
officers and servants;

(c) the appointment, promotion, dismissal and
disciplinary control of its officers and
servants ;

(d) the meetings of the Board and the quorum
for, and the procedure to be followed at,
such meetings;

(ec) the maintenance, use and occupation of rest-
houses the control of which is vested in the
Board, the fees and charges to be paid for
such use and occupation and the conduct
of persons using or occupying such
resthouses; and

(f) any other matter connected with the affairs
of the Board.

(2) Any rule made under this section in regard to
the conduct of persons using or occupying any rest-
house the control.of which is vested in the Board may
declare the contravention of, or the failure to comply


Tourist Development Board Act, 13:
No. 9 of 1959.

with, such rule to be an offence triable summarily by
a Magistrate and specify as the punishment for such
offence a fine of an amount not exceeding one hundred.
rupees or a term of imprisonment of either description
not exceeding six months or both such fine and such
imprisonment.

(3) No rule made under this section shall have effect
until it is approved by the Minister, confirmed by the
Senate and ‘the House of Representatives, and
published in the Gazette.

(4) The Minister shall not, without the concurrence:
of the Minister of Finance, approve any rule made
by the Board in respect of any matter referred to in
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section (1).
