SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

ADOPTION OF CHILDREN (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 15 OF 1992

[Certified on 11th March, 1992]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part I of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 13, 1992 , }

RRINTED AT THE DEPANTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
a a
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

_ Price: 75 cents, Postage: Re, 1.00

a


Adoption of Children (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1992
[Certified on 11th March, 1992] .

LD.—O. 73/88
Am Acr TO AMEND THE ADOPTION OF CHILDREN ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the maopion of Children
{Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1992.

2 Section 3 of the Adoption of Children Ordinance
(Chapter 61) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended as follows :—

(1) by the insertion immediately after subsection (5) of
that section of the following new subsection :—

‘(5a) (a) An adoption order shall be made in
favour of any applicant who is not a citizen of Sri
Lanka and not domiciled or resident in Sri Lanka
if no other person who is a citizen of Sri Lanka
and resident and domiciled in Sri Lanka has applied
to adopt the child in respect of whom the applica-
tion is made.

(b) (i) The number of adoption orders that may

‘ be made by all courts in any calendar year, in

favour of applicants who are not or were not at

any time citizens of Sri Lanka and who are not

resident and domiciled in Sri Lanka, shall be
prescribed by regulation.

(ii) An adoption order shall not be made in favour
of any applicants who are not or were not at any
time citizens of Sri Lanka and who are not resident
and domiciled in Sri Lanka, if the effect of making
of such order will be to exceed the number pres-
cribed under sub-paragraph (i), for the calendar
year in which the order is to be made.” ; and

(2) in subsection (6) of that subsection, by the sub-
stitution for the proviso to that subsection of the
following proviso :—

2H 013920 (91/06)

Short
title.

Amena@men:
of section %
of Chapter 61


Adoption of Children (Amendment) 7
Act, No. 15 of 1992

‘Provided that an adoption order authorising the
adoption, by two spouses who are not citizens of
Sri Lanka and who are not resident and domiciled
in Sri Lanka of a child—

(a) who is in the care, custody or control of a
person for the time being in charge of an
orphanage, home or other institution main-_
tained by the Government or of an
orphanage registered under the Orphanages
Ordinance for a period of at least five years ;

and

(b) selected by the Commissioner of Probation
and Child Care Services,

may be made on the joint application of
such spouses where, after calling for, and
considering, a report from the Commissioner
of Probation and Child Care Services on the social
and psychological aspects of the adoption to be
authorized and on the matters specified in section
4, the court is satisfied that there are_ special
circumstances that justified the making of an adop-
tion order in favour of the joint applicants. The
Commissioner shall submit such report to court
within the period fixed by court for that purpose,

such period being not less than fourteen days and
not more than twenty-eight days from the date on

which the court calls for the report and_ shall
annex to such report—

(a) a home study report in respect of the appli-
cants from an institution recognized by the
country of the applicants ; and

(b) a police report from the police authority for
the respective police areas within which the

applicants reside,

authenticated by the accredited representative of
the Republic of Sri Lanka in that country.


z Adoption of Children (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 15 of 1992

“home study report ” means a report on the mental
health of the applicants, on their social,
religious and financial background and on
their suitability to adopt a child;

“police report ” means a report on the conduct and
activities of the applicants.’.

3. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the substitution for paragraph (c) of that section of the
following paragraph :—

“(c) that—

(i) the applicant has not received, or agreed to
receive, from any person, and has not made
or given or agreed to give or make, to any
person ; or

(ii) no person has received, or agreed to receive,
from the applicant, and has made or given or
agreed to give or make, to the applicant,

any payment or other reward in consideration of
the adoption excert guch as the court may
sanction. ”.

4. Section 108 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsections (1) and (2) of that
section and the substitution of the following subsections
therefor :—

(1) Where a court makes an_ adoption
order authorising two spouses jointly to adopt
a child (whether such adoption order has
been made before or after the coming into
operation of this section) then—

(a) such spouses; or

(b) where the marriage of such spouses
has been dissolved after the date of
the adoption order, any one of such
spouses ; or

(c) where both spouses are deceased and
if—

(i) the child is over eighteen years
of age, the child; or

3—D013920 (91/06)

Amendment
of section 4
of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section
108 of the
principal
enactment,


4 Adoption of Children (Amendment)
Act, No. 15 of 1992

(ii) the child is under eighteen
years of age, the grand mother,
grand father, uncle, aunt,
brother or sister of the child
being over eighteen years of
age, or the Public Trustee
or the Commissioner of Proba-
tion and Child Care Services

may, notwithstanding the fact that the
birth of that child has been previously
registered under the Births and Deaths Regis-
tration Act, make a written declaration in the
prescribed form to the Registrar-General for
the re-registration of the birth of that child
by the insertion of the names of such spouses
as the natural parents of that child. Every
such declaration shall bear a stamp to the
value of five rupees.

(2) On receipt of a declaration under sub-
section (1), the Registrar-Genera] shall, if
he is satisfied that an adoption order has
been made by a court in respect of the child
in respect of whom such declaration .has been
made and the relationship of the declarant
to such child, cause the birth to be re-
registered in the manner prescribed.”. —

A re 5. The following new section is hereby insterted
section 10c immediately after section 10s, and shall have effect as
rincipal section 10c of the principal enactment :—

— “ Every 10c. Where the adoption of a child is
adoring authorized by an adoption order made under
outside Sri the proviso to subsection (6) of section 3 it

. Ce shall be the duty of every such adopter to
reports. furnish to the Commissioner of Probation and

Child Care Services, progress reports—

(a) quarter-yearly, in respect of the child
until the adoption of such child is
legally confirmed in that country ;

(b) half-yearly, in respect of such. child
along with the child’s photographs
for the first three years from the
date on which the adoption is legally
confirmed in that country;


Adoption of Children (Amendment) 5

Act, No. 15 of 1992

(c) yearly, in respect of such child until
such child reaches the age of ten
years,

prepared by an institution recognized by the
country of such adopter and authenticated by
the accredited representive for the Higpublic
of Sri Lanka in that country.”.

6. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby re-

pealed and the following section is substituted therefor :—

“ Restriction
on payment.

7, The

14. Any adopter who, except with the
sanction of the court, receives, from any

person or makes or gives or agrees to make |

or give, to any person, any payment or
reward in consideration of the adoption of
any child under this Part and any person
who, except with the sanction of the court,
receives, from any adopter or makes or
gives or agrees to make or give, to any
adopter, any such payment or reward shall
be guilty of an offence under this Ordinance
and shall, on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand rupees or to impri-
sonment of either description for a term
which may extend to two years, or to both
such fine and imprisonment.”.

following new section is hereby inserted

immediately after section 27 and shall have effect as
section 27a of the principal enactment :—

“py ohibition
against
unlawful
custody.

27a. (1) No person shall keep in unlawful
custody in contravention of the provisions of
this Act—

(a) any woman expecting a child during
her pregnancy ;

(b) any child with or without his mother,
for the purpose of giving such child for
adoption.

Replacement
of section 14
of the
principal
enactment.

j

Insertion of

section 27A
in the
principal
enactment.


6 Adoption of Children (Amendment) me
Act, No. 15 of 1992

(2) Any person who contravenes the
provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either descrip-
tion for a term not exceeding two years or
to both such fine and imprisonment.”.

erent cene 8. Section 29 of the principal enactment is hereby
29 of the amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the insertion
Draetnedth immediately after paragraph (e) of that subsection, of the
following new paragraph :—
“(ee) who is for the time being in charge of any
childrens’ home which is maintained by a Non-
Governmental Organisation and which is registered
with the Department of Probation and Child Care
Services ;”.
as 9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
prevail and the Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
in case of

inconsistency, prevail.
