PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

RUBBER REPLANTING SUBSIDY
(AMENDMENT ) ACT, No. 9 OF 1998

[Certified on 30th March, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of April 03, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO !

Price: Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 2.50 —


_ Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)
. Act, No. 9 of 1998

(Certified on 30th March, 1998]
L. D.—0O. 75/95,
AN ACT TO AMEND THE RUBBER REPLANTING SuBsIDY ACT

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1, This Act may be cited as the Rubber Replanting
(Amendment) Subsidy Act, No. 9 of 1998.

2. The long title to the Rubber Replanting Subsidy Act
(Chapter 437) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby repealed and the following long title
substituted therefor :—

“ An Act to provide for the establishment of a Fund for the
purpose of subsidising the replanting of rubber
estates and rubber smallholdings; the rehabilitation
of rubber estates and rubber smallholdings; the
processing of raw natural rubber including the
purchase of machinery and equipment used in the
processing of raw natural rubber; the provision of
welfare facilities to rubber smallholders and for
matters.connected therewith or incidental thereto ”.

3. Section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the substitution for all the words from the “ processing ”
to the end of that section, of the words “the processing of raw
natural rubber, including the purchase of machinery and
equipment used in the processing of raw natural rubber and
the provision of welfare facilities to rubber smallholders ”.

4. Sections 2a and 28 of the principal enactment are
hereby repealed.

5. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section—

(a) by the repeal of paragraphs (a) and (b) of that
subsection ;

2—D 045766—8,550 (97/09)

Short title.

‘Replacement of

jong title to
Chapter 437.

Amendment of
section 2 of the
principal
enactment.

Repeal of sections
2a and 28 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 3 of the
principal
enactment.


Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.

2

Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 1998

(b) by the relettering of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
that subsection as paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of that
subsection, respectively ; and

(c) in the relettered paragraph (5) of that subsection by
the substitution for the words “ all export duties ”, of
the word “ cess” ;

(d) by the substitution, in the relettered paragraph (c) of
that subsection for all the words from “ advanced ” to
the end of that paragraph, of the words “voted to the
fund by Parliament, ” ; and

(2) in subsection (2) of that section —

(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (a) of that subsection
for all the words from “ and the processing ” to the
end of that paragraph of the words, “the processing of
raw natural rubber, including the purchase of
machinery and equipment used in the processing of
raw natural rubber and the provision of welfare
facilities to rubber smallholders ;” ; .

(b)_ by the substitution, in paragraph (c) of that subsection
for the words “ dependants ; and” of the words,
“dependants ;” ;

(c) by the substitution in paragraph (d) of that subsection
for the words “ this Act”, of the words “ this Act;
and”;

(d) by the addition immediately after paragraph (d) of that
subsection, of the following new paragraph—

“(e) such amounts as are authorized by regulations
to be paid as rebate to persons who are ‘not
entitled to receive any subsidy payments under
this Act for replanting of rubber estates.”.

6. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amended

as follows :—

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and the
substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—

“(1) There shall be charged, levied and paid a cess,
at such rate as may be determined by a resolution
of Parliament, for every kilogramme of raw
natural rubber exported from Sri Lanka.” ;


Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 9 of 1998

(2) by the Tepeal of subsections (2), (3) and (4) of that
section ;

(3) by the renumbering of subsections (6) and (7) of that
section as subsections (2) and (3) respectively of that

section ; .

(4

—

in the renumbered subsection (2) of that section by
the substitution for the words “ export duties ” of the
word “cesses”.

(5

—

in the renumbered subsection (3) of that section, by
the substitution for the words “ export duties ” and
“Principal Collector of Customs ”, of the words
“cesses” and “ Director-General of Customs ”
respectively.

(6

—

by the substitution for the marginal note to that section
of the following marginal note :-—

“Levy of cess for providing the fund with income.” .

7. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amended Amendment of
as follows _— . section 8 of the
principal
_ enactment.
(1) in subséction (2) of that section—

(a) in paragraph (a) of that subsection by the
substitution for all the words from the words “and
the processing” to the end of that paragraph, of
the words “the processing of raw natural rubber,
including the purchase of machinery and
equipment used in the processing of raw natural
rubber and the provision of welfare facilities to
rubber smallholders ” ;

(b

~

in paragraph (c) of that subsection by the
substitution for the words “ from the fund” of
the words “ from the fund ; and ” ;


Amendment of
section [3 of the

principal
enactment.

4 Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 1998

(c) by the addition immediately after paragraph (c)
of that subsection of the following new
paragraph :—

“(d) specify the amounts to be paid by way of
rebate to persons who are not entitled to
receive subsidy payment ;” ;

(2) in subsection (3) of that section—

(a) in paragraph (b) of that subsection, by. the
substitution, for all the words from the words “one
thousand” to the end of that paragraph, of the words
“five thousand rupees or a term of imprisonment
of either description not exceeding six months or .
to both such fine and imprisonment,” and

(b) by the addition imediately after paragraph (5) of
that subsection of the following new paragraph:—

“(c) provided that the amount paid by the
Rubber Controller, to any person under any
such scheme by way of subsidy, cost of
planting material, fertilizer or other inputs
not repaid, may be recovered in the same
manner as a fine imposed by the Court and
a certificate issued by the Rubber
Controller to the effect that any person has
abandoned a smallholding after obtaining
one or more subsidy instalments and has
not repaid such instalments shall be
admissible as proof of such fact.”.

8. Section 13 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—-

(1) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “Fund”, of the following new
definitions :—

‘ “ person ” includes a body of persons ;

“raw natural rubber” means all natural rubber
classified under the H. S. Heading 40.01 of
Customs Notification (RPO) No. 91/11 and
published in Gazette Ertraordinary No. 682/16 of
October 1, 1991" ; and


Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment) 5
Act, No. 9 of 1998

(2) by the repeal of the definition of the expression
“Rubber Controller”, and the substitution therefor
of the following definition :—

* “Rubber Controller” means the Rubber Controller
appointed or deemed to have been appointed
under the Rubber Control Act and includes the
Director-General of the Rubber Development
Department ; ° .

9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


Rs. 1,180(Foreign),

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local),
ks House,

~ payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TRANSWOR
Lotus Roab, Cotomso 01 before t5th December each year in respect of the year following.
