ee

PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
3rd Session 1967-68 _

24
BE :,
et) a
13 gbo-4 b}
ASS

Law Reform (Contributory
Negligence and Joint
~ Wrongdoers) Act,
No. 12 of 1968

Date of Assent: April 17, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOVERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, P. O. Box 500, CoLomso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 50 cents Postage: 10 cents


Law Reform (Contributory Negligence and
Joint Wrongdoers) Act, No. 12 of 1968

L. D.—O. 10/65.

An ACT TO AMEND THE LAW RELATING TO CONTRIBUTORY
NEGLIGENCE AND JOINT WRONGDOERS, AND TO
PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED WITH, OR
INCIDENTAL TO, THE MATTERS AFORESAID.

[Date of Assent: April 17, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Law Reform
(Contributory Negligence and Joint Wrongdoers) Act,
No. 12 of 1968.

PART I
CoNTRIBUTORY NEGLIGENCE

2. The provisions of this Part of this Act, other
than this section, shall have effect subject to the provi-
sions of section 7, and accordingly shall be so read,
construed and applied.

3. (1) (a) Where any person suffers damage which
is caused partly by his own fault and partly by the
fault of any other. person, a claim in respect of that
damage shall not be defeated by reason only of the
fault of the claimant, but the damages recoverable in
respect thereof shall be reduced by the court to such
extent as the court may deem just and equitable having
regard to the degree in which the claimant was at
fault in relation to the damage.

(b) Damage shall, for the purpose of paragraph (a)
of this sub-section, be regarded as having been caused
by a person’s fault, notwithstanding the fact that any
other person had an opportunity of avoiding the conse-
quences thereof and negligently failed to do so.

(2) Where damages are recoverable by any person by
virtue of the operation of the provisions of sub-section
(1) subject to such reduction as is therein mentioned,
the court shall find and record the total damages which
would have been recoverable if the claimant had not
been at fault.
1° H 63683—4,606 (8/67)

Short title.

This Part of this
Act to have
effect. subject
to section 7.

Contributory
negligence.


This Part of
this Act to
have effect sub-
ject to section
a.

Joint and

several liability

in delict.

2 Law Reform (Contributory Negligence and
Joint Wrongdoers) Act, No. 12 of 1968

(3) Where, in any case to which the provisions of
sub-section (1) apply, one of the persons at fault avoids
liability to any other such person or his personal
representative by pleading any written law prescribing
the period wherein notice of action should have been
given, or limiting the time within which proceedings
may be taken, such person shall not be entitled to
recover any damages from such other person or his
personal representative by virtue of the operation of
the provisions of the said sub-section.

PART II
DELICTS

4. The provisions of this Part of this Act, other
than this section, shall have effect subject to the
provisions of section 7, and accordingly shall be so
read, construed and applied.

5. (1) Where it is alleged that two or more persons
are jointly or severally, or jointly and severally, liable
in delict to any other person (hereinafter referred to
as the “‘ plaintiff ’’) for the same damage, such persons
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘ joint wrongdoers ’’)
may be sued in the same action.

(2) Notice of any action may at any time be given—
(a) by the plaintiff; or

(6) by any joint wrongdoer who is sued in that
action, to any other joint wrongdoer who is
not so sued and who may, upon receipt of such
notice, intervene as a defendant in that
action.

(3) The court may, on the application of the plaintiff
or any joint wrongdoer in any action, order that
separate trials shall be held, or make such other order
on such application as it may consider just and
expedient. ,

(4) (2) Where a joint wrongdoer is not sued in any
action instituted against any other joint wrongdoer
and no notice is given to him in terms of paragraph
(a) of sub-section (2), the plaintiff shall not thereafter
sue him, except with the leave of the court on good
cause shown as to why notice was not given as
aforesaid.


Law Reform (Contributory Negligence and 3
Joint Wrongdoers) Act, No, 12 of 1968

(b) Where no notice, under paragraph (a) or (0d) of
sub-section (2), is given to a joint wrongdoer who is
not sued by the plaintiff, no proceedings for a contri-
bution shall be instituted against him under sub-section
- (6) or (7) by any other joint wrongdoer, except with

the leave of the court on good cause shown as to wh
a was not given to him under the said pareeraa!

(5) In any subsequent action against another joint
wrongdoer, any amount recovered from any joint
wrongdoer in a former action shall be deemed to have
been applied towards the payment of the costs awarded
in the former action in priority to the liquidation of
the damages awarded in that action.

(6) (a2) Where judgment in any action is given
against any joint wrongdoer for the full amount of the
damage suffered by the plaintiff, the said joint
wrongdoer may, if the judgment debt has been paid in
full, but subject to the provisions of paragraph (0) of
sub-section (4), recover from any other joint wrongdoer
a contribution in respect of his responsibility for such
damage of such an amount as the court may deem just
and equitable having regard to the degree in which
that other joint wrongdoer was at fault in relation to
the damage suffered by the plaintiff, and to the
damages awarded.

(b) The period of prescription in respect of a claim
for a contribution shall be twelve months calculated
from the date of the judgment in respect of which a
contribution is claimed or, where an appeal is made
against such judgment, from the date of the final
judgment on appeal:

Provided that if, in the case of any joint wrongdoer,
the period of prescription in relation to any action
which may be instituted against him by the plaintiff,
is governed by a law which prescribes a period of less
than twelve months as the period within which legal
proceedings shall be instituted against him or within
which notice shall be given that proceedings will be
instituted against him, the provisions of such law shall
apply mutatis mutandis in relation to any action for
a contribution by a joint wrongdoer, the period or
periods concerned being calculated from the date of
the judgment as aforesaid instead of from the date of
the original cause of action.


4 Law Reform (Contributory Negligence and
Joint Wrongdoers) Act, No, 12 of 1968

_ (¢) Any joint wrongdoer from whom a contribution
is claimed may raise against any other joint wrongdoer
who claims the contribution any defence which such
other joint wrongdoer could have raised against the
plaintiff.

(7) (2) Where judgment in any action is given
against one or more joint wrongdoers in respect of the
damage suffered by the plaintiff and any joint wrong-
doer, in pursuance of such judgment,—

(1) pays to the plaintiff an amount in respect of his
responsibility for such damage; and

(ii) the amount so paid is in excess of the amount
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘ amount
apportioned to the first-mentioned joint
wrongdoer ’’) which the court deems just and
equitable, having regard to the degree in
which he was at fault in relation to the
damage suffered by the plaintiff and to the
full amount of the damages awarded to the
plaintiff,

such joint wrongdoer may, subject to the provisions of
paragraph (b) of sub-section (4), recover from any
other joint wrongdoer a contribution in respect of such
other wrongdoer’s responsibility for such damage of
an amount not exceeding so much of the amount which
the court deems just and equitable, having regard to
the degree in which such other joint wrongdoer was at
fault in relation to the damage suffered by the plaintiff
and to the full amount of the damages awarded to the
plaintiff, as has not been paid by such other wrongdoer
to the plaintiff or to any other wrongdoer, or so much
of the amount paid by the first-mentioned wrongdoer as
exceeds the amount apportioned to him, whichever is
less.

(b) The provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of sub-
section (6) shall apply mutatis mutandis to any claim
for a contribution under paragraph (a) of this sub-
section.

(8) (2) Where judgment in any action is given in
favour of the plaintiff against two or more joint
wrongdoers, the court—

(i) may order that such joint wrongdoers pay the
amount of the damages awarded jointly and
severally, the one paying and the other being
absolved ;


Law Reform (Contributory Negligence and 5
Joint Wrongdoers) Act, No, 12 of 1968

(11) may, if it is satisfied that all the joint wrongdoers
have been joined in the action, apportion the
damages awarded against the said joint
wrongdoers in such proportions as the court
may deem just and equitable having regard
to the degree in which each joint wrongdoer
was at fault in relation to the damage
suffered by the plaintiff, and give judgment
separately against each joint wrongdoer for
the amount so apportioned :

Provided that any amount which the
plaintiff is unable to recover from any joint
wrongdoer under a judgment so given
(including any costs incurred by the plaintiff
in an unsuccessful attempt to recover the said
amount from the said joint wrongdoer),
whether by reason of the said _ joint
wrongdoer’s insolvency or otherwise, may be
recovered by the plaintiff from the other joint
wrongdoer, or, if there are two or more other
joint wrongdoers, from those other joint
wrongdoers in such proportions as the court
may deem just and equitable having regard
to the degree in which each of such other
joint wrongdoers was at fault in relation to
the damage suffered by the plaintiff;

(ii11) may, where it gives judgment against the joint
wrongdoers jointly and severally as aforesaid,
at the request of any one of the joint
wrongdoers, apportion, for the purposes of
paragraph (b), the damages payable by the
joint wrongdoers, inter se, amongst the joint
wrongdoers, in such proportions as the court
may deem just and equitable having regard
to the degree in which each joint wrongdoer
was at fault in relation to the damage
suffered by the plaintiff;

(iv) may make such order as to costs as it may
consider just, including an order that the
joint wrongdoers against whom it gives
judgment shall pay the plaintifi’s costs
jointly and severally, the one paying and the
other being absolved, and that, if one of the
unsuccessful joint wrongdoers pays more
than his pro rata share of the plaintiff’s
costs, he shall be entitled to recover from each
of the other unsuccessful joint wrongdoers
his pro rata share of such excess.


6 Law Reform (Contributory Negligence and
Joint Wrongdoers) Act, No. 12 of 1968

(6) Any joint wrongdoer who pays more than the
amount apportioned to him under sub-paragraph (iii)
of paragraph (a) of this sub-section may recover from
any joint wrongdoer who has not paid the whole or
any portion of the amount so apportioned to him, a
contribution of an amount not exceeding so much of
the amount so apportioned to the last-mentioned joint
wrongdoer as has not been paid by him, or so much of
the amount paid by the first-mentioned joint wrongdoer
as exceeds the amount so apportioned to him,
whichever is less.

(c) The provisions of paragraph (b) of sub-section
(6) shall apply mutatis mutandis to any claim for a
contribution under paragraph (b) of this sub-section.

(9) Where judgment is given in favour of any joint
wrongdoer, the court may make such order as to costs
as 1t may consider just, including an order—

(a) that the plaintiff pay such joint wrongdoer’s
costs; or

(5) that the unsuccessful joint wrongdoers pay the
costs of the successful joint wrongdoer
jointly and severally, the one paying and the
other being absolved, and that, if one of the
unsuccessful joint wrongdoers pays more
than his pro rata share of the costs of the
successful joint wrongdoer, he shall be
entitled to recover from each of the other
unsuccessful joint wrongdoers his pro rata
share of such excess, and that, if the success-
ful joint wrongdoer is unable to recover
the whole or any part of his costs from the
unsuccessful joint wrongdoers, he shall be
entitled to recover from the plaintiff such part
of his costs as he is unable to recover from the
unsuccessful joint wrongdoers.

(10) Where, by reason of the terms of an agreement
between a joint wrongdoer and the plaintiff, such
wrongdoer is exempt from liability for the damage
suffered by the plaintiff or his liability therefor 1s
limited to an agreed amount, then, so much of that
portion of the damages which, but for the said
agreement and the provisions of paragraph (c) of sub-
section (6) or paragraph (bd) of sub-section (7), could
have been recovered from such wrongdoer in terms of
sub-section (6) or (7), or could have been apportioned
to him in terms of sub-paragraph (ii) or (iii) of


Law Reform (Contributory Negligence and 7
Joint Wrongdoers) Act, No, 12 of 1968

paragraph (a) of sub-section (8), as exceeds the
amount, if any, for which he is liable in terms of the
said agreement, shall not be recoverable by the plaintiff
from any other joint wrongdoer.

(11) (2) Whenever a joint wrongdoer, who is
entitled under any provisions of this section to recover
a contribution from any other joint wrongdoer, is
unable to recover that contribution or any amount
thereof from that other joint wrongdoer, whether by
reason of the latter’s insolvency or otherwise, he may
recover from any other joint wrongdoer such portion
of that contribution, or that amount thereof, as the
court may deem just and equitable having regard to
the degree in which that other joint wrongdoer was
at fault in relation to the damage suffered by the
plaintiff and to the full amount of the said contri-
bution or the said amount thereof, as the case may
be.

(6) Any costs incurred by a joint wrongdoer in an
unsuccessful attempt to recover any contribution from
any other joint wrongdoer shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (a) of this sub-section, be added to the
amount of that contribution.

(12) Where any joint wrongdoer agrees to pay to
the plaintiff a sum of money in full settlement of the
plaintiff’s claim, the provisions of sub-section (6) shall
apply mutatis mutandis as if judgment had been given
by a competent court against such joint wrongdoer for
that sum of money, or, if the court is satisfied that
the full amount of the damage actually suffered by the
plaintiff is less than that sum of money, for such sum
of money as the court determines to be equal to the full
amount of the damage actually suffered by the plain-
tiff, and in the application of the provisions of para-
graph (5) of the said sub-section (6), any reference
therein to the date of the judgment shall be construed
as a reference to the date of the agreement.

(13) Whenever judgment in any action is given
against any joint wrongdoer for the full amount of
the damage suffered by the plaintiff, or whenever any
joint wrongdoer has agreed to pay to the plaintiff a
sum of money in full settlement of the plaintiff’s claim,
and the judgment debt or the said sum of money has
been paid in full, every other joint wrongdoer shall
thereby also be discharged from any further liability
towards the plaintiff.


Section 5 to
apply in
particular to
liabilities
imposed under
Part VI of the
Motor Traffic
Act.

Savings.

Interpretation.

8 Law Reform (Contributory Negligence and
Joint Wrongdoers) Act, No, 12 of 1968

(14) A person shall, for the purposes of this
section, be regarded as a joint wrongdoer, notwith-
standing the fact that another person had an oppor-
tunity of avoiding the consequences of his wrongful
act and negligently failed to do so.

6. Without prejudice to the generality of the
provisions or the application of section 5, the provi-
sions of that section shall, in particular, apply to any
liability imposed under Part VI of the Motor Traffic
Act on any person in respect of any loss or damage
caused by, or arising out of, the use or driving of a
motor vehicle.

PART III
GENERAL
7. (1) The provisions of this Act shall not—

(a) apply in respect of any wrongful act committed
before the date of the commencement of this
Act;

(b) operate to defeat any defence arising under a
contract;

(c) operate to increase the amount of damages
beyond any maximum prescribed in any
agreement or any law applicable in respect
of any claim for damages.

(2) Nothing in this Act contained shall derogate in
any manner from the provisions of any law relating
to collisions or accidents at sea or in the air, and
accordingly in the event of any conflict or inconsis-
tency between this Act and such provisions, such
provisions shall prevail over this Act.

8. In this Act, unless the context otherwise

requires—

‘“‘ court ’’, in relation to any claim, means the court
or arbitrator by or before whom the claim
falls to be determined;

‘damage ’’ includes loss of life and personal
injury ;

‘fault? includes any wrongful act, breach of
statutory duty or negligent act or omission
which gives rise to liability in damages, or
would apart from this Act give rise to the
defence of contributory negligence.
