eS) faoi® oN
CE | ;
SE AN pe!
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
AGRARIAN SERVICES
ACT, No. 58 OF 1979
[Certified on 25th September, 1979] i ;
Printed on the Orders of Government :
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 1979
(PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI eras ee
aoa a Salon paaiate oes, ae, ae


Agrarian Services Act, No, 58 of 1979
[Certified on 25th September, 1979}
L.D—O. 64/77
~ Ax Acr 10 PROVIDE SECURITY OF TENURE TO TENANT CULTIVATORS
‘OF PADDY LANDS ; TO SPECIFY THE RENT PAYABLE BY TENANT
CULTIVATORS TO LANDLORDS; TO PROVIDE FOR MAXIMUM
PRODUCTIVITY OF PADDY AND OTHER AGRICULTURAL LANDS
‘THROUGH THE PROPER USE AND MANAGEMENT OF AGRICULTURAL
CROPS AND LIVESTOCK ; TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF
Acaantan Scavices Commirrezs; 10 PROVIDE FOR THR
DETERMINATION OF TENURIAL AND OTHER DISPUTES RELATING
TO AGRICULTURAL LAND BY THE COMMISSIONER OF AGRARIAN
SERVICES ; TO CONFER AND IMPOSE CERTAIN POWERS AND
DUTIES ON THE COMMISSIONER ; TO PROVIDE FOR THE APPOINT:
[MENT OF CULTIVATION OFFICERS ; 10 PROVIDE FOR THE REPEAL
oF THE AcricuLtunat Paopuctiviry Law, No. 2 oF 1972, AND
‘THE AcRIcULTURAL Lanos Law, No. 42 oF 1973; AND 70
PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
‘THERETO.
- BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Agrarian Services Act, Short
No. 58 of 1979. me 2
PART 1
‘Tenant Conrivators of Pappy LANps
2, (1) Where any person is the cultivator of any extent Cjrcums-
of paddy land let to him under any oral or written {eness im
agreement then, if he is a citizen of Sri Lanka, he shall, tenant of
subject to the provisions of this Act, be the tenant cultivator land is
of that extent. sie
tenant
cultivator.
(2) Where two or more persons are the cultivators either
jointly or in rotation of any extent of paddy land let to
them under any oral or written agreement then, subject to
the provisions of this Act, each such person shall, if he is a
citizen of Sri Lanka, be a tenant cultivator of that extent
for the season or seasons in which he is a cultivator of that
extent,
2A 42196—-15,800 (70/0


a Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979
Landlord 3 (1) Every landlord of an extent of paddy land in
TREERER, respect of which there is a tenant cultivator shall, in the
prescribed manner within six months of the date of
commencement of this Act, furnish the following particulars —
to the Commissioner :—

(a) the name of the landlord ;

(b) the name of the tenant cultivator ;

(c) the extent of paddy land cultivated by the tenant

cultivator ; and

(@) such other particulars as may be prescribed.

(2) For the purpose of furnishing the particulars referred
to in subsection (1) the landlord shall refer to the Register
of Agricultural Lands for the time being in force.

(8) Where a change occurs in any of the particulars
referred to subsection (1) such change shall be notified to
the Commissioner by the landlord within six weeks of the
occurrence of such change,

(4) Any landlord who fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (1) or subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act.

Order 4. (1) The maximum extent of paddy land that could be
geemining cultivated by a tenant cultivator shall be five acres.
maximum -
ecient ok (2) The Minister may subject to the provisions of Sub-
Tand. section (1) by Order published in the Gazette determine
the extent of paddy land that may be cultivated by a tenant
cultivator in any district to which such Order relates :

Provided, however, that where the Commissioner is
satisfied after due inquiry that a tenant cultivator is also

an owner cultivator of any paddy land of not less than five
acres in extent, the Commissioner may declare that such 5
tenant cultivator shall not be entitled to his rights as a
tenant cultivator under the provisions of this Act, and
accordingly the provisions of subsections (3), (4), (5) and
(©) of this section shall apply to such tenant cultivator,


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 3

(8) The tenant cultivator shall, if he is in occupation of
an extent of paddy land in excess of the extent specified
in an Order under subsection (2), subject to the approval

_ of the Commissioner, be entitled to select the extent of
paddy land which he is entitled to cultivate, and shall
vacate the balance extent on being ordered to do so by the
‘Commissioner.

(4) Where a tenant cultivator fails to comply with the
provisions of subsection (3) he shall be evicted from the
extent of paddy land in excess of the extent specified in the
Order under subsection (2) and the provisions of section 6
shall apply to any such eviction,

(5) On vacation of such extent by the tenant cultivator,
the landlord shall, with the approval of the Commissioner—

(@ be entitled to cultivate such extent on such

conditions as may be prescribed ; or

(®) appoint one or more tenant cultivators for such

extent within such period as may be prescribed.

(6) On failure of the landlord to take action under the
provisions of paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of subsection
(6) within the prescribed period, the Commissioner shall be
entitled to appoint a suitable person to cultivate that extent
of paddy land,

5. (1) A tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy land Rights of
shall have the right to occupy and use such extent in fenant
accordance with the provisions of this Act and shall not be provision *
evicted from such extent notwithstanding anything to the inregard
contrary in any oral or written agreement by which such ericted
extent has been let to such tenant cultivator, and no person tenants of
shall interfere in the occupation and use of such extent by finds; and
the tenant cultivator and the landlord shall not demand or restriction
receive from the tenant cultivator any rent in excess of the f tenants.
ent required by this Act to be paid in respect of such st paddy
‘extent to the landlord, "

(2) Notwithstanding anything in any other law, the
tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy land which is
purchased by any person under the Partition Law, No. 21 of
1977 ; or which is allocated to a co-owner under a decree for
partition shall be deemed to be the tenant cultivator of that
‘extent of paddy land of such purchaser or such co-owner,

-as the case may be, and the provisions of this Act shall
apply accordingly.


4 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

(3) Where a tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy
land notifies the Commissioner that he has been evicted
from such extent, such Commissioner may hold an inquiry
for the purpose of deciding the question whether or not such
person had been evicted.

(4) The notification referred to in subsection (3) shall
be made within one year from the date of such eviction:

Provided, however, that where such tenant cultivator has
been evicted at any time within two years prior to the date
of commencement of this Act such notification shall be
made within two years of the date of commencement of the

(5) If at such inquiry it is proved to the satisfaction of
the Commissioner that the tenant cultivator had been
evicted, it shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved,
that such eviction had been made by or at the instance of
the landlord.

(6) The landlord of the extent of paddy land and the
person evicted shall be given an opportunity of being heard _
in person or through a representative at the inquiry. The
decision of the Commissioner after such inquiry shall be
communicated in writing to the landlord and the person
evicted. If the landlord or the person evicted is aggrieved
by a decision of the Commissioner, he may, within thirty
days of the communication of the decision to him, by
petition in writing in which the other person shall be men-
tioned as respondent, appeal to the Court of Appeal against
that decision on a question of law. Where no appeal is
made from a decision of the Commissioner within the time
allowed therefor, such decision shall be final and conclusive
and shall not be called in question in any court or tribunal.

(1) Where, at any inquiry referred to in subsection (8),

the Commissioner decides—

(q) ‘that eviction has been established and no appeal is
made from such decision within the time allowed
therefor. or the Court of Appeal has. on any such
appeal, confirmed the decision of the Commissioner
that eviction has been established ; or


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 5

(®) that eviction has not been established and the Court

‘of Appeal has on appeal varied the decision of the

Commissioner and held that eviction has been

. established, then—

(i) the person evicted shall be entitled to have the
use and occupation of the extent of paddy ,
land restored to him; and

Gi) the Commissioner shall in writing order that
every person in occupation of the extent of
paddy land shall vacate it on or before such
date as shall be specified in that order, and
if such person fails to comply with such
order, he shall be evicted from such extent
in accordance with the provisions of section 6,
and the landlord of such extent shall, for
each day during which a person in respect
‘of whom an order under this paragraph has
been made continues to occupy such extent
after the date specified in that order, pay to
the person mentioned in subparagraph (i)
damages at such rate as may be prescribed
unless such landlord satisfies the Commis-
sioner that such person was evicted without
the knowledge, consent or connivance of such
landlord.

(8) Where the landlord of the extent of paddy land fails
or refuses to pay, within fourteen days after demand, any,
sum which he is required to pay as damages under sub-
section (7), such sum may, on application made by the
Person evicted to the Magistrate's Court having jurisdiction
‘over the place where such extent is situate, be recovered in
Uke manner as a fine imposed by such court notwith~
standing that such sum may exceed the amount of the fine
which that court may in the exercise of its ordinary juris-
diction impose.

(9) Where a person (hereafter in this subsection refer-
Ted to as the “lessor ”) lets any extent of paddy land to any
other person (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the
“‘lessee”) and the lessee does not become the tenant culti-
vator of such extent by reason of the fact that he is not
the cultivator thereof, then, if the lessee lets such extent

_ to any person (hereafter in this subsection referred to as
‘the “‘subtenant”) and the subtenant becomes the tenant
cultivator of such extent by reason of his being the culti-

| Vator thereof, the subtenant’s right as the tenant cultivator
of such extent shall not be affected in any manner by the
| termination of the lease granted by the lessor to the lessee :


- 6 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979
Provided, however, that the lessee shall not let such
extent to a subtenant unless he—
(a) obtains the consent in writing of the owner of such
extent ; and r

(b) thereafter notifies the Agrarian Services Committee
within whose area of authority such extent wholly
or mainly lies :

Provided further that where any extent of paddy land is
Jet by a lessee to a subtenant without obtaining the consent
in writing of the owner of such extent, the owner shall be
entitled to cultivate such extent in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (5) of section 4.

(10) The rights of a tenant cultivator of any extent of
paddy land shall not be affected in any manner by the sale
(whether voluntary or in execution of the decree of a
court), the transfer by gift, testamentary disposition or by
assignment, or by devolution under the law of inheritance
of the right, title and interest of the landlord of such extent.

(11) ‘The rights of a tenant cultivator to occupy and use
any extent of paddy land shall not be sequestered, seized or
sold in execution of the decree or process of any court.

(12) If any person directly or indirectly makes use of, or ~
threatens to make use of, force, violence, or restraint or
inflicts, or threatens to inflict, any harm, damage or loss upon
or against a tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy land
in order to induce, compel, or prevail upon, that tenant
cultivator to refrain from exercising any right or privilege
conferred upon him by or under this Act, such person shall
be deemed to interfere in the occupation and use of such
extent by that tenant cultivator.

(13) If any person contravenes the provisions of this
section he shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and
shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,
be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees.

Procedure 6. (1) Where any person who has been ordered under
imeviction, this Act by the Commissioner to vacate any extent of agri-
culture: land fails to comply with such order, the Commis-
sioner or any person authorized in that behalf by the Cora
missioner may present to the Magistrate's Court within |
whose local jurisdiction such extent wholly or mainly lies ~
a written report—
(a) setting out the nature of such order and the person
to whom it was issued. describing the extent of land:
to which such order relates ;


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 7

(b) stating that the person who has been ordered to

vacate has failed to so vacate such extent ; and

(©) praying for an order to evict such person and all other

* persons in occupation of such extent from such ex-
tent, and mentioning the person to whom delivery
of possession of such extent should be made.

(2) Where a written report is presented to a Magistrate's
Court under subsection (1), such court shall direct the
Fiscal or peace officer to evict forthwith the person specified
in such report and all other persons in occupation of the
extent of agricultural land specified in the order to deliver
Possession of such extent to the person mentioned in such
Teport as the person to whom delivery of possession of such
extent should be made.

(3) The Fiscal or peace officer entrusted with the execu-
tion of the order of eviction shall comply with the directions
of the Magistrate’s Court py which such order was made
and shall make a due return of the manner in which he
executed such order.

(4) In executing an order of eviction the Fiscal or the
peace officer or any person authorized by either of them may
use such force as may be necessary to enter the extent of

+ agricultural land to which the order relates and evict any
person bound by the order and to deliver possession of suca
extent in accordance with the directions of the Magistrate's
Court which issued the order.

(5) Any person who unlawfully dispossesses a tenant
cultivator who has been placed in possession of an extent of
paddy land by the Fiscal under subsection (3) shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act.

(6) Upon conviction for an offence under subsection (5)
the Magistrate shall direct the Fiscal to place the tenant
cultivator who has been unlawfully dispossessed from such.
extent, in possession of such extent by evicting any person
in occupation of such extent.

7. (1) A tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy land, Nominations
other than a tenant cultivator who cultivates such extent hccessor
either jointly or in rotation with any other tenant cultivator, {9,{@Rant,.
may nominate a member of his family as a successor who T#hts.
shall be entitled to succeed to such tenant cultivator’s rights
‘under this Act in respect of such extent upon the death of
such tenant cultivator,


8 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

(2) Any nomination of a successor may at any time be
cancelled by the tenant cultivator who made suc» nomina-
tion and a fresh nomination of a successor may be made by
such tenant cultivator.

(8) The nomination of a successor and the cancellation of
any such nomination shall be effected by a tenant culti-
vator in a document substantially in the prescribed form
executed and witnessed in duplicate before a Government
Agent, a Divisional Assistant Government Agent, a
Registrar of Lands, a Notary or a Justice of the Peace.

(@) No stamp duty shall be charged or levied on the exe-
cution of a document specified in subsection (3).

(S) A document specified in subsection (3) shall not
be deemed to be an instrument affecting land for the purpose
of the Registration of Documents Ordinance, nor shall the
provisions of Chapter IT of that Ordinance apply to any per»
son before whom any such document is executed.

(©) A document specified in subsection (3) shall not
be valid unless and until it has been registered by the Regis-
trar of Lands of the district in which the land to which that
document refers is situated.

(1) After the registration of a document specified in sub-
section (3) wherby a person is nominated as successor
toa tenant cultivator’s rights under this Act in respect of any
extent of paddy land, a document specified in that subsec-
tion whereby any other person is nominated as successor
to such rights shall not be registered unless the nomination
effected by the registered document has been duly cancelled
by the registration of a document of cancellation. In one and
the same document a registered nomination may be cancel-
ted and some other nomination in lieu thereof may be made,
and, in that event, the document in which such cancellation
and nomination are combined may be registered and shall
‘apon due registration operate both as a cancellation of the
previously registered nomination and as a nomination of a
‘ew nominee. .

(8) Regulations may be made prescribing the procedure
for the registration of a document specified in subsection
(8) including the registers which shall be kept and the
ees which shall be charged for such registration.


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 9

(8) Any person shall, on payment of the prescribed fee,
be entitled to inspect at the office of the Registrar of Lands
any register kept by such Registrar for the purposes of sub-
section (6).

8. (1) Where a tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy Devolution
land, other than a tenant cultivator who cultivates such of Tights of
extent either jointly or in rotation with any other tenant cultivator
cultivator, dies and he has not nominated a successor under inthe |
section 7 or the successor nominated by him under that nominauon
section is dead, his rights under this Act in respect of such! scorn and
extent shall devolve on the surviving spouse of such tenant {in cases of
cultivator and failing such spouse on only one of the children | s4/ttvation
of such tenant cultivator, the oldest being preferred to the fotation.
others where there are more children than one and in the
absence of children on a parent, brother or sister of such
tenant cultivator provided the successor to the deceased
tenant cultivator’s rights is a person whose main occupation
is cultivation and whose only source of income is derived
from such extent of paddy land.

(2) Where a tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy
land who cultivates such extent jointly or in rotation with
any other tenant cultivator or cultivators, dies this right in
Tespect of such extent in his capacity as such tenant culti-
vator shall develve on such other tenant cultivator or
cultivators.

9. (1) Where, on the death of a tenant cultivator of any Commissioner
extent of paddy land, there is a dispute as to the person on Gignuies’
whom the rights of such tenant culivator under this Act regarding
devolves, such dispute shall be referred by the parties to @eyoution ot
such dispute for determination to the Commissioner within tenant
whose jurisdiction the extent of land in respect of which ultivator,
such dispute has arisen is wholly or mainly situated. The
determination of the Commissioner on such dispute shall be
‘communicated to the parties to such dispute.

(2) Where the parties to such dispute are aggrieved by
the determination made under subsection (1) such parties
may, within thirty days of the communication of such deter-
minaticn to them, appeal to the Court of Appeal against that
determination on a question of law.

10.’ (1) If the Commissioner is satisfied after such inquiry Curators.
as he may deem necessary that the rights of a tenant culti-
vator under this Act have devolved on a minor, he may,
notwithstanding anything in any other law, appoint a fit


30 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

and proper person to be the curator of that minor for the
purpose of enabling the minor to exercise his rights and to
discharge his duties under this Act.

(2) A curator appointed under subsection (1) may be
removed from office by the Commissioner if he is satisfied
after inquiry that such curator has failed to perform his
obligations or has been guilty of action or conduct adverse
or prejudicial to the interests of the minor, or that the
curator is unfit to continue to hold office or for any other
sufficient cause,

(8) A curator appointed under subsection (1) shall, in
respect of the extent of paddy land belonging to the minor
whose curator he is, have and exercise all the rights and be
subject to all the liabilities of a curator appointed by a court
of competent jurisdiction.

(4) A person appsinted under subsection (1) as the
curstor of a minor shall cease to hold office upon the
appointment by any court of competent jurisdiction of any
other person as curator of that minor.

creer eae! 4. (1) A tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy land,

strightsof after giving written notice of his intention so to do to the

aullivator. _Jandlord of such extent and to the Cultivation Officer within,
whose local jurisdiction such extent wholly or mainly lies,
may—

(@) if he cultivates such extent either jointly or in rota-
tion with any other tenant cultivator or cultivators,
transfer his rights in respect of such extent to any
other such tenant cultivator who is a citizen of Sri
Lanka ; or :

(0) if he does not cultivate such extent either jointly or
in rotation with any other tenant cultivator or
cultivators, transfer his rights in respect of such
extent to his spouse and failing such spouse to only
‘one of his children the eldest being preferred to the
others when there are shore children than one.


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 n

(2) A tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy land may,
with the written sanction of the Commissioner given after
such inquiry and on such terms as he may deem necessary,
cede his rights in respect of such extent to his landlord if
such landlord is also the owner of such extent.

(3) Any transfer or cession by the tenant cultivator in
violation of the provisions of subsection (1) or (2) shall be
null and void and shall render the person in occupation of
such extent to be evicted in accordance with the provisions
of section 6 and on such eviction the provisions of subsection
(5) of section 4 shall apply.

(4) Notwithstanding anything in the preceding provisions
of this section, where, in respect of any extent of paddy land,
there is a registered nomination of a successor made by the
tenant cultivator of such extent, a transfer or a cession
under this section of the rights of such tenant cultivator
shall not be valid unless and until such nomination is duly
cancelled and such cancellation is duly registered.

12, Where the rights of tenant cultivator of any extent Effect of
of paddy land are transferred by him to any person, such rights of
person shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be a Gultivator.
tenant cultivator of such extent.

13, Where a tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy fiom
Jand dies and there is no nominated successor or member ho sceesor
of the family to inherit the deceased’s rights under this Act tenant.
in respect of stich extent, then— seu"

(a) if the landlord of such extent is also the owner of

such extent, he may, after giving within two months
after the death of such tenant cultivator written
notice that he desires to be the owner cultivator
of such extent to the Commissioner occupy and use
such extent as owner cultivator ; or

(b) if the landlord of such extent is not the owner of such

extent, and the landlord and the owner of such
extent fail to give, within the time allowed there-
for, the written notice referred to in paragraph (a),
the Commissioner shall appoint any suitable person
to be the tenant cultivator of such extent.


2 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979
Person 14, (1) Where a tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy
rattled’ land dies, no person who is not entitled under this Act to
forighisof _the rights of such tenant cultivator in respect of such extent
deceased shall occupy and use such extent. Hl
pele (2) Where any extent of paddy land is occupied and used
otany by any person in contravention of subsection (1), the
foddy and Commissioner shall in writing order such person to vacate
Roto 4 such extent on or before such date as shall be specified in
wueauch such order. If such person fails to comply with such order
extent, he shall be evicted from such extent in accordance with
the provisions of section 6.
Power of 15. (1) Where there is no tenant cultivator in respect
fommussioner of an extent of paddy land and such extent is not cultivated
tenant for two or more successive seasons, the Commissioner may,
Callan: subject to the provisions of subsection (2), appoint the
cultivator of any extent of paddy land which in the opinion
‘of the Commissioner is an uneconomic extent, to be the
tenant cultivator of the first-mentioned extent,

(2) No appointment under subsection (1) shall be made
by the Commissioner in respect of any extent of paddy land
unless—

(@ he has given written notice of his intention so to >

do to the landlord of such extent, and

(b) the landlord of such extent has failed to show, within

such time as shall be specified in such notice, suffl-
cient cause against the making of such appointment.

(3) Where any such extent of paddy land as is mentioned
first in subsection (1) is occupied and used by any person
at the time a tenant cultivator is appointed under that sub-
section the Commissioner shall in writing order such person
to vacate such extent thereof on or before such date as shall
be specified in such order and if such person fails to comply
with such order he shall be evicted from such extent in
accordance with the provisions of section 6.

Non. 16. Where a tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy
Start" and is unable to cultivate such extent during any paddy
extent of cultivation season he shall, before the commencement of
a ee that season, notify in writing the landlord of such extent _
potined and the Commissioner that he is unable to cultivate such
gh, extent during that season, and the landlord may, with the
grsthe. approval of the Commissioner, appoint himself or a suitable
eas person to cultivate that extent during that season and not
thereafter.


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 13

17, (1) The Commissioner shall, by notification published Betttote
4m the Gazette, determine from time to time in accordance by the"
with the provisions of this section, the rent to be paid by

~ the tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy land.

(2) A determination under subsection (1) shall specify
the number of bushels of paddy, not exceeding fifteen, in
respect of each cultivated acre of any extent of paddy land
{in any region to which such determination applies or a por
tion, not exceeding one-quarter of the total yield of the
paddy from that extent reduced by the amount of any charge
which may be imposed under this Act, whichever is greater,
as the rent payable for that extent for each paddy cultiva- 7
‘tion season.

(3) The rent determined under subsection (1) may vary
in respect of different administrative districts or in respect
of different parts of an administrative district.

(4) Where the rent determined under subsection (1) is
computed on the basis of a specified number of bushels of
paddy for each cultivated acre, the rent for any cultivated
area of less than one acre shall be computed in the propor-
tion that such area bears to one acre.

(5) The rent payable for any extent of paddy land shall,
for each paddy cultivation season, consist of —

(a) the quantity of paddy computed for that extent in

accordance with such determination in force under
‘the preceding provisions of this section as is appli-
cable to paddy lands of the region in which that ex-
tent lies. or

(b) where the landlord desires to have the rent in money

and the tenant cultivator agrees to pay the rent in
money, the equivalent in money of the rent payable
in paddy under paragraph (a) of this subsection,
computed at the price fixed for the time being for
paddy of the same description as the paddy from
that extent in accordance with the provisions of this
Act,


u“ Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

(6) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the tenant
cultivator of any extent of paddy land has wilfully neglected
the cultivation of such extent during any paddy cultivation
season in which cultivation was possible or has, without
reasonable cause, committed during any paddy cultivation ©
season a breach of any established custom relating to
cultivation, the Commissioner may order that the rent for
such season payable in paddy under the provisions of this
Act in respect of such extent shall be computed on the basis
specified by the Commissioner and according to the rent in
paddy so computed the rent in money shall be computed.

(7) Where the cultivation of the extent of paddy land of
a tenant cultivator is a partial failure during any paddy cul-
tivation season for any cause other than his fault or neglect,
the rent payable by him for such season in respect of such
extent shall be reduced by such reasonable amount as shall
be determined by the Commissioner.

(8) Where any dispute arises between the tenant cultiva-
tor of any extent of paddy land and his landlord as to the
amount of the rent payable in respect of such extent under
the determination made under subsection (1), such dispute
may be referred for decision to the Commissioner. The deci-
sion of the Commissioner on such dispute shall be communi- *
cated in writing to such tenant cultivator and to his landlord
and such decision on any such dispute shall be final and
conclusive.

Consequence 18. (1) When the landlord informs the Commissioner
oes that the tenant cultivator is in arrear of rent in respect
cultivator to of an extent of paddy land the Commissioner shall on being
Sauron, satisfied that the arrears of rent are not being paid, give
notice in writing to the tenant cultivator that his tenancy
in respect of such extent would be terminated if he fails
to pay such arrears within the time specified in such notice.

(2) A tenant cultivator who fails to pay the arrears of
tent within the time specified therefor shall be deemed to
have forfeited his tenancy and shall vacate such extent on
being ordered to do so by the Commissioner.

(3) If the tenant cultivator fails to vacate such extent
within the time specified in the order the Commissioner shall -
tause such tenant cultivator to be evicted from such extent
in accordance with the provisions of section 6.

(4) When the tenancy rights of a tenant cultivator have
been terminated in accordance with the provisions of this


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 15
section the owner or his authorized agent shall with the
approval of the Commissioner—

(a) be entitled to cultivate such extent on such condition

: as may be prescribed, or

(®) appoint one or more tenant cultivators for such extent

within such period as may be prescribed.

(5) On failure of the landlord tc take action under the
provisions of paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of subsection
(4) within the prescribed period the Commissioner may
appoint a suitable person as a tenant cultivator of such
extent,

19. Where the extent of paddy land of a tenant cultivator When rent
is not cultivated during any paddy cultivation season or the 8).
cultivation of such extent during such season completely
fails for any cause other than his fault or neglect no rent
for such season shall be payable in respect of such extent.

20, The rent for any paddy cultivation season shall be Time and
aid at the threshing-floor on or before the thirtieth day Daying rent
after harvesting of the crop from such extent for such season and when
and if not so paid shall commence to be in arrear on the mences to
first day after the said thirtieth day. ae

21, (1) It shall be the duty of the tenant cultivator of Tenant
any extent of paddy land to give to his landlord and to the {4 Inform
Cultivation Officer within whose local jurisdiction such ex- "the"
tent wholly or mainly lies— favesting

and removal

(@) at least ten days’ notice of the date on which it is in- of paddy.

tended to commence the harvesting of the crop
from such extent, and

(®) at least seven days’ notice of the date on which it is

intended to remove from the threshing floor the
crop harvested from such extent.

(2) Any tenant cultivator who fails to comply with the
provisions of paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1) shall
‘be guilty of an offence under this Act.

22, (1) The rent in respect of any extent of paddy land To whom
shall be paid by the tenant cultivator of such extent to the payable,
landlord of such extent or to his authorized agent either
directly or through the Agrarian Services Committee,

‘where such landlord fails or refuses to accept such rent.


16 \ Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

(2) Where there are two or more landlords of an extent
of paddy land, they shall appoint a person for the purpose of
collecting the rent from the tenant cultivator of such extent,
and shall in writing notify the name and address of the per-
son appointed for such purpose to the Agrarian Services
Committee within whose local jurisdiction such extent whol-
ly or mainly lies, and, if no such appointment is made, such
rent shall be paid, directly or through such Committee to
the person, if any, who customarily collects such rent for
such landlords.

(3) If there is no person entitled to collect such rent
or if there is any dispute as to the proportion in which
such rent should be paid to each landlord, or as to the
person to whom such rent should be paid, such rent
computed in money in accordance with the provisions of
this Act shall be paid by such tenant cultivator to such
Committee, and such Committee shall pay such amount less
any expenses incurred by such Committee in handling such
rent, to the District Court within whose loca) jurisdiction
such extent wholly or mainly lies, to be drawn by the person
or persons entitled thereto.

(4) Where the amount referred to in subsection (3) is
not drawn by the person or persons entitled thereto within
one year after the date on which such sum was paid to such
court, such court shall cause such sum to be paid into the
Agrarian Services Fund and no person thereafter shall be
entitled to demand or receive such amount.

Helo 23. (1) Where the tenant cultivator of any extent of
Whererent is paddy land instead of paying the rent for such extent
fe ‘Agrarisn directly to the landlord of such extent or to his authorized
Gommitiee to agent pays it to the Agrarian Services Committee within
tee landlord whose locai jurisdiction such extent wholly or mainly lies,
authorized such Committee shall—

(a) if such rent is paid in money, cause the amount of

‘such rent to be transmitted to such landlord or to
his authorized agent, as the case may be; or

(®) if such rent is paid in paddy, cause to be sent to

such landlord or to his authorised agent, as the
case may be, a written notice requesting him to
take delivery of such rent within thirty days after
the date of such notice ; and

(©) deduct from such rent any expenses incurred by

such Committee in the handling of such rent


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 Ww

(2) Where the rent for any extent of paddy land is paid
in paddy to the Agrarian ‘Services Committee, and such
rent is not claimed by the person entitled thereto within

+ thirty days after the date of the notice sent to him under
subsection (1), such Committee may cause the paddy to
be sold and shall cause the proceeds of the sale to be
transmitted to such person.

(8) Where any sum of money transmitted (otherwise
than by money order or postal order) to any person under
this section by the Agrarian Services Committee is not
claimed by such person within one year after the date on
which such sum was transmitted, such sum shall be paid
into the Agrarian Services Fund by such Committee, and no
person thereafter shall be entitled to demand or receive
such sum or the rent which such sum represents.

24, (1) The person entitled to collect the rent in respect Receipts to
of any extent of paddy land shall, on receiving the rent, psyMent of
issue to the person by whom the rent is paid a receipt Tent.
specifying—

(a) the date of payment,

(®) the person who paid the rent,

(c) the amount of the rent paid, E

(@ the period for which the rent is paid, and i

(e) the paddy land in respect of which the rent is paid.

(2) The person entitled to collect the rent under sub-
section (1) shall if he fails to comply with that subsection
be guilty of an offence under this Act. -

25. Where any rent in respect of any extent of paddy Interest to,
land is in arrear, the amount of rent in strear computed enfin
in money in accordance with the provisions >f this Act shall "rear.
bear simple interest at the prescribed rate.

26, (1) Where any sum is due from the tenant cultivator Recovery of
of any extent of paddy land to his landlord as rent in interest in
arrear or interest on such rent or both, the landlord may °
apply to the Commissioner for an order, and the Commis-
sioner shall upon such application, make an order after due
inquiry for the payment of whatever sum is due from such
tenant cultivator.

3A 42196 (1906)


18 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

(2) If such tenant cultivator fails to pay such sum within
the time allowed by the order under subsection (1), such
sum may be recovered upon application being made by the
Jandlord to the Magistrate's Court having jurisdiction over
the place where the land in respect of which the rent is
due is situated in like manner as a’fine imposed by such
court notwithstanding that such sum may exceed the
amount of the fine which that court may in the exercise of
its ordinary jurisdiction impose, and any sum so recovered
shall be paid by such court to the applicant landlord.

(8) For the purposes of subsection (2) a certificate by
the Commissioner that such sum is due to the landlord
shall be conclusive proof that such sum is due,

PART IL
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO LOANS GRANTED DY PRESCRIBED BANKS
FOR CULTIVATION
‘Terms and 21, (1) The owner cultivator or occupier of any agri-
sonaivions of cultural land may obtain a loan from a prescribed bank in
prescribed respect of suich land for any agricultural activity, by creat-
aoke ing a mortgage or charge on such land or on any other
immovable property which he owns or in which he has an
interest, by the execution in duplicate of an instrument
substantially in the prescribed form, or on such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the prescribed bank
without the execution~of such instrument.

(2) Any instrument referred to in subsection (1) shall
only be chargeable with a stamp duty equal to one-fifth of
the duty chargeable under Schedule A to the Stamps
Ordinance for a bond or mortgage of a like nature, Such
duty shall be paid on the duplicate of the instrument and
the original os counterpart of such instrument shall be
exempt from stamp duty, if any.

(8) Every prescribed bank—

(@ shall cause to be numbered with consecutive
integral numbers, the instruments executed in
favour of such bank under this section according
to the order in which they are exccuted ;

(b) shall before the fifteenth day of each month deliver
or transmit to the Registrar of Lands of the district
in which the prescribed bank functions, the dupli-
cate of all such instruments executed in favour of
such bank during the preceding month, together
with a list of such instruments ;


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 9

(c) shall deliver or transmit to the Registrar of Lands
of that district in which the prescribed bank
functions, so as to reach such Registrar on or

. before Wednesday in each week, a list of such
instruments executed in favour of such bank during
the week ending on the previous Saturday ;

(@) shall, if any such instrument affects land or
immovable property situated in any district, other
than that in which the prescribed bank functions, _
on or before the fifteenth day of the succeeding
month, deliver or transmit a copy of the instrument
to the Registrar of Lands of the district in which
such land or immovable property is situated
together with a list of all such instruments as
Telate to lands or immovable property in such
Jast-mentioned district ; and

(@) shall, if such instrument is executed by an attorney

* forward a copy of such power of attorney to the
Registrar of Lands of the district in which such
land or immovable property is situated together
with a copy of that instrument.

(4) Any instrument referred to in subsection (1), may
be signed in the presence of and ‘the execution of such
instrument may be attested by the Manager of the branch
or office of the prescribed bank granting the loan or any
person holding any prescribed office in such bank and at
least one other witness ; and where such instrument is so
signed and attested, nothing in section 2 of the Prevention
of Frauds Ordinance shall apply thereto.

(6) Any instrument referred to in subsection (1) may
be registered under the Registration of Documents
Ordinance as an instrument affecting land.

28, Where default is made in the payment of any sum Default ot
of money on any Ioan granted to an owner cultivator or Payment.
occupier of agricultural land by. a prescribed bank under
the provisions of this Part or under the corresponding ‘
Provisions of the Agricultural Lands Law, No. 42 of 1973,
whether that sum is due on account of principal or interest
or of both, default shall be deemed to be made in respect
of the whole of the unpaid portion of that loan and the
interest due thereon.

29, (1) Where, under the provisions of this Part, default Action by
4s made or deemed to be made in respect of the whole of preseubed
the undischarged or unsatisfied portions of any loan and default is
the interest due thereon the prescribed bank may notify ™4&


20 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

the Commissioner that the owner cultivator or occupier of
such agricultural land is in default of the sum of money
specified in such notice.

(2) On receipt of a notice referred to in subsection (1),
the Commissioner may hold an inquiry for the purpose of
deciding whether such owner cultivator or occupier of
agricultural land is in default of such sum of money.

(8) The owner cultivator or occupier of agricultural land
and the prescribed bank shall be given an opportunity of
being heard in person or through a representative at such
inquiry.

(4) Where the Commissioner is satisfied at such inquiry
that any sum of money is due to the prescribed bank from
the owner cultivator or occupier of agricultural land, the
Commissioner shall order such owner cultivator or occupier
of agricultural land or any heir or legal representative of
such owner cultivator or occupier of agricultural land to
pay the sum of money due to the prescribed bank within
such time as may be specified in such order.

(6) Where the owner cultivatér or occupier of agricul-
tural land fails or refuses to comply with an order made
under subsection (4) relating to any sum which he is re-
quired to pay to the prescribed bank such sum may on
application made by any person on behalf of the prescribed
bank to the Magistrate's Court having jurisdiction over the
place where such extent of agricultural land is situate, be
recovered in like manner as a fine imposed by such court
notwithstanding that such sum may exceed the amount of
the fine which that court may in the exercise of its ordinary
jurisdiction impose.

(6) For the purposes of subsection (5) a certificate under
the hand of an officer authorized in that behalf by the
prescribed bank fo the effect that the sum specified therein

\ 48 due to such bank from the defaulter named in the certi-
ficate shall be conclusive proof that such sum is due to the
bank from such defaulter :

Provided, however, that where such occupier is a tenant
cultivator and the prescribed bank reports to the
Commissioner that it is impracticable or inexpedient to
Tecover such sum in the manner provided for in subsection
(5), the Commissioner on being satisfied that such sum
cannot be recovered in the manner provided for, may
suspend the tenancy rights of such defaulter until such
money is paid to the prescribed bank.


PT DETeICes ACE, ING. ON OF L0Th = 2
, __ 80. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law Priority of
‘for the time being in force, any charge or mortgage created oaze by
on any land or interest therein in favour of a prescribed {7%
bank in respect of any loan granted to any owner cultivator made by
. oF occupier of an agricultural land by a prescribed bank prescribed
shall have priority over any other charge or mortgage that
may have been created over such land or interest therein
in favour of any person prior to the date on which the
charge or mortgage was created in favour of the prescribed
bank.

31, Nothing in section 29 shall be deemed to preclude the Prescribed
Preseribed bank from recovering the amount due to such bank not,
bank in accordance with the provisions of any other written precluded
law. methods of

recovery.

32, Nothing in the Debt Conciliation Ordinance shall apply Debt Concilia-
or be deemed to apply to any debt due to any prescribed fon Ordi-
bank, or to prejudice or affect the rights of any prescribed 10, apply to
bank in respect of the recovery of any such debt. acprcseribed

PART IL
Erricrent Cuvrivarion of Acnicuuturat LAND

38. Tt shall be the duty of every owmer cultivator or Duties of |.
occupier of any agricultural land to cultivate such land wner cu
with such crops or rear such breeds of livestock as are best occupiers
suited for the land, having regard to the extent and the Telating to
situation and the natural resources of the land in accord- and manage-
ance with standards of cultivation as are hereinafter ment of
Provided by this Act or any regulation made thereunder, "j2nd.
with a view to improving the productivity and maintaining
efficient standards of production both as to quantity and
quality of the produce. f

34. (1) Without prejudice to the generality. of the Standards

- raise of je of good
provisions of section 33, the owner cultivator of any agri- of, food,
cultural land shall— =

(a) carry out all such duties and obligations in respect of

+ his agricultural land; and }

(®) fulfil all such obligations in respect of maintaining

the productivity of the agricultural land of the
area, tract or group of holdings within which his
and is located,


2 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979
as are specified in this Act or under any regulations made
thereunder.

(2) The owner cultivator or occupier of any agricultural
Jand shall, in addition to such other duties as the Commis-
sioner may in his discretion specify, ensure that—

(a) only recommended varieties and strains of crops and

breeds of livestock are cultivated or reared ;

() the manner in which the agricultural land is being
cropped is such as to maintain that land clean and
in a good state of cultivation and fertility and in
good condition including proper drainage;

(©) irrigation water is efficiently managed ;

(d) the land is properly maintained in order to ensure
‘the maximum conservation of soil and water}

(©) the fertility of the soil is improved and maintained
by the application of fertilizers or manure in ade-
quate quantities;

(f) according to the type of agricultural operation under-
taken, an efficient standard of management is
maintained in the cultivation of crops or the rear-
ing of livestock ;

(g) the necessary steps are taken to secure and maintain
crops and livestock free from diseases and from
infestation by insects and other pests;

(h) the necessary steps are taken for the protection and
preservation of growing crops and crops harvested
or in the course of being harvested ;

(i the necessary steps are taken to minimize losses in
both quantity and quality of produce in the proces-
sing for market ; and

(j) the maintenance and repair work is carried out
wherever necessary.

(8) The owner cultivator or occupier of any agricultural
land shall take the necessary steps to ensure that all his
duties and obligations arising from the need for common
‘management of land with other owner cultivators or occu-
piers over a given area, tract or group of agricultural hold-
ings are properly discharged. Such duties may involve any
one or all of the following :—

(a) the proper timing of agricultural operations ;


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 23

(b) the efficient management of irrigation water ;

(©) joint measures for conservation of soll ;

(@) water conservation and drainage ;

+ (© protection against pests and diseases ;

() any other collective responsibilities which may be
prescribed by regulations under this Act for efficient
land use and the improvement of agricultural pro-
ductivity ; and

(9) ensuring that the prescribed period between the

harvesting of any agricultural produce and the
marketing thereof, is adhered to.

(4) An owner cultivator or occupier who fails to fulfil
the obligations placed on him under subsections (1), (2) oF
(8) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

35. (1) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that any order
agricultural land is not being cultivated in accordance with PING yy ~
the provisions of this Act, the Commissioner may, after pernter
giving the owner cultivator or occupier of such agricultural Commis~
land an opportunity of making representations to him or his _ supervision.
authorized representative, by Order (hereinafter referred to
as a “Supervision Order”) place the owner cultivator or
occupier under the Commissioner’s supervision for such
period as may be specified in such Order.

(2) Every Supervision Order shall be sent by registered
post to the person to whom it relates:

Provided, however, that where there are several owner a
cultivators or occupiers of such Iand and the addresses of
such owner cultivators or occupiers cannot be ascertained,
the exhibition of such Order in a conspicuous place in oF z
upon the land shall be deemed to be service of the Order
on all the owner cultivators and occupiers thereof.

(8) While a Supervision Order is in foree any person
authorized by the Commissioner in that behalf may—

(a) at all reasonable times énter upon the land to which

the Order relates for the purpose of inspecting and.
observing the manner in which the land is being
cultivated ; .

(b) by notice in writing give.any directions to the owner
cultivator or occupier of the land in question in
order to ensure that such person is acting in accor~
dance with the standards of cultivation laid down
in this Act.

‘


py Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

(4) A Supervision Order issued under subsection (1) may

be revoked by the Commissioner if he is satisfied that the

owner cultivator or occupier of the agricultural land is cul-

tivating such land in accordance with the provisions of this

Act:

Provided that the revocation of such Order shall not affect

"the carrying out of any direction given before the revocation

of the Order.

(5) Where a Supervision Order is revoked, notice of such
revocation shall be served in the same manner as the Super-

vision Order was served.

Orders of iss

Qrders of 36, (1) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the
cultivation of the extent of land to which the Supervision
Order relates does not show satisfactory improvement within
the period specified in such Order the Commissioner shall
issue an Order of Dispossession, dispossessing the owner of
his right to cultivate the land in respect of which such
Order is made and to the crop from such land for such
period as shalll be specified in such Order.

(2) The provisions of subsection (2) of section 35 shall
apply to the service of the Order of Dispossession made
under subsection (1) of this section.

Vacation 37, (1) Upon an Order of Dispossession being made and
offand |. served, the person on whom the Order is served shall within
in Order the period specified in the Order vacate the land referred
of Pispos- to in the Order and deliver possession of such land to the
' Agrarian Services Committee within whose area of authority

. such land is situated,

(2) Where an Agrarian Services Committee comes into

possession of any land under the provisions of subsection (1)
. the Committee may for the purpose of ensuring the efficient
cultivation of such land with the approval of the Commis-

+ sioner :—

(@) cultivate such extent ;

() where the land is a paddy land appoint one or more

tenant cultivators for such extent ; or

(©) where the owner is not the occupier of such land,

permit the owner to cultivate such land ; or
- (@) lease such land to any suitable person :


Agrarian Services Act, No, 58 of 1979 5
_ Provided however, that where the occupier of such land
is also its owner, such land shall not be handed back to the
owner except on payment by him of all expenses incurred
on, and improvements effected to, such land by such
Committee or by any person to whom such land has been
given for cultivation under this subsection.

38. Where any person on whom an Order of Dispossession Eviction
hhas been served, fails to vacate the land within the period of,persona
specified in such Order, the Commissioner shall-evict such fo vacate
person under the provisions of section 6. Jand.

‘ PART IV
APPOINTMENT AND POWERS AND DUTIES oF COMMISSIONER OF

AGRARIAN SERVICES AND OF HIS DEPUTIES AND ASSISTANTS”

38. (1) There may be appointed for the purposes of this Appointment
Act, a Commissioner of Agrarian Services, in this Act refer- of Commis-
ted to as the Commissioner. ‘Agrarian

Services

(2) There may be appointed such number of Deputy 37425
Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners of Agrarian and
Services and other officers as may be necessary for the pur- Assistants,
pose of this Act.

(8) Every Deputy Commissioner may exercise all or any
of the powers of the Commissioner under this Act.

(4) Every Assistant Commissioner may exercise all or any
of the powers of the Commissioner under this Act within
the area to which such Assistant Commissioner is appointed.

(8) Every Deputy Commissioner and every Assistant
Commissioner shall, in the exercise of the powers and the
performance of his duties under this Act, be subject to the
direction and control of the Commissioner.

40, (1) The Commissioner shall in the prescribed manner Commis
cause to be made the necessary arrangements for the issue #1oner to
of identity cards to owner cultivators or occupiers of identity |
agricultural lands and for the revision of such cards. a

(2) In the issue of identity cards reference shall be made
inter alia to the last certified Agricultural Lands Register
and entries maintained in such identity cards under the
provisions of this section shall be prima facie evidence of
the matters stated therein.


2% Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979
Commis- 41. ‘The Commissioner shall, in the exercise of his powers
Bewubject and the performance of his duties under this Act which are
iekenete! solely administrative be subject to the general direction of
eee. the Minister.
bite 42, (1) The Commissioner or any other person generally
mike rules, oF specially authorized by him in that behalf may summon
a meeting of the owner cultivators and occupiers of agri-
cultural land within such area as may be determined by him
for the purpose of making rules relating to—

(a) paddy cultivation or any other form of cultivation ;

(®) the enforcement of established customs affecting
such cultivation ;

(©) the proper timing of agricultural operations ;

(@) the efficient management of irrigation water ;

() joint measures for conservation of soil and protection
against pests and diseases and trespass by animals ;
and

() any other collective responsibilities imposed on
owner cultivators and occupiers of agricultural land
for the efficient use of such land and for the im-
provement of productivity.

(2) Where any meeting is to be held'under the provisions
of this section the Commissioner or any other person
generally or specially authorized by him in that behalf shall
cause notice being the longest notice which in his opinion
is reasonable in the circumstances to be given of the time
and place of the meeting and its objects.

(8) The notice referred to in subsection (2) shall be
given by exhibiting written notices in suitable places with-
in the area or tract within which such meeting is to be held
and in such other manner as may appear adequate for
giving publicity thereto,

(4) The Commissioner or any other person generally
or specially authorized by him in that behalf and referred
to by name or by office (hereinafter referred to as the

* “presiding officer” shall preside at every meeting held
under the provisions of this section.

| @) A meeting convened under the provisions of this

section shall not be deemed to be validly constituted un-

less there are present owner cultivators or occupiers Te-

presenting one third or twenty-five per centum of the total

number of owner cultivators or occupiers of agricultural
land referred to in subsection (1).


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 a

(6) Any rule made at a meeting under the provisions of
this section shall be adopted by those present at the meeting z
and shall thereafter be binding on the owner cultivators
and occupiers.

(7) If at any meeting held under the provisions of this
section any question arises as to the right of any person to
vote the presiding officer may then and there decide the
question and his decision shall be entered in the minutes
and shall be final and conclusive. i

(8) Full minutes shall be made of the proceedings of
every such meeting and shall be signed by the presiding
officer and shall be conclusive evidence of the contents
thereof.

(9) Any owner cultivator or occupier of agricultural
land who contravenes any of the decisions made in accor-
dance with the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offence. a

(10) At a meeting convened under the provisions of this ‘
section the owner cultivators or occupiers of agricultural
land may select from among themselves in such manner as
may be prescribed, persons to assist the Cultivation Officer
in matters relating to the protection of irrigation works and
for the conservation of water supplied therefrom and any
other matters relating to cultivation as may arise from time
to time and any person so selected shall be entitled to such
remuneration as may be prescribed.

(11) Any person so selected shall have, subject to the .
control and direction of the Coramissioner or any person
authorized in that behalf by the Commissioner, the power
to order any owner or occupier of agricultural land to take
steps as he may deem necessary regarding the collective

~ responsibilities of such owners or occupiers in regard to
wrrigation and cultivation practices and in respect of the
protection of minor irrigation works and the conservation
of water supplied therefrom.
. PART V
‘AGRARIAN Services Commarrees

43, (1) There shall be an Agrarian Services Committee Agrarian
and an Agrarian Services Centre for such area as may be Services
determined by the Commissioner. occa

(2) Every Agrarian Services Committee shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and

| may sue and be sued in ite corporate name.


28 Agrarian Services Act, No, 58 of 1979

(8) The members of an Agrarian Services Committee
shall be appointed by the Commissioner and shall consist
of not more than fourteen persons of whom not more than
eight shall be public officers or employees of public corpora-
tions and statutory bodies and of whom not more than six |
shall be owner cultivators or occupiers of agricultural land
within the area of such Committee from among the persons
selected under the provisions.of subsection (10) of section
42 and a member of such Committee shall be entitled to such
remuneration as may be prescribed.

(4) The term of office of a member of an Agrarian
Services Committee shall be three years, but a member
who ceases to hold office by effiuxion of time shall be
eligible for reappointment.

(5) Any member of an Agrarian Services Committee
may resign office by letter addressed to the Commissioner.

(6) Where a member of an Agrarian Services Committee
is temporarily unable to discharge the duties of his office
‘on account of ill health, absence from Sri Lanka or any
other cause, the Commissioner may appoint some other
person to act as a member in his place.

(1) Tf the Commissioner is satisfied that any member of

an Agrarian Services Committee is incapacitated by
infirmity of mind or body from discharging the duties of +
his office or is otherwise unsuited to continue to discharge
such duties, the Commissioner may terminate his appoint-
ment and appoint another member to such Committee:
* Provided, however, that a member appointed in place of
a member who is removed from or otherwise vacates office
shall hold office for the unexpired period of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds unless the member
80 appointed is earlier removed from or otherwise vacates
office,

(8) The members of an Agrarian Services Committee
shall annually elect a meniber from among themselves to
preside at meetings of the Committee,

(8) No act or proceeding, of an Agrarian Services
Committee shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of ©
the existence of any vacancy among its members.

(10) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, an
Agrarian Services Committee shall have the power to fix ©
and regulate its own procedure including the power to
determine the number of members necessary to form a
quorum. 4


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 29

(11) The Commissioner may, at any time he considers it
expedient or necessary s0 to do, convene and preside at a
meeting of an Agrarian Services Committee.

44, ‘The Commissioner shall appoint a member of an Secretary.
Agrarian Services Committee as Secretary of the Committee
and the Secretary so appointed shall be the chief executive
officer of such Committee.

45. (1) Every Agrarian Services Committee shall in the Register ot
preseribed manner prepare, revise and maintain a register #£ticultural
of agricultural lands within the area of authority of such
Committee :

Provided however that the first register in respect of the
agricultural lands lying within the area of authority of
each such Committee shall be prepared and certified by the
Commissioner.

(2) There shall be specified in such register the name and
extent of each agricultural Iand, the name of the landlord
and tenant cultivator or owner cultivator, as the case may
be, and such other particulars as may be required by the
Commissioner.

(8) Any entry in the register which has been prepared or
revised under the provisions of this section and which is
for the time being in force shall be admissible in evidence -
and shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein:

(4) Regulations may be made—

(a) in respect of the procedure to be followed in the
preparation and revision 8 the register referred -
to in subsection (1) ;

() providing for any person who claims to be entitled
under this Act to have his name entered in such
register and whose name is not so entered to apply
to the Agrarian Services Committee to have his
name entered therein ;

(c) providing for any person whose name is entered in
such register and who objects to the name of any
other person appearing therein to apply to the
‘Agrarian Services Committee to have the name of
such other person removed from such register ;

(@) in respect of the provedure to be followed by the
‘Agrarian Services Committee in the determination
of claims and objections ; and

(e) providing for appeals to the Commissioner from the
determination of an Agrarian Services Committee
on any claim or objection made to such Committee,


30 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979
Functions 46. (1) Every Agrarian Services Committee shall within
ofthe its area of authority co-ordinate the agricultural activities
geratien and implement the agricultural policies of the Government
‘Committees. and shall be subject to the control and direction of the
‘Commissioner.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions
of subsection (1) an Agrarian Services Committee shall
have power—

(a) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease, or hire, mort-
gage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of any mova-
ble or immovable property ;

(b) to impose on and recover from an owner cultivator
or occupier of agricultural land an acreage levy
not exceeding six rupees per acre per year and any
other charges levied’ for services rendered under
this Act ;

(©) to utilize the moneys of such Committee to defray the
expenses incurred in the exercise or performance
of its powers and duties and for such purpose ss
may be prescribed ;

(d) to maintain and operate an account in such bank as
may be determined by such Commissioner.

(3) Every such Committee shall in the exercise of its
powers and the performance of its duties be subject to the
general directions of the Commissioner or of such delegated

. authority as may be prescribed.

(4) It shall be the duty of the Secretary of each Agrarian
Services Committee to maintain the accounts of such Com-
mittee in such form and manner as the Commissioner may,
from time to time, direct. Such accounts shall be audited
annually by the Auditor-General.

Torfecorery 47 (1) An Agrarian Services Committee may by notice

ofecreage” in writing direct every owner or occupier of agricultural

levy, Jand liable to pay acreage levy to such Committee to pay
such levy within such periods as shall be specified in such
notice,

(2) Where an Agrarian Services Committee is satisfied
after due inquiry that a person to whom a written notice
has been given has failed to pay the amount specified in
such notice within the time given therefor, such amount
shall on application by an officer authorized in that behalf
by such Committee made to the Magistrate’s Court having
jurisdiction over the place where the extent of-agricultural
land in respect of which the levy is payable is situated
be recovered in like manner as a fine imposed by such court.


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 a1

(8) For the purposes of subsection (2) a certificate under
the hand of the officer authorized in that behalf by the Com-
mittee to the effect that the sum specified therein is due to
the Committee from the person named in-the certificate
shall be conclusive proof that such sum is due to the
Committee from such person.

48. Where an Agrarian Services Committee after being Powers
directed by the Commissioner to exercise, perform or dis- ofthe
charge any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on sioner.
or assigned to such Committee by or under this Act or by
any regulations made thereunder, fails to do so within the
time specified in the direction, the Commissioner may exer-
ise, perform or discharge such power, duty or function, and
any act so done by the Commissioner under the provisions
of this section shall be deemed to have been done by such
Committee. ‘

49. Each Agrarian Services Committee shall be deemed Agrarian
to be a scheduled institution within the meaning of the Committe
Bribery Act and the provisions of that Act shall be cons- <tobea
trued accordingly. institution

within the
meaning
ofthe
Bribery Act

50. All officers and servants of an Agrarian Services O/lcers and
‘Committee shall be deemed to be public servants within the ofan.
meani ‘ode. mv

jing and for the purposes of the Penal Code. Secvice
: deemed

tobe public
servants,

51, It shall be lawful for an Agrarian Services Committee, Power to
‘subject to the approval of the Commissioner to borrow irom  porrow
any approved lending institution such sum or sums of
money as may be necessary for or conducive or incidental
to any of the functions of such Committee.

52. (1) An Agrarian Services Committee may appoint Appointment
such servants or agents as it deems fit for the exercise of ot ants or
its powers and the discharge of its duties. agents.

(2) All servants and agents appointed by any Agricul- .
tural Productivity Committee established under the
Agricultural Productivity Law, No. 2 of 1972, shall cease to
hold office from the date of the constitution under this Act
of an Agrarian Services Committee in its place.


32 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979
(8) All such servants and agents specified in subsection
(2) shall be paid out of the Agrarian Services Fund
established under this Act, and a sum of money not exceed-
ing five hundred rupees or three months’ salary, whichever
is greater, shall be paid to each such servant or agent,
provided that such servant or agent has returned such books
and documents as were in his custody, belonging to the
Agricultural Productivity Committee in which he held
office, and is not employed by an Agrarian Services
Committee.
Agrarian 53. Every Agrarian Services Committee shall be exempt.
Services
Committee from— :
sxempt fom (a) any stamp duty chargable under any written law
and fees. in respect of any instrument executed by or on
behalf of, or in favour of, an Agrarian Services
Committee or in respect of any document filed in
a court, in cases where but for the exemption gran-
ted by this section the Agrarian Services Committee
would be liable to pay the duty chargeable in
respect of such instrument or document, and
(B) any fees payable under the law for the time being in
force relating to the registration of documents.
Exemption 54, Every Agrarian Services Committee shall be exempt
. from the payment of any tax on the income or profits made
by such Committee under the provisions of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979.
PART VI *
Cumvation Orricens
Appointment 55. (1) There may be appointed such number of Culti-
Gurtivation vation Officers as may be necessury for the purposes of this
heje powers Act, and the officers so appointed shall be subject to the
funetions, general control and direction of the Commissioner.
(2) Every Cultivation Officer shall within the area of
his authority—
(@) attend to all matters connected with the cultivation
of all agricultural lands irrespective of whether
such lands are rainfed or fed by major or minor
irrigation works;


Agrarian Services Act, No, 58 of 1979 33
(8) attend to all matters relating to minor irrigation
: works and the maintenance of minor irrigation
works and to prevent as far as practicable any act
" or omission which is contrary to any rule in force
: relating to irrigation or cultivation rights or to
a established customs relating thereto; and
(c) take action in such manner as may be prescribed in
respect of trespass by animals on agricultural lands
and irrigation works.

(8) Where any act is committed or any omissioin made by
any person within the area of authority of any Cultivation
Officer contrary to any established custom or any rule
relating to irrigation or cultivation whereby damage may
‘be caused to the owner cultivator or occupier of agricultural
land within that area of authority the Cultivation Officer
shall, if the act or omission be of such a nature as to call
for prompt action to prevent damage, take such steps and
incur such expenditure as may be necessary in the circums-
tances and shall forthwith make a report on the steps taken
and expenditure incurred, if “any, to the Commissioner
within whose area of authority such act or omission has
occurred.

(4) Any person in consequence of whose act or omission
any expenditure was incurred shall be liable to pay such
‘sum as was incurred to the Commissioner, and where such
person fails to pay such sum the Commissioner
may on his being satisfied after an inguiry at! ‘
which such person is given the opportunity of being heard
that such expenditure was properly incurred, sign a certi-
ficate setting out the name of the person in consequence of
whose act or omission such expenditure was incurred, the
amount thereof, the nature of the act or omission and the
name of the officer by whom the expenditure was incurred
and cause such certificate to be delivered to such person.

(6) Where any person to whom a certificate referred to in
‘subsection (4) has been delivered fails to pay the amount
due from him within ten days from the delivery to him

4—A 42196 (79/06),


4 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

of the certificate, the Commissioner may proceed to recover
such amount by filing a certificate in the Magistrate's Court
within whose jurisdiction the land in respect of which the
amount recoverable lies, to the effect that the sum men- .
tioned in the certificate is due from the person mentioned
therein and such sum shall be recovered from such person
in like manner as a fine imposed by such court,

(6) For the purposes of subsection (5) a certificate issued

* under the hand of the Commissioner shall be conclusive
proof that the amount referred to therein is due from the
person mentioned in the certificate.

CRA andl 56. (1) Every person who—
Felating to (@) wilfully and mischievously blocks up, obstructs or
irrigation. encroaches upon or causes to be in any way blocked
x up, obstructed or encroached upon any channel or
watercourse comprised in any minor irrigation
work ; or

() wilfully and mischievously cuts the bund, bank, or

any part of any minor irrigation work ; or

(©) wilfully and mischievously causes waste of water

conserved by any minor irrigation work ; or
7 (@) wilfully and wrongfully draws off or converts to his
own use any such water,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Every person who without lawful cause resists, or
obstructs the Commissioner or any person authorized in
that behalf by the Commissioner in the lawful discharge of
any duty imposed upon him by this Act shall be guilty of
and offence.

PART VIL
Geneeat,

So aa 57. (1) Where a complaint is made to the Commissioner
Eultivation by any owner cultivator or occupier of agricultural land
ee that any person is interfering with or attempting to inter-
sroeetefer, fete with the cultivation rights of such owner cultivator or ‘

occupier, the Commissioner may, if he is satisfied that such

interference or attempted interference will result in damage

or loss of crop or livestock, issue an order on such person,


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 35
cultivator or occupier requiring him to comply with such
“direction as may be necessary for the protection of such
rights and specified in such order :
+.” Provided however that the order issued under subsection
(1) shall not prejudice the right, title or interest of such
person, cultivator or occupier to such land, crop or livestock
in respect of which such order is made.

(2) For the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
provisions of subsection (1) the Commissioner may seek
the assistance of a peace officer within whose area of autho-
rity such agricultural land in respect of which such order
is made lies, and it shall be the duty of such peace officer
to render such assistance and the peace officer may for such
Purpose use such force as may be necessary to ensure
‘compliance of such order.

(8) An order under subsection (1) shall be binding on
the persons in respect of whom it is made until set aside
by a Court of competent jurisdiction,

(4) Any person who fails to comply with an order under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

58, Every person who is guilty of an offence under this Penalties.
Act or any regulation made thereunder shall on conviction
after trial before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment of
either description for a period not exceeding six months or
to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or to both such
imprisonment and fine,

59. No suit or prosecution shall lie against any member No suit to
of Agrarian Services Committee appointed by or under this lie against,
Act or agsinst any servant or agent of such Committee for “Agrarian
any act which in good faith is done or purported to be Services |
done by him under this Act or under any regulations made &c,
thereunder.

60. (1) There shall be established a fund to be known Agrarian

i ‘ services
as the Agrarian Services Fund. Fund,

(2) Thore shall be paid into the Fund—

(a) all fines imposed by a court for any offence under this

Act 5

(®) all sums required under this or any other law to be -

paid into the Fund;

(©) all such sums of money as may be voted’ from time

to time by Parliament to the Fund ;


36 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

(@) any such sums of money as may be paid into the

fund out of the Consolidated Fund ;
(@) all such sums of money as the Commisionér may
from time to time require to be paid into the Fund; *

(f) all sums of money collected as acreage levy under the
provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of
section 46.

. (8) The moneys of such Fund may be utilized for the
improvement and development of agricultural productivity «
in Sri Lanka and for the administration and development
of Agrarian Services Centres. The Commissioner shall be
xesponsible for the administration of the Fund.

(4) The accounts of the Fund shall be maintained in such
form and shall contain such particulars as the Commissioner
may, with the concurrence of the Minister, from time to
time specify.

(5) The accounts of the Fund for each financial year shal
be audited by the Auditor-General.

(6) The financial year of the fund shall be the period of
twelve months commencing on the first day of January
each year, ¢

Compulsory G1. Where the Minister certifies by Notification published

sequisition in the Gazette that it is necessary that any agricultural land

Sericultural specified in the Notification should be acquired for any of

and. the purposes of this Act, that land shall, for the purpose
of the application’ of the Land Acquisition Act, be deemed
to be required for a public purpose and may be acquired
under that Act:

Provided that notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in that Act the amount of compensation to be paid for the
acquisition of that land under that Act shall be equal
to the product of the multiplication of the annual rental -
value of that land computed in the prescribed manner.

Purpose for 62. (1) Except with the written permission of the
}2ug’ fang Commissioner given under such conditions as he may deem
frey be hecessary no person shall use an extent of paddy land for
aed any purpose other than cultivation in accordance with the
Provisions of subsection (2).
(2) An extent of paddy land may be cullivated—
(@) with paddy ; or


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 37
(b) at any time between paddy cultivation season with
food crops other than paddy, or with fodder crops ;
or
(c) with any other crop if the cultivation of such crop
on such extent is authorized by a permit issued
by the Commissioner in his discretion, upon
written application made in that behalf by the
cultivator of that extent,
(3) Where an extent of paddy land is cultivated under
the provisions of pragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of subsec-
tion (2) the rent payable by the cultivator to the landlord
shall be such rent as may be prescribed, and the provisions
of section 21 shall apply accordingly.
(4) If any extent of paddy land—
(@) 4s used by any person in contravention of the pro-
visions of subsection (1), or
() is cultivated by the cultivator thereof otherwise than
in accordance with the provisions of subsection (2),
that person or that cultivator, as the case may be, shall .
be guilty of an offence, and shall on conviction after trial
before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding five
thousand rupees and in default of payment of the fine, to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceed
ing one month, and where such offence is continued after
conviction that person or that cultivator, as the case may
be, shall be liable to a fine of fifty rupees for each day in .
respect of which such offence is continued after conviction.
(5) In any prosecution of a person for an offence under
this section, the burden of proving that he had obtained
the permission of the Commissioner for doing the act
Which constitutes the offence shall be on such person. .
63, (1) Where on the date of operation of this Act there Hearing ot
is any appeal pending before the Board of Review in terms PEP Ging
of the provisions of section 53 of the Agricultural Lands before Board
Law, No. 42 of i973, such appeal shall be heard and con- Onder the.
cluded by an officer specially appointed for the purpose. Agricultural
No, 42 of |
(2) Where an officer appointed under subsection (1), 1973.
vacates his office by reason of death, resignation, removal
from office, absence abroad or illness, there shall be appoin-
ted a person to succeed him for the balance period of his
term of office.


38 Agrarian Services Act, No. $8 of 1979

z (8) An officer appointed under the provisions of sub-
section (1) shall, unless he vacates office, hold office for
a period of two years:

Provided that— 4

(@ an officer appointed in place of an officer who
has died, resigned or has been removed from office
under subsection (2) shall hold office for the un-
expired term of office of the last-mentioned
person; and

~ (b) an officer appointed to act for an officer who is
absent abroad or ill, shall hold office for the period of
absence or illness of the last-mentioned person.

(4) An officer vacating office by effluxion of time shall
be eligible for reappointment.

(5) Every officer so appointed shall in respect of every
appeal heard by him keep a record of all such proceedings
as relates to that appeal.

(©) An officer may examine any witness on oath or if he
thinks fit so to do may summon any person to appear before
him or to produce any document which may in his opinion be
relevant.

(1) If any person upon whom a summons has been
issued—

(@ fails without reasonable cause to appear before such
officer at the time and place mentioned in the
summons ; or

(b) refuses without reasonable cause to be sworn or
having been duly sworn, refuses or fails without
reasonable cause to answer any question put to him
by such officer or wilfully gives a false answer to
any such question ; or

(©) refuses or fails without reasonable cause to produce
before such officer any documents which are in his
possession and which he has been required to
produce,

such person shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(®) An officer may on any appeal made under this section,
confirm or vary the determination or decision from which
such appeal is made, and the decision of such officer on such
appeal shall be final.


Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 39
64, In any prosecution for an offence under this Act in Persons
_ addition to the persons empowered to prosecute under the fo ‘prosecute,
law for the time being in force in respect of criminal
procedure, the Commissioner, or any person authorized in
that behalf by the Commissioner, shall be entitled to conduct
the prosecution.

65. The Commissioner shall, for the purpose of hearing Commissioner
and deciding any dispute referred to him under this Act, {have 44.
have all the powers of a District Court— District Court

(@) to summon and compel the attendance of witnesses ;

(b) to compel the production of documents ; and

(©) to administer any oath or affirmation to witnesses.

66. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect Regulations.
of all matters which are stated or required by this Act to be
Prescribed or for which regulations are required by this
Act to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be pub-
lished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or upon such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.

(8) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Every regulation which
is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded’ as from
the date of such disapproval but without prejudice to any-
thing previously done thereunder. Notification of the date
on which any regulation is deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.

67. (1) The Agricultural Productivity Law, No. 2 of 1972, Repeals and
and the Agricultural Lands Law, No. 42 of 1973, are hereby “*™™*
repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Laws—

(@) all moneys lying to the credit of the Agricultural
Productivity Fund established under section 44
of the Agricultural Productivity Law, No. 2 of
1972, and all moneys lying to the credit of the
Food Production Fund established under the
provisions of section 14 of the Food Production
(Estates) Act shall be transfered to the Agrarian
Services Fund established under this Act;


40 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

(®) the assets and liabilities of the Agricultural Producti-
vity Committees established under the Agricultural
Productivity Law, No. 2 of 1972, and the Cultivation
Committees established under the Agricultural ,
Lands Law, No. 42 of 1973, shall be transferred to *
the Agrarian Services Committees established
under this Act;

(©) all Agricultural Productivity Committees established
under the Agricultural Productivity Law, No, 2 of
1972, shall continue to function until Agrarian
Services Committees are constituted under this

het;

(q) all proceedings under section 14 of the Paddy Lands
Act, No. 1 of 1958, before the Commissioner of
Agrarian Services which were pending under the
provisions of the Agricultural Lands Law, No. 42 of
1973, before an Agricultural Tribunal on the date
prior to the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be deemed to be null and void ;

(©) and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Prescription Ordinance all claims for damages

7 aceruing to tenant cultivators under section 4(7A)
of the Paddy Lands Act, No. 1 of 1958, and under
section 3(9) of the Agricultural Lands Law, No. 42
of 1973, shall be deemed to be claims accruing to
such tenants under the provisions of this Act and
shall be recoverable in the manner provided under
the corresponding provisions of this Act ;

() all proceedings pending before an Agricultural
Tribunal under the provisions of the Agricultural
Productivity Law, No. 2 of 1972, and the Agricul-

, tural Lands Law, No. 42 of 1973, on the date prior

: to the date of commencement of this Act shall be
deemed to be _ proceedings before the
Commissioner under the provisions of this Act and
shall accordingly be continued and conchided before
such Commissioner under the provisions of this
Act;

(g) all proceedings which have been commenced and
concluded before an Agricultural Tribunal under
the provisions of the Agricultural Productivity Law,
No. 2 of 1972, or the Agricultural Lands Law, No. 42
of 1973, and in respect of which no appeals have
‘been made to the Supreme Court under the provi-

! + sions of the aforesaid Laws or where appeals have


He Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 a

: been made and dismissed and where no steps for
enforcement of orders made in such proceedings
have been taken in the Magistrates’ Courts under
the provisions of the aforesaid Laws, such proceed-
ings shall be deemed to be proceedings under the
Provisions of this Act and shall be enforced in

. accordance with the corresponding provisions of
this Act ;

(h) all proceedings before the Magistrates’ Courts under
section 21 of the Paddy Lands Act, No. 1 of 1958,
which were pending or which had been instituted
and withdrawn on any ground whatsoever on a date
prior to the date of commencement of the Agri-
cultural Lands Law, No. 42 of 1973, shall be deemed
not to have abated or to have been discontinued or
in any way prejudicially affected by reason of the
repeal of the said Act or Law and accordingly all
such proceedings shall be continued and concluded
under the corresponding provisions of this Act ;

(i) all proceedings pending in any court under the pro-
visions of the Agricultural Productivity Law, No. 2
of 1972 or the Agricultural Lands Law, No. 42 of
1973, on the date prior to the date of commence-
ment of this Act shall be heard and concluded
under the provisions of this Act;

(G) every regulation made under the Agricultural Pro-
ductivity Law, No. 2 of 1972, and the Agricultural
Lands Law, No. 42 of 1973, and in force on the
date prior to the date of commencement
of this Act and which is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act shall be deemed to be a regu-
lation made under this Act and may accordingly
be amended, added to or rescinded by regulations
made under this Act,

68. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—  Interpre-

tion.
“agriculture” includes—

(® the growing of rice, field crops, spices and con-
diments, industrial crops, vegetables, fruits,
flowers, pasture and fodder ;

(ii) dairy farming, livestock rearing and breeding;

(ii) plant and fruit nurseries
A 42196 (19/00)


2 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979

“agricultural activity” means any activity involving
agriculture and includes the use of machinery and
equipment used in such activity and any activity
involving minor irrigation work ;

“agricultural land” means land used or capable of being
used for agriculture within the meaning of this Act
and shall include private lands, lands alienated
under the Land Development Ordinance or the
Crown Lands Ordinance or any other enactment ;

“citizen of Sri Lanka” means an individual who is a
citizen of Sri Lanka under any law for the time
being in force relating to citizenship ;

“construction” with reference to any irrigation work

} includes any improvement or extension of any
: irrigation work, or the repair or restoration of any
abandoned irrigation work, or (subject to the defi-
nition of “maintenance” hereinafter contained)
any operation for the protection of any irrigation
H work, or the irrigable area thereunder, or of any
} part of such work or area; ‘

“cultivator” with reference to an extent of paddy land
means any person, other than an Agrarian Services
Committee, who by himself or by any member of
his family, or jointly with any other person, carries
out on such extent :—

(a) two or more of the operations of ploughing,

; sowing and reaping ; and

(®) the operation of tending or watching the crop
in each season during which paddy is culti-
vated on such extent ;

“evict” means in relation to a tenant cultivator, to

> deprive by using direct or indirect methods that
tenant cultivator of his right to: use, occupy and
cultivate the whole or any part of the extent of
paddy land let to him;

“irrigation work” includes—

(a) any tank, bund, anicut, ela, channel, distribu-
tory, fleld channel or watercourse comprised
in or incidental or ancillary to the irrigation
work ;


: Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 43
(b) any structure, road, bridge, sluice, gate or
: other engineering work comprised in, or
incidental or ancillary to the construction or

} maintenance of the irrigation work;
i~ (© any structure, bund, sluice or other engineer-
: ing work erected for the purpose of draining
: any cultivated area or of preventing or regu-
lating the flow of salt water into or out of
: any such area or of protecting such area from

floods ;

“landlord” with reference to an extent of paddy land
means the person other than an owner cultivator,
who will for the time being be entitled to the rent
fn respect of such extent if it were let on rent to
any person, and includes any tenant of such extent
who lets it to any subtenant ; .

“let” with reference to any extent of paddy land, means
to permit any person, under an oral or written
agreement, to occupy and use such extent in con-
sideration of the performance of any service by him
or the payment of rent consisting of a sum of
money or a share of the produce from such extent ;

“loan” means any loan, advance or overdraft together
with interest thereon ;

“maintenance” with reference to any irrigation work

. includes any operation for the protection of any.
existing irrigation work or the irrigable area there-
~ under;

“member of the family” with reference to any person,
means the spouse or a son or daughter of that
Person and failing such spouse a son or daughter
of that person or a parent, brother or sister of that
person provided such person is a person whose main
occupation is cultivation and whose only source of
income is derived from such extent of paddy land;

“minor irrigation work” means an irrigation work ser
ving up to two hundred acres of agricultural land;

“occupier” shall mean the person for the time being
entitled to the use and occupation of agricultural

. land by virtue of his being the lessee or usu-
fractuary mortgagee and shall include persons in
use and occupation of agricultural lands alienated


z 44 Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of 1979 .
under the Land Development Ordinance, the
Crown Lands Ordinance or any other enactment,
and includes a tenant cultivator within the mean-
ing of this Act ;

“owner cultivator” with reference to any extent of
paddy land means the person who is the owner or
usufractuary mortage of such extent and who is
the cultivator of the entirety. of such extent and in
the case of an extent of paddy land which has been
alienated under the Land Development Ordinance,
the person who derives title to such extent and
who is the cultivator of the entirety of such extent
shall be deemed to be the owner cultivator of such
extent ;

“paddy land” means land which is cultivated with paddy
or is prepared for the cultivation of paddy or which,
having at any time previously been cultivated with
paddy, is suitable for. the cultivation of paddy, and
includes such other land adjoining or appurtaining
to it as may be used by the cultivator for a thresh-
ing floor or for constructing his dwelling house,
but does not include chena land or any land which,
with the permission of the Commissioner is used
for any purpose other than cultivation in

3 accordance with the provisions of this Act ;

“peace officer” has the same. meaning as in the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 ;

“prescribed bank” means any bank that may be
prescribed ;

“prescribed” means prescribed by this Act or by any
regulation made thereunder.
