PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 30 OF 2023

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th of November, 2023]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 17, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Local Authorities Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 2023

WS 6P L 01400806.09. 2023

Short title

[Certified on 17th of November, 2023]

L.D.O. 44/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 262)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Local AuthoritiesElections (Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 2023.

2.Section 28 of the Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Chapter 262) (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactment) is hereby amended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (2) of that section-

(a)by the substitution for the words, shall consistof the number of candidates of whom of thewords, shall consist of the number ofcandidates of whom not less than twenty-fiveper centum of the total number of candidatesnominated in both the First Nomination Paperand the Additional Nomination Paper shall beyouth candidates and of whom,; and

(b)by the substitution for the words, of such localauthority, substantially in the Forms set out inthe First Schedule, setting out the names- ofthe words, of such local authority. Thenomination papers submitted by everyrecognized political party or independentgroup in respect of all wards of any localauthority shall be substantially in the Formsset out in the First Schedule, setting out thenames-;

Amendment ofsection 28 ofChapter 262

Local Authorities Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 20232

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2A) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:-

(2A) The Commissioner shall by noticepublished in the Gazette, specify the minimumnumber of youth candidates to be nominated intotal in both the First Nomination Paper and theAdditional Nomination Paper and the minimumnumber of women candidates to be nominated inthe First Nomination Paper and the AdditionalNomination Paper as referred to in subsection (2),in respect of all wards of each local authority. Where-

(a)the total number of youth candidates tobe nominated is such that not less thantwenty-five per centum of the total numberof candidates nominated in both the FirstNomination Paper and the AdditionalNomination Paper; and

(b)the total number of women candidates tobe nominated is such that not less than tenper centum of the total numbers ofmembers to be elected and returned in theFirst Nomination Paper, and not less thanfifty per centum of the total number ofcandidates nominated in the AdditionalNomination Paper,

would be an integer and fraction, the integer shallbe deemed to be the number required for the purposeof this section.;

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2A)thereof of the following new subsection:-

3Local Authorities Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 2023

(2AA) For the avoidance of doubt it is herebydeclared that the total number of youth candidatesreferred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (2A) mayinclude male candidates and female candidates.; and

(4)by the repeal of subsections (2D) and (2E) of thatsection.

3. Section 31 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (f) of subsection (1) ofthat section and the substitution therefor of the followingparagraph:-

(f) that does not contain the total number of womenand youth candidates as required to benominated under subsection (2A) of section 28of this Ordinance..

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment ofsection 31 of theprincipalenactment

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Local Authorities Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 20234

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.