Price : Rs. 7.75Postage : Rs. 4.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PARLIAMENTARY SCHOLARSHIP BOARDACT, No. 22 OF 2002

[Certified on 04th October, 2002]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 04, 2002

Parliamentary Scholarship Board Act, No. 22 of 20021

[Certified on 04th October, 2002]

L. D. O. 48/2002.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA TO

PROMOTE EDUCATIONAL ADVANCEMENT BY PROVIDING ASSISTANCE

TO FACILITATE STUDY AND RESEARCH; TO ESTABLISH APARLIAMENTARY SCHOLARSHIP BOARD TO ADMINISTER THE AWARD

OF SCHOLARSHIPS; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Parliamentary ScholarshipBoard Act, No. 22 of 2002.

2.There shall be established for the purposes of this Act,a body to be called the Parliamentary Scholarship Board,(hereinafter referred to as the Board) charged with theadministration of the Act and the exercise, performance anddischarge of the powers, duties and functions assigned to orconferred on the Board, by this Act.

3. (1) The objectives of the Act shall be to promoteinternational co-operation for educational advancement byproviding for exchanges in higher education by financingstudies, research, instructions and other educational activitiesand by making provision for the award of post-graduatescholarships

(a)to citizens of Sri Lanka, who are pursuing highereducation in Sri Lanka, to attend institutes of highereducation abroad; and

(b)to citizens of foreign countries, to pursue highereducation in institutes of higher education in SriLanka.

(2) The objectives of the Act as set out in subsection (1)shall be implemented by the Board.

2H 0164415,550 (07/2002)

Objectives of theAct.

Establishment ofthe ParliamentaryScholarshipBoard.

Short title.

Parliamentary Scholarship Board Act, No. 22 of 20022

Manner ofdeterminationof fields ofstudy.

4. (1) The fields of study in respect of which postgraduateawards may be made shall be determined by the PrimeMinister and approved by a Resolution of Parliament. SuchResolution shall be moved in accordance with the StandingOrders of Parliament.

(2) The Prime Minister shall after consultation with theSpeaker, the Leader of the opposition and the Chairman ofthe Board, determine the number of scholarships to be awardedannually, and an estimate of the funding required for suchgrants, which shall be included in such Resolution as isspecified in subsection (1).

5.(1) The Board shall consist of

(a)three members appointed by the Speaker, on therecommendation of the Constitutional Council, oneof whom shall be a woman;

(b)one member nominated by the Vice Chancellors; and

(c)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Higher Education.

(2) The Prime Minister shall nominate one of the membersappointed under paragraph (a) of subsection (1), as theChairman of the Board.

(3) There shall be a Secretary to the Board, who shall bethe Chief Administrative Officer of the Board and who shallbe responsible for the implementation of all decisions of theBoard and for the excercise and discharge of any power orfunction delegated to him by the Board or which is conferredon or assigned to him by or under this law.

(4) The term of office of the Chairman and the membersappointed under paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) shallbe three years calculated from the date of their appointment.

Compositionof the Board&c.

Parliamentary Scholarship Board Act, No. 22 of 20023

Powers of theCorporation.

(5) The Speaker may, prior to the expiration of the termof office specified above, remove from office, on therecommendation of the Constitutional Council, the Chairmanor any member of the Board, for reasons assigned.

(6) The Chairman or a member as the case may be, shallbe eligible for re-appointment as Chairman or member, unlesshe has been removed from office in terms of subsection (2).

(7) The Chairman and the members shall be paid suchremuneration and allowances as may be determined by theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(8) The Board may act notwithstanding any vacancy inits composition and accordingly no act or decision of the Boardshall be invalidated by reason only of the existence of avacancy among its members or any defect in the appointmentof any member thereof.

(9) The procedure to be followed in the conduct of theaffairs of the Board and the conduct of the meetings of theBoard, shall be as prescribed.

6. The Board shall have the power

(a)to exercise, perform and discharge the powers, dutiesand functions conferred on or assigned to it, by thisAct ;

(b)to award post-graduate scholarships to citizens ofSri Lanka who obtained their first degree from anUniversity or degree awarding institute withinSri Lanka ;

(c)to award post-graduate scholarships to citizens offoreign countries who obtained their first degreefrom an University or of a degree awarding instituteabroad ;

Parliamentary Scholarship Board Act, No. 22 of 20024

Grants to be madeby contracts oragreements.

(d)to conduct orientation programmes, languagetraining courses for persons to whom awards havebeen made under the Act ;

(e)to provide other services out of the Fund of theBoard, to recipients of awards, whether local orforeign inclusive of expenses to facilitate travel fromthe residence of such persons ;

(f)to evaluate every award periodically in order toincrease the effectiveness of such programmes; and

(g)to do all such acts as may be necessary or incidentalto the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

7.(1) The award of the Post-graduate scholarships bythe Board shall be by way of a grant. The terms and conditionsof such grant shall be embodied in a contract or an agreemententered into between the Board and the recipient of suchaward. The matters to be included in such contract oragreement shall be as prescribed.

(2) The criteria to be followed by the Board in awardingthe scholarships shall be determined in consultation with thePrime Minister, the Speaker and the Leader of the Opposition.

(3) A grant made under subsection (1), shall include tutionfees, cost of travel, charges for accommodation, dailysubsistence rates as may be determined by the Board inconsultation with the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance, health and accident insurance inclusive of the costof any emergency medical expenses.

(4) If the recipient of an award dies whilst pursuing thecourse of study, the necessary expenses for transporting theremains of such person to their places of residence shall bemet by the Board.

Parliamentary Scholarship Board Act, No. 22 of 20025

(5) The Board may also approve requests for any otherunforeseen expenses by the recipient of a grant, upon theproduction to the Board of satisfactory proof in support ofsuch request.

8.There shall be a Fund of the Board out of which alldisbursements connected with the grant of scholarships shallbe made and into which shall be paid

(a)all moneys voted by Parliament for the purposes ofthis Act;

(b)all donations and grants, foreign or local, receivedby the Board ;

(c)all other gifts by way of money.

9.The Board shall cause to be placed before Parliamentfor every calendar year, a report of the activities of the Boardcontaining a statement of the scholarships awarded for suchyear and the funds utilised for the same.

10.(1) The Prime Minister may make regulations forgiving effect to the principles and provisions of this Act andfor any matter required or authorized by this Act to beprescribed.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1), regulations may be made inrespect of all or any of the following matters :

(a)the procedure to be followed in the conduct of theaffairs of the board and at meetings of the Board ;

(b)the matters to be embodied in any contract oragreements relating to the award of a scholarship.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication, or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

Fund of theBoard.

Report of theBoard.

Regulations.

Parliamentary Scholarship Board Act, No. 22 of 20026

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

(4) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, bebrought before Parliament for its approval. Any regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of such disapproval but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

11.In this Act

Constitutional Council means the Constitutional Councilappointed under Chapter VIIA of the Constitution.

12.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Parliamentary Scholarship Board Act, No. 22 of 20027

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.