PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 27.00 Postage : Rs. 20.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 25, 2014.

[Certified on 24th April, 2014]

Printed on the Order of Government

DEFAULT TAXES (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 14 OF 2014

Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20141

2PL 0080842,900 (03/2014)

[Certified on 24th April, 2014]

L. D- O. 12/2014.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE DEFAULT TAXES (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT,NO. 16 OF 2010

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Default Taxes (SpecialProvisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2014 .

2.Section 10 of the Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended as follows:-

(1)by re-numbering section 10 of that section assubsection (1) thereof ; and

(2)by the addition immediately after re- numberedsubsection (1), of the following subsection :-

(2) Where the Commissioner - General issatisfied that immediate action is necessary forthe recovery of a tax in default, he may, insteadof instituting an action under subsection (1), takethe steps stipulated in sections 10A, 10B, 10C,10D, 10E, 10F and 10G of this Act..

3.The following new sections are inserted immediatelyafter section 10 of the principal enactment and shall haveeffect as sections 10A, 10B, 10C, 10D, 10E, 10F and 10G ofthat enactment:-

10A. (1) Where the Commissioner- Generaldecides to take steps in terms of subsection (2)of section 10, to recover any tax in default heshall within fourteen days of the date on whichhe takes such steps , issue a notice to the

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 10 ofAct, No. 16 of2010.

Insertion ofSections 10A,10B,10C,10D,10E ,10F and 10G inthe principalenactment.Whereimmediateaction forrecovery oftax in defaultis necessary.

2Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2014

defaulter stating the particulars of the tax inrespect of which such steps have been takenand the nature of the steps taken.

(2) Where there is an appellate procedureagainst the assessment or assessments madeunder the relevant law, under which the tax indefault is charged and the defaulter has notappealed within the proper time under that lawagainst such assessment or assessments , hemay within thirty days of the notice issuedunder subsection (1), make any objection tothe tax so charged and the Commissioner-General shall, consider such objection and givehis decision thereon which shall be final:

Provided that, where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that owing to illness,absence from Sri Lanka or other reasonablecause, the defaulter was prevented fromobjecting within thirty days of the noticeissued under subsection (1), he shall grant anextension of time for preferring suchobjections.

(3) Where the tax recovered as a result ofany steps taken under subsection (1), is inexcess of the amount of tax determined undersubsection (2), to be payable by the defaulterin respect of any year of assessment, such excessshall be refunded to the defaulter:

Provided that, no refund under thissubsection shall exceed the tax recovered as aresult of steps taken under subsection (1).

10B. (1) Where a body corporate has notpaid any tax on or before the due date, asrequired by the relevant law under which suchtax in default is charged, it shall be lawful for

Recovery oftax fromprincipalofficers andothers.

Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20143

the Commissioner-General to proceed undersection 10A, 10B, 10C,10D,10E, 10F or 10Gof this Act against the manager, secretary, anydirector or any other principal officer of suchbody corporate, as if such manager, secretary,director or principal officer, as the case maybe, is responsible for such default, unless suchmanager, secretary, director or principalofficer, as the case may be, proves the contraryto the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General, notwithstanding anything in any otherwritten law relating to such body corporate.

(2) Where an unincorporated body ofpersons has not paid any tax on or before thedue date, as required by the relevant law underwhich the tax in default is charged, it shall belawful for the Commissioner-General toproceed under section 10A, 10B, 10C,10D,10E, 10F or 10G of this Act against any partneror office bearer of such unincorporatedbody of persons as if he is responsible forsuch default, unless such partner or officebearer, as the case may be, proves the contraryto the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General, notwithstanding anything in anyother written law.

10C. (1) The Commissioner-General mayappoint persons to be tax collectors under thisAct .

(2) (a) Where any tax is in default undersection 2 of this Act, the Commissioner-Generalmay issue a certificate to a Government Agent,Assistant Government Agent, Fiscal, DeputyFiscal or tax collector, containing particularsof such tax and the name of the defaulter andthe officer to whom such certificate is issued

Recoveryof tax byseizureand sale.

4Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2014

shall be empowered and is hereby required, tocause the tax to be recovered from the defaulternamed in the certificate by seizure and sale ofhis movable property.

(b) A seizure of movable property shall beeffected in such manner as such officer shalldeem most expedient in that behalf and as soonas any movable property is seized by suchofficer, a list of such property shall forthwithbe made and signed by him and shall be givento the defaulter and a copy thereof furnished tothe Commissioner-General.

(c ) Where the property so seized is

(i) cash in Sri Lankan currency, suchcash shall be first applied in thepayment of the cost and chargesof seizure and any balanceapplied in satisfaction of the taxin default;

(ii) cash in foreign currency, suchcash shall be deposited in theCentral Bank or any commercialbank and the proceeds therefromapplied to the payment of thecosts and charges of seizure andany balance applied insatisfaction of the tax in default;and

(iii) property other than cash, suchproperty shall be kept for fivedays at the cost and charges ofthe defaulter. If the defaulter doesnot pay the tax in defaulttogether with the costs and

Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20145

charges within the five days, theGovernment Agent, AssistantGovernment Agent, Fiscal,Deputy Fiscal or tax collectorshall cause such property to besold by public auction, or wheresuch property is a negotiableinstrument or a share in anycorporation or public company,to be sold through a broker at themarket rate of the day.

(d) The sum realized by a salereferred in sub-paragraph (iii) ofparagraph (c ) shall be applied -

(i) firstly, in payment of thecosts and charges ofseizing, keeping andselling of property; and

(ii) secondly, in satisfaction ofthe tax in default, and anybalance shall be paid to theowner of the propertyseized.

(e) It shall be lawful for any officerto recover from any defaulter,reasonable expenses incurred byhim in proceeding against suchdefaulter under this section,notwithstanding that no seizureof property was effected.

(f) In this subsection the expressionmovable property includes anyplant or machinery affixed to theground of a factory.

6Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2014

(3) Where any tax is in default and theCommissioner-General is of the opinion thatthe recovery by the means provided insubsection (2) is impracticable or inexpedient,he may issue a certificate to a District Courthaving jurisdiction in any district where thedefaulter resides or in which any property,movable or immovable, owned by the defaulteris situated, containing particulars of such taxand the name or names of the person or personsby whom the tax is payable, and the courtsshall thereupon direct a writ of execution toissue to the Fiscal, authorizing and requiringhim to seize and sell all or any of the property,movable and immovable, of the defaulter, orsuch part thereof as he may deem necessary forrecovery of the tax, and the provisions ofsections 226 to 297 of the Civil Procedure Code(Chapter 101) shall, mutatis mutandis, applyto such seizure and sale.

(4) Wherever the Commissioner-Generalissues a certificate under this section, he shallat the same time issue to the defaulter, whetherresident or non-resident, a notification thereofby personal service, registered letter sentthrough the post or telegraph; but the non-receipt of such notification by the defaultershall not invalidate proceedings under thissection.

10D. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is of the opinion in any case thatrecovery of tax in default by seizure and sale isimpracticable or inexpedient, or where the fullamount of the tax has not been recovered byseizure and sale, he may issue a certificatecontaining particulars of such tax and the nameand last known place of business or residence

Proceedingsfor recoverybeforeMagistrate.

Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20147

of the defaulter, to a Magistrate havingjurisdiction in the division in which suchplace is situated. The Magistrate shallthereupon summon such defaulter before himto show cause why further proceedings for therecovery of the tax should not be taken againsthim, and in default of sufficient cause beingshown the tax in default shall be deemed to bea fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrateon such defaulter for an offence punishablewith fine only or not punishable withimprisonment, and the provisions of subsection(1) of section 291 (except paragraphs (a), (d)and (i) thereof) of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 relating todefault of payment of a fine imposed for suchan offence shall thereupon apply, and theMagistrate may make any direction which, bythe provisions of that subsection, he could havemade at the time of imposing such sentence.

(2) The correctness of any statement in acertificate issued by the Commissioner-Generalfor the purposes of subsection (1), shall not becalled in question or examined by theMagistrate in any proceeding under this sectionand accordingly, nothing in that subsectionshall be read and construed as authorizing aMagistrate to consider, or decide thecorrectness of any statement in such certificateor to postpone or defer such proceeding for aperiod exceeding thirty days, by reason onlyof the fact that an appeal is pending againstthe assessment, in respect of which the tax indefault is charged.

(3) Nothing in subsections (2) to (5) ofsection 291 of the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979, shall apply in any casereferred to in subsection (1) of this section.

8Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2014

(4) In any case referred to in subsection (1)in which the defaulter is sentenced toimprisonment in default of payment of thefine deemed by that subsection to have beenimposed on him, the Magistrate may allow timefor the payment of the amount of that fine ordirect payment of that amount to be made ininstalments.

(5) The Court may require bail to be givenas a condition precedent to allowing time undersubsection (1) for showing cause as thereinprovided, or under subsection (4) for thepayment of the fine; and the provisions ofChapter XXXIV of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall apply,where the defaulter is so required to give bail.

(6) Where a Magistrate directs undersubsection (4) that payment be made ininstalments and default is made in the paymentof any one instalment, proceedings may betaken as if default had been made in paymentof all the instalments then remaining unpaid.

(7) In any proceeding under subsection(1), the Commissioner-Generals certificateshall be sufficient evidence that the tax hasbeen duly assessed and is in default, and anyplea that the tax is excessive, incorrect, or underappeal, shall not be entertained.

(8) Where the tax default referred to in thissection is made by a body corporate , or anunincorporated body of persons, the manager,secretary, any director or any other principalofficer of such body corporate, or any partneror office bearer of such unincorporated bodyof persons, as the case may be, in addition to a

Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20149

fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrateunder this section, shall be liable onconviction after summary trial before theMagistrate, to an imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not exceeding threemonths:

Provided that, the Magistrate may allowsuch manager, secretary, any director or anyother principal officer of such body corporate,or any partner or office bearer of suchunincorporated body of persons, as the casemay be, to show cause that he is not responsiblefor such default or that he has taken allnecessary steps within his power to avoid thedefault of such tax.

10E. (1) Where tax payable by any personunder any of the laws specified in the Scheduleto this Act is in default and the Commissioner-General is of the opinion that recovery of taxin default in terms of sections 10A, 10B,10Cand 10D is impracticable or inexpedient and italso appears to him to be probable that anyother person

(a) owes or is about to pay money to thedefaulter or his agent;

(b) holds money for or on account of thedefaulter or his agent;

(c) holds money on account of some otherperson for payment to the defaulter orhis agent; or

(d) has authority from some other person topay money to the defaulter or his agent,

Recovery oftax out ofdebts & c.

10Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2014

the Commissioner-General may give to suchother person notice in writing (a copy of whichshall be sent by post to the defaulter) requiringhim to pay any such moneys not exceedingthe amount of the tax in default, to the officernamed in such notice. The notice shall applyto all such moneys which are in his hands ordue from him at the date of receipt of suchnotice, or come into his hands or become duefrom him or are about to be paid by him at anytime within a period of three months, after thedate of such notice.

(2) Where a person holds money for or onaccount of the defaulter and any other personor persons jointly (in this section referred toas the joint account holder or holders) theCommissioner-General may give a noticeunder subsection (1) to such person, requiringhim to pay the amount of the tax in default orpart thereof to the officer named in such notice,out of the monies or such part of such moneysin the joint account which the Commissioner-General is satisfied is attributable to thecontributions made by the defaulter, and is socertified by the Commissioner-General:

Provided that

(a) every person remitting money incompliance with a notice issuedunder subsection (1), shall intimatesuch fact to every other joint accountholder;

(b) every joint account holder other thanthe defaulter may, within two weeksof the date on which he received anintimation under paragraph (a),

Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 201411

make a claim to the Commissioner-General in respect of any part of suchremittance which represents his netcontribution to the balance in suchjoint account as at the date of noticeissued by the Commissioner-General, and the Commissioner-General shall consider such claimand make his order thereon;

(c) every joint account holder who isaggrieved by the order of theCommissioner-General made underparagraph (b), may institute anaction in the District Court seekingan order for the recovery of suchmoney or part of such money whichhe claims to be attributable to thecontributions made by him.

(3) Notwithstanding any provision in thePrescription Ordinance (Chapter 68), no actionshall be instituted for the recovery of suchmoney or part of such money after theexpiration of three months from the date ofnotice issued by the Commissioner-General.

(4) Any person who has made anypayment in pursuance of this section shall bedeemed to have acted under the authority ofthe defaulter, and of all other personsconcerned, and hereby indemnified in respectof such payment against all proceedings, civilor criminal, notwithstanding the provisions ofany written law, contract or agreement.

(5) Any person to whom a notice has beengiven under subsection (1), who is unable tocomply therewith owing to the fact

12Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2014

that no moneys referred to in that subsectionhave come into his hands or that no suchmoneys have become due from him within theperiod referred to in that subsection, shallwithin fourteen days of expiration thereof, givenotice in writing to the Commissioner-Generalapprising him of the facts.

(6) Where any person to whom a noticehas been given under subsection (1), is unableto comply therewith and has failed to givenotice to the Commissioner-General asprovided in subsection (5), or where suchperson has deducted or could have deductedthe tax to which the notice relates or any partthereof, and has not paid over, as required bythe Commissioner-General the amount of suchtax or part thereof within fourteen days afterthe expiration of the period referred to insubsection (1), such person shall, if he is anindividual be liable, or where such person is acompany or body of persons whether corporateor unincorporated, the secretary, manager orother principal officer of such company orbody shall be personally liable, for the wholeof the tax which such person has been requiredto deduct, and such tax may be recovered fromsuch individual, secretary, manager or otherprincipal officer, as the case may be, by any ofthe means provided in this Act.

(7) For the purpose of this section, theexpression defaulter shall be deemed toinclude the agent of a person who is in defaultand the provisions of this section shall applyin any case where the tax which would havebeen payable by any person if he were alive is

Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 201413

in default; and for the purposes of theapplication of those provisions in any suchcase, the expression defaulter in subsection(1) means -

(a)the executor or administrator of adeceased person;

(b)any person who takes possession of orintermeddles with, the property of adeceased person; or

(c)any person who has applied or isentitled to apply to a District Court forthe grant or resealing of a probate orletters of administration, in respect ofthe estate of a deceased person .

10F. (1) Any person liable to pay tax indefault under any of the laws specified in theSchedule to this Act , may apply to theCommissioner-General to transfer anyimmovable property owned by such person tothe Government, in lieu of payment of suchtax in cash at such value as is placed on suchproperty by agreement between such personand the Commissioner-General, and theCommissioner-General may allow suchapplication having regard to the feasibility ofmanaging such property after it is transferredto the Government.

(2) Where the Commissioner-Generalallows an application made under subsection(1), and the amount agreed to in accordancewith the provisions of that subsection as thevalue of the property in respect of which theapplication is made, exceeds the amount oftax payable by the applicant, the excess shall

Transfer ofimmovableproperty toGovernmentin lieu ofpayment oftax in cash.

14Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2014

be deemed to be a donation within the meaningof paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 34of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006,made to the Government of Sri Lanka by theapplicant.

10G. (1) The Commissioner-General may,by notice in writing given to any employer ofan employee or to the person responsible forthe payment of remuneration of an employee,direct such employer or person to deduct duringsuch period as may be specified in such notice,from the remuneration of such employee, theamount of tax in default payable by suchemployee , in such number of monthlyinstalments as may be specified in such notice.The amount so deducted in each month fromthe remuneration of an employee shall be paidto the Commissioner-General by such employeror such person, as the case may be.

(2) Where any tax is deducted undersubsection(1) from the remuneration of anemployee by his employer or by the personresponsible for the payment of suchremuneration, such employee shall for thepurposes of this Act, be deemed to have paidsuch tax or part thereof on the date on whichthe deduction is made.

(3) The Commissioner-General may at anytime after he has made a direction undersubsection (1), withdraw such direction whollyor partly by notice given in writing to theemployer or the person responsible for thepayment of the remuneration of the employee,if the employee has made arrangements to thesatisfaction of the Commissioner-General, forthe payment of his tax in default.

Tax indefault to berecoveredfromremunerationofemployees.

Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 201415

(4) Where any employee from whoseremuneration any tax in default is to bededucted under the preceding provisions ofthis section by his employer or the personresponsible for the payment of suchremuneration, is about to leave or leaves hisemployment, the employer or such person shalldeduct the whole amount of such tax or anybalance thereof which he has been directed todeduct by the notice given to him by theCommissioner-General, from all or anypayments payable by him to such employee,after he becomes aware that such employee isleaving , or has left, his employment.

(5) Where a direction for the deduction ofany tax from the remuneration of an employeeis given under subsection(1) to his employeror to the person responsible for the payment ofsuch remuneration, and such employer orperson is unable to deduct the whole or anypart of such tax for the reason that suchemployee has left his employment or for anyother reason, such employer or person shallforthwith give notice in writing to theCommissioner General apprising him of thefacts of the matter, and any tax which suchemployer or person has not deducted or cannotdeduct, shall immediately become payable bythe employee and be recovered by any of themeans provided under this Act.

(6) Where the employer or the personresponsible for the payment of remunerationto an employee has failed to deduct from suchremuneration any tax which he has beendirected to deduct under subsection (1), andsuch employer or person has failed to givenotice to the Commissioner-General as required

16Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2014

by subsection (5), within fourteen days of thedate on which such deduction should have beenmade, or where such employer or person hasdeducted or could have deducted tax in anymonth from such remuneration in accordancewith a direction under subsection (1), but hasnot paid the amount of such tax to theCommissioner-General by the fifteenth day ofthe following month, such employer or person,if he is an individual, shall be liable, or wheresuch employer or person is a company or abody of persons, whether corporate orunincorporated, the secretary, manager or otherprincipal officer of such company or body shallbe personally liable, for the whole of the taxwhich such employer or such person has beendirected to deduct under this section, and suchtax may be recovered from such individual,secretary, manager or other principal officerby any of the means provided in this Act, andsuch tax shall be deemed to be in default.

(7) Every employer or other person whodeducts tax from the remuneration of anyemployee in accordance with a direction undersubsection (1), shall on request made by suchemployee, issue to him a certificate in suchform as is specified by the Commissioner-General, of the amount of tax deducted..

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Default Taxes (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 201417

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.