PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL MEDICINES REGULATORYAUTHORITY ACT, No. 5 OF 2015

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th March, 2015]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 100.00Postage : Rs. 70.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 20, 2015

1National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

2PL 0088182,950 (02/2015)

[Certified on 19th March, 2015]

L.D.O. 21/2012

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A REGULATORY

AUTHORITY TO BE KNOWN AS THE NATIONAL MEDICINES

REGULATORY AUTHORITY WHICH SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE

FOR THE REGULATION AND CONTROL OF, REGISTRATION,

LICENSING, MANUFACTURE, IMPORTATION AND ALL OTHER

ASPECTS PERTAINING TO MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES,

BOARDERLINE PRODUCTS AND FOR THE CONDUCTING OF CLINICAL

TRIALS IN A MANNER COMPATIBLE WITH THE NATIONAL MEDICINES

POLICY; TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF DIVISIONS OF

THE NATIONAL MEDICINES REGULATORY AUTHORITY

INCLUDING THE MEDICINES REGULATORY DIVISION, MEDICAL

DEVICES REGULATORY DIVISION, BORDERLINE PRODUCTS

REGULATORY DIVISION AND CLINICAL TRIALS REGULATORY

DIVISION; TO ESTABLISH A NATIONAL ADVISORY BODY; TO REPEAL

THE COSMETICS, DEVICES AND DRUGS ACT, NO. 27 OF 1980;

AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the National

Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5 of

2015 and shall come into operation on such date as

the Minister may appoint by Order published in

the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the appointed

date).

Short title anddate ofoperation.

2National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

CHAPTER I

NATIONAL MEDICINES REGULATORYAUTHORITY

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE AUTHORITY

2.(1) There shall be established an authority called theNational Medicines Regulatory Authority (hereinafterreferred to as the Authority).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it by thissection be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3.The objects of the Authority shall be to

(a) ensure the availability of efficacious, safe andgood quality medicines, efficacious, safe andgood quality medical devices and efficacious,safe and good quality borderline products to thegeneral public at affordable prices;

(b) function as the central regulator for all mattersconnected with the registration, licensing,cancellation of registration or licensing, pricing,manufacture, importation, storage, transport,distribution, sale, advertising and disposal ofmedicines, medical devices and borderlineproducts;

(c) ensure that all activities related to registration,licensing and importation of medicines, medicaldevices, borderline products and investigationalmedicinal products are carried out in atransparent, sustainable and equitable manner;

Objects of theAuthority.

Establishment ofthe NationalMedicinesRegulatoryAuthority.

3National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(d) encourage the manufacturing of good qualitymedicines in Sri Lanka with a view to assuringthe availability of essential medicines ataffordable prices;

(e) promote the safe and rational use of medicines,medical devices and borderline products byhealth care professionals and consumers;

(f) recommend appropriate amendments to relevantlaws pertaining to medicines, medical devicesand borderline products;

(g) educate the general public, health careprofessionals and all stakeholders on medicines,medical devices and borderline products;

(h) regulate the promotion and marketing ofmedicines, medical devices and borderlineproducts;

(i) regulate the availability of the medicines,medical devices and borderline products;

(j) conduct post marketing surveillance on quality,safety and adverse reaction of the medicines,medical devices and borderline products; and

(k) regulate all matters pertaining to the conduct ofclinical trials in Sri Lanka.

4.The Authority shall consist of the following :-

(a) ex-officio members

(i) the Director-General of Health Services;

(ii) the Secretary to the Treasury or hisnominee; and

(iii) the Chief Executive Officer of theAuthority appointed under section 15who shall function as the Secretary to theAuthority;

Constitution ofthe Authority.

4National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b) following persons who shall be appointed bythe Minister, (hereinafter referred to asappointed members)

(i) four specialist clinicians attached to theMinistry of Health, representing thefollowing clinical disciplines, nominatedby their respective professional bodies:-

(A) General Medicine;

(B) General Surgery;

(C) Pediatrics; and

(D) Gynaecology and Obstetrics;

(ii) a Professor in Pharmacology of anyUniversity in Sri Lanka established underthe Universities Act, No.16 of 1978,appointed in rotation for every three years,in consultation with the respective Deansof Faculties of Medicine;

(iii) a Professor or Senior Lecturer in Pharmacyof any University in Sri Lanka establishedunder the Universities Act, No.16 of 1978,appointed in rotation for every three years,in consultation with the respective Deansof relevant Faculties;

(iv) four professionals, who have gainedeminence in the fields of management, law,accountancy or health respectively.

5.(1) The Minister shall, in consultation with theAuthority appoint one of the appointed members to be theChairman of the Authority.

Chairman of theAuthority.

5National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(2) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairmanby letter addressed to the Minister and such resignation shallbe effective from the date on which it is accepted by theMinister.

(3) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove theChairman from the office of Chairman.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),the term of office of the Chairman shall be the period of hismembership of the Authority.

(5) Where the Chairman is temporarily unable to performthe duties of his office due to ill health, other infirmity,absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister mayappoint any other appointed member to act as Chairman inaddition to his normal duties as an appointed member.

6.(1) The Minister shall, prior to appointing a personas a member of the Authority, satisfy himself that such personhas no financial or other conflict of interest in the affairs ofthe Authority, as is likely to affect adversely, the dischargingof his functions as a member of the Authority.

(2) The Minister shall also satisfy himself, from time totime, that no member of the Authority has since beingappointed acquired any such interest.

(3) The person to be appointed as a member of theAuthority shall be a person who has not been engaged inany employment or assignment in the pharmaceuticalindustry within the period of three years immediately priorto such appointment.

(4) No person shall engage in any employment orassisgnment in the pharmaceutical industry within the periodof three years immediately after such person ceased to be amember of the Authority.

(5) (a) A member of the Authority who is in any way,directly or indirectly interested in any contract made or

Conflict ofinterests of themembers.

6National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

proposed to be made by the Authority shall disclose thenature of his interest at a meeting of the Authority; and

(b) Such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes ofthe Authority and the member shall not participate in anydeliberation or decision of the Authority with regard to thatcontract.

(6) Minister may make regulations to further specify andgive effect to the provisions of this section.

(7) For the purposes of this section-

a member of the Authority includes the Chairman,an appointed member and an ex-officio member;and

conflict of interest includes any dealing with anycompany or undertaking which engages inmanufacturing, importation, distribution or saleof medicines, medical devices, borderline productsor investigational medicinal products.

7.A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Authority, if he

(a)is or becomes a Member of Parliament, anyProvincial Council or of any Local Authority;

(b)is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)directly or indirectly holds or enjoys any right orbenefit under any contract made by or on behalf ofthe Authority;

(d)has any financial or other interest as is likely toaffect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Authority;

Disqualificationsto be a member.

7National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(e)is absent himself from three consecutive meetingsof the Authority;

(f)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any othercountry, found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(g)is a person who having been declared as insolventor bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka orin any other country, is an undischarged insolventor bankrupt; or

(h)is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any othercountry.

8.Every ex-officio member of the Authority shall holdoffice so long as such officer holds office by virtue of whichsuch officer has been appointed to the Authority.

9.(1) Every appointed member of the Authority shall,unless such officer vacates office earlier by death, resignationor removal, hold office for a period of three years, and shallbe eligible for re-appointment, unless removed ondisciplinary grounds.

(2) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove anyappointed member from office.

(3) Any appointed member may resign from office at anytime by letter addressed in that behalf to the Minister andsuch resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted bythe Minister.

(4) (a) In the event of the death, resignation or removalfrom office of any appointed member, the Minister mayhaving regard to the provisions of this Act in relation to theappointment of that particular appointed member, appointanother person to act in his place.

Ex-officiomembers.

Provisionsrelating toappointedmembers.

8National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b) The Minister shall appoint the member for thepurposes of paragraph (a) within one month of the occurrenceof such vacancy.

(c) The member appointed under paragraph (a) shall holdoffice for the unexpired period of the term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

(5) Where any appointed member is temporarily unableto perform the duties of his office due to ill health or absencefrom Sri Lanka or for any other reason, the Minister mayhaving regard to the provisions of section 4(b) appointanother person to act in his place.

(6) Subject to the preceding provisions, an appointedmember may continue to hold office, after lapse of the periodof three years referred to in subsection (1), untilhe is reappointed or a new member is appointed by theMinister.

10.(1) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting ofthe Authority. Where the Chairman is absent, the memberspresent shall elect a Chairman for that meeting from amongthemselves.

(2) (a) All matters for decision by the Authority shall bedealt with at a meeting, of the Authority and shall bedetermined by the majority of the members present andvoting.

(b) In the event of an equality of votes on any questionconsidered at a meeting the Chairman of that meeting shallhave a casting vote in addition to his original vote.

(c) All decisions of the Authority supported by reasons,shall be in writing and the seal of the Authority affixedthereto.

Meetings of theAuthority.

9National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) (a) Any member of the Authority may by writtennotice, request the Chairman to call a meeting and theChairman shall not otherwise than for justifiable reasonsrefuse to do so.

(b) The Chief Executive Officer appointed under section15 shall summon all meetings of the Authority.

(4) No act, decision or proceeding of the Authority, shallbe deemed to be invalidated by reason only of the existenceof any vacancy of the Authority or any defect in theappointment of any member thereof.

(5) The quorum for any meeting of the Authority shall beseven.

(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Authority may regulate the procedure with regard to themeetings of the Authority and the transaction of business atsuch meeting.

11.(1) The seal of the Authority shall be as determinedby the Authority.

(2) The seal of the Authority -

(a) may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Authority;

(b) shall be in the custody of such person or personsas the Authority may, determine;

(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument without the sanction of the Authorityand except in the presence of two members ofthe Authority, both of whom shall sign theinstrument or document in token of theirpresence.

The Seal.

10National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) The Authority shall maintain a register of documentsto which the seal of the Authority has been affixed.

12. (a) The Authority may invite experts on a relevantsubject matter to meetings of the Authority for the purposeof obtaining their views for the effective discharge of thefunctions of the Authority.

(b) The Authority shall have the discretion of acceptingor rejecting the views of the experts.

(c) The experts shall have no voting rights.

13.The members of the Authority and the experts maybe paid such remuneration for attendance at meetings of theAuthority, as may be determined by the Minister with theconcurrence of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

14.The powers and functions of the Authority shall beto :-

(a)decide on classifying a product as a medicine,medical device, borderline product or any otherproduct;

(b)authorize registration and licensing of medicines,medical devices, borderline products andinvestigational medicinal products or cancel orsuspend any such registration or licence in terms ofthis Act;

(c)regulate the registration, licensing, manufacture,importation, storage, re-packing, transportation,distribution, sale, advertising, promotion, recall anddisposal of medicines, medical devices, borderlineproducts or investigational medicinal products;

Authority toinvite experts tomeetings.

Remunerationfor attendingmeetings of theAuthority.

Powers andfunctions oftheAuthority.

11National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(d)authorize registration and regulation of Pharmaciesand medicines stores;

(e)issue licences for manufacture, import, storage,distribution, transport and sale of medicines,medical devices, borderline products orinvestigational medicinal products and to cancelsuch licences in terms of this Act;

(f)appoint sub-committees as may be necessary forthe effective discharge of the functions of theAuthority;

(g)grant approval for the custom clearance ofconsignments of medicines, medical devices,borderline products, raw materials, packingmaterials, machinery or laboratory material neededfor local manufacture of medicines, medicaldevices, borderline products or investigationalmedicinal products subject to the provisions of thisAct and any other written law;

(h)conduct awareness programmes in relation tomedicines, medical devices and borderline productsand post market surveillance on the quality andsafety of medicines, medical devices, borderlineproducts and investigational medicinal productswhich are registered and licensed under this Act;

(i)monitor the registration and licensing process andthe usage of medicines, medical devices, borderlineproducts or investigational medicinal productswhich are registered and licensed under this Act foradverse reactions through use thereof, and to takeimmediate and necessary action in such an instance;

(j)collect data on quantities of medicines, medicaldevices, borderline products or investigationalmedicinal products imported under licences;

12National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(k)collect data on utilization of medicines, medicaldevices, borderline products and investigationalmedicinal products in Sri Lanka, including data onexpenditure of industry and trade, relating topromotional activities;

(l)advise the Minister on matters which are requiredto be prescribed;

(m)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, anymovable or immovable property;

(n)charge fees where necessary and appropriate in thedischarge of its functions;

(o)recognize and appoint other local or overseaslaboratories for testing of any medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product as may be deemednecessary;

(p)follow Good Regulatory Practices (GRP) asprescribed in regulations;

(q)determine the initial price of medicines, medicaldevices and borderline products and advise theMinister on subsequent price revisions;

(r)provide information pertaining to the functions ofthe Authority to the stakeholders and generalpublic; and

(s)issue, review and update guidelines,recommendations, directives and rules as applicableto medicines, medical devices and borderlineproducts.

13National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

PART II

APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND STAFF OF THEAUTHORITY

15.(1) The Authority shall in consultation with theMinister, appoint to the Staff of the Authority a ChiefExecutive Officer (hereinafter referred to as the CEO) fromamong persons who hold a postgraduate degree from arecognized University in Medicine, Pharmacology,Pharmacy or any other related discipline with at least fiveyears management experience at senior executive level.

(2) The CEO shall subject to the general directions andsupervision of the Authority -

(a)be charged with the administration of the affairs ofthe Authority including the administration andcontrol of the staff;

(b)be responsible for the execution of all decisions ofthe Authority;

(c)carry out all such functions as may be assigned tohim by the Authority; and

(d)function as the Secretary to the Authority.

(3) The Authority may in consultation with the Ministerremove the CEO from office -

(a)if he becomes permanently incapable of performinghis duties;

(b)if he has done any act which, is of a fraudulent orillegal character or is prejudicial to the interests ofthe Authority; or

Appointment ofthe ChiefExecutiveOfficer of theAuthority.

14National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(c)has failed to comply with any directions issued bythe Authority.

(4) The term of office of the CEO shall be for a period ofthree years from the date of appointment and shall be eligiblefor re-appointment.

(5) The office of the CEO shall become vacant upon thedeath, removal from office under subsection (3) or resignationby letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister by the holderof that office.

(6) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the CEO, theAuthority may appoint any other suitable officer of theAuthority to perform the duties of the CEO until anappointment is made under subsection (1).

16.(1) The Authority may appoint such technical andother officers and employees as may be necessary for theefficient discharge of its functions.

(2) The Authority may, in respect of the officers andemployees appointed to the Authority under subsection (1)-

(a)exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss suchofficers and employees;

(b)fix the rates at which such officers and employeesshall be remunerated in keeping with relatedguidelines of the Government;

(c)determine the terms and conditions of employmentof such officers and employees; and

(d)establish a staff welfare and social security schemesfor the benefit of such officers and employees andmake contributions to any such schemes.

Staff of theAuthority.

15National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) The Authority may make rules in respect of all or anyof the matters referred to in subsections (1) and (2).

(4) The Authority shall not however appoint as an officeror an employee of the Authority, any person who has beendismissed from any previous position held by such personin the public or private sector as an officer or an employee.

17.(1) At the request of the Authority any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and theSecretary to the Ministry under which that officer isemployed, and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Public Administration, betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority for suchperiod as may be determined by the Authority or with likeconsent, be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsection 14(2) of the National Transport Commission Act,No.37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and inrelation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsection 14(3) of the National Transport Commission Act,No.37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and inrelation to such officer.

(4) Where any officer or employee of the Department ofHealth is appointed to the staff of the Authority, theprovisions of sections 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the NationalAquaculture Development Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No.53 of 1998 shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in relationto such officer or employee.

(5) Where the Authority employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which he

Public officersto be appointedto the Staff ofthe Authority.

16National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

has agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,any period of service with the Authority by that person shallbe regarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

PART III

FINANCE

18.(1) The Authority shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund -

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted uponfrom time to time by Parliament for the use ofthe Authority;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received bythe Authority by way of charges and levied forservices provided by the Authority under thisAct;

(c)all such sums of money as may be received bythe Authority in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers and functions underthis Act;

(d)all such sums of money as may be received bythe Authority by way of loans, donations, giftsand grants ;

(e)all such sums of money accruing to the credit ofthe Authority; and

(f)all such sums of money received by alienating,leasing or renting of property owned by theAuthority.

Fund of theAuthority.

17National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums ofmoney required to defray the expenditure incurred by theAuthority in the exercise and performance of its powers andfunctions under this Act.

19.The Authority may open and maintain any accountwith any bank as it may think appropriate, and such accountshall be operated in accordance with prevailing financialregulations of the Government pertaining to financialtransactions of public corporations.

20.(1) The financial year of the Authority shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Authority shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other financial transactions of the Authority.

(3) For the purpose of presenting a true and fair view ofthe financial performance and financial condition of theAuthority, the Authority shall prepare the accounts inaccordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standardsadopted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of SriLanka under the Sri Lanka Accounting and AuditingStandards Act, No. 15 of 1995.

(4) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.

21.Moneys belonging to the Authority may, with theapproval of the Minister and with the concurrence of theMinister assigned the subject of Finance, be invested inGovernment approved securities.

22.(1) The Authority may, with the written consent ofthe Minister and the Minister assigned the subject of Financeand in accordance with the terms of any general authoritygiven, borrow or obtain on credit terms such sums as theAuthority may require to meet the obligations of theAuthority.

Authority tomaintainaccounts.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts.

Investment offunds.

Borrowingpowers of theAuthority.

18National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(2) The aggregate of the amount outstanding in respectof any loans raised by the Authority under this section shallnot at any time exceed such amount as may be determinedby the Minister.

PART IV

GENERAL

23.(1) The Authority shall within six months of theend of each financial year, submit to the Minister an annualreport of the activities carried on by the Authority duringthat financial year, and cause a copy each of the followingdocuments to be attached to the report

(a)the audited accounts of the Authority for the yearalong with the Auditor-Generals report; and

(b)a report of proposed activities for the yearimmediately following, the year to which suchreport and accounts relates.

(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the report anddocuments submitted under subsection (1) before Parliamentwithin six months from the date of receipt of such report.

24.Every member of the Authority and all officers andemployees of the Authority shall, before entering uponduties, sign a declaration pledging to observe strict secrecyin respect of all matters connected with the affairs of theAuthority, which has come to his knowledge in theperformance or exercise of his powers and functions underthis Act and shall by such declaration pledge himself not todisclose any such matter, except -

(a)when required to do so by a court of law; or

(b)for the purpose of exercising or performing thepowers and functions under this Act or any otherwritten law.

Annual Report.

Declaration ofsecrecy.

19National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

25.(1) The Authority may in writing and subject tosuch conditions as may be specified therein, delegate to theCEO and any Head of the relevant division of the Authorityany of its powers or functions and any such person or anyHead of the relevant division shall exercise or perform suchpowers or functions in the name and on behalf, of theAuthority.

(2) The Authority may, notwithstanding any delegationmade under subsection (1), by itself exercise or perform anypower or function so delegated and may at any time revokeany such delegation.

26.(1) The Minister may from time to time, issue to theAuthority such general or special directions in writing as tothe exercise and performance of its powers and functions soas to ensure the giving proper effect to Government Policyand it shall be the duty of the Authority to give effect tosuch directions.

(2) The Minister may direct the Authority to furnish tohim in such form as he may require, returns, accounts andany other information relating to the work of the Authority,and it shall be the duty of the Authority to give effect tosuch directions.

27.The CEO and the officers and employees of theAuthority shall be deemed to be public officers within themeaning of and for the purposes of the Penal Code .

28.The Authority shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning and for the purposes of theBribery Act and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

29.(1) Any expenses incurred by the Authority in anysuit or prosecution brought by or against it before any Court,shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority and any costspaid to or recovered by the Authority in any such suit orprosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

Delegation ofpowers of theAuthority.

Directions bythe Minister.

Officers andemployees ofthe Authoritydeemed to bepublic officers.Authoritydeemed to be aScheduledinstitution.

Expenses in suitor prosecutionto be paid out ofthe Fund.

20National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(2) Expenses incurred by any member, the CEO or anyofficer or employee of the Authority in any suit orprosecution brought against him before any Court orTribunal in respect of any act which is done or purported tobe done by him under the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law or if the court holds that such act was done ingood faith, be paid out of the Fund of the Authority, unlesssuch expenses are recoverable by him in such suit orprosecution.

CHAPTER II

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ANDDIVISIONS OF THE AUTHORITY

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL ADVISORYCOMMITTEE AND DIVISIONS

30.(1) There shall be established a National AdvisoryCommittee, the main function of which shall be to advisethe Minister and the Authority on matters pertaining toproper implementation of the National Medicines Policy ofSri Lanka.

(2) There shall be established divisions of the Authorityincluding the following divisions-

(i)National Medicine Quality Assurance Laboratory(NMQAL) which shall be responsible for theanalysing of the quality of any medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product forwarded by theAuthority.

(ii)Medicines Regulatory Division, which shall beresponsible for regulation and control of all aspectspertaining to medicines as may be authorized anddirected by the Authority;

Establishment ofNationalAdvisoryCommittee anddivisions.

21National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(iii)Medical Devices Regulatory Division which shallbe responsible for regulation and control of allaspects pertaining to medical devices as may beauthorized and directed by the Authority;

(iv)Borderline Products Regulatory Division whichshall be responsible for regulation and control ofall aspects pertaining to borderline products as maybe authorized and directed by the Authority;

(v)Clinical Trials Regulatory Division which shall beresponsible for regulation and control of all aspectspertaining to clinical trials carried out in Sri Lankaas may be authorized and directed by the Authority;

(vi)Information, Education, Communication andResearch Division which shall be responsible foreducating the people as well as stake holders andhealthcare professionals on rational use ofmedicines, medical devices and borderline productsand promoting research into medicines, medicaldevices and borderline products as may beauthorized and directed by the Authority;

(vii)Inspectorate and Enforcement Division which shallbe responsible for inspecting and investigatingissues pertaining to proper implementation of theprovisions of this Act as may be authorized anddirected by the Authority;

(viii)Pharmacovigilance Division which shall beresponsible for monitoring and dealing with adversedrug reaction, quality failure and counterteitmedicines as may be authorized and directed bythe Authority;

(ix)Pharmacies Regulatory Division which shall beresponsible for the regulation and control ofpharmacies in Sri Lanka as may be authorized anddirected by the Authority;

22National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(x)Manufacturing Regulatory Division which shall beresponsible for the regulation and promotion ofmanufacturing of good quality medicines, medicaldevices and borderline products in Sri Lanka; and

(xi)Organization Development Division which shallbe responsible for the Human Resources, Finance,Administration and Audit of the Authority as maybe authorized and directed by the Authority.

(3) The Authority shall appoint a head to each divisionwho shall communicate with the Authority on behalf of suchdivision.

(4) The Authority may where necessary-

(a) establish any other division or sub division;

(b) merge any two or more divisions or discontinueany division or subdivision.

(5) The Authority shall appoint such number of officers,employees and advisors as may be necessary for the properdischarge of the functions of a division or a sub division.

(6) All rules and regulations applicable for the Staff ofthe Authority referred to in sections 16 and 17 of this Actshall be applicable to the officers, advisors and employeesof any division or sub division.

PART II

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE

31.(1) The National Advisory Committee shall consistof the following members appointed by the Minister -

(a) the Director General of Health Services;

Constitution ofthe NationalAdvisoryCommittee.

23National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b)the Deputy Director General of Health Services(Laboratory Services);

(c)the Chairman of the Authority;

(d)a nominee from the Secretary to the Treasury;

(e)the Chairman of the State PharmaceuticalsCorporation of Sri Lanka established under StateIndustrial Corporation Act, No. 49 of 1957;

(f)a Professor in Pharmacology in any University inSri Lanka established under the Universities Act,No. 16 of 1978, appointed in consultation with therespective Deans of the relevant Medical Faculties;

(g)a Pharmacologist from the Ministry of Healthnominated by the Director General of HealthServices;

(h)the President of the Sri Lanka Medical Associationor his nominee;

(i)the President of the Pharmaceutical Society of SriLanka or his nominee;

(j)the Commissioner of Ayurveda or his nominee;

(k)Director General of Customs or his nominee;

(l)a legal officer from the Ministry of Healthnominated by the Secretary;

(m)a representative of the Ceylon College ofPhysicians nominated by that College;

(n)a representative of the College of Surgeons of SriLanka nominated by that College;

24National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(o)a representative of the College of GeneralPractitioners of Sri Lanka nominated by thatCollege;

(p)a representative of the College of CommunityPhysicians of Sri Lanka nominated by that College;

(q)a representative from the Attorney GeneralsDepartment nominated by the Attorney General;

(r)a representative from the Consumer AffairsAuthority nominated by the Chairman of thatAuthority;

(s)a representative of the Sri Lanka StandardsInstitution established under the Sri LankaStandards Institution Act, No. 6 of 1984, nominatedby the Director General of such Institution;

(t)a representative from a patient interest groupnominated by the Minister of Health;

(u)a representative from the Sri Lanka PharmaceuticalManufacturers Association nominated by thatAssociation;

(v)a representative from the Sri Lanka Chamber of thePharmaceutical Industry nominated by suchChamber;

(w)a representative of the public nominated by theMinister; and

(x)a representative of the Senaka BibileCommemoration Committee.

(2) (a) Every member of the National Advisory Committeenominated under paragraphs (m), (n), (o), (p), (q), (r), (s),(t),(u),(v), (w) and (x) of subsection (1) shall, unless earliervacates office by resignation, death or removal, hold office

25National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

for a period of three years from the date of appointment andshall be eligible for re-appointment.

(b) Every other member of the National AdvisoryCommittee shall hold office so long as such member holdsoffice by virtue of which such member has been appointedto the National Advisory Committee.

32.(1) The Minister shall appoint any member of theNational Advisory Committee as the Chairman of theNational Advisory Committee.

(2) The National Advisory Committee may discharge itsfunctions notwithstanding any vacancy among itsmembership.

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the National AdvisoryCommittee shall be eleven members.

(4) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the NationalAdvisory Committee may regulate its own procedure inregard to its meetings and transactions of business at suchmeetings.

33.The members of the National Advisory Committee,shall not receive any remuneration for being in the NationalAdvisory Committee, except an honorarium which may begiven for attending at the meetings of the National AdvisoryCommittee.

34. (a) The Authority shall appoint such number ofofficers employees and advisors as may be necessary for theproper discharge of the functions of the National AdvisoryCommittee.

Chairman &c.,of the NationalAdvisoryCommittee.

Remuneration ofthe members ofthe NationalAdvisoryCommittee.

Appointment ofofficers,employees &c.

26National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b) All rules and regulations applicable for the staff of theAuthority referred to in sections 16 and 17 of this Act shallbe applicable to the officers, employees and advisers referredto paragraph (a).

35.The functions of the National Advisory Committeeshall be -

(a)the overall supervision of the properimplementation of the provisions of this Act;

(b)the overall supervision of the properimplementation of the national medicines policy;and

(c)to advise the Minister and the Authority on issuespertaining to the matters specified in paragraphs(a) and (b) and any other related matters.

36.The Minister may make regulations to give effectto the provisions of this Part of this Act.

37.The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12and 13 of this Act shall mutatis mutandis apply to and inrelation to the Chairman, members and the conducting ofthe affairs of the National Advisory Committee.

PART III

NATIONAL MEDICINES QUALITY ASSURANCE LABORATORY

38.(1) For the purpose of this Act there shall be aDivision to be known as the National Medicines QualityAssurance Laboratory (hereinafter referred to as theNMQAL).

Functions of theNationalAdvisoryCommittee.

Regulations.

Application ofcertainprovisions ofthis Act inrelation toNationalAdvisoryCommittee.

Establishment ofthe NationalMedicinesQualityAssuranceLaboratory.

27National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(2) (a) The National Drug Quality Assurance Laboratoryfunctioning under the Ministry of the Minister on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date shall, with effectfrom the appointed date, be vested with the Authority andshall be deemed to be the NMQAL for the purposes of thisAct.

(b) All testing assignments and other work assigned tothe National Drug Quality Assurance Laboratory andpending on the appointed date, shall, with effect from theappointed date, be carried out and completed by the NMQAL.

(c) Any officer or employee of the National Drug QualityAssurance Laboratory may, with effect from the appointeddate, be employed in the NMQAL and the provisions ofsections 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the National AquacultureDevelopment Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation to such officeror employee.

39.(1) The functions of the NMQAL shall be -

(a)the testing of the quality of medicines,medical devices or borderline productssubmitted by the Authority including thearticles -

(i) submitted with the application forregistration;

(ii) collected at the entry to the country;

(iii) submitted as a complaint by users;

(iv) collected during the post marketingsurveillance by the Authority;

Functions ofNMQAL.

28National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(v) submitted by the Authority for anyreason other than the reasons specifiedabove;

(b)to function, as an additional approvedAnalyst, when the circumstances sorequire;

(c)to coordinate with laboratories local oroverseas when their services are deemednecessary as decided by the Authority;

(d)to carry out research projects pertaining toquality assurance of medicines, medicaldevices or borderline products.

(2) The NMQAL shall carry out any other functions asmay be requested by the Authority and the Department ofHealth through the Authority.

(3) The NMQAL shall carry out any testing oranalysis of an article submitted to the NMQAL strictlyaccording to the quality and standards guidelines asmay be introduced by the Authority, from time to time.

(4) The NMQAL shall submit the analysis report onthe quality and standards of the article submitted withinthe time period stipulated by the Authority.

(5) For the purposes of this part of this Act articleincludes any article of medicine, medical device,borderline product or investigational medicinalproduct.

40.The Minister may make regulations to give effectto the provisions of this Part of this Act.

Regulations.

29National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

CHAPTER III

REGULATION AND CONTROL OF ALL ASPECTSPERTAINING TO MEDICINES

PART I

MEDICINES REGULATORY DIVISION

41.(1) The Medicines Regulatory Division establishedunder section 30(2) shall hereinafter in this Act be referredto as the MR Division.

(2) The Authority shall appoint the head of the MRDivision from among persons holding a recognized degreein Medicine, Pharmacology, Pharmacy or any other relateddiscipline.

42. (a) The principal function of the MR Division shallbe to co-ordinate and assist the Authority to regulate andcontrol all aspects pertaining to medicines.

(b) The other functions of the MR Division shall bethe -

(i) co-ordination of applications submittedfor registration of medicines and renewalof such registration;

(ii) co-ordination of matters pertaining tocancellation or suspension of registrationof medicines;

(iii) co-ordination of matters pertaining toregistration of importers and distributersof medicines;

(iv) co-ordination of the issuance of licencesunder this section; and

MedicinesRegulatoryDivision.

Functions of theMR Division.

30National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(v) provisions of administrative assistance tothe Medicines Evaluation Committeeappointed under section 43 of this Act.

PART II

MEDICINES EVALUATION

43.(1) There shall be appointed for the purposes ofthis Act, a Committee which shall be known as theMedicines Evaluation Committee (hereinafter referred to asthe MEC).

(2) (a)The principal function of the MEC shall be to carryout the technical evaluation of the medicines forwarded forregistration and submit a report in respect thereof to theAuthority.

(b) The report shall specify the benefits and risks attachedto such medicines and the quality, efficacy, safety, needand cost of such medicines with pharmacoeconomic analysiswhere necessary in keeping with the National MedicinesPolicy.

44.(1) The MEC shall consist of the following personswho shall be appointed by the Authority -

(a)ex officio members

(i) the head of the MR Division who shallfunction as the Chairman of the Committee;

(ii) the head of the National Medicines QualityAssurance Laboratory (NMQAL);

(b)nominated members -

(i) four specialist clinicians attached to theMinistry of Health representing thefollowing fields, nominated by theirrespective professional bodies-

(A) General Medicine;

MedicinesEvaluationCommittee.

Constitution ofthe MEC.

31National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(B) General Surgery;

(C) Pediatrics; and

(D) Gynaecology and Obstetrics;

(ii) a Professor in Pharmacology in Universityof Colombo established under theUniversities Act, No. 16 of 1978, nominatedby the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine;

(iii) a Professor or Senior Lecturer in Pharmacyof any University established under theUniversities Act, No.16 of 1978, nominatedby the Deans of relevant Faculties; and

(iv) a Pharmacist functioning under theAuthority.

(2) The quorum for meetings shall be five membersexcluding the members of the Panel of Experts.

(3) The term of office of a nominated member shall bethree years.

45.(1) The Authority shall appoint a Panel of Experts,comprising of eminent professionals of medicine and otherrelevant fields.

(2) The Authority may where necessary appoint additionalmembers to the MEC from the Panel of Experts, dependingon the subject matter dealt with by the MEC.

(3) The members appointed under subsection (2) shall bepresent at the meetings for which their presence is requiredand express their opinion but they shall have no votingrights at such meetings.

Panel ofExperts.

32National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

46.Every member of the MR Division and the MECand all officers and employees of the MR Division and theMEC shall, before entering upon duties, sign a declarationpledging to observe strict secrecy in respect of all mattersconnected with the affairs of the MR Division and the MEC,which has come to his knowledge in the performance orexercise of his powers and functions under this Act and shallby such declaration pledge himself not to disclose any suchmatter, except -

(a)when required to do so by a court of law; or

(b)for the purpose of exercising or performing thepowers and functions under this Act or any otherwritten law.

47.(1) The Authority shall issue general guidelines tothe MEC for the evaluation of medicines and other relateditems, submitted to the MEC.

(2) (a) The general guide lines referred to in subsection(1) shall be based on the Good Manufacturing Practices(GMP) and other recommendations issued by the WorldHealth Organization and other regulatory bodies recognizedby the Authority.

(b) The Authority may revise the general guidelines fromtime to time in order to maintain parallels with internationallyrecognized standards and practices.

(3) The MEC shall take into consideration the efficacy,safety, quality, need and cost of each medicine, in the processof evaluation and may consider pharmacoeconomic analysiswhere necessary.

Declaration ofsecrecy.

Authority togive generalguidelines forthe evaluation.

33National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(4) The Minister may make regulations -

(a) setting out the procedures to be followed,including the specified time limits, for theconduct of respective evaluations;

(b) to give effect to the Good ManufacturingPractices (GMP) guidelines, Good ReviewPractices (GRP) and any other applicableguidelines as may be recommended by theAuthority; and

(c) in respect of bioequivalence and biowaiverdata relating to generic medicines submittedfor evaluation.

48.The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12and 13 of this Act shall mutatis mutandis apply to and inrespect of the Chairman, members and the conducting of theaffairs of the MEC.

PART III

OFFENCES PERTAINING TO MEDICINE

49.(1) No person shall import, distribute, exhibit orsell any medicine that-

(a)is manufactured, prepared, preserved, packaged orstored under insanitary conditions;

(b)consists in whole or in part any contaminant ordecomposed substance or any foreign matter;

(c)has in or upon it any deleterious substance thatmay cause injury to the health of the user; or

(d)is adulterated.

Application ofcertainprovisions ofthis Act inrelation toMEC.

Regulation ofmanufacture,importation, saleand distributionof medicine.

34National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(2) No person shall manufacture, prepare, store, preserve,package or re-pack any medicine without adhering to GoodManufacturing Practices (GMP) and any other prescribedguidelines or conditions.

(3) No person shall import or distribute any medicinewithout adhering to Good Distribution Practices (GDP) andany other prescribed guidelines and conditions.

50.(1) Where the standard is prescribed for anymedicine, no person shall label, package, sell, exhibit,distribute or advertise any medicine which does not conformto such standard or in such manner as is likely to be mistakenfor the medicine for which the standard has been prescribed.

(2) Where the standard has not been prescribed forany medicine, but a standard for that medicine is containedin any prescribed publication, no person shall label, package,sell, exhibit, distribute or advertise any medicine which doesnot conform to the standard contained in that publicationin such a manner as is likely to be mistaken for the medicinewhich the standard is contained in that publication.

(3) Where a standard has not been prescribed for anymedicine, or a standard for that medicine is not contained inany prescribed publication, no person shall sell, exhibit ordistribute such medicine

(a)unless it is in conformity with the standard set outin the label accompanying the medicine; or

(b)in such a manner as is likely to be mistaken for amedicine for which a standard has been prescribedor for which a standard is contained in anyprescribed publication.

(4) No person shall label, package, re-pack, treat, process,sell, distribute, exhibit or advertise any medicine in a mannerthat is false, misleading, deceptive or likely to create anerroneous impression regarding efficacy, quality,composition or safety.

Labelling,&c.,to be inconformity withthe prescribedstandards.

35National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(5) A medicine that is not labeled or packaged in a manneras may be prescribed shall be deemed to be labeled orpackaged contrary to subsection (1).

51.No person shall sell, exhibit or distribute anymedicine as may be prescribed unless the premises inwhich the medicine was manufactured and the processand conditions of manufacture of that medicine havebeen approved in the prescribed form and manner as beingsuitable to ensure that the medicine will be safe for use.

52.No person shall sell, exhibit or distribute anymedicine as may be prescribed unless the batch from whichthat medicine was taken has been approved in the prescribedform and manner as reliable for use.

53.No person shall manufacture, import, store, sell,re-pack, distribute, transport, exhibit or have in hispossession any medicine which is prescribed as not safefor use.

54.No person other than the persons as may bepermitted by regulations shall obtain or have in hispossession any medicine restricted or prohibited byregulations.

55.(1) No person shall advertise or promoteany medicine without prior written approval of the Authority.

(2) No person shall advertise or promote any medicineto the general public as a treatment, prevention or cure forany of the prescribed diseases, disorders or abnormalphysical states.

Sale ofprescribedmedicine isprohibitedunless premisesand process ofmanufacturehave beenapproved.

Sale ofprescribedmedicineprohibitedunless the batchfrom which suchmedicine istaken approvedas reliable.

Sale &c., ofprohibitedmedicine.

Possession ofprohibitedmedicine.

Advertising,importation,sale anddistributionof medicineas treatmentforprescribeddiseasesprohibited.

36National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) No person shall, without prior written approval ofthe Authority, import, sell or distribute any medicine tothe general public as a treatment, prevention or cure forany of the prescribed diseases, disorders or abnormalphysical states.

56.(1) Every Medical Practitioner, Dentist or VeterinarySurgeon shall write the generic name of the medicine inevery prescription issued by him.

(2) Where the Medical Practitioner, Dentist or VeterinarySurgeon so requires, he may in addition to the generic namewrite a particular brand name of the medicine in theprescription.

(3) A Medical Practitioner, Dentist or VeterinarySurgeon may write only the brand name of a medicine inthe prescription where the medicine prescribed is acombined medicine for which the generic name is notavailable.

(4) Where the brand name of the medicines, which is inthe prescription is not available or affordable to the customer,the Pharmacist may dispense any other generic medicinewith the consent of the customer.

(5) The Pharmacist shall inform the customer the range ofgeneric medicines with or without brand names available inthe Pharmacy and their prices enabling the customer to buythe medicine according to his choice.

(6) A Pharmacist who fails to disclose the genericmedicines with or without brand names available in thePharmacy and their prices to the customer at the time of sale,commits an offence.

57.Any person who contravenes any of the provisionsspecified in this Part of this Act commits an offence.

Generic name ofa medicine to bewritten in theprescription.

Contraventionof the provisionsof this Part to bean offence.

37National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

PART IV

REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF MEDICINES

58.(1) No person shall manufacture or import anymedicine without registering such medicine with theAuthority and obtaining a licence from the Authoritytherefor.

(2) No person shall store, assemble, re-pack, distribute,transport or sell any medicine without obtaining a licencefor that purpose from the Authority.

(3) Any person who contravenes any of the provisionsspecified in subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence.

59.(1) Any person who intends to manufacture or importany medicine shall make an application for the registrationof that medicine in the prescribed form to the Authority.

(2) The application shall be accompanied by theprescribed particulars, the samples of the medicine and theprescribed fee.

(3) (a) The Authority shall maintain a register in whichevery application received for the registration of a medicineshall be recorded.

(b) The particulars to be entered in such register shall beas prescribed.

(4) The Authority shall upon receipt of an applicationsubmit that application together with the sample of themedicine and all particulars, available -

(a)to the MEC, for the evaluation of the applicationand the medicine considering the need to ensurethe availability of efficacious, safe and good qualitymedicine relevant to the healthcare needs of thepublic at an affordable price; and

Requirement toregister &c., ofmedicines.

Application forRegistration of amedicine.

38National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b)to the NMQAL, for testing of the quality of themedicine.

(5) The Authority shall inform the applicant in writingthat the application has been received and submitted forevaluation and testing.

(6) The Minister may make regulations -

(a)setting out the procedures to be followed, bythe MEC and the NMQAL in their respectiveevaluation and testing processes;

(b)specifying

(i)the time-limits in conducting suchtesting or evaluation;

(ii)the manner in which the MEC toconduct its meetings and the procedureto be followed at such meetings; and

(iii)the matters which should be includedin the reports to be submitted.

(7) (a) The Authority may require the MEC and theNMQAL to finalize the evaluation or testing of a medicinewithin a specified time period considering the urgency ofsuch medicine for the national health.

(b) The MEC and the NMQAL shall within the timelimits specified submit their reports to the Authority unlessthere are compelling reasons for any delay.

60.(1) (a) The Authority may where necessary, call forclarifications from the MEC, NMQAL or any other expert,with regard to the reports submitted by the MEC and theNMQAL.

Registration ofmedicines.

39National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b) The Authority may upon taking into considerationthe reports submitted by the MEC, NMQAL and all otherrelevant factors, register such medicine, or refuse theregistration, within the stipulated time period.

(2) Where the Authority registers the medicine, suchregistration shall be informed to the applicant in writingand may inform the public of such registration by orderpublished in the Gazette.

61.Where the Authority refuses the registration of themedicine, such refusal shall be communicated to theapplicant with reasons therefor within the stipulated timeperiod and shall inform the public of such refusal by orderpublished in the Gazette.

62.(1) (a) The Authority shall on registration of anymedicine, issue a Certificate of Registration to the applicantwho shall, hereinafter in this part of this Act, be referred toas the holder of certificate.

(b) The Authority may grant full or provisional registrationin respect of the medicine and the conditions for each typeof registration shall be prescribed.

(c) The period of registration granted shall be decided bythe Authority as appropriate.

(2) The Certificate of Registration shall include thepurpose for which the registration is granted, its period ofvalidity and the terms and conditions applicable thereto.

(3) Upon obtaining the Certificate of Registration, theholder of certificate shall enter into an agreement with theAuthority to inform the Authority of any new developmentsof the medicine including the changes to indications, sideeffects, cautions, contra-indications, new recommendationsby regulatory bodies in other countries, strictures,cancellations within a stipulated time period upon such factsand information being revealed.

Refusal ofRegistration.

Issuing ofcertificate ofregistration.

40National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

63.(1) The Authority may upon issuing the Certificateof Registration, and on the written request by the holder ofcertificate, issue him a licence to import the medicine andmarket the medicine in Sri Lanka.

(2) It shall be the responsibility of the importer to ensurequality, safety and efficacy of every medicine imported byhim.

64.(1) The holder of certificate may make anapplication to the Authority, for renewal of such registrationor the licence six months prior to the date of expiry of suchregistration or the licence.

(2) The application for renewal of registration or thelicence shall be in the prescribed form and shall beaccompanied by the prescribed fee.

(3) The Authority shall, upon receiving an application,submit the application to the MEC for its opinion.

(4) The MEC may, through the Authority, request forsamples, documents or any other evidence, which it deemsnecessary, from the applicant or any other person orinstitution for the evaluation of the medicine.

(5) The MEC may, where the MEC deems necessary,request the NMQAL to submit an evaluation report on themedicine and the NMQAL shall submit the evaluation reportas required by the MEC.

(6) The Authority may upon taking into considerationall relevant factors, renew the registration or the licence fora further period of not less than one year and not exceedingfive years.

65.(1) Where the Authority is of the opinion that

(a)the holder of certificate has failed to comply withany condition subject to which any medicine hasbeen registered;

Issuing oflicence.

Renewal.

Cancellation orsuspension ofregistration andlicence.

41National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b)the medicine does not comply with any prescribedrequirement;

(c)it is not in the public interest that the medicineshall be available;

(d)the medicine has not been imported to Sri Lankawithin two years from the date of registration;

(e)the holder of certificate has failed to comply withany direction of the Authority; or

(f)the holder of certificate has violated any provisionof this Act or any regulation made thereunder,

the Authority shall cause notice of cancellation orsuspension to be issued to the holder of certificate in respectof such medicine.

(2) Any such notice shall specify the grounds on whichthe Authoritys opinion is based, and shall indicate that theholder of certificate may within one month after receiptthereof submit to the Authority in writing any comments hemay wish to submit.

(3) Where the holder of certificate fails to submithis comments within the time stipulated therefor orafter consideration of any comments submitted, theAuthority may suspend or cancel the Certificate ofRegistration and any related license and inform inwriting the suspension or cancellation to the holder ofcertificate immediately.

(4) Where the holder of certificate, does not apply for arenewal of such Certificate six months before its expiry date,the registration or licence of the medicine for which suchCertificate relates, shall be deemed to have automaticallybeen cancelled.

42National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

CHAPTER IV

REGULATION AND CONTROL OF ALL ASPECTSPERTAINING TO MEDICAL DEVICES

PART I

MEDICAL DEVICES REGULATORY DIVISION

66.(1) The Medical Devices Regulatory Divisionestablished under section 30(2) shall hereinafter in this Actbe referred to as the MDR Division.

(2) The Authority shall appoint the head of the MDRDivision from among persons holding a recognized degreein Medicine, Pharmacology, Pharmacy or any other relateddiscipline.

67.(a) The principal function of the MDR Divisionshall be to co-ordinate and assist the Authority to regulateand control all aspects pertaining to medical devices.

(b) The other functions of the MDR Division shall bethe -

(i)co-ordination of applications submitted forregistration of medical devices and renewal of suchregistration;

(ii)co-ordination of matters pertaining to cancellationor suspension of registration of medical devices;

(iii)co-ordination of matters pertaining to registrationof importers and distributers of medical devices;

(iv)co-ordination of the issuance of licences under thissection; and

(v)provisions of administrative assistance to theMedical Devices Evaluation Committee appointedunder section 68 of this Act.

Medical DevicesRegulatoryDivision.

Functions of theMDR Division.

43National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

PART II

MEDICAL DEVICES EVALUATION

68.(1) There shall be appointed for the purposes of thisAct a Committee which shall be known as the MedicalDevices Evaluation Committee (hereinafter referred to asthe MDEC).

(2) (a) The principal function of the MDEC shall be tocarry out the technical evaluation of the medical devicesforwarded for registration and to submit a report in respectthereof to the Authority.

(b) The report shall specify the benefits, risks attached tosuch medical devices, and the efficacy, quality, safety, needand cost of such medical devices with pharmacoeconomicanalysis where necessary in keeping with the NationalMedicines Policy.

69.(1) The MDEC shall consist of the following personswho shall be appointed by the Authority-

(a)ex-officio members-

(i)the head of the MDR Division who shallfunction as the Chairman of the Committee;

(ii)the Deputy Director General of LaboratoryServices of the Ministry;

(iii)the Deputy Director - General of DentalServices of the Ministry;

(iv)the Deputy Director - General (BiomedicalEngineering) of the Ministry;

(v)the Head of the National Medicines QualityAssurance Laboratory (NMQAL);

Medical DevicesEvaluationCommittee.

Constitution ofthe MDEC.

44National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b)nominated members-

(i)a Professor or a Senior Lecturer inPharmacology of any University establishedunder the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978,nominated by the Deans of Medical Facultiesof such Universities;

(ii)a Professor or Senior Lecturer in Pharmacy ofany University in Sri Lanka established underthe Universities Act, No.16 of 1978,nominated by the Deans of relevant Faculties;

(iii)a Professor or a Senior Lecturer inBiomedical Engineering from any Universityin Sri Lanka established under the UniversitiesAct, No. 16 of 1978, nominated by theUniversity Grants Commission;

(iv)the Director of the Sri Lanka StandardsInstitute established under the Sri LankaStandards Institute Act, No.6 of 1984, or hisnominee;

(v)the Director General of the Sri LankaAtomic Energy Board and the Director-General of the Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyRegulatory Council appointed under the SriLanka Atomic Energy Act, No. 40 of 2014, ortheir nominees;

(vi)a Consultant in Transfusion Medicine,nominated by the Sri Lanka College ofTransfusion Physicians;

(vii)a Consultant General Surgeon, nominated bythe College of Surgeons of Sri Lanka;

(viii)a Consultant Microbiologist nominated bythe Sri Lanka College of Microbiologists;

(ix)a Consultant Biochemist, nominated by theAssociation of Biochemists;

45National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(x)a Consultant Anesthesiologist, nominated bythe Sri Lanka College of Anesthesiologists;

(xi)an Oral Maxillo Facial Surgeon, nominatedby the College of Dental Surgeons of SriLanka;

(xii)a Consultant Physician nominated by theCeylon College of Physicians;

(xiii)a Consultant Radiologist nominated by theSri Lanka College of Radiology; and

(xiv)a Pharmacist in charge of the subject ofmedical devices in the Authority nominatedby the Authority.

(2) The quorum for meetings shall be seven membersexcluding the members of the Panel of Experts.

(3) The term of office of a nominated member shall bethree years.

70.(1) The Authority shall appoint a Panel of Experts,comprising of eminent professionals specialized in medicaldevices.

(2) The Authority may where necessary appoint additionalmembers to the MDEC from the panel of experts, dependingon the subject matter dealt with by the MDEC.

(3) The members appointed under subsection (2) shall bepresent at the meetings for which their presence is requiredand express their opinion but they shall have no votingrights at such meetings.

71.Every member of the MDR Division and the MDECand all officers and employees of the MDR Division and theMDEC shall, before entering upon duties, sign a declarationpledging to observe strict secrecy in respect of all mattersconnected with the affairs of the MDR division and the

Panel ofExperts.

Declaration ofsecrecy.

46National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

MDEC, which has come to his knowledge in the performanceor exercise of his powers and functions under this Act andshall by such declaration pledge himself not to disclose anysuch matter, except -

(a)when required to do so by a court of law; or

(b)for the purpose of exercising or performing thepowers and functions under this Act or any otherwritten law.

72.(1) The Authority shall issue general guidelines tothe MDEC for the evaluation of medical devices and otherrelated items, submitted to the MDEC.

(2) (a) The general guidelines referred to in subsection(1) shall be based on the Good Manufacturing Practices(GMP) guidelines and other recommendations andguidelines issued or recommended by the Authority.

(b) The Authority may revise the general guidelines fromtime to time in order to maintain parallels with internationallyrecognized standards and practices.

(3) The MDEC shall take into consideration the efficacy,safety, quality, need and cost of each medical device orrelated item in the process of evaluation and may considerpharmacoeconomic evaluation where necessary.

(4) The Minister may make regulations -

(a)setting out the procedures to be followed, includingthe specified time limits, for the conduct ofrespective evaluations;

(b)to give effect to the Good Manufacturing Practices(GMP) guidelines and any other applicable guidelines as may be recommended by the Authority;

Authority togive generalguidelines forthe evaluation.

47National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

73.The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12and 13 of this Act shall mutatis mutandis apply to and inrelation to the Chairman, members and the conducting ofthe affairs of the MDEC.

PART III

OFFENCES PERTAINING TO THE MEDICAL DEVICES

74.(1) The Authority shall list from time to time themedical devices registered under this Act.

(2) No person shall import, sell, transport, distribute oradvertise any medical device, other than a medical devicelisted under subsection (1).

75.(1) No person shall manufacture, prepare, store,preserve, package or re-pack any medical device withoutadhering to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and anyother prescribed guidelines or conditions.

(2) No person shall import or distribute any medicaldevice without adhering to Good Distribution Practices(GDP) and any other prescribed guidelines or conditions.

(3) No person shall sell any medical device withoutadhering to Good Pharmacy Practices and any otherprescribed guideline or condition.

76.No person shall manufacture, import, assemble,transport, sell or distribute any medical device that maycause any injury to the health of the user when that medicaldevice is used

(a)under conditions that are customary or usual in theuse of the medical device; or

(b)according to the directions on the labelaccompanying that medical device.

Application ofcertainprovisions ofthis Act inrelation toMDEC.

Prohibition ofimportation &c.,of medicaldevices otherthan the listed.

Regulation ofmanufacture,importation, saleand distributionof medicaldevices.

Prohibition ofmanufacturing,importation,assembling, saleand distribution&c., of medicaldevices.

48National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

77.No person shall label, package, treat, process, sell,assemble, distribute or advertise any medical device in amanner that is false, misleading, deceptive or likely to createan erroneous impression regarding its safety and efficacy.

78.Where a standard is prescribed for any medical device,no person shall label, package, sell, distribute or advertiseany medical device which does not conform to that standardor in such a manner as is likely to be mistaken for the medicaldevice for which the standard has been prescribed.

79.(1) No person shall advertise or promote any medicaldevice without prior written approval of the Authority.

(2) No person shall advertise or promote any medicaldevice to the general public as a treatment, prevention orcure for any of the prescribed diseases, disorders or abnormalphysical states.

(3) No person shall without prior written approval of theAuthority import, sell or distribute any medical device to thegeneral public as a treatment, prevention or cure for any of theprescribed diseases, disorders or abnormal physical states.

80.No person other than the persons as may be permittedby regulations shall obtain or have in his possession any medicaldevice as may be restricted or prohibited by regulations.

81.Any person who contravenes any of the provisionsspecified in this Part of this Act commits an offence.

PART IV

REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF MEDICAL DEVICES

82.(1) No person shall manufacture or import anymedical device without registering such medical device withthe Authority and obtaining a licence from the Authoritytherefor.

(2) No person shall store, assemble, re-pack, distribute,transport or sell any medical device without obtaining alicence for that purpose from the Authority.

Labeling,packaging andadvertising ofmedical device.

Prescribedstandards of amedical deviceto bemaintained.

Advertising,importation, saleand distributionof medicaldevices as atreatment forprescribeddiseasesprohibited.

Possession ofprohibitedmedical devices.

Contravention ofthe provisions ofthis Part to be anoffence.

Requirement toregister &c., ofmedical devices.

49National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) Any person who contravenes any of the provisionsspecified in subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence.

83.(1) Any person who intends to manufacture or importany medical device shall make an application for theregistration of that medical device in the prescribed form tothe Authority.

(2) The application shall be accompanied by theprescribed particulars, the samples of the medical deviceand the prescribed fee.

(3) (a) The Authority shall maintain a register in whichevery application received for the registration and licensingof a medical device shall be recorded.

(b) The particulars to be entered in such register shall beas prescribed.

(4) The Authority shall upon receipt of an applicationsubmit a copy of that application together with the sampleof the medical device and all particulars, available

(a)to the MDEC, for the evaluation of the applicationand the medical device considering the need toensure the availability of efficacious, safe and goodquality medical device relevant to the healthcareneeds of the public at an affordable price; and

(b)to the NMQAL, for testing of the quality of themedical device.

(5) The Authority shall inform the applicant in writing ofthe receipt of the application.

(6) The Minister may make regulations

(a)setting out the procedures to be followed, by theMDEC and the NMQAL in their respective testingor evaluation processes;

Application forRegistration of aMedical device.

50National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b)specifying

(i)the time-limits in conducting such testing orevaluation;

(ii)the manner in which the MDEC to conductits meetings and the procedure to be followedat such meetings; and

(iii)the matters which should be included in thereports to be submitted.

(7) (a) The Authority may require the MDEC and theNMQAL to finalize the evaluation or testing within aspecified time period considering the urgency of the medicaldevice.

(b) The MDEC and the NMQAL shall within the timelimits specified submit their reports to the Authority unlessthere are compelling reasons for any delay.

84.(1) (a) The Authority may where necessary, call forclarifications from the MDEC, NMQAL or any other expert,with regard to the reports submitted by the MDEC and theNMQAL.

(b) The Authority may upon taking into considerationthe reports submitted by the MDEC, NMQAL and all otherrelevant factors register such medical device, or refuse theregistration, within the stipulated time period.

(2) Where the Authority registers the medical device, suchregistration shall be informed to the applicant in writingand may inform the public of such registration by orderpublished in the Gazette.

85.Where the Authority refuses the registration of themedical device, such refusal shall be informed to theapplicant with reasons therefor within the stipulated timeperiod and shall inform the public of such refusal by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

Registration ofmedical devices.

Refusal ofRegistration.

51National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

86.The provisions of sections 62, 63, 64 and 65 of thisAct shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation to

(a)the issuing of certificate of registration;

(b)issuing of licence;

(c)renewal of registration or licence;

(d)cancellation or suspension of registration or licence,

under this part of this Act.

CHAPTER V

REGULATION AND CONTROL OF ALL ASPECTSPERTAINING TO BORDERLINE PRODUCTS

PART I

BORDERLINE PRODUCTS REGULATORY DIVISION

87.(1) The Borderline Products Regulatory Divisionestablished under section 30(2) shall hereinafter in this Actbe referred to as the BPR Division.

(2) The Authority shall appoint the head of the BPRdivision from among persons holding a recognized degreein Medicine, Pharmacology, Pharmacy or any other relateddiscipline.

88.(a) The principal function of the BPR division shallbe to co-ordinate and assist the Authority to regulate andcontrol all aspects pertaining to borderline products.

(b) The other functions of the BPR division shall be the

(i)co-ordination of applications submitted forregistration of borderline products andrenewal of such registration;

Application ofthe provisions ofsections 62, 63,64 and 65.

BorderlineProductsRegulatoryDivision.

Functions of theBPR Division.

52National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(ii)co-ordination of matters pertaining tocancellation or suspension of registration ofborderline products;

(iii)co-ordination of matters pertaining toregistration of importers and distributers ofborderline products;

(iv)co-ordination of the issuance of licencesunder this section;

(v)provisions of administrative assistance to theBorderline Products Evaluation Committeeappointed under section 89 of this Act.

PART II

BORDERLINE PRODUCTS EVALUATION

89.(1) There shall be appointed for the purposes of thisAct a Committee which shall be known as the BorderlineProducts Evaluation Committee (hereinafter referred to asthe BPEC).

(2) (a) The principal function of the BPEC shall be tocarry out the technical evaluation of the borderline productsforwarded for registration and submit a report in respectthereof to the Authority.

(b) The report shall specify the benefits, risks attached tosuch borderline products, and the efficacy, quality, safety,need and cost of such borderline products withpharmacoeconomic analysis where necessary in keeping withthe National Medicines Policy.

90.(1) The BPEC shall consist of the following personswho shall be appointed by the Authority

(a)ex-officio members

(i)the head of the BPR Division who shallfunction as the Chairman of the Committee;

BorderlineProductsEvaluationCommittee.

Constitution ofthe BPEC.

53National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(ii)the head of the National Medicines QualityAssurance Laboratory (NMQAL);

(iii)the Government Analyst or his nominee;

(b)nominated members-

(i)a Professor or a Senior Lecturer inPharmacology of any University establishedunder the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978,nominated by the Deans of MedicalFaculties;

(ii)a Professor or a Senior Lecturer in Pharmacyof any University in Sri Lanka establishedunder the Universities Act, No.16 of 1978,nominated by the Deans of relevant Facultiesof such Universities;

(iii)a Pharmacist of the Authority;

(iv)a Nutritionist from the Ministry of Health tobe nominated by the Director General ofHealth Services;

(v)the Director of the Sri Lanka StandardsInstitute established under the Sri LankaStandards Institute Act, No. 6 of 1984 or hisnominee;

(vi)the Director of the Industrial TechnologyInstitute or his nominee;

(vii)a representative from the Consumer AffairsAuthority established under the ConsumerAffairs Authority Act, No. 9 of 2003nominated by the Chairman; and

(viii)a representative of Ayurveda Departmentnominated by the Commissioner ofAyurveda.

(2) The quorum for meetings shall be five membersexcluding the members of the Panel of Experts.

54National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) The term of office of a nominated member shall bethree years.

91.(1) The Authority shall appoint a Panel of Experts,comprising of eminent professionals specialized inborderline products.

(2) The Authority may where necessary appoint additionalmembers to the BPEC from the panel of experts, dependingon the subject matter dealt with by the BPEC.

(3) The members appointed under subsection (2) shall bepresent at the meetings for which their presence is requiredand express their opinion but they shall have no votingrights at such meetings.

92.Every member of the BPR division and the BPECand all officers and employees of the BPR division and theBPEC shall, before entering upon duties, sign a declarationpledging to observe strict secrecy in respect of all mattersconnected with the affairs of the BPR division and the BPEC,which has come to his knowledge in the performance orexercise of his powers and functions under this Act and shallby such declaration pledge himself not to disclose any suchmatter, except

(a)when required to do so by a court of law; or

(b)for the purpose of exercising or performing thepowers and functions under this Act or any otherwritten law.

93.(1) The Authority shall issue general guidelines tothe BPEC for the evaluation of borderline products and otherrelated items, submitted to the BPEC.

(2) (a) The general guidelines referred to in subsection(1), shall be based on the Good Manufacturing Practices(GMP) guidelines and other recommendations issued by theWorld Health Organization and other regulatory bodiesrecognized by the Authority.

Panel ofExperts.

Declaration ofsecrecy.

Authority togive generalguidelines forthe evaluation.

55National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b) The Authority may revise the general guidelines fromtime to time in order to maintain parallels with internationallyrecognized standards and practices.

(3) The BPEC shall take into consideration the efficacy,safety, quality, need and cost of each borderline product, inthe process of evaluation.

(4) The Minister may make regulations

(a)setting out the procedures to be followed, includingthe specified time limits for the conduct ofrespective evaluations;

(b)to give effect to the Good Manufacturing Practices(GMP) guidelines and any other applicable guidelines as may be recommended by the Authority.

94.The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12and 13 of this Act shall mutatis mutandis apply to and inrelation to the Chairman, members and the conducting ofthe affairs of the BPEC.

PART III

OFFENCES PERTAINING TO BORDERLINE PRODUCTS

95.(1) The Authority shall list from time to time theborderline products registered under this Act.

(2) No person shall import, sell, transport, distribute oradvertise any borderline product, other than a borderlineproduct listed under subsection (1).

96.(1) No person shall import, distribute, re-pack orsell any borderline product which

(a)is not manufactured, prepared, preserved, packagedor stored under good manufacturing practices andgood storage practices;

Application ofcertainprovisions ofthis Act inrelation toBPEC.

Prohibition ofimportation &c.,of borderlineproducts otherthan listed.

Regulation ofmanufacture,importation, saleand distributionof borderlineproducts.

56National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b)consists in whole or in part of any contaminantmaterial, foreign body or decomposed substanceor any foreign matter; or

(c)has in or upon it any substance that may causeinjury to the health of the user when the borderlineproduct is used

(i)according to the directions on the labelaccompanying the borderline product; or

(ii)for such purposes and by such methods ofuse as are customary or usual in the use ofthat borderline product.

(2) No person shall label, package, treat, process,transport, distribute, sell, exhibit or advertise any borderlineproduct in a manner that is false, misleading, deceptive orlikely to create an erroneous impression regarding itsefficacy, safety, quality or composition.

(3) No person shall manufacture any borderline productunless Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and GoodStorage Practices (GSP) are complied with.

97.Where a standard is prescribed for borderlineproduct, no person shall label, package, distribute or sellany such product which does not conform to that standardor in such a manner as is likely to be mistaken for theborderline product for which the standard has beenprescribed.

98.(1) No person shall advertise or promote ordistribute any borderline product without prior writtenapproval of the Authority.

(2) No person shall advertise or promote any borderlineproduct to the public as a treatment, prevention or cure forany of the prescribed diseases, disorders or abnormal physicalstates.

Where standardis prescribed forborderlineproducts.

Advertising,importation, saleand distributionof borderlineproducts forprescribeddiseasesprohibited.

57National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) No person shall without prior written approval of theAuthority import, sell or distribute any borderline productto the general public as a treatment, prevention or cure forany of the prescribed diseases, disorder or abnormal physicalstates.

99.No person other than the persons as may beprescribed by regulations shall obtain or have in hispossession any prohibited borderline product which is notsafe for general use.

100.Any person who contravenes any of the provisionsspecified in this Part of this Act commits an offence.

PART IV

REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF BORDERLINE PRODUCTS

101.(1) No person shall manufacture or import anyborderline product without registering such borderlineproduct with the Authority and obtaining a licence from theAuthority therefor.

(2) No person shall store, assemble, re-pack, distribute,transport or sell any borderline product without obtaining alicence for that purpose from the Authority.

(3) Any person who contravenes any provision specifiedin subsection (1) or (2) of this section commits an offence.

102.(1) Any person who wishes to import, sell,manufacture, prepare or distribute any borderline productshall make an application for the registration of thatborderline product in the prescribed form to the Authority.

(2) The application shall be accompanied by theprescribed particulars, the samples of the borderline productsand the prescribed fee.

Possession ofprohibitedborderlineproduct.

Requirement toregister &c., ofborderlineproducts.

Application forRegistration of aborderlineproduct.

Contraventionof theprovisions ofthis Part to bean offence.

58National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) (a) The Authority shall maintain a register in whichevery application received for the registration and licensingof a borderline product shall be recorded.

(b) The particulars to be entered in such register shall beas prescribed.

(4) The Authority shall upon receipt of an applicationsubmit the application together with the sample of theborderline products and all particulars, available -

(a)to the BPEC, for the evaluation of the applicationand the borderline products considering the needto ensure the availability of efficacious, safe andgood quality borderline products relevant to thehealthcare needs of the public at an affordable price;and

(b)to the NMQAL or where necessary any otherlaboratory for testing of the quality of the borderlineproduct.

(5) The Authority shall inform the applicant in writing ofthe receipt of the application.

(6) The Minister may make regulations -

(a)setting out the procedures to be followed, by theBPEC and the NMQAL in their respectiveevaluation and testing processes;

(b)specifying

(i)the time-limits in conducting such testing orevaluation;

(ii)the manner in which the BPEC to conduct itsmeetings and the procedure to be followed atsuch meetings; and

59National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(iii)the matters which should be included in thereports to be submitted.

(7) (a) The Authority may require the BPEC and theNMQAL to finalize the testing or evaluation within aspecified time period considering the urgency of theborderline product for the national health.

(b) The BPEC and the NMQAL shall within the time limitsspecified submit their reports to the Authority unless thereare compelling reasons for any delay.

103.(1) (a) The Authority may where necessary, callfor clarifications from the BPEC, NMQAL or any otherexpert, with regard to the reports submitted by the BPECand the NMQAL.

(b) The Authority may upon taking into considerationthe reports submitted by the BPEC, NMQAL and all otherrelevant factors register such borderline product or refusethe registration, within the stipulated time period.

(2) Where the Authority registers the borderline product,such registration shall be informed to the applicant in writingand may inform the public of such registration by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

104.Where the Authority refuses the registration of theborderline product, such refusal shall be informed to theapplicant with reasons therefor within the stipulated timeperiod and shall inform the public of such refusal by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

105.The provisions of sections 62, 63, 64 and 65 ofthis Act shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation tothe

(i)issuing of certificate of registration;

(ii)issuing of licence;

Registration ofborderlineproducts.

Refusal ofRegistration.

Application ofthe provisions ofsections 62, 63,64 and 65.

60National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(iii)renewal of registration and licence; and

(iv)cancellation or suspension of registration or licence,

under this part of this Act.

CHAPTER VI

COLLECTIVE PROVISIONS PERTAINING TOMEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES ANDBORDERLINE PRODUCTS

PART I

COMMON PROVISIONS

106.(1) No person shall store, re-pack, assemble,transport, distribute or sell any illegal, counterfeit orsmuggled, medicine, medical device or borderline product.

(2) (a) No person shall import, distribute, re-pack, displayor sell any medicine, medical device or borderline productafter the expiry date of such medicine, medical device orborderline product.

(b) No person shall store any medicine, medical device orborderline product after the expiry date of such medicine,medical device or borderline product except underconditions stipulated by the Authority.

(3) No person shall without lawful authority import, store,assemble, transport, distribute, re-pack, display or sell anymedicine, medical device or borderline product containingthe State logo or any other mark indicating that suchproducts are a State property.

107.(1) The Authority shall, decide the residual shelf-life of every medicine, medical device or borderline productimported into Sri Lanka at the port of entry.

Prohibition ofdishonestdealings.

Authority todecide residualshelf-life ofmedicines &c.

61National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(2) It shall be the responsibility of the importer to ensurequality, safety and efficacy of every medicine, medical deviceor borderline product imported by him.

108.(1) The Authority shall, where the Authority findsthat any medicine, medical device or borderline productdoes not meet the required standard or that the medicine,medical device or the borderline product as manufacturedwould cause serious health problems to the person using,issue an order requiring the importer, manufacturer, trader ordistributor of that medicine, medical device or borderlineproduct to

(a)cease the distribution immediately;

(b)withdraw from sale or use;

(c)notify immediately the health professionals andusers to cease using of;

(d)dispose according to prescribed methods,

such medicine, medical device or borderline product.

(2) The Authority shall cause notice of the ban orwithdrawal from use of medicine, medical device orborderline product in terms of this section, to be publishedin a daily newspaper in Sinhala, Tamil and English or websiteof the Ministry or broadcast over any electronic media.

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) commits an offence and shall on convictionby a Magistrates Court after summary trial, be liable to afine not exceeding one million rupees or to an imprisonmentof either description for a period not exceeding three yearsor to both such fine and imprisonment.

109.(1) The Authority may grant permission in specialcircumstances such as to save a life, to control an outbreakof an infection or an epidemic or any other national

Ban orwithdrawal&c.,from, use ofmedicine &c.

Emergency andother specialcircumstances.

62National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

emergency or for national security to import and supply aparticular medicine, medical device or borderline productin specified quantities.

(2) Such permission may be granted:

(a)on a request made by the Ministry of Health; or

(b)on a request made by an individual or anorganization recommended by the Ministry ofHealth.

(3) The importer shall be responsible for theaccountability and management of the medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product imported under this section.

(4) The importer shall submit routine reports in theprescribed manner to the Authority, on the medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product imported under this section.

110.(1) (a) No person shall distribute any medicine,medical device or borderline product marked as Physicianssample to the general public.

(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) shall not apply to thedistribution of any medicine, medical device or borderlineproduct marked as physician, sample by a MedicalPractitioner, Dentist or Veterinary Surgeon to a patient ofsuch Medical Practitioner, Dentist or Veterinary Surgeon.

(2) (a) No person shall transport, exhibit or store anymedicine, medical device or borderline product marked as aPhysicians sample.

(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) shall not apply to anyrepresentative of a company duly authorized by theAuthority.

(3) No person shall sell any medicine, medical device orborderline product marked as a physicians sample.

Sale ordistribution ofsamples ofmedicine &c., tobe prohibited.

63National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

111.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3) noperson shall import or accept as a donation any medicine,medical device or borderline product for free distribution orto promote within Sri Lanka, without the approval of theauthority.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall apply to theimportation or receiving of medicine, medical device orborderline product as a donation during an emergency ordisaster situation.

(3) Minister may, prescribe the guidelines, for acceptingdonations of medicines, medical devices or borderlineproducts at any disaster or emergency situation, taking intoconsideration the guidelines of the World HealthOrganization issued in relation to accepting or receivingmedicines, medical devices or borderline products duringsimilar situations.

112.(1) The provisions of sections 58, 82 and 101 shallnot apply to any patient who needs for his personalmedication a medicine, medical device or borderline productwhich is not registered and licensed under this Act.

(2) Such person may import the required quantity of suchmedicine, medical device or borderline product on aprescription issued by the medical practitioner treating him,with the prior approval of the Authority.

(3) It shall be an offence to sell any medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product manufactured or imported underthis section.

113.(1) No person shall manufacture, prepare, store orsell any medicine, medical device or borderline product inany premises unless such premises has been licensed in thatregard by the Authority.

(2) (a) No person shall store or sell any medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product, in any premises unless suchpremises has been licensed by the Authority.

Permission toimport and toaccept as adonation of anymedicine &c.

Importation &c.,of medicines&c., forpersonal use.

Licensing ofpremises formanufacturing&c., of medicine&c.

64National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) shall not apply to

(i)any patient who keeps any medicine,medical device or borderline productregistered under this Act, for his personal use;

(ii)any medicine, medical device or borderlineproduct prescribed by regulations as safe forgeneral use.

(3)The Authority shall maintain a register of registeredmanufacturers and importers and the criteria for registeringshall be as prescribed.

114.(1) Every licence granted under this Act shall

(a) be in such form as may be prescribed;

(b) be subject to such conditions as may be prescribed;

(c)unless cancelled earlier, be in force for such periodas may be specified in such licence.

(2) A licence granted under this Act may be suspended orrevoked by the Authority in case of non-compliance withthe prescribed conditions.

(3) An applicant may at any time withdraw an applicationfor a licence by notifying the Authority in writing, withoutprejudice to his right to re-apply for a licence.

PART II

REGULATION OF MANUFACTURING OF MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES

AND BORDERLINE PRODUCTS

115.(1) The Authority shall establish for the purposeof this Act a Division to be known as ManufacturingRegulatory Division.

(2) The Authority shall appoint the head of that Divisionfrom among persons holding a recognized degree inPharmacology, Pharmacy or any other related subject.

Conditions &c.,pertaining tolicence.

Establishment oftheManufacturingRegulatoryDivision.

65National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

116.(1) The principal function of the ManufacturingRegulatory Division shall be the regulation of manufacturingof medicines, medical devices and borderline products inSri Lanka.

(2) The other functions of the Manufacturing RegulatoryDivision shall be to

(a)formulate schemes to provide all necessaryassistance including technical knowhow to theprospective manufacturers;

(b)provide necessary assistance to the manufacturersto market their products locally;

(c)provide necessary assistance to manufacturers toexport their products;

(d)advise the Authority to restrict the importation ofcertain products where locally manufacturedproducts are sufficiently available in Sri Lanka.

(3) For the purpose of this section product means amedicine, medical device or borderline product.

117.Minister may make regulations to give effect toall or any of the provisions of this Part of this Act.

PART III

PRICING OF MEDICINES, MEDICAL DEVICES AND BORDERLINEPRODUCTS

118.(1) (a) The Authority shall appoint a Committeeto be known as the Pricing Committee.

(b) The composition, powers and functions of the PricingCommittee shall be as prescribed.

Functions of theManufacturingRegulatoryDivision.

Regulations.

Pricing ofmedicines &c.

66National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(2) (a) The Authority shall in consultation with the PricingCommittee, determine the introductory price of medicines,medical devices and borderline products at the time ofregistration, based on the criteria as may be prescribed.

(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a), the Authority shallconsider the prevailing market prices of similar productswithin the same therapeutic class, International ReferencePrices and other factors as may be prescribed.

(3) For the purpose of determining the prices of NewChemical Entities, the Authority shall consider the prices inthe region, the benefit of the new product and the costeffectiveness.

(4) The Minister shall in consultation with the PricingCommittee, the Consumer Affairs Authority and allstakeholders and taking into consideration all other relevantfactors including the provisions of the Consumer AffairsAuthority Act, No. 9 of 2003, prescribe a pricing mechanismfor medicines, medical devices and borderline products.

CHAPTER VII

MISCELLANEOUS

PART I

REGULATION OF PHARMACIES

119.(1) No person shall carry on a Pharmacy withoutobtaining a licence from the Authority.

(2) Any person who intends to carry on a Pharmacy shallmake an application for that purpose in the prescribed formto the Authority.

(3) The application shall contain all such informationand be forwarded with all such documents as may be set outin such form and be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

Every person tocarry on aPharmacy toobtain a licence.

67National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(4) The Authority may on receipt of an application referthe application to the Pharmacies Regulatory Division fortheir observations which shall be submitted within a specifiedtime period.

(5) The Authority may upon consideration of all recordsand information pertaining to the application,

(a)grant the applicant the licence; or

(b)refuse the application and inform the reason for suchrefusal to the applicant in writing forthwith.

(6) The holder of a licence shall before the commencementof the business of a Pharmacy shall register the premiseswhere the Pharmacy is to be carried on.

(7) The Minister shall by regulations prescribe the termsand conditions of a licence and the conditions to be satisfiedto register a Pharmacy.

(8) For the purpose of this part of this Act, holder oflicence means the person granted a licence to carry on aPharmacy under this section.

120.(1) Every person who carries on a Pharmacy shallcomply with Good Pharmacy Practices and other guidelinesand conditions prescribed by the Authority.

(2) The holder of licence shall employ at least onePharmacist in the pharmacy to be responsible for alloperations of the Pharmacy relating to medicines, medicaldevices or borderline products.

(3) The dispensing of medicines, medical devices orborderline products shall be carried out by the Pharmacist ora registered apprentice Pharmacist under the directsupervision of the Pharmacist.

(4) The Pharmacist shall before the sale of every medicine,medical device or borderline product, inform the buyer thecost of such medicines, medical device or borderline products.

Requirement tocomply withGood PharmacyPractices.

68National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(5) The Pharmacist shall when dispensing the medicine,medical device or borderline product provide the customerwith a description of such medicine, medical device orborderline product, in the language requested for by suchcustomer.

121.Minister may make regulations to give effect toall or any of the provisions of this Part of this Act.

PART II

APPEALS

122.(1) (a) Any person aggrieved by any decision ofthe Authority made under this Act may appeal in writing tothe Authority to reconsider such decision within one monthof the receipt of such decision.

(b) The Authority shall as soon as practicable inform itsdecision on such appeal to the appellant.

(2) Where the appellant is dissatisfied with the decisionof the Authority, the appellant may appeal against suchdecision to the Appeals Committee appointed under section123.

123.(1) The Minister shall appoint an AppealsCommittee to hear and determine appeals made in terms ofthis Act.

(2) The Appeals Committee shall consist of thefollowing

(a)a member appointed from among retired judges ofthe Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal of SriLanka who shall be the Chairman of the AppealsCommittee;

(b)the Secretary of Health; and

(c)a member appointed from among retired MedicalConsultants who has distinguished himself in thefield of medicine.

Regulations.

Appeals.

The AppealsCommittee.

69National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) The members of the Appeals Committee shall holdoffice for a term of three years from the date of appointment,and shall be eligible for reappointment.

(4) The Minister may make regulations specifying themanner in which the meetings and business of the AppealsCommittee shall be carried out.

(5) The Appeals Committee may, after studying theappeal, call for further information regarding the medicine,medical device or borderline product in question from theappellant and respective Divisions established under thisAct and may call for expert opinion on such medicine,medical device or borderline product.

(6) The Appeals Committee shall on consideration of allrelevant factors inform its decision to the Authority.

(7) Upon receiving the decision of the AppealsCommittee, the Authority shall inform the appellant thedecision of the Appeals Committee forthwith and act inaccordance with the decision of the Appeals Committee.

(8) The members of the Appeal Committee may be paidsuch remuneration out of the Fund of the Authority with theconcurrence of the Minister assigned of the subject ofFinance.

PART III

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE AUTHORIZED OFFICERS

124.(1) The Minister may appoint any ProvincialDirector of Health Services, any Regional Director of HealthServices, any Medical Officer of Health, any DivisionalPharmacist, any Food and Drugs Inspector, Drugs Inspectoror any Pharmacist attached to the Authority to be anAuthorized Officer for the purposes of this Act.

(2) Every Authorized Officer shall exercise the powers ofa peace officer in terms of the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979, for the purpose of discharging hisfunctions under this Act.

AuthorizedOfficers.

70National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) Any Authorized officer who-

(a)acts in contravention of the provisions of this Actor any regulation or rule made thereunder or theprovisions of any other written law; or

(b)exercises the powers assigned to him under thisAct in a manner or for an intention contrary to theobjects of this Act, shall after a due inquiry held bya disciplinary committee appointed by the Minister,be removed from such office.

(4) The Minister shall by regulations, prescribe theconstitution of the disciplinary committee and manner ofconducting an inquiry.

125.(1) An Authorized Officer, for the performance ofhis duties and the exercise of his powers under the Act may-

(a)enter at any reasonable hour to any place where hebelieves any article is manufactured, prepared,packaged, re-packed, preserved, sold or stored andexamine any such article and take samples thereof,and examine anything that he believes is used forthe manufacture, preparation, packaging,preservation or storing of such article;

(b)open and examine any receptacle or package thathe believes to contain any article;

(c)for the purposes of examining or search, stop ordetain any vehicle in which he believes that anyarticle is being conveyed, search that vehicle andexamine such article and take samples of the saidarticle;

(d)examine any book, document or other recordsincluding electronic data found in any placereferred to in paragraph (a) and make copies thereofor take extracts therefrom; and

Powers ofAuthorizedOfficers.

71National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(e)seize and detain for such time as may be necessary,any article or vehicle by means of or in relation towhich he believes any provisions of this Act orregulations made thereunder have beencontravened.

(2) An Authorized Officer acting under this section shallif so required, produce his authority.

(3) The owner or person in charge of a place entered by anAuthorized Officer in pursuance of subsection (1) and everyperson found therein shall give the Authorized Officer allreasonable assistance in his power and furnish him with suchinformation and such samples as he may require.

(4) No person shall obstruct any Authorized Officer actingin the exercise of his powers under this Act or any regulationmade thereunder.

(5) Where any Authorized Officer applies to obtainsamples of any article exposed for sale, and the personexposing the article refuses to sell to the Authorized Officersuch quantity thereof as he may require or refuses to allowthat officer to take the quantity which he is empowered totake as samples, the person so refusing shall be deemed forthe purposes of subsection (4) to have obstructed anAuthorized Officer.

(6) No person shall knowingly make a false or misleadingstatement either orally or in writing to any Authorized Officerengaged in the exercise of his powers under this Act or anyregulation made thereunder.

(7) No person shall remove or alter, tamper or otherwiseinterfere in any manner with any article seized under thisAct by an Authorized Officer, without the authority of theAuthorized Officer.

72National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(8) Any article seized under this Act may, at the option ofthe Authorized Officer, be kept or stored in the building orplace where it was seized or may at his discretion be removedto any Government Institution functioning under theMinistry of Health or the Provincial Health Services.

(9) An Authorized Officer shall inform the Authority ofany seizure made under this Act as soon as practicable.

126.(1) Upon the receipt of any information undersection 125 (9) where the Authority is satisfied that therehas not been a contravention of any of the provisions of thisAct or any of the regulations made thereunder-

(a)the Authority shall direct the Authorized Officer torelease such article and vehicle;

(b)where the owner of such article or the person inpossession of such article at the time of seizure-

(i)consents in writing for the destruction ofsuch article, the Authority shall directdestruction or disposal of such article andrelease of the vehicle;

(ii)does not consent in writing to the destructionof such article, the Authority shall direct theAuthorized Officer, with notice to such personin possession of the article and the owner ofsuch vehicle, to make a complaint to theMagistrates court having jurisdiction overthe area in which the offence was committedof the seizures of the article or the vehicle inrespect of which the offence was committed.

(2) On complaint being made to the court undersubsection (1) (b), such court shall, after trial, if found theowner or person in possession of the article-

(a)guilty of contravening any of the provisions of thisAct or regulations made thereunder, order that such

Procedure inrespect ofarticles andvehicles seized.

73National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

article be forfeited to the Authority to be disposedof, as the court may direct:

Provided however, that where the offender isnot known or cannot be found, such article shall beforfeited to the Authority without the institutionof proceedings in respect of such contravention; or

(b)not guilty of contravening any of the provisions ofthis Act or regulations made thereunder, order thatsuch article be released to such owner or person inpossession thereof.

127.(1) Where a sample obtained by an AuthorizedOfficer is required to be divided by him into parts, one ofwhich shall be retained by him and the part retained by himshall be produced in court at the commencement of the trialof the prosecution in relation to such sample.

(2) The Magistrate may on his own motion and shall, atthe request of any party to the prosecution, forward foranalysis or examination such part of the sample produced incourt under subsection (1), to the Approved Analyst.

(3) The Approved Analyst to whom such part of the sampleis forwarded under subsection (2) shall send his report orcertificate to the court within twenty eight days of the receiptby him of such part of the sample.

(4) The expenses of the analysis or examination shall bepaid by such party as the court may direct.

128.A copy made or extract taken from any book,document or record by an Authorized Officer under section125(1) (d) shall, if certified to be a true copy or extract by theAuthorized Officer, be admissible in evidence against theperson keeping or maintaining that book, document or recordor causing that book, document or record to be kept ormaintained and shall be prima facie evidence of the contentsof that book, document or record.

AuthorizedOfficer toproduce beforecourt the part ofthe sampleretained by him.

Copy or extractof documenttaken by anAuthorizedOfficer.

74National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

129.(1) An Authorized Officer shall submit any articleseized by him or any portion thereof or any sample taken byhim to the Authority and, unless destroyed under section126 (1), to the Approved Analyst for analysis or examination,as decided by the Authority.

(2) Where the Approved Analyst has made an analysis orexamination of the article submitted to him under subsection(1), he shall issue a certificate or report to the Authority andto the relevant authorized officer setting out in that certificateor report the results of his analysis or examination.

(3) For the purposes of this part of this Act-

Approved Analyst includes an Additional ApprovedAnalyst; and

article means medicine, medical device orborderline product.

PART IV

GENERAL OFFENCES

130.Every person who

(a)being a person acting under the authority of thisAct, discloses any information obtained by him inor in connection with the exercise of his powers orthe discharging of his functions under this Act, toany person for any purpose other than a purpose forwhich he is authorized to disclose such information;

(b)obstructs, without any justifiable or lawful basis,any person acting in the exercise of his powers underthis Act or any regulation made thereunder;

(c)being a person acting under the authority of thisAct, behaves or conducts himself in a vexatious or

Analysis.

Generaloffences.

75National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

provocative manner, while exercising ordischarging any power or function under this Act;or

(d)fails to furnish any return or information incompliance with any requirement imposed on himunder this Act or knowingly makes any falsestatement in any return or information furnished byhim,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

131.(1) Every person who contravenes any of theprovisions of this Act or any regulation made thereundershall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction beliable

(a)where the nature of the offence involves injury tothe health of the public, to a fine not exceedingtwo hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding three years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment;

(b)for unauthorized use of State logo or any other markwhich indicates that a medicine, medical device orborderline product to be state property, to a finenot exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding three yearsor to both such fine and imprisonment;

(c)for carrying on a Pharmacy without obtaining alicence from the Authority, to a fine not exceedingone hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding three years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment;

(d)for any other offence

(i)for the first offence, to a fine not exceedingone hundred thousand rupees or to

Punishment forthecontravention ofthe provisions ofthis Act.

76National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

imprisonment for a term not exceeding threemonths or to both such fine andimprisonment;

(ii)for a second or subsequent offence, to a finenot exceeding two hundred thousand rupeesor to imprisonment for a term not exceedingsix months or to both such fine andimprisonment;

(e)to publish an apology in addition to the punishmentmentioned in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) to thegeneral public in one Sinhala, Tamil and Englishnewspaper each, circulating in Sri Lankasubstantially in the size of 10"x 10" in front pageto the effect that he shall not repeat the offence.

(2) Where a person convicted of an offence under thisAct or any regulation made thereunder is convicted of asecond or subsequent, offence of a like or similar natureunder this Act or regulations made thereunder, the courtconvicting him for the second or subsequent offence may -

(a)cause the name and address of the person convictedand the offence and the punishment imposed forsuch offence to be published in such newspaper orin such other manner as the court may direct andrecover the cost of publication from the personconvicted as if it were a fine imposed on him;

(b)cancel any licence or registration issued to theperson convicted for the manufacture, importation,sale and distribution of any medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product under this Act or anyother law and inform the relevant licensingAuthority accordingly.

(3) Where a person is convicted of an offence under thisAct or the regulations made thereunder relating to the storage,sale, distribution and transportation of any illegal,

77National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

unregistered, counterfeit and smuggled medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product which is marked state logoor any other marking indicating that such medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product is state property, theMagistrate may, in addition to the punishment providedunder this Act, upon application made by an AuthorizedOfficer for closure of such premises, order the closure ofsuch premises or discontinuance of trade or business carriedon therein.

(4) Where such person fails to comply with the orderissued under this section, the Magistrate shall forthwith issuean order to the Fiscal of such Court requiring and authorizingsuch Fiscal to close such premises and discontinue the tradeor business carried on therein before a date specified in theorder, not being a date earlier than three days and not laterthan seven days from the date of issue of such order.

132.Every person who commits an offence under thisAct or any regulation made thereunder may be arrestedwithout a warrant and every offence under this Act orregulations made thereunder shall be triable by a magistrateCourt.

133.(1) Where a person (hereinafter referred to as theaccused) is charged with an offence under this Act, he shall,upon complaint duly made by him in accordance with theprovisions of section 136 of the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979, and on giving to the prosecution notless than three days notice of his intention, be entitled tohave any other person whom he charges as the actual offenderbrought before the court, and if, after the commission of theoffence has been proved, the accused proves to thesatisfaction of the court that the commission of the offencewas due to the act or default of such other person, such otherperson may be convicted of the offence, and, if the accusedfurther proves that he has used all due diligence to enforcethe provisions of this Act, he shall be acquitted of the offence.

Personcommittingoffence to bearrested withouta warrant and tobe tried by aMagistratesCourt.

Where theaccused provesthat some otherperson is guiltyof the offence.

78National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(2) Where an accused seeks to avail himself of theprovisions of subsection (1)

(a)the prosecution, as well as the person whom theaccused charges with being the actual offender, shallhave the right to cross-examine him, if he givesevidence and any witness called by him in supportof his pleas, and to call evidence in rebuttal; and

(b)the court may make such order as it thinks fit for thepayment of costs by any party to the proceedingsto any other party thereto.

134.(1) In a prosecution for the offence of sale of anymedicine, medical device or borderline product contrary tothe provisions of this Act or any regulation made thereunder,subject to subsection (2) it shall be a defence for the accused

(a) that he purchased the medicine, medical device orborderline product in a package and sold it in thesame package and in the same condition that it wasat the time he purchased it; and

(b) that he could not have with reasonable diligence,ascertained that the sale of the medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product would be incontravention of the Act or any regulation madethereunder.

(2) The defence specified in subsection (1) shall not beavailable to an accused unless he has within thirty days ofthe detection of the offence informed in writing to theAuthorized Officer detecting the offence

(a)of his intention to avail himself of such defence;and

(b)the name and address of the person from whom hepurchased the medicine, medical device orborderline product and the date of purchase.

Defence.

79National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

135.(1) For the purposes of this Act and of anyregulations made thereunder

(a)any medicine, medical device or borderline productfound, kept or exhibited in any shop or other placecommonly used for the sale of articles shall bepresumed until the contrary is proved to be intendedfor sale; and

(b)any substance capable of being used in thecomposition or preparation of any medicine,medical device or borderline product which is foundin the premises and used in a preparation shall bepresumed until the contrary is proved, to be intendedfor use in the composition or preparation of thatmedicine, medical device or borderline product.

(2) Where in a prosecution for the offence ofmanufacturing a medicine which is adulterated, it isestablished

(a)that such medicine was adulterated with theaddition of any other substance; and

(b)that the accused had in his possession or premisessuch other substance,

it shall be presumed until the contrary is proved that suchmedicine was adulterated by the addition of that othersubstance.

(3) Where a package containing any medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product has on or upon it the name andaddress purporting to be the name or address of the personwho manufactured or packaged it, it shall be presumed untilthe contrary is proved that the medicine, medical device orborderline product was manufactured or packaged, as thecase may be, by the person whose name or address appearson the package.

Presumptions.

80National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

136. Where an offence under this Act or any regulationmade thereunder is committed by a body of persons and-

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everyperson who at the time of commission of the offencewas a Director, General Manager, Secretary or othersimilar officer of that body; or

(b)if that body is not a body corporate, every personwho at the time of commission of the offence was amember of that body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he provesthat such offence was committed without his consent orconcurrence and that he exercised all due diligence toprevent the commission of such offence as he ought to haveexercised in the circumstances having regard to the natureof his functions.

PART V

GENERAL

137.(1) For the purposes of this Act and the regulationsmade thereunder the Government Analyst shall be theApproved Analyst.

(2) The NMQAL and the Medical Research Institute shallbe the Additional Approved Analysts.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and(2), the Minister may approve any other laboratory orinstitution recommended by the Authority to be anAdditional Approved Analyst and notification of theapproval shall be published in the Gazette.

(4) No person, laboratory or institution shall be approvedas an Additional Approved Analyst-

(a)if that person, the laboratory or institution doesnot possess the prescribed qualifications or facilitiesas the case may be; or

Offencecommitted bybody of persons.

ApprovedAnalyst.

81National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b)if that person is engaged directly or indirectly inany trade or business connected with themanufacture, importation, sale or distribution ofmedicine, medical device or borderline product.

138.(1) In the absence of evidence to the contrary, adocument purporting to be a report or a certificate signed bythe Approved Analyst or an Additional Approved Analystupon any matter submitted to him for analysis or examinationshall be sufficient evidence of the facts stated therein.

(2) When a party against whom a report or a certificatereferred to in subsection (1) is produced, requests theApproved Analyst or an Additional Approved Analyst, tobe summoned as a witness, the court shall summon him,upon that party depositing in court the expenses ofsummoning him including such fees as may be prescribed,payable to him and shall examine him as witness.

(3) The report or the certificate referred to in subsection (1)shall not be received in evidence unless the party intendingto produce it has given the party against whom it was intendedto be produced a copy of the report or the certificate andreasonable notice of his intention to produce it.

139.Every Court shall give priority to the trial of anyperson charged with, or indicted for, any offence under thisAct and to the hearing of any appeal from the conviction ofany such offence and sentence imposed on such conviction.

140.(1) The provisions of this Act and any regulationmade thereunder relating to medicine which are excisablearticles within the meaning of the Excise Ordinance(Chapter 52) shall be in addition to and not in substitutionfor the provisions of that Ordinance.

(2) The provisions of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter235) shall apply for the purpose of the enforcement, and theprevention and punishment of contraventions or attempted

Report orcertificate of theApprovedAnalyst or anAdditionalApprovedAnalyst.

Priority for trialand appealunder this Act.

Application ofother writtenlaws.

82National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

contraventions of the provisions of this Act and anyregulation made thereunder relating to the importation ofany medicine, medical device or borderline product.

(3) For the purposes of the application of the CustomsOrdinance to any medicine, medical device or borderlineproduct the importation of which is prohibited under thisAct, medicine, medical device or borderline product shallbe deemed to be goods the importation of which is prohibitedunder that Ordinance.

PART VI

RULES AND REGULATIONS

141.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act theAuthority may make rules in respect of all matters for whichrules are authorized or required to be made under this Act.

(2) Every rule made by the Authority shall be approvedby the Minister and be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of its publication or on suchlater date as may be specified therein.

142.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or inrespect of which regulations are authorized by this Act to bemade.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister maymake regulations in respect of all or any of the followingmatters:-

(a)declaring that any medicine, medical device orborderline product or class of medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product is adulterated if anyprescribed substance or class of substance is presentor has been added to or extracted from or omittedin, that medicine, medical device or borderlineproduct;

Rules.

Regulations.

83National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b)declaring that any medicine, medical device orborderline product is safe for general use or not safefor general use;

(c)pricing of medicines, medical devices andborderline products;

(d)the labeling and packaging and the offering,exposing and advertising for sale of medicine,medical device or borderline product;

(e)prescribing the size, dimensions, fill and otherspecifications of packages of, medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product;

(f)the use of any substance as an ingredient inmedicine, medical device or borderline product toprevent the user or purchaser from being deceivedor misled as to its quality, character, value,composition or to prevent injury to the health ofthe user or purchaser;

(g)the standards of composition, strength, potency,purity, quality or other property of medicine,medical device or borderline product;

(h)the method of preparation, the manufacture,preservation, packaging, storing and testing of anymedicine in the interest of, or for the prevention ofinjury to, the health of the user or purchaser;

(i)(i)the persons to whom, the circumstances inwhich, and the terms and conditions subjectto which, licences and registrations under thisAct may be granted or refused; and

(ii)the manner and mode in which applicationsfor licences and registrations under this Actmay be made and dealt with;

84National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(j)requiring persons who manufacture or sell anymedicine, medical device or borderline product tofurnish information and maintain books andrecords;

(k)the registration and regulation of Pharmacies anddrug stores;

(l)the terms and conditions for storage and transportof medicine, medical device, borderline product orinvestigational medicinal product;

(m)the disposal of medicine, medical device,borderline product or investigational medicinalproduct;

(n)the specification of recalling procedure ofmedicines, medical devices and borderline productsand composition of committees;

(o)the conditions relating to importers and marketauthorization holders;

(p) the procedure for parallel imports and licensingfor non-commercial use by the Government;

(q)Forms to be used for the registration, renewal andlicensing under this Act and the regulations madethereunder;

(r)prohibition and restrictions relating to the sale andtransport for sale of any adulterated medicine orborderline product;

(s)prescribing the medicines, medical devices orborderline products prohibited under the Act;

(t)the distribution and the conditions of distributionof sample of any medicine, medical device,borderline product or investigational medicinalproduct;

85National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(u)the mode and manner in which any medicine,medical device or borderline product shall beregistered, the terms and conditions applicable tosuch registration and licensing, the fees to be leviedfor such registration or licensing;

(v)the manner in which the Appeal Committee shallfunction and procedure of hearing Appeals;

(w)the standards of shelf-life for manufacture ofmedicines, medical devices or borderline products;

(x)procedure to be followed by the MEC, MDEC andBPEC in the conduct of its functions and thetransaction of its business;

(y)the procedure of inquiries;

(z)the procedure to be followed by MEC, MDEC andBPEC for the respective evaluations and matterswhich should be included in reports;

(aa)the review and revision of all guidelines formulatedunder this Act;

(bb)the procedure for issuing of lot release certificateby Medical Research Institute in relation to vaccinesand sera;

(cc)evaluation of advertisements and other promotionalmaterial of manufacturers, importers, distributorsand retailers of medicines, medical devices andborderline products;

(dd)regulation of promotional activities pertaining tomedicines, medical devices, borderline products andinvestigational medicinal products;

(ee)any other matters as may be necessary for thepurposes of achieving the objects and dischargingthe functions of the Authority.

86National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minster, shall not laterthan three months after its publication in the Gazette, bebrought before Parliament for approval. Any regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(5) A notification of the date of such disapproval shall bepublished in the Gazette.

143.(1) A prosecution for an offence under this Act orany regulation made thereunder shall not be instituted-

(a)except by an Authorized Officer; and

(b)after the expiration of a period of three months fromthe date of detection of that offence or where sampleis analysed, after the expiration of a period of onemonth from the date of the receipt of Analysts reporton such sample.

(2) No civil or criminal proceedings shall be institutedagainst person for any act which in good faith is done orpurported to be done by him under this Act or any regulationmake thereunder.

PART VII

REPEALS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

144.Cosmetics, Devices and Drugs Act, No. 27 of 1980is hereby repealed.

Repeal of Act,No. 27 of 1980.

Institution ofproceedings.

87National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

145.Notwithstanding the repeal of Cosmetics, Devicesand Drugs Act, No. 27 of 1980 (hereinafter referred to asthe repealed Act), -

(a)all contracts and agreements entered into under therepealed Act and subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall, with effect fromthe appointed date, be contracts and agreementsentered into under this Act with or on behalf of theAuthority and may be enforced accordingly;

(b)all suits, prosecutions, appeals or other legalproceedings which have been instituted in any courtor tribunal by or against the Cosmetics, Devicesand Drugs Authority and pending before such courtor tribunal on the day immediately preceding theappointed date shall with effect from the appointeddate be deemed to have been instituted by or againstthe Authority and may be continued accordingly;

(c)all decrees, orders and judgments entered or madeby a competent court or tribunal in favor of oragainst the Cosmetics, Devices and Drugs Authorityand remaining unsatisfied on the day precedingthe appointed date shall with effect from theappointed date be deemed to have been made infavor of or against the Authority, and may beenforced accordingly;

(d)every regulation or rule made under the repealedAct , and in force on the day immediately precedingthe appointed date and not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act, shall with effect from theappointed date be deemed to have been made underthis Act and may accordingly be amended orrescinded by regulations or rules made under thisAct;

(e)every licence or registration issued by theCosmetics, Devices and Drugs Authority and inforce immediately prior to the date of operation of

Transitionalprovisions.

88National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

this Act shall with effect from the appointed datebe deemed to be a licence or registration grantedby the Authority under the provisions of this Act;

(f)every application for a licence or registration of amedicine, medical device or borderline productmade to the Cosmetics, Devices and DrugsAuthority under the provisions of the repealed Actshall with effect from the appointed date be deemedto be an application made to the Authorityestablished under this Act and shall be dealt withaccordingly;

(g)all movable and immovable property vested in theCosmetics, Devices and Drugs Authority on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date, shall,with effect from the appointed date, be vested withthe Authority;

(h)all sums of money lying to the credit of the fund ofthe Cosmetics, Devices and Drugs Authority on theday immediately preceding the appointed date,shall stand transferred, with effect from theappointed date, to the Fund established undersection 18 of this Act;

(i)all declarations, notifications, licences and ordersmade or issued under the repealed Act and subsistingon the day immediately preceding the appointeddate, shall in so far as they are not inconsistentwith the provisions of this Act, be deemed witheffect from the appointed date, to be declarations,notifications, licences and orders made or issuedunder the provisions of this Act and shall beconstrued accordingly;

(j)every reference to the Cosmetics, Devices and DrugsAuthority in any written law, notice, notification,instrument, contract, communication or other

89National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

document shall with effect from the appointed datebe read and construed as a reference to the Authorityestablished under this Act; and

(k)every reference to the National Druge QualityAssurance Laboratory of the Cosmetics, DevicesDrugs Authority in any written law, notice,notification, contract, communication or otherdocument shall with effect from the appointeddate be read and construed as a reference tothe NMQAL of the Authority established underthis Act.

PART VIII

INTERPRETATION

146.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:

adulterated means the addition of any substanceto or subtraction of any constituent from amedicine, medical device or borderlineproduct so as to affect its quality, compositionor potency;

advertisement includes any representation by anymeans whatsoever, for the purpose ofpromoting directly or indirectly themanufacture, sale or disposal of any medicinemedical device or borderline product;

article means

(a)any medicine, medical device orborderline product;

(b)anything used or capable of being usedfor the manufacture, preparation,preservation, packaging or storing of anymedicine, medical device or borderlineproduct ; and

Interpretation.

90National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(c)any labeling or advertising material;

bioequivalence means two pharmaceuticallyequivalent or pharmaceutical alternativeproducts having their bio availabilities afteradministration in the same molar dose aresimilar to such a degree that their effects, withrespect to both efficacy and safety, will beessentially the same. This is considereddemonstrated if the 90% confidenceintervals (90% CI) of the ratios for AUC0-t andCmax between the two preparations lie in therange 80.00 125.00%;

biowaiver means a regulatory approval processwhen the application (dossier) is approved onthe basis of evidence of equivalence other thanan in vivo bioequivalence test. For solid oraldosage forms, the evidence of equivalence isdetermined on the basis of an in vitrodissolution profile comparison between themultisource and the comparator product;

borderline products means the products havingcombined characteristics of medicines andfoods, medicines and medical devices ormedicines and cosmetics and in decidingwhether a product is a borderline product thefollowing shall be taken into consideration:-

(a)the intended use of the product (or itsprimary function) and its mode of action;

(b)the therapeutic claims that themanufacturer makes about the product(claims to treat or prevent disease or tointerfere with the normal operation of aphysiological function of the humanbody);

(c)the pharmacological active substance(s),if any, used in the product;

91National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(d)the concentration of the activesubstances;

(e)the level of efficacy of the activesubstance of the product; and

(f)the ingredients used and theconcentrations at which they are used;

Cosmetics means any substance or mixture ofsubstances manufactured, sold or representedfor use in cleaning, improving or altering thecomplexion, skin, hair or teeth and includesdeodorants, perfumes and cosmeceuticals;

Cosmetics, Devices and Drugs Authority meansCosmetics, Devices and Drugs Authorityestablished under the Cosmetics, Devices andDrugs Act, No. 27 of 1980;

counterfeit medical device means a device whichis labeled or packaged fraudulently with regardto identification;

counterfeit medicine means a medicine whichis labeled or packaged fraudulently with regardto identification and includes any productwith proper ingredients with inferior qualityor containing different or inactiveingredients;

dentist means a person for the time beingregistered as a dentist under the MedicalOrdinance (Chapter 105);

Drug Inspector mean any person with prescribedqualifications appointed as a drug inspectorby the Authority;

92National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

exhibit refers to a public display of medicines,medical devices or borderline products at aconference, exhibition or trade fair;

Generic medicine means a medicine that-

(a)has the same quantitative composition oftherapeutically active substances, beingsubstances of similar quality to those usedin the registered medicine;

(b)has the same pharmaceutical form;

(c)is bioequivalent; and

(d)has the same safety and efficacyproperties;

Good Distribution Practice means gooddistribution practice guidelines issued by theAuthority;

Good Manufacturing Practice Guidelines meansgood manufacturing guidelines issued byWorld Health Organization;

Good Pharmacy Practice means good Pharmacypractice guidelines issued by the Authority;

Good Storage Practice means good storagepractice guidelines issued by the Authority;

Government Analyst means the person for thetime being holding the office of theGovernment Analyst, any AdditionalGovernment Analyst, Deputy GovernmentAnalyst, Senior Assistant Government Analystor Assistant Government Analyst;

93National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

insanitary conditions means such conditions orcircumstances as are likely to contaminatemedicine, medical device or borderline productwith dirt or filth or render same injurious tohealth;

investigational medicinal product means aproduct which is under investigation by aclinical trial or equivalent studies which mayinclude a medicine, medical device or aborderline product;

label includes any tag, brand, mark, pictorial orother descriptive matter, written, printed,stenciled marked, embossed or impressed on,or attached to a container of medicine, medicaldevice or borderline product;

labeling includes the label and any writtenprinted or graphic matter relating to andaccompanying the medicine, medical deviceor borderline product;

licence means a licence issued under this Act;

Medical Council means the Medical Councilestablished under the section 12 of the MedicalOrdinance (Chapter 105);

medical device means any instrument, apparatus,appliance, software, material or any otherarticle, whether used single or in combination,including the software necessary for itsproper application intended by themanufacturer used in or on human beings forthe purpose of:-

(a)diagnosis, prevention, monitoring,treatment or alleviation of disease;

94National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(b)diagnosis, monitoring, treatment,alleviation of or compensation for an injuryor handicap;

(c)investigation, replacement ormodification of the anatomy or of aphysiological process;

(d)control of conception,

and which does not achieve its intended actionin or on the human body by pharmacological,immunological or metabolic means but whichmay be assisted in its function by such means;

a medical device does not include an Ayurvedadevice or a Homeopathy device;

medical practitioner means a person registeredas a medical practitioner under section 29 orsection 41 of the Medical Ordinance (Chapter105);

medicine means

(a)any substance or mixture of substancesmanufactured, sold, offered for sale orrepresented for use in

(i)the diagnosis, treatment, mitigationor prevention of disease, abnormalphysical states or the symptomsthereof in man or animal; and

(ii)restoring, correcting or modifyingfunctions of organs in man oranimal;

(b)a medicine or combination of medicineready for use and placed on the marketunder a special name or in a characteristicform, both patent and non-proprietarypreparations;

95National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

(c)a product made out of medicinal herbalextract;

(d)nutraceutical with therapeutic claims;and

(e)vaccines and sera,

but does not include an Ayurvedic medicineor Homoeopathic medicine;

Minister means the Minister to whom the subjectof Health is assigned and the term Ministryshall be construed accordingly;

need refers to circumstances in which a productis necessary because it is essential or veryimportant rather than just desirable;

nutraceutical means a product isolated or purifiedfrom food which is generally sold in medicinalform not usually associated with food andprovide physiological benefit or protectionagainst chronic disease;

package includes anything in which anymedicine, medical device or borderlineproduct is wholly or partly contained, placedor packed;

person includes a company;

Pharmacist means a Pharmacist registered underthe Medical Ordinance (Chapter105);

prescribed means prescribed by rules orregulations made under this Act;

prescription means an authorization in writingto a Pharmacist from a person authorized bylaw to prescribe medicines or medical devicesto dispense a specified medicine or medicaldevice for use by a designated individual orfor animal use;

96National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

prohibited medicine, medical device or borderlineproduct means which are prohibited byregulations made under the Act;

secretary means the Secretary to the Minister towhom the subject of Health is assigned;

sell means offer, keep or expose for sale, transmit,convey or deliver for sale, for cash or credit orby way of exchange and whether by wholesaleor retail and the term sale shall be construedaccordingly;

smuggled medicine, medical device or borderlineproduct means a medicine, medical device orborderline product imported or brought in tothe country in contravention of the provisionsof this Act and without obtaining an importlicense from the Authority; and

veterinary surgeon means a person registered asVeterinary Surgeon or a Veterinary Practitionerunder the Veterinary Surgeons andPractitioner Act, No. 46 of 1956.

147.In the event of an inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

In case of aninconsistencythe Sinhala textshall prevail.

97National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct, No. 5 of 2015

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.