PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
FACTORIES (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 18 OF 1998
; (Certified on 16th Apri, 1998)
Printed on the Order of Government
Published sa Sup lement to Part ofthe Gazette ofthe Democrat Socialist
‘Republic of Sri Lanka Api 17,1998
Pree: Re $78: Postage Rs 250


Factories (Amendment) Act No. 18 of 198
{Ceri om 16h pei, 1998)
1 D~0, 468,
As Acro ame 18 Fcros Ornate
BE it enacted by he Parament of the Deore Silt
Repuhlc ofS Lanka as flows —

1. This Actmay be cited as the Factores (Amendment) Shonite
‘AGLNo. 18 of 988

2. Section 2 ofthe Factories Ordinance (hereinafter Aneatem sf
‘fered toa the “principal enactment) is terehy amended ott
in subsection 2) of hat seston, by he bation forthe
words “nt exceding oe thousand capes of the words
no exceeding By tows pees

43. Section 34 of the principal enactment is hereby | Anexinatst
amended ination (12) oft soion ye subsaon ee ete
Tor the words not excedig five hundred apes of the Se,
words “ot exceeding weal hound rect”

4. Section 38 of the principal enactment is hereby Aneto
amended in subsection x) ofthattecionby he stiaton ont
forthe words “ne exceeding Bve handed rupees of te PSP,
‘words "not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees”

5. Section 36 of the principal entctment is hereby Anemia ot
amendedin subsection a of hatsctonby thesbsimton son ote
forthe words "ot exeang ve hundred rupees” of he EM
‘words not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees

6 Section 36 ofthe ricial enactment is hreby —Anenen sf
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution, oem
forthe words “ot exceeding five died rupees, of the =P,
words “not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees.
2-pone-4s9.1006)


2 Factories Amendment Act, No. 18 of 1998.
venient 7. Seton 39 of the principal enactments hereby
se pone _amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
ral Faall he word rom "ot exceeding five hunted rupees”

to the end of tha subsection ofthe wards “not exceoding

{monty thousand pecs andthe contravention nreapect

which wax so conte continu afer thconitn,

be shall subject tothe provisos of section 110, be gully of
~ urter once and Hable in respect eof wa fe no
exceeding five hundred rupees for each day on which the

‘lence was so cominie.
esdncnst Section 60 of the principal enactment is hereby
‘section Gof mended in subsection (4) of that section by the substitution
eacia for the words "not exceeding five hundred rupees, of the

‘words “not exceeding twenfve thousand ups
Amcninnst 9. Section 61 of the principal enacunen is hereby
seston tthe ame by the repeal of subsection (3) of that secton and
fees” eben of th following sutscton efor =

(9) Where any accident to which tis section
snp occurs to «person employed andthe ecopier
of th factory i ot the ata employer af he person
Killed or injured, the occupier or manage, othe
superintendent the case of an ett fcr) shal
hai fom te atl employer ofthe prion ied ot
injured, writen note ofthe ase, nau orm and
companied by sch pacar as may be prescribed
nd hall Toth ease such otc of schea tbe
{ent tbe Dit Factory Inspecting Engine

Aoeodnest 10, Seton 63 ofthe principal enactment is herby

seated a ws

cman (1)_ by the substitution, in subsection (1) of that section
forthe word fee of ea rapes" of he worl “ee
of to hundred apes

(2) bythe substi in subsection 2) that ston

forthe words “nt exccding iy rupees of the
words “rot exceding fv handed pees”


Foctres (Amendment het No 18 of 19983

11. Section 65 ofthe principal enactment is herby Anenoetet
amended in pasgraph (of subsection (1) of hatsecton by Sate
thesubsitution fr the word “one undeedsvpes” wherever ay
‘ch words oecur i that praraph ofthe words “Te
thowtand ree

12. Section 81 of the principal entcmen is hey Avene
amended in paragraph (¢) of subsection (2) of that section by poate ote
the sbsinton forthe ward aot exceding iy pees,
ofthe words “not exceeding to thousand five hundred
rupees”

13, Section 87 of the principal enactment is hereby _Anendoan at
amended insubttion 4) ofthat section, byte substation Sn oe
foe he words “nt exceeding one tandred rapes”, of the Sel
‘words “not exceeding fie thousand recs"

14. Section 90 of the principal enactment is hercby _Anetnet of
amended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution ="
forthe words “not exceeding ity rupees", af the words
“no exceeding two thousand five handed rapes

1S. Section 10 ofthe principal enactments hereby Anendeestt
amended in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution a"
forthe words “not exceeding iy eupecs” ofthe worse
“not exceating wo thousand fv ded ropes”

16. Secon 109 ofthe principal enacument is bereby Repacnetot
Tepes andthe following secon subsite therfor'— a ede
“ost 108.) Subject as eric povided, any
tea" person guilty of an offence under ths Ordinance
mes’ forwhichao expres penly is provided shal be
ran ble
Fons

(@) inthe cate of ist otece, ta fie
ont ets than ve thousand rapes:


4 Factoriee (Amendment) Act, No. 18 of 1998.

(inthe case ofasecond offence (noting
an offence i espect ofa continuation
ff an offence refered bin subsection
{@))t08fine nottess than ive thousand
rupees but not exceeding twelve
thovsand ive hundred rupees 5

{e) in the case of a thied or subsequent
tence ot being an offence in respect
fof acontinuaton ofan offence refered
tbin subsection 2) toa fine exceeding
twelve dousand ive hundred rupees but
‘ot exceeding twenty-five thousand
rupees

(2) Where any perton convicted of an offense

and punished under subsection (1) contin the
contravention in respect of which he was 80
‘convicted and punished he shal (subject the
provisions of sexton 110) be guilty ofa frher
‘ence and ible in respect thereof oa fine nt
txceding five hundred rapes for ech day on
witch uch contravention Was so conned”
Ameninetot—_UTe_Setion 110 ofthe principal enactment is hereby
‘SouaI0otte amended bythe aubsiaton forthe words “aot excoding
fecal iy rupees” of the words “not exceding five hundred
pees
Amenientet_—18. Section 111 of the principal enactment is hereby
son Ff amended by the substi forthe words “aot exceeding
8
foo fone thousand rupees", of the words “not exceeding one
thundred thousand pees”
Aamenineseot___19,. Section 112 of the principal enactment is hereby
‘cinta byte suo fer he words “nt essing
icp fity rupees.” ofthe words “not exceeding five hundred
rupee


Factores (Amendment Ae, No 8 0f 1998S

20, Section 113 ofthe picpal enactments hereby Ament
amended by the substitution for the words “not exceeding "2 jee
one thousand rupees, oto inprsonmentafiter description Pel
fora erm ot excesding tee months of the words "ot
exceeding fy thousand eopees ro imprisonment of eer
“eserpton fra tem no exceeding six months

21, Inthe ventory inconsistency between the Sint Sites
sd Tilt ofthis Aste Sinn xsl eval. Realince


‘mal icpon ogi Bitean Acuofbe Puctaneat Rs. 15(Laa Rs | 8g),
Fanblewo te Soronmecee, Covamene Rsexone Buna, No.3, Tusvens Ho,
"Es Ron, Coun Ot eI Bese cc em pst halon.
