Price : Rs. 5.50Postage : Rs.4.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS TRIBUNALACT, No. 4 OF 2002

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 27, 2002

[Certified on 25th March, 2002]

Printed on the Order of Government

Administrative Appeals TribunalAct, No. 4 of 20021

[Certified on 25th March, 2002]

L.D. O. 4/2002.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE CONSTITUTION OF AN ADMINISTRATIVEAPPEALS TRIBUNAL; TO SPECIFY THE POWERS OF SUCH TRIBUNAL

AND THE PROCEDURE TO BE ADHERED TO BY SUCH TRIBUNAL IN

RESPECT OF APPEALS AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Administrative AppealsTribunal Act, No. 4 of 2002.

2.(1) The Administrative Appeals Tribunal establishedunder paragraph (1) of Article 59 of the Constitution,(hereinafter referred to as the Tribunal) shall consist of threemembers appointed by the Judicial Service Commission, fromamong persons who have had over twenty years of experienceas a public officer or ten years of experience in the legalprofession, one of whom shall be appointed its Chairman.

(2) The terms of office of the members of the Tribunal,including its Chairman, shall be three years.

3.The Tribunal shall have the power to hear anddetermine any appeal preferred to it from any order or decisionmade by

(a) the Public Servie Commision in the exercise of itspowers under Chapter IX of the Constitution;

(b) the National Police Commission in the exercise of itspowers under Chapter XVIIIA of the Constitution.

4. (1) Any public officer or police officer as the case maybe, aggrieved by an order or decision made by the PublicService Commission or the National Police Commission, as

Procedure forpreferring anappeal.

Powers of theTribunal.

Constitution of theAdministrativeAppeals Tribunal.

Short title.

2 H 13388 5,550 (2002/02)

Administrative Appeals TribunalAct, No. 4 of 20022

the case may be, may prefer an appeal in writing to theTribunal within four weeks from the date of receipt of suchorder or decision.

(2) An appeal preferred to the Tribunal under subsection(1), shall set out concisely and precisely the grounds on whichthe aggrieved public officer or police officer, as the case maybe, seeks to have the order or decision against which suchappeal is being preferred altered, varied or rescinded and shallbe signed by such officer.

5.(1) Upon receipt of an appeal under section 4, theTribunal shall notify the Public Service Commission or theNational Police Commission, as the case may be, of such fact,and shall forthwith forward a copy of such appeal to theappropriate Commission.

(2) The Public Service Commission or the National PoliceCommission, as the case may be, shall thereupon have thepower to place before the Tribunal for its considerationobjections, if any to or against such appeal.

6.The Tribunal may, upon a consideration of the groundsset out in an appeal preferred to it and on being satisfied that,there exists a prima facie grievance

(a) entertain such appeal ;

(b) call for a report from the Public Service Commissionor the National Police Commission, as the case maybe ;

(c) require the Public Service Commission or the NationalPolice Commission, as the case may be, to produceany document or other material, which in the opinionof the Tribunal relates to the grounds set out in theappeal ;

(d) notify any other public officer or police officer, as thecase may be, of the same category whom the Tribunalconsiders likely to have been affected by the order ordecision of the Public Service Commission, or the

Public ServiceCommission andthe NationalPoliceCommission to benotified.

Tribunal to satisfyitself of primafacie grievance.

Administrative Appeals TribunalAct, No. 4 of 20023

Disposal ofappeals..

Decision of theTribunal.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Officers andservants of theTribunal.

National Police Commission, and require such officerto produce before the Tribunal any material suchofficer may wish to place before the Tribunal inconnection with such appeal, within a period of twoweeks from the date of receipt by him, of such notice.

7. The Tribunal shall hear and finally dispose of anyappeal preferred to it under this Act, within a period of twomonths from the date of receipt of such appeal.

8. (1) The decision of the Tribunal shall be under the handof the Chairman and shall be communicated in writing to thePublic Service Commission or to the National PoliceCommission, as the case may be, to the public officer or thepolice officer who preferred the appeal and to any other publicofficer or police officer who was notified by the Tribunal underparagraph (d) of section 6. The decision of the Tribunal shall,be the decision of the majority.

(2) A decision made by the Tribunal shall be final andconclusive and shall not be called in question in any suit orproceedings in a court of law.

9.(1) The Chairman of the Tribunal may, in consultationwith the Judical Service Commission, appoint such officersand servants as may be necessary for the exercise of the powersof the Tribunal.

(2) The removal and exercise of disciplinary control overthe officers and servants appointed under subsection (1), shallbe vested with the Judicial Service Commission.

10.No suit or prosecution shall lie against any member,officer or servant of the Tribunal for any lawful act done oromitted to be done in good faith under this Act or which isdone on the directions of the Tribunal.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the the Sinhala text shallprevail.

No suit orprosecution to lieagainst theTribunal.

Administrative Appeals TribunalAct, No. 4 of 20024

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.