PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Sth Session 1969-70

Contracts Commission
(Special Provisions)
Act, No. 34 of 1969

et of Assent: December 9, 1952

and pubched sre Septeren to Copin Coveament Gazt
~ Poe T Becanber see ets



Contracts Commission (Special Provisions)
‘et, No. 94. 0f 1968

D0, sy.

‘AN AcE TO MAKE SELCIL PROVISION 2" REGARD 7
"wat Cosrteeon sesun0, Onan scion 2 OF 3
‘unereae Aer, sy sx Goverson Geena UNDER
fn Beat ov sun Tstaxn oN THR 2280 DAY OF
Schon 38, ap rosso x Gaste Batra

frory No, 4.340 oF THE SAID DATE, AND TH
Connusrowen arroveeeD ay om ik TH SAID
Genmission, non Fat rntose oF ovine CuR=A
{Gonncs or aropoxmer ay Hie Mageser i CooNe
Granny vnow sz Sormene Cover oe Crrio8
(Barve Couven, Arrest, No. 30 or 1068, Kan
Slerwscora,Arrstiore Vr. ie ATTORNEY
Gavnat, Hisroxnnst) tm A arrek ANSING OUT OF
Pnocenotkee man ay Ox Bros x Bat Cows:
ow nzzarina ro x cowenact rox ta TOws OF
Kawoy, Warm Surety. Sewn ENTERED 170
aetwres me" Paunere. SECRETARY 70 THE
Misisrar ‘or Local, Govenvateer xo" HOM
“Arran ox aemast ov aie Govenvut oe CEYLON
‘hin te Door or rmsows RvowN as “EAU ET
‘ASSAINISSHTENT-SOCOMAN (SOCEA) ".

[Date of Assent: December 9, 1969]

) DE it enacted by the Quven’s Mest Excellent Majer,
‘and with the dies aad consent of the Senate nad
Hote Repeat of Cop. the
Present Parliament assembled, and by the author
SF the sane, as follows: — . *

4. This Act may be cited as the Contracts
Commision Special’ Proviso) “Act, No. of

2 saint to the povrons of vation 9, the
Commission, purporting to ave. been mie, under
‘ction Sof te principal Act, bythe Governor-General
Snder the: Seal of the Tstand on the 220d day of
Sttober, "1985, snd published in. GasetBetro
ordinary No. i440 Gf the anid date, im this Act
feferred to 2s the "Contracts Commision", skal
(oie or the purpose ego th sid
Commission, to ave been and tobe ao validly fasted,

‘and the Commisioner appointed by grin the said
Eonigson, in this Act tefered to ta" the Comm
‘Sonor shall be deemed, for moe porpse, toh



2 Contracts Commission (Special Provisions)
Act, No, 34 0f 1069

been and tobe so validly appointed, and acoondingly
the provisions of the pristpal Act and.any other
rill be ued for euch purrs, Ye
Commision ant ths Commtsioner i tike manner and >
to'the same extent as they wool have applied and
‘ould apply if, apart from the preoedng’ provisions
UF this seelion, tha said Commision ad tha sald
‘Commissioner tad beens validy ised and 90 validly
aprointed

2. Subject to the suzeding provisions ofthis Act
the’ provisions of section 2 sball not apply 0 tho
Contracts Commision andthe Connnionr inv far
‘nd insofar only assoc) Compleion and the Com
Sher vrei oben nad
ibe Wandy WalceSepny Contra, and sored
Shor Canmlon ape Conpiinet sal be
Stened otto have een and otto be vaidly sued
fi appointed by Uw Governor-General under ths
principal Act for any such purposes, and all procend-
Ings held yor before the Comminsiner for any suah
porposes shal be ceamed to have ben end to bo nll
tnd vid.

& No civil or criminal procedings shall be
{instituted or maintained against any person, whathor
in bis capacity as the Commissioner, a witness, a
sounsl menor of the tal of the Contacts Com

tendered ‘or tenders asstance or" furnsbed ot
farnishes information to such Commission in any
capacity whatsoever, in respect of any act Bona fide
done or omitted to be done, whether before or on oF
after the date of the commencement of this Act, by
‘uch person for any purposes mentioned in euch Com:
nission including in particlar, but without prejudice
to the gonerality of the preceding provisions of this
section, any such purposes connected with or relating
to the Kandy Water Supply Contract, and where any
such proceedings in respect of any such act have boen
instituted in any court before that date, the court,
Shall, on the application of any party, att aside or)
dismiss the proceedings, without making any award a8
to costs or expenses



Contracts Commission (Special Provisions) 3
‘det, No. 36 0f 1969

8. No civil or criminal proceedings shall be insti
tated, or maintained agatoat any person, in his
Stacy” athe. pvpietor ot, ein or pint or

Bilsher of any ‘ewepsper, fo Te na

PFie puiascn, whet tefowe ooo or after the

date fh omen oft eh "=

of a report o ig, oF any part
Lie procaldngs, of any ingolry or Snvestigntion beld
by. or before ‘the “Contracts Commission, or of
the Teport or recomendations, or any part of the
{sport or resommendations, erued or made by Ue sid
Ghnmission for any’ purposes mentioned in the
Commission (including tay euch purposes connected
with or relating tothe ‘Kandy. Water’ Supply
Gonicat), and were any auch proceedings in respect
of any sich publication have Boen iastitated in any
port before dat dato the ure shalom the applice-
lon of any party, set aside ot diamiss the procesd-
Inge, without making ‘any award a8 (o Gste OF
expenses.

in uch news:

6. (1) In this Act, unless the content otherwise
requires

cv final provelings cade proved
ings by way of mandates inthe natare
q tf ibe write referted to in section 43 of the
» Courts Ordinance
“counsel” ens any adele or proctor, who
Yepreseated ot representa aay person tt
Tnguiey eld" Sy" or Before’ dhe Contracts
Commision;
“Randy Water. Supply, Contract means the
‘Contract for the Town of Kandy” Water
‘Scppiy Scheme entered nto between the
‘Permanent Seeretary to the Minfstty ‘of
‘LecalGorerament and” Home’ Afaity on
chal? of the Government of Ceyion and the
Yody) of. persons known as EAU
Tn AssalNissMENT — ‘SocoMaN
td inlades any sub-contract

f persons, and. any tenders or

hegotiations of quotations or offers by what-

; foprer nate or esignation called sade by
her persons or bodies of persons for the
Durposes of toch contract oF aay such sub
Fearn’

Be

cad


4 Contracts Commission (Special Provisions)
‘det Na. 34 of 1060

rma“ sammm  pesee a
Mati, me oft
POY, ci A

principal Act" means the Commissions of ¥
Ege et, of annda trom ne tin

pune”, i any gi. ee

a ee
Scie cata” Serer
SERA aT, al oi deat
Pe et
eer

“witness aman aay person who gave or gives
idence at any inquiry of iovestigetion el
trror before the Contracts Commision

(©) Thin Act shall be read and constraod as one
swith ue priselpal Ace

Provided, homever, that in the erent. of any
confiee ‘or incosisteiey between the provisions of
this Act andthe provisions of the prinwipal Act, the
rose of ti thatthe ent f ack

Eonfiee oF Snontastncy, prevail over the provision

oft prscpal Ace ™ em

