a a

OE

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

EXCISE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 7 OF 1995

fo [Certified on 12th April, 1995]

Printed on the Order of Government

Publishec as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 12, 1995

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
eee TN ee
| TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 7.
|
|

Price: 45 cents. Postage: Rs. 2.00


Excise (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 1995

[Certified on 12th April, 1995]
L.D,—O. 68/92

An ACT TO AMEND THE EXCISE ORDINANCE

BE it encated by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1, This Act may be cited as the Excise (Amendment)
Ae@, No. 7 of 1995.

2 Section 22 of the Excise Ordinance (hereinafter refer-
red to as the “ principal enactment ”’) is hereby amended in
subsection (3) of that section by the substitution, for the
words “within a period of one month”, of the words
“within a period of four months ”.

3. Section 43 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
ed by the substitution for the words “ excisable article not
lweensed under this Ordinance shall”, of the words “ excis-
able article not licensed under this Ordinance or any un-
authorised storage or sale of any excisable article, shall ”.

4. Section 48 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
ed by the substitution for the words from “five thousand
rupees” to the end of that section, of the words “five hun-
dred thousand rupees or to both.” .

% The following new section is hereby inserted imme-
diately after section 58a of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 588 of that enactment :—

ion ent 588, Where any person requires—

excise

officers for (a) any service which is determined by the
special wis ata “. gual
nervices txall Commissioner- General of Excise as
attendance. a special service; or

(6) the attendance of any excise officer at
any Office or place other than his pro-
per office or place of employment,

payment shall be made for such service or
attendance, as the case may be, to the Com-
missioner-General of Excise by such person
at such rates as may be specified by the Com-
missioner-General of Excise. ”.

2—D 034990—7,380 (95/02)

Short title.

Amendment
of sectiop
43 of the
principal
enactmen*t

the principal
enactment.


and other

written law.

Saving for

contracts &c.

Sinhala text
to prevail
in case of
incon-
sistency.

2 Excise (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 1995

6. (1) Where in any provisions of the principal enactment
or any written law, or in any notice, communication, form,
or other document, issued, made, required or authorised, by
or under the principal enactment or such written law, the
expression “ Excise Commissioner” occurs, there shall be
substituted for such expression, the expression “ Commis-
sioner-General of Excise

(2) Where in any provision of written law, the expression
“Deputy Commissioner of Excise” or “Deputy Commiss-
ioner” denoting a Deputy Commissioner of Excise appointed
under the principal enactment occurs, such expression shall
be deemed to include a Commissioner of Excise appointed
under the principal enactment.

7. Every contract, agreement or other instrument or
document whatsoever made, issued or executed prior to the
date of commencement of this Act, by or in favour of the
Excise Commissioner shall be deemed, from and after the
date of commencement of this Act, to be and to have been
made, issued or executed, by or in favour of the Commis
sioner-General of Excise.

8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

_ and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.


i Ss

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local)

Rs. 1,180 (Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

Burgau, No. 255, Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 7, before 15th December eacn
Year in respect of the year following.
