PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 16.25 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 03, 2006

[Certified on 26th February, 2006]

Printed on the Order of Government

GENEVA CONVENTIONSACT, No. 4 OF 2006

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 20061

[Certified on 26th February, 2006]

L.D. O. 62/2004.

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE FIRST, SECOND, THIRD AND FOURTHGENEVA CONVENTIONS ON ARMED CONFLICT AND HUMANITARIANLAW; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO

WHEREAS Sri Lanka is a State Party to the First, Second,Third and Fourth Geneva Conventions relating to ArmedConflict and Humanitarian Law having ratified the saidGeneva Conventions on February 28, 1959 :

AND WHEREAS the aforesaid Geneva Conventions haveentered into force in respect of Sri Lanka on February 28,1959 :

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to make legislativeprovision to give effect to Sri Lankas obligations under theaforesaid Geneva Conventions :

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Geneva ConventionsAct, No 4 of 2006 and shall come into operation on suchdate as the Minister may by Order published in the Gazetteappoint (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

(2)Different dates may be appointed for the differentParts of the Act to come into operation.

PART 1

PRELIMINARY

2.(1) Any person, whether a citizen of Sri Lanka or not,who within or outside Sri Lanka

(a)commits or attempts to commit; or

Preamble.

Short title and dateof operation.

Grave breaches ofConventions to beoffences.

2Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

(b)aids, abets, conspires or procures the commissionby any other person of,

a grave breach in terms of the relevant Articles of theConventions as are set out in Schedule I, Schedule II,Schedule III and Schedule IV to this Act and are alsoenumerated in subsection (2) of this section, shall be guiltyof an offence.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)

(a)a grave breach of the First Convention is a breach ofthat Convention involving an act referred to in Article50 of that Convention committed against personsor property protected by that Convention;

(b)a grave breach of the Second Convention is a breachof that Convention involving an act referred to inArticle 51 of that Convention committed againstperson or property protected by that Convention ;

(c)a grave breach of the Third Convention is a breachof that Convention involving an act referred to inArticle 130 of that Convention committed againstpersons or property protected by that Convention ;and

(d)a grave breach of the Fourth Convention is a breachof that Convention involving an act referred to inArticle 147 of that Convention committed againstpersons or property protected by that Convention.

(3) For the purposes of this section aids, abets,conspires and procures shall have the same meaning asis assigned to them in the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

(4) Any person convicted of an offence under this sectionshall

(a)where the offence involves the wilful killing of aperson protected by any of the aforesaidConventions, be punished with death; and

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 20063

(b)for any other offence, be punished withimprisonment of either description for a term whichshall not exceed twenty years.

3.Subject to the provisions of section 6, everyprosecution for an offence in terms of section 2 shall be byway of direct indictment filed by the Attorney-General.

4.(1) Every offence under this Act shall be triable bythe High Court established under Article 154P of theConstitution for the Western Province, holden in Colombo.

(2) Every offence under this Act shall be a congnizableoffence and a non-bailable offence within the meaning andfor the purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979.

(3) A person referred to in Article 5 of the Third Conventionmay apply to the High Court for a declaration that he has thestatus of a protected prisoner or war.

(4) The High Court may, where it is satisfied that thepresence of the public or any other person specified by Court,as the case may be, would be contrary to the interests ofjustice or would not be in the public interest, order theexclusion from any sitting of the Court, the public or anyperson specified by the Court.

5.Where in the course of any proceedings under thisAct in respect of a grave breach of any of the Conventions aquestion arises under section 2 of this Act relating to thecircumstances in which that Convention applies in relationto the aforesaid breach, a Certificate under the hand of theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Foreign Affairs stating that a Convention appliesin relation to a particular situation, shall be admissible inevidence and shall be prima facie evidence of such fact.

Attorney-Generalto file indictment.

High Court tohave jurisdictionto try offences.

Proof ofapplication ofConvention.

4Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

6.The provisions of the Army Act (Chapter 357), theNavy Act (Chapter 358) and the Air Force Act (Chapter 359),relating to the trial by a Court Martial in terms of theprovisions of the aforesaid Acts of persons who commit civiloffences, shall, for the purposes of jurisdiction of courtsmartial convened in Sri Lanka under any of the aforesaidActs, continue to apply in the same manner as provided for inthe respective Acts, as if the provisions of this Act had notbeen enacted.

PART II

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS IN RESPECT OF PROTECTED PERSONS

7.(1) The Court before which

(a)a protected prisoner of war is brought up for trial forany offence under this Act; or

(b)a protected internee is brought up for trial for anoffence under this Act, for which that Court has thepower to sentence him for a term of imprisonmentextending to two years or more,

shall not proceed with the trial until it is proved to thesatisfaction of the Court that a Notice stating the matters setout in subsection (2) in so far as they are known to theprosecutor, had been served three weeks previously on theprotecting power, if any, and if the accused is a protectedprisoner of war on the accused and the prisonersrepresentative.

(2) The following matters shall be included in the Noticereferred to in subsection (1)

(a)the full name, date of birth and description of theaccused, including his profession or trade;

(b)where the accused is a protected prisoner of war, hisrank and his army, regimental, personal and serialnumber ;

Status of CourtMartialproceedings inrelation to this Act.

Service of noticeof trial ofprotected personson protectingpower &c,.

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 20065

(c)the accuseds place of detention, internment orresidence;

(d)the offence with which the accused is charged; and

(e)the Court before which the trial is to take place andthe date and the time fixed for the trial.

(3)For the purposes of this section a documentpurporting

(a)to be signed on behalf of the protecting power or bythe prisoners representative or by the personaccused as the case may be; and

(b)to be an acknowledgement of the receipt by thatpower, representative or person on a specified day,of a Notice described in the document as a Noticegiven in terms of the provisions of this section,

shall, unless the contrary is shown, be sufficient evidencethat the notice required by subsection (1) was served on thatpower, representative or person on that day.

(4) For the purposes of this section prisonersrepresentative in relation to a particular protected prisonerof war at a particular time means the person by whom thefunction of the prisoners representative within the meaningof Article 79 of the Third Convention were exercisable inrelation of that prisoner at the camp or place at which thatprisoner of war was detained at, or last detained before thattime, as a protected prisoner of war.

(5) A Court which adjourns a trial for the purposes ofenabling the requirements of this section to be compliedwith, may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, remand the accused for the period of theadjournment.

6Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

8.(1) The High Court before which

(a)any person is brought for trial for an offence undersection 2 of this Act; or

(b)a protected prisoner of war is brought up for trial forany offence,

shall not proceed with the trial unless

(i)the accused is represented by Counsel;

(ii)it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that aperiod of twenty- one days has elapsed sinceinstructions for the representation of the accused atthe trial were first given to the Counsel,

and if the Court adjourns the trial for the purpose of enablingthe requirements of this subsection to be complied with, then,notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other writtenlaw, the Court may authorize the detention of the accused insuch custody as it may think fit for the period of theadjournment.

(2) Where the accused is a protected prisoner of war, in theabsence of a Counsel accepted by the accused as representinghim, Counsel instructed for the purpose on behalf of theprotecting power, shall, without prejudice to the requirementsof paragraph (ii) of subsection (1) be regarded for the purposesof that subsection as representing the accused.

(3) If the Court adjourns the trial in pursuance of theprovisions of subsection (1) on the ground that the accusedis not represented by Counsel, the Court shall direct that aCounsel be assigned to watch over the interests of the accusedat future proceedings in connection with the offence. In futureproceedings, in the absence of Counsel either accepted bythe accused as representing him, or instructed as specified insubsection (2), Counsel assigned in terms of the provisions

Legalrepresentation forprisoners of war.

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 20067

of this subsection shall without prejudice to the requirementsof the provisions of paragraph (ii) of subsection (1), beregarded for the purposes of such subsection as representingthe accused.

(4) The manner of assigning a Counsel in pursuance ofthe provisions of subsection (3) and the fees to be paid tosuch a Counsel shall be as prescribed.

9.(1) Where a protected prisoner of war or a protectedinternee has been sentenced to imprisonment for a periodexceeding two years, the time within which notice of appealmust be given shall, notwithstanding anything in any otherlaw, be deemed to commence on the day on which he receivesnotice given,

(a)in the case of a prisoner of war of a Commonwealthcountry, by an officer of the armed forces of hiscountry ; and

(b)in the case of an internee, by or on behalf of theSuperintendent of the Prison in which he is confined,to the effect that the protecting power has beennotified of his conviction and sentence and for suchfurther time as would have been the time allowed ifthe conviction or sentence had taken place or beenpronounced on that day.

(2) Where after an appeal against the conviction orsentence by a Court of a protected prisoner of war or aprotected internee has been determined, the sentence remainsunchanged or has become a sentence of imprisonment for aterm exceeding two years, any time allowed in relation to afurther appeal in respect of the conviction or sentence asconfirmed or varied upon the previous appeal shall be deemedto continue to run until the day on which the convicted personreceives a notice given by a person referred to in subsection(1), as the case may require, that the protecting power hasbeen notified of the decision of the Court upon the previousappeal, and for such further time as would have been withinthe time allowed if that decision had been pronounced onthat day.

Appeals byprotected persons.

8Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

(3) Upon the application of the provisions of subsection(1) in relation to a convicted person, then, unless the Courtotherwise orders, the order of Court relating to the restitutionof property or the payment of compensation to an aggrievedperson shall not take effect, and any provision of law relatingto the re-vesting of property on conviction shall not takeeffect in relation to the conviction, while an appeal by theconvicted person against his conviction or sentence ispossible without the extension of time other than theextension provided by subsection (2).

(4) The provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall notapply in relation to an appeal against a conviction or sentence,or against the decision of a Court upon a previous appeal, ifat the time of the conviction or sentence or of the decision ofthe court upon the previous appeal, as the case may be, thereis no protecting power.

10.(1) Where a protected prisoner of war or a protectedinternee is convicted of an offence, the Court shall

(a)in the case of a sentence of death, on a considerationof all the facts of the case, consider whether suchsentence can be commuted to one of life;

(b)in fixing a term of imprisonment in respect of theoffence, deduct from the term it would otherwisehave fixed, any period during which the convictedperson had been in custody in connection with theoffence before the trial ; and

(c)in fixing the penalty other than imprisonment inrespect of the offence, take that period of custodyinto account.

(2) Where the Attorney-General is satisfied that a protectedprisoner of war accused of an offence has been in custody inconnection with that offence, while awaiting trial, in a placeother than a camp or place in which the protected prisoners

Reduction ofsentence andcustody ofprotected prisonersof war andinternees.

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 20069

of war are detained, for an aggregate period of not less thanthree months, the High Court may, on a request of theAttorney-General, direct that the prisoner shall be transferredfrom that custody to the custody of the armed forces andthereafter remain in such custody at a camp or place in whichprotected prisoners of war are detained, and be brought beforethe Court at the date and time appointed for his trial.

PART III

ABUSE OF THE RED CROSS AND OTHER EMBLEMS

11.(1) No person, unless authorized in writing by theMinister or by any person authorized in that behalf by theMinister, shall use or display or cause to be used or displayedfor any purpose whatsoever in Sri Lanka or outside, or onboard any ship or aircraft registered in Sri Lanka

(a)the emblem of the red cross with vertical andhorizontal arms of the same length on, andcompletely surrounded by, a white background, orthe designation Red Cross ;

(b)the emblem of the red crescent moon on andcompletely surrounded by, a white background, orthe designation Red Crescent ;

(c)the emblem of a red lion passing from right to left,completely surrounded by a white background, withits face turned towards the observer, holding erectin its raised right forepaw a scimita, with the upperhalf of the sun shooting forth rays appearing abovethe lions back, or the designation Red Lion andSun ;

(d)the emblem of a white or silver cross with verticaland horizontal arms of the same length, andcompletely surrounded, by a red background beingthe heraldic emblem of the Swiss Confederation ;and

Prohibition on useof the emblem.

10Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

(e)a design or wording so nearly resembling any of theemblems or designations specified in paragraphs(a) to (d) above, so as to be capable of being mistakenfor, or being understood as referring to, any one ofthose emblems or designations.

(2) If at any time subsequent to the coming into operationof this Act, any additional distinctive emblem is adopted bythe High Contracting Parties to the Geneva Conventions, theMinister may by Order published in the Gazette declare anyemblem as is so adopted, to be an emblem for the purposes ofsubsection (1) of this section, and for the use or display ofwhich written authorisation of the Minister would be requiredin terms of this section.

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) of this section shall be guilty of an offenceand shall on conviction after summary trial be liable to-

(a)in the case of a first offence, to a fine not exceedingfive thousand rupees ;

(b)in the case of a second offence, to a fine notexceeding twenty thousand rupees ;

(c)in the case of a third offence, to a fine not exceedingthirty-five thousand rupees ; and

(d)in the case of a subsequent offence to a fine of rupeesfifty thousand and rigorous imprisonment for a termnot exceeding three months.

(4) The Minister may make regulations specifying theinstructions and guidelines on the use of the emblem anddesign and to make appropriate provisions regulating theuse for the purposes of any of the Conventions set out inSchedule I, Schedule II, Schedule III and Schedule IV or ofany emblem and design and any conditions or limitations,to which, any authorization granted in terms of this sectionshall be subject to.

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 200611

(5) The prohibition contained in subsection (1) shall notapply to a trade mark registered under the law applicableprior to the date of the coming into operation of this Act : andwhere a person is charged with contravening the provisionsof subsection (1) it shall be a defence to such person to prove,-

(a)that he was lawfully using such emblem or designfrom a date prior to the coming into operation ofthis Act ;

(b)that such emblem, sign, designation or signal usedin connection with such goods, had been applied tosuch goods before such person acquired them bysome other person who had manufactured or dealtwith the goods in the course of trade and had beenlawfully using the same prior to the coming intooperation of this Act.

(6) Where an offence against this section is committedby a body of persons, then every director, manager, secretaryor other officer of such body shall be guilty of an offenceunless he is able to prove that the act or omission constitutingthe offence was committed without his knowledge or consentand that he took all necessary steps to prevent the commissionof such offence.

PART IV

GENERAL

12.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are authorised or required to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of such publication.

Regulations.

12Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall as soon as is convenient after itspublication in the Gazette be placed before Parliament for itsapproval. Any regulation not so approved shall be deemed tobe rescinded as from the date of such disapproval.

(4) Notification of the date of which any regulation is sodeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

14. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

Conventions mean the First Convention, the SecondConvention, the Third Convention and the FourthConvention, the relevant Articles of which are setout in the Schedule I, Schedule II, Schedule III andSchedule IV to this Act ;

Court shall include any Court Martial within themeaning of the Army Act (Chapter 357), the NavyAct (Chapter 358) or the Air Force Act (Chapter359) respectively ;

protected internee means a person protected by theFourth Convention and interned in Sri Lanka ;

protecting power in relation to a protected interneeor a prisoner of war, means the power ororganization which is carrying out in the interestsof the power of which he is a national or of whosearmed forces he is or was at any material time amember, the duties assigned to protecting powersunder the Third Convention or as may be necessarythe Fourth Convention ;

protected prisoner of war means a person protectedby the Third Convention.

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in the caseof inconsistency.

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 200613

SCHEDULE I (Sections 2, 11 and 13)

GENEVA CONVENTION FOR THE AMELIORATION OF THE CONDITION OF THE WOUNDED

AND SICK IN ARMED FORCES IN THE FIELD, OF AUGUST 12, 1949

Relevant Provisions

CHAPTER IX

REPRESSION OF ABUSES AND INFRACTIONS

ARTICLE 49

The High Contracting Parties undertake to enact any legislationnecessary to provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing,or ordering the commission of any of the grave breaches of the presentConvention defined in the following Article.

Each High Contracting Party shall be under the obligation to searchfor persons alleged to have committed, or to have ordered thecommission of such grave breaches, and shall bring such persons,regardless of their nationality, before its own courts. It may also, if itprefers, and in accordance with the provisions of its own legislation,hand such persons over for trial to another High Contracting Partyconcerned, provided such High Contracting Party has made out aprima facie case.

Each High Contracting Party shall take measures necessary for thesuppression of all acts contrary to the provisions of the presentConvention other than the grave breaches defined in the followingArticle.

In all circumstances, the accused persons shall benefit by safeguardsof proper trial and defence, which shall not be less favourable thanthose provided by Article 105 and those following of the GenevaConvention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War of August 12,1949.

ARTICLE 50

Grave breaches to which the preceding Article relates shall be thoseinvolving any of the following acts, if committed against persons orproperty protected by the Convention ; wilful killing, torture or inhumantreatment, including biological experiments, wilfully causing greatsuffering or serious injury to body or health, and extensive destructionand appropriation of property, not justified by military necessity andcarried out unlawfully and wantonly.

14Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

ARTICLE 51

No High Contracting Party shall be allowed to absolve itself or anyother High Contracting Party of any liability incurred by itself or byanother High Contracting Party in respect of breaches referred to in thepreceding Article.

ARTICLE 52

At the request of a Party to the conflict, an enquiry shall be instituted,in a manner to be decided between the interested Parties, concerningany alleged violation of the Convention.

If agreement has not been reached concerning the procedure forthe enquiry, the Parties should agree on the choice of an umpire whowill decide upon the procedure to be followed.

Once the violation has been established, the Parties to the conflictshall put an end to it and shall repress it with the least possible delay.

ARTICLE 53

The use by individuals, societies, firms or companies either publicor private, other than those entitled thereto under the present Convention,of the emblem or the designation Red Cross or Geneva Cross, orany sign or designation constituting an imitation thereof, whatever theobject of such use, and irrespective of the date of its adoption, shall beprohibited at all times.

By reason of the tribute paid to Switzerland by the adoption of thereversed Federal colours, and of the confusion which may arise betweenthe arms of Switzerland and the distinctive emblem of the Convention,the use by private individuals, societies or firms, of the arms of theSwiss Confederation, or of marks constituting an imitation thereof,whether as trade-marks or commercial marks, or as parts of such marks,or for a purpose contrary to commercial honesty, or in circumstancescapable of wounding Swiss national sentiment, shall be prohibited at alltimes.

Nevertheless, such High Contracting Parties as were not party to theGeneva Convention of July 27, 1929, may grant to prior users of theemblems, designations, signs or marks designated in the first paragraph,a time limit not to exceed three years from the coming into force of thepresent Convention to discontinue such use, provided that the said useshall not be such as would appear, in time of war, to confer the protectionof the Convention.

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 200615

The prohibition laid down in the first paragraph of the presentArticle shall also apply, without effect on any rights acquired throughprior use, to the emblems and marks mentioned in the second paragraphof Article 38.

ARTICLE 54

The High Contracting Parties shall, if their legislation is not alreadyadequate, take measures necessary for the prevention and repression, atall times, of the abuses referred to under Article 53.

SCHEDULE II (Sections 2, 11and 13)

GENEVA CONVENTION FOR THE AMELIORATION OF THE CONDITION OF THE WOUNDED,SICK AND SHIPWRECKED MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES AT SEA OF AUGUST 12, 1949

Relevant Provisions

CHAPTER VIII

Repression of Abuses and Infractions

ARTARTICLE 50ICLE 50

The High Contracting Parties undertake to enact any legislationnecessary to provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing,or ordering the commission of, any of the grave breaches of thepresent Convention defined in the following Article.

Each High Contracting Party shall be under the obligation to searchfor persons alleged to have committed, or to have ordered to becommitted, such grave breaches, and shall bring such persons, regardlessof their nationality, before its own courts. It may also, if it prefers, andin accordance with the provisions of its own legislation, hand suchpersons over for trial to another High Contracting Party concerned,provided such High Contracting Party has made out a prima facie case.

Each High Contracting Party shall take measures necessary for thesuppression of all acts contrary to the provisions of the presentConvention other than the grave breaches defined in the followingArticle.

In all circumstances, the accused persons shall benefit by safeguardsof proper trial and defence, which shall not be less favorable than thoseprovided by Article 105 and those following the Geneva Conventionrelative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War of August 12, 1949.

16Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

ARTICLE 51

Grave breaches to which the preceding Article relates shall be thoseinvolving any of the following acts, if committed against persons orproperty protected by the Convention ; wilful killing, torture or inhumantreatment, including biological experiments, wilfully causing greatsuffering or serious injury to body or health, and extensive destructionand appropriation of property, not justified by military necessity andcarried out unlawfully and wantonly.

SCHEDULE III(Sections 2, 11 and 13)

GENEVA CONVENTION RELATIVE TO THE TREATMENT OF PRISONERS OF WAR OFAUGUST 12, 1949

Relevant Provisions

PART VI

EXECUTION OF THE CONVENTION

SECTION I

GENERAL PROVISIONS

ARTICLE 126

Representatives or delegates of the Protecting Powers shall havepermission to go to all places where prisoners of war may be, particularlyto places of internment, imprisonment and labour, and shall have accessto all premises occupied by prisoners of war ; they shall also be allowedto go to the places of departure, passage and arrival of prisoners whoare being transferred. They shall be able to interview the prisoners, andin particular the prisoners representatives, without witnesses, eitherpersonally or through an interpreter.

Representatives and delegates of the Protecting Powers shall havefull liberty to select the places they wish to visit. The duration andfrequency of these visits shall not be restricted. Visits may not beprohibited except for reasons of imperative military necessity, and thenonly as an exceptional and temporary measure.

The Detaining Power and the Power on which the said prisoners ofwar depend may agree, if necessary, that compatriots of these prisonersof war be permitted to participate in the visits.

The delegates of the International Committee of the Red Cross shallenjoy the same prerogatives. The appointment of such delegates shallbe submitted to the approval of the Power detaining the prisoners ofwar to be visited.

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 200617

ARTICLE 127

The High Contracting Parties undertake, in time of peace as in timeof war, to disseminate the text of the present Convention as widely aspossible in their respective countries, and in particular, to include thestudy thereof in their programmes of military and, if possible, civilinstruction, so that the principles thereof may become known to alltheir armed forces and to the entire population.

Any military or other authorities, who in time of war assumeresponsibilities in respect of prisoners of war, must possess the text ofthe Convention and be specially instructed as to its provisions.

ARTICLE 128

The High Contracting Parties shall communicate to one anotherthrough the Swiss Federal Council and, during hostilities, through theProtecting Powers, the official translations of the present Convention,as well as the laws and regulations which they may adopt to ensure theapplication thereof.

ARTICLE 129

The High Contracting Parties undertake to enact any legislationnecessary to provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing,or ordering the commission of, any of the grave breaches of the presentConvention defined in the following Article.

Each High Contracting Party shall be under the obligation to searchfor persons alleged to have committed, or to have ordered thecommission of, such grave breaches, and shall bring such persons,regardless of their nationality, before its own courts. It may also, if itprefers, and in accordance with the provisions of its own legislation,hand such persons over for trial to another High Contracting Partyconcerned, provided such High Contracting Party has made out aprima facie case.

Each High Contracting Party shall take measures necessary for thesuppression of all acts contrary to the provisions of the presentConvention other than the grave breaches defined in the followingArticle.

In all circumstances, the accused persons shall benefit by safeguardsof proper trial and defence, which shall not be less favourable thanthose provided by Article 105 and those following of the presentConvention.

ARTICLE 130

Grave breaches to which the preceding Article relates shall be thoseinvolving any of the following acts, if committed against persons orproperty protected by the Convention : wilful killing, torture or inhumantreatment, including biological experiments, wilfully causing great

18Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

suffering or serious injury to body or health, compelling a prisoner ofwar to serve in the forces of the hostile Power, or wilfully depriving aprisoner of war of the rights of fair and regular trial prescribed in thisConvention.

ARTICLE 131

No High Contracting Party shall be allowed to absolve itself or anyother High Contracting Party of any liability incurred by itself or byanother High Contracting Party in respect of breaches referred to in thepreceding Article.

SCHEDULE IV (Sections 2, 11 and 13)

GENEVA CONVENTION RELATIVE TO THE PROTECTION OF CIVILIAN PERSONS IN TIME OFWAR OF AUGUST 12, 1949

Relevant Provisions

PART IV

EXECUTION OF THE CONVENTION

SECTION I

GENERAL PROVISIONS

ARTICLE 142

Subject to the measures which the Detaining Powers may consideressential to ensure their security or to meet any other reasonable need,the representatives of religious organizations, relief societies, or anyother organizations assisting the protected persons, shall receive fromthese Powers, for themselves or their duly accredited agents, all facilitiesfor visiting the protected persons, for distributing relief supplies andmaterial from any source, intended for educational, recreational orreligious purposes, or for assisting them in organizing their leisure timewithin the places of internment. Such societies or organizations may beconstituted in the territory of the Detaining Power, or in any othercountry, or they may have an international character.

The Detaining Power may limit the number of societies andorganizations whose delegates are allowed to carry out their activitiesin its territory and under its supervision, on condition, however, thatsuch limitation shall not hinder the supply of effective and adequaterelief to all protected persons.

The special position of the International Committee of the RedCross in this field shall be recognized and respected at all times.

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 200619

ARTICLE 143

Representatives or delegates of the Protecting Power shall havepermission to go to all places where protected persons are, particularlyto places of internment, detention and work.

They shall have access to all premises occupied by protected personsand shall be able to interview the latter without witnesses, personally orthrough an interpreter.

Such visits may not be prohibited except for reasons of imperativemilitary necessity, and then only as an exceptional and temporarymeasure. Their duration and frequency shall not be restricted.

Such representatives and delegates shall have full liberty to selectthe places they wish to visit. The Detaining or Occupying Power, theProtecting Power and when occasion arises the Power of origin of thepersons to be visited, may agree that compatriots of the internees shallbe permitted to participate in the visits.

The delegates of the International Committee of the Red Cross shallalso enjoy the above prerogatives. The appointment of such delegatesshall be submitted to the approval of the Power governing the territorieswhere they will carry out their duties.

ARTICLE 144

The High Contracting Parties undertake, in time of peace as in timeof war, to disseminate the text of the present Convention as widely aspossible in their respective countries, and in particular, to include thestudy thereof in their programmes of military and, if possible, civilinstruction, so that the principles thereof may become known to theentire population.

Any Civilian military, police or other authorities, who in time ofwar assume responsibilities in respect of protected persons, must possessthe text of the Convention and be specially instructed as to its provisions.

ARTICLE 145

The High Contracting Parties shall communicate to one anotherthrough the Swiss Federa l Council and, during hostilities, through theProtecting Powers, the official translations of the present Convention,as well as the laws and regulations which they may adopt to ensure theapplication thereof.

20Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

ARTICLE 146

The high Contracting Parties undertake to enact any legislationnecessary to provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing,or ordering the commission of, any of the grave breaches of thepresent Convention defined in the following Article.

Each High Contracting Party shall be under the obligation to searchfor persons alleged to have committed, or to have ordered thecommission of, such grave breaches, and shall bring such persons,regardless of their nationality, before its own courts. It may also, if itprefers, and in accordance with the provisions of its own legislation,hand such persons over for trial to another High Contracting Partyconcerned, provided such High Contracting Party has made out aprima facie case.

Each High Contracting Party shall take measures necessary for thesuppression of all acts contrary to the provisions of the presentConvention other than the grave breachers defined in the followingArticle.

In all circumstances, the accused persons shall benefit by safeguardsof proper trial and defence, which shall not be less favourable thanthose provided by Article 105 and those following of the GenevaConvention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, of August 12,1949.

ARTICLE 147

Grave breaches to which the preceding Article relates shall be thoseinvolving any of the following acts, if committed against persons orproperty protected by the present Convention : wilful killing, torture orinhuman treatment, including biological experiments, wilfully causinggreat suffering or serious injury to body or health, unlawful deportationor transfer or unlawful confinement of a protected person, compellinga protected person to serve in the forces of a hostile Power, or wilfullydepriving a protected person of the rights of fair and regular trialprescribed in the present Convention, taking of hostages and extensivedestruction and appropriation of property, not justified by militarynecessity and carried out unlawfully and wantonly.

ARTICLE 149

No High contracting Party shall be allowed to absolve itself or anyother High contracting party of any liability incurred by itself or byanother High Contracting Party.

Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 200621

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.

22Geneva Conventions Act, No. 4 of 2006

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.