PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 27.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 18, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th of March, 2022]

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 8 OF 2022

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

1

Short title

[Certified on 16th of March, 2022]

L.D.O. 8/2020

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTYACT, NO. 36 OF 2003

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Intellectual Property(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2022.

2.Section 2 of the Intellectual Property Act, No.36 of2003 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) ishereby amended in paragraph (a) of subsection (2), by thesubstitution for the words administration of IndustrialDesigns, Patents, Marks and of any other matter of the wordsadministration of Industrial Designs, Patents, Marks,Geographical Indications and of any other matter.

3.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1), by the substitution for the wordsIndustrial designs, patents, marks and any othermatter of the words Industrial designs, patents,marks, geographical indications and any othermatter;

(2) in subsection (2), by the substitution for the wordsindustrial designs, patents, marks and any othermatter of the words industrial designs, patents,marks, geographical indications and any othermatter;

4.Section 101 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the definition of the phrasegeographical indication.

Amendment ofsection 2 ofAct, No.36 of2003

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 101 ofthe principalenactment

2Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

5.Section 160 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), by thesubstitution for the words protecting inventions,industrial designs, marks, trade names, of the wordsprotecting inventions, industrial designs, marks,trade names, geographical indications,;

(2) by the repeal of subparagraph (iv) of paragraph (b)of subsection (4) and the substitution therefor ofthe following:-

(iv) the geographical indication of any goodsincluding production process of productsor goods or services;.

6.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after the heading GEOGRAPHICALINDICATIONS in PART IX of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 160A of that enactment:-

160A. For the purposes of this Part, unlessthe context otherwise requires

authorized user means a user of ageographical indication registered underthis Part of this Act;

control plan means the method as to howthe verification of compliance withproduct specification is carried out;

geographical indication means anindication which identifies any goods asoriginating in the territory of a country,or a region or locality in that territory,where a given quality, reputation or othercharacteristic of the good is essentiallyattributable to its geographical origin;

Amendment ofsection 160 ofthe principalenactment

Insertion of newsection 160A inthe principalenactment

Definitions

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

3

goods means any manufactured or naturallyavailable agricultural products, food,wines, spirits or any item of handicraft orindustry;

producer in relation to goods, means anyperson who

(a) if such goods are agriculturalproducts, wines or spirits, producessuch goods or processes orpackages such goods;

(b) if such goods are natural goods,exploits such goods; or

(c) if such goods are handicrafts orindustrial goods, makes ormanufactures such goods; and

specification means a document to besubmitted with the application forregistration of a geographical indicationwhich provides technical details of thecharacteristics of the goods or products,the method of production, thegeographical area and the link betweenthe characteristics, quality or reputationof the goods or product and itsgeographical origin..

7.Section 161 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsections (4A) and (5) thereof.

Amendment ofsection 161 ofthe principalenactment

4Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

8. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 161 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 161A, 161B, 161C, 161D and161E of that enactment:-

161A. Where, any geographical indication

(a) that does not comply with thedefinition of geographical indicationas specified in section 160A;

(b) the use of which is contrary to law,morality, religion, accepted customsor public order;

(c) that is not or that ceases to beprotected in the country of origin asa geographical indication, or whichhas fallen into disuse in such country;

(d) that is identical with the termcustomary in common language asthe common name of the relevantgood;

(e) that misleads or deceives the publicas to the characteristics, nature,quality, place of origin andproduction process of the good or itsuse; or

(f) which constitutes the name of a plantvariety or an animal breed,

shall not be registered under this Act.

161B. (1) Any association of persons orproducers or any organization or authorityestablished by any law for the time being

Admissibilityofgeographicalindicationsforregistration

Insertion of newsections 161A,

161B, 161c,

161D and 161Ein the principalenactment

Applicationto registergeographicalindications

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

5

representing the interests of the producers ofany relevant good (hereinafter referred to asthe applicant) may make an application tothe Director-General for the registration of suchgood as a geographical indication in suchmanner and form and accompanied by suchdocuments and processing fee as shall beprescribed.

(2) Upon receipt of an application, theDirector-General shall examine suchapplication in the manner as shall beprescribed .

(3) Where the geographical indicationintended to be registered is not admissible forregistration in terms of section 161A, theDirector-General shall refuse to register suchgeographical indication and the reasonstherefore shall be informed to the applicant:

Provided that, where there is any defect inany application submitted to the Director-General under this section, the Director-Generalshall within three months from the date ofapplication, notify that to the applicant andshall afford the applicant an opportunity torectify any such defect within three monthsfrom the date of such notification. The date onwhich the applicant resubmits the rectifiedapplication to the Director-General, shall bedeemed to be the date of receipt of suchapplication for registration.

(4) Any applicant whose application hasbeen refused under subsection (3), may if notsatisfied with the reasons specified by theDirector-General for such refusal, make to theDirector-General, within three months from the

6Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

date on which the refusal was informed to theapplicant, his submissions in writing againstthe refusal.

(5) The Director-General may, upon receiptof such submissions, if he considers a hearingis necessary, inform the applicant of a date,time and place for the hearing of the matterrelating to such submissions.

(6) The Director-General may, after suchhearing refuse to register such application orregister the application as it is or subject tosuch conditions, amendments or limitations asto the mode or place of use of such geographicalindication as the Director-General may considerappropriate.

(7) Where the Director-General refuses toregister any application or register anapplication subject to any conditions asspecified in subsection (6), the Director-General shall if the applicant requests so,furnish the reasons for such refusal orconditional acceptance for registration.

161C. (1) Where the Director-General is ofthe opinion that the geographical indicationsought to be registered is admissible undersection 161A, he shall upon receipt of the feeas shall be prescribed for the publication of theapplication publish such application in theGazette, within a period of two months fromthe date of receipt of such application by theDirector-General. Where the applicant fails topay such fee within such specified time period,

Publicationof theapplication

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

7

the Director-General shall refuse to register thegeographical indication.

(2) The Director-General shall whenpublishing the application under subsection(1) set out the following:-

(a) the name and address of the applicant;

(b) the date of application;

(c) the representation of the geographicalindication;

(d) the goods for which the geographicalindication sought to be registered;

(e) the summary of the specification andthe map of the geographical area; and

(f) if the applicant is resident outsideSri Lanka, a postal address for servicein Sri Lanka.

161D. (1) Where any person considers thegeographical indication published undersection 161C is inadmissible in terms of section161A, such person may within a period of threemonths from the date of such publication sendnotice of opposition to the registration of thegeographical indication so published, by postor by hand delivery to the Director-General inthe prescribed form together with the prescribedfee. The person who gives the notice ofopposition shall also specify the grounds onwhich such notice of opposition is made and

Oppositiontoregistration

8Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

shall submit necessary information andevidence to substantiate such grounds.

(2) If any notice of opposition has not beenreceived by the Director-General within theperiod as specified in subsection (1), theDirector-General shall register thegeographical indication sought to be registeredunder section 161B.

(3) Where any notice of opposition has beenreceived by the Director-General in theprescribed form together with the prescribedfee and accompanied by the evidence orinformation to substantiate the groundsspecified in such notice, within one month fromthe date of such notice, the Director-Generalshall serve a copy of such notice on theapplicant and require him to make hisobservations on such grounds accompanied byevidence or information to support hisapplication within three months from the dateof receipt of such notice.

(4) Upon receipt of the observation of theapplicant, the Director-General shall afterhearing the parties if he considers such hearingnecessary, decide as expeditious as possiblewhether such geographical indication shall beregistered or not. If the Director-General decidesthat it shall be registered, then the Director-General shall

(a) where no appeal is preferred undersection 173 against his decision, uponthe expiry of the period within which an

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

9

appeal may be preferred against hisdecision; or

(b) where an appeal is preferred undersection 173 against his decision, uponthe dismissal of such appeal,

as the case may be, register such geographicalindication subject to any conditions,requirements or to such amendments ormodifications.

161E. (1) The registration of anygeographical indication, unless it is cancelledearlier shall be valid for ten years from the dateof application.

(2) The registration of any geographicalindication may be renewed by the owner ofsuch geographical indication for consecutiveperiods of ten years each on making anapplication together with the prescribed feefor such renewal to the Director-General withinsix months prior to its expiration:

Provided that, the Director-General mayafford to the applicant a grace period of sixmonths after the date of such expiration torenew the registration upon payment of asurcharge as shall be prescribed.

(3) Renewal of registration shall not besubject to any further examination of thegeographical indication by the Director-General or to opposition by any person.

(4) The Director-General shall record in theregister of the renewal of such geographical

Renewal ofregistrationofgeographicalindications

10Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

indication and cause it to be published in theGazette.

(5) Where an application has not been sentfor renewal along with the renewal fee by theapplicant as specified in subsection (2), theDirector-General shall remove thegeographical indication from the register ofgeographical indications..

9. The following new Chapters are hereby insertedimmediately after section 161E in the principal enactmentand shall have effect as Chapters XXXIIIA, XXXIIIB,XXXIIIC, XXXIIID and XXXIIIE of that enactment:-

CHAPTER XXXIIIA

ISSUE OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTARTION AND THE

REGISTER OF GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATION

161F. If any application has duly beenregistered by the Director-General under thisPart, he shall upon receipt of the prescribed feefor the certificate, issue a certificate ofregistration to the applicant who shall be theowner of the geographical indication(hereinafter referred to as the registeredowner) in the prescribed form.

161G. (1) The Director-General shall keepand maintain a register in the Office called theRegister of Geographical Indications inwhich all registered geographical indications

Insertion of newChaptersXXXIIIA,XXXIIIB,XXXIIIC,XXXIIID andXXXIIIE in theprincipalenactment

Issue ofcertificate ofregistration

Register ofGeographicalIndication

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

11

shall be recorded in the order of theirregistration.

(2) The following particulars shall beincluded in the Register of GeographicalIndications:-

(a) the geographical indication;

(b) number of registration;

(c) the name and address of the registeredowner and if the registered owner isoutside Sri Lanka, a postal address forservice in Sri Lanka;

(d) the date of application and registration;

(e) the list of goods in respect of which theregistration of geographical indicationhas been granted;

(f) the summary of the specification;

(g) the map of the geographical area; and

(h) specifications and associated controlplan.

(3) Any person may examine the Register ofGeographical Indications and obtain certifiedextracts thereof on payment of the prescribedfee.

12Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

CHAPTER XXXIIIB

RIGHTS OF A REGISTERED OWNER AND

ADMINISTRATION OF REGISTER OF GEOGRAPHICAL

INDICATIONS

161H. The registered owner of ageographical indication shall be entitled toprevent -

(a) in respect of goods of the same kind asthose to which the geographicalindication applies

(i) any direct or indirect use , misuse,imitation or evocation of ageographical indicationidentifying goods including anagricultural product, food, wine orspirit or handicraft manufacturedand natural goods not originatingin the place indicated by thegeographical indication in questionor not complying with any otherapplicable requirement for using thegeographical indication, evenwhere the true origin of the goods isindicated or the geographicalindication is used in translated formor accompanied by expressionstyle, kind, type, make,imitation, method, asproduced in, like, similar orsuch similar expression; or

(ii) any direct or indirect use, misuse,imitation or evocation of a

Rights of aregisteredowner

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

13

geographical indication whichconstitutes an act of unfaircompetition within the meaning ofsection 160 of the Act; or

(iii) any other practice likely to misleadconsumers as to the true origin,provenance or nature of the goodsincluding an agricultural product,food, wine or spirit or handicraftmanufactured and natural goods;

(b) for goods that are not of the same kind asthose to which the geographicalindication applies

(i) any direct use, misuse, imitation orevocation of the geographicalindication in respect of goods thatare not of the same kind as those towhich the geographical indicationapplies including an agriculturalproduct, food, wine or spirit orhandicraft manufactured, andnatural goods in question, if suchuse would indicate or suggest aconnection between those goods,and the owners of the geographicalindication and would be likely todamage their interests, or whereapplicable because of the reputationof the geographical indication suchuse would be likely to impair ordilute in an unfair manner, or takeunfair advantage of that reputation;

(ii) any direct use, misuse, imitation orevocation of the geographicalindication in respect of goods that

14Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

are not of the same kind as those towhich the geographical indicationapplies including an agriculturalproduct, food, wine or spirit orhandicraft manufactured, andnatural goods in questionamounting to its imitation, even ifthe true origin of the goods isindicated, or if the geographicalindication is used in translated formor is accompanied by expressionstyle, kind, type, make,imitation, method, asproduced in, like, similar orsuch similar expression; or

(iii) any other practice likely to misleadconsumers as to the true origin,provenance or nature of the goods.

161I. Any geographical indication registeredunder this Act shall not become generic whichrefers to the name that is generally known asthe common designation of the good registeredas a geographical indication.

CHAPTER XXXIIIC

CANCELLATION OF REGISTRATION OF GEOGRAPHICAL

INDICATIONS

161J. The Director-General may cancel theregistration of any geographical indication inthe case of

(a) any goods registered as geographicalindications lose their specialcharacteristic as geographical indicationgoods;

Registeredgeographicalindicationnot tobecomegeneric

Cancellationofregistrationofgeographicalindications

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

15

(b) the registered owner fails to comply withthe conditions and requirements, if any,subject to which such geographicalindication is registered;

(c) the registered owner of suchgeographical indication requests theDirector-General in writing forcancellation of registration of suchgeographical indication; or

(d) the registered owner fails to renew theregistration of a geographical indicationas specified in section 161E.

CHAPTER XXXIIID

FOREIGN GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS

161K. Any foreign geographical indicationmay be registered in Sri Lanka as long as suchgeographical indication is protected in itscountry of origin as a geographical indicationor a certification mark, as the case may be. Theprovisions relating to registration ofgeographical indications in this Act, shall beapplicable to such foreign geographicalindication.

CHAPTER XXXIIIE

MISCELLANEOUS

161L. The registered owner of a geographicalindication may if he intends to amend thespecifications and associated control plan dueto the development of technologies, sciencesand the delimitation of the geographical area,

Foreigngeographicalindications

Alterations toregisteredgeographicalindications

16Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

make a request to the Director-General tothat effect along with the fees as shall beprescribed:

Provided that, any substantial amendmentto a registered geographical indication whichaffects the identity of such geographicalindication shall not be accepted by theDirector-General.

161M. Any person who has registered ageographical indication as a CertificationMark under section 142 of this Act, may if heso wishes, apply to register such Mark as ageographical indication under section 161B..

10. Section 162 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1), by the substitution for the wordsIndustrial Designs, Marks, Patents and UnfairCompetition of the words Industrial Designs,Marks, Patents, Geographical Indications andUnfair Competition;

(2) in subsection (8) -

(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (a) for thewords Trade Marks, Patents and UnfairCompetition of the words Trade Marks,Patents, Geographical Indications andUnfair Competition;

(b) by the substitution, in paragraph (b) for thewords Trade Marks, Patents and UnfairCompetition of the words Trade Marks,Patents, Geographical Indications andUnfair Competition;

GeographicalIndicationsregistered asaCertificationMark underthis Act

Amendment ofsection 162 ofthe principalenactment

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

17

11. Section 168 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words Patent orMark or of the words Patent, Mark or GeographicalIndication or .

12. Section 170 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2), by the substitution for the wordsPatent, Mark or any other registration of the words Patent,Mark, Geographical Indication or any other registration.

13. Section 172 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1), by the substitution for the wordsIndustrial Design, Patent or Mark or whereversuch words appear in that subsection, of the wordsIndustrial Design, Patent, Mark, GeographicalIndication or;

(2) in subsection (2), by the substitution for the words(2) The registered owner of the Industrial Design,Patent or Mark or any other register of the words(2) The registered owner of the Industrial Design,Patent or Mark, Geographical Indication or anyother register;

(3) in subsection (3), by the substitution for the wordsIndustrial Design, Patent or Mark or any othermatter of the words Industrial Design, Patent,Mark, Geographical Indication or any other matter.

14. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 186 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 186A of that enactment:-

Amendment ofsection 168 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 170 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 172 ofthe principalenactment

Insertion of newsection 186A inthe principalenactment

18Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

186A. The provisions relating to offences andpenalties in respect of Marks as specified inthis Part shall mutatis mutandis apply in respectof geographical indications..

15. Section 212 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the definition of the term Convention, by thesubstitution for the words Patents, Marks and any othermatter of the words Patents, Marks, GeographicalIndications or any other matter.

16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Offencesrelating togeographicalindications

Amendment ofsection 212 ofthe principalenactment

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2022

19

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.