PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ASSISTANCE TO AND PROTECTION OF VICTIMS OFCRIME AND WITNESSES ACT, No. 10 OF 2023

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th of August, 2023]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 144.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 11, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

L.D.-O. 38/2019

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE SETTING OUT OF RIGHTS AND ENTITLEMENTS

OF VICTIMS OF CRIME AND WITNESSES AND THE PROTECTION AND

PROMOTION OF SUCH RIGHTS AND ENTITLEMENTS; TO GIVE EFFECT TO

APPROPRIATE INTERNATIONAL NORMS, STANDARDS AND BEST PRACTICES

RELATING TO THE ASSISTANCE TO AND PROTECTION OF VICTIMS OF

CRIME AND WITNESSES; TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THENATIONAL AUTHORITY FOR THE PROTECTION OF VICTIMS OF CRIME

AND WITNESSES, THE VICTIMS OF CRIME AND WITNESSESASSISTANCE AND PROTECTION DIVISION AND THE VICTIMS OF CRIME

AND WITNESSES ASSISTANCE AND PROTECTION FUND; TO PROVIDE

FOR THE PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO VICTIMS OF CRIME; TO REPEAL

THE ASSISTANCE TO AND PROTECTION OF VICTIMS OF CRIME ANDWITNESSES ACT, NO. 4 OF 2015; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Assistance to andProtection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of2023.

(2) The provisions of this Act, other than this section,shall come into operation on such date as the Minister mayby Order published in the Gazette appoint (in this Act referredto as the appointed date).

(3) The provisions of this section shall come intooperation on the date on which the Certificate of the Speakeris endorsed on the Bill.

PART I

OBJECTS OF THE ACT

2. The objects of this Act shall be-

(a)to set out the rights and entitlements of victims ofcrime and witnesses;

Short title anddate ofoperation

Objects of theAct

[Certified on 08th of August, 2023]

2Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(b)to set out duties and responsibilities of the State,judicial officers and public officers in upholding,promoting and protecting the rights andentitlements of victims of crime and witnesses;

(c)to stipulate conduct that constitute offences againstvictims of crime and witnesses;

(d)to provide assistance and protection to victims ofcrime and witnesses;

(e)to provide for a mechanism to enable the victims ofcrime and witnesses to exercise and enforce theirrights and entitlements and to obtain relief;

(f)to provide for the granting of redress includingcompensation, restitution, reparation andrehabilitation to victims of crime and witnesses;

(g)to establish a National Authority for the Protectionof Victims of Crime and Witnesses and a Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Assistance and ProtectionDivision;

(h)to make provision for the victims of crime andwitnesses to testify through contemporaneousaudio-visual means; and

(i)to recognize and implement internationallyrecognized best practices relating to assistance toand protection of victims of crime and witnesses.

PART II

RIGHTS AND ENTITLEMENTS OF VICTIMS OF CRIME AND WITNESSES

3. (1) A victim of crime shall have the right-

(a)to be treated with equality and with fairness andrespect to the dignity and privacy of such victim ofcrime;

Right of a victimof crime to a fairtreatment

3Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(b)to receive prompt, adequate and fair redressincluding reparation and restitution which iscommensurate with any injury, damage or losssuffered as a victim of crime;

(c)to be protected from any injury or potential injury,including threats, intimidation, reprisal orretaliation;

(d)to be treated for any physical, psychological,emotional or mental harm, including impairmentor disability, suffered as a victim of crime;

(e)where such victim of crime is a child, to be treatedin a manner that ensures the best interest of suchchild;

(f)where such victim of crime is a female who has tobe medically examined, to make a request to be soexamined, by a female medical professional; and

(g)where the offence is of sexual nature, to specify thegender of the officer who is to carry out theinvestigation or inquiry into the offence.

(2) Whenever a victim of crime, in exercising the rightunder paragraph (f) or paragraph (g) of subsection (1), makesa request to be examined by a female medical professionalor specifies the gender of the officer who is to carry out theinvestigation or inquiry, as the case may be, it shall be theduty of the State to make all endeavors to ensure that suchmedical examination or investigation or inquiry is carriedout by a medical professional or investigation or inquiringofficer, as the case may be, of the gender requested or specifiedby the victim of crime.

4Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

4. A victim of crime shall have the right, upon a requestmade by such victim of crime, to be informed-

(a)by the Authority or the Protection Division or anylaw enforcement authority-

(i)of the measures of protection available tosuch victim of crime under this Act;

(ii)of the legal remedies including delictualremedies available for the redress of any injurywhich such victim of crime has suffered; and

(iii)of the time periods within which legal actionshall be instituted to obtain legal remedies;and

(b)by the Authority or the Protection Division, of themedical services, social services and other assistanceavailable for the treatment of any harm caused tosuch victim of crime and the availability of anyfacilities to assist such victim of crime.

5. (1) A victim of crime shall have the right-

(a)to make a complaint or to cause a complaint to bemade in relation to any conduct constituting anoffence under this Act in the manner provided forin this Act and to have such complaint recordedand investigated according to law;

(b)without prejudice to any ongoing investigationor inquiry, to make representations to theinvestigation authority or inquiring authority inperson or through an attorney-at-law and receive aresponse within a reasonable period of time;

Right of a victimof crime toreceiveinformation onassistance,protection andremediesavailable to him

Right of a victimof crime inrelation tocomplaints,inquiries,investigations,&c

5Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)without prejudice to the prosecution and inaccordance with the provisions of this Act, to berepresented by an attorney-at-law at any stage ofany proceedings before a court or Commission;

(d)to make a request, if necessary, for legal aid to beprovided by the State;

(e)upon conviction of the offender and prior to thedetermination of the sentence, to submit to the courtor Commission a victim impact statement inaccordance with section 8, either personally orthrough an attorney-at-law;

(f)in the event of any person in authority consideringthe grant of a pardon or remission of sentenceimposed on any person convicted of an offence, toreceive notice thereof and submit through theAuthority to the person granting such pardon orremission, the manner in which the offencecommitted has impacted on such victim of crimephysically, emotionally, psychologically,financially, professionally or in any other manner;

(g)at any stage of the investigation, inquiry orproceeding, to make representations to theAttorney-General, through an attorney-at-law or inwriting by such victim of crime or any personauthorised by such victim of crime, as regards themanner in which the offence has impacted on him;

(h)to receive from the Authority any relevantinformation and assistance that facilitates theattendance and participation at any proceedingsbefore a court or Commission relating to the offencealleged to have been committed; and

6Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(i)to be present at any civil or criminal judicial orquasi-judicial proceedings relating to an offence,including at the non-summary inquiries, trials,appeals and any applications in revision, unlessthe court, Commission or other tribunal determines,for reasons to be recorded, that future evidence ofsuch victim of crime would be materially affectedif he hears other evidence at such proceedings or,the due discharge of justice could be secured onlyby the exclusion of such victim of crime from beingpresent during the hearing of certain parts of suchproceedings.

(2) A victim of crime shall have the right, upon a requestmade by such victim of crime, to be informed-

(a)by the officer-in-charge of the relevant policestation or other authority conducting theinvestigation or inquiry into the alleged offence,of the progress of the investigation or inquiry:

Provided however, the release of suchinformation may be withheld for justifiable reasons;

(b)by the officer-in-charge of the relevantpolice station, other authority conducting theinvestigation or inquiry into the alleged offence,the Attorney-General or the Registrar of the relevantcourt, as the case may be, of the dates fixed for thehearing of the case or the progress or disposal ofjudicial proceedings relating to the alleged offenceand the rights and entitlements of the victim ofcrime pertaining to such judicial proceedings;

(c)by the officer-in-charge of the relevant policestation, other authority conducting an investigationor inquiry into the alleged offence, the Attorney-General, the Registrar of the relevant court or theSuperintendent of Prisons, as the case may be, ofthe date on which the proceedings in relation toany of the following is scheduled next:

7Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(i)release on bail or discharge of the suspect;

(ii)institution of criminal proceedings againstthe accused;

(iii)the conviction, acquittal, discharge orsentence of the suspect or the accused, as thecase may be; or

(iv)the release from prison of the suspect orconvicted person.

(3) (a) A victim of crime may make a request to theRegistrar of court in the prescribed form accompanied bythe prescribed fee to obtain a copy of the order of courtrelating to the release on bail or otherwise of the suspect orthe accused.

(b) Upon receipt of a request under paragraph (a), theRegistrar of court shall proceed with such request in anexpeditious manner.

(4) In the event the person in authority considering thegrant of a pardon or remission of sentence referred to inparagraph (f) of subsection (1) is the President, the duty ofinforming the Authority of such fact for the purpose of givingnotice thereof to the victim of crime shall be on the Secretaryto the President, and in the event such person in authority isthe Governor of a Province, such duty shall be on theSecretary to the Governor of such Province.

6. (1) A victim of crime or other person on behalf a victimof crime shall have the right to make an application in theprescribed form and on payment of the prescribed fee to anycourt or Commission to obtain certified copies of-

(a)the cause of death form;

(b)the postmortem report;

Right of a victimof crime toobtain copies ofcertaindocuments

8Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)the medico-legal report;

(d)the report of the Registrar of Finger Prints;

(e)the report of the Government Analyst; or

(f)any other report that may be useful to such victimof crime,

that may have been filed in such court or Commission inrelation to the investigation, inquiry or trial of the offencealleged to have been committed.

(2) Where an application is made to obtain any reportreferred to in paragraph (d), (e) or (f) of subsection (1), anotice thereof shall also be given to the Attorney-General.

(3) Where any court or Commission receives anapplication under subsection (1), such court or Commission-

(a)shall issue such form or report, if the victim of crimeproves to the satisfaction of such court orCommission of the necessity of such form or report;

(b)shall not issue such form or report, if, in its opinion,the issuance of the same may cause prejudice toany ongoing investigation, inquiry, trial orproceeding.

(4) The onus of proving the necessity to obtain any formor report specified in subsection (1) shall be on the personwho makes such application.

7. (1) A victim of crime shall be entitled to request andreceive reasonable financial assistance from the Authorityaccording to the availability of such assistance, inconsideration of the expenses incurred as a result of-

(a)the offence alleged to have been committed; and

(b)his participation in any proceedings before a courtor Commission in relation to such offence.

Entitlements of avictim of crimeto receivefinancialassistance

9Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(2) A victim of crime shall be entitled to request andreceive from the State any medical treatment includingappropriate medical services, medicines and other medicalfacilities, or psychological or social assistance in respect ofany harm suffered by him as a result of being a victim ofcrime.

(3) A victim of crime shall be entitled to request andreceive necessary counseling or rehabilitation services fromthe State, through any means including through community-based organizations.

(4) A request for any medical treatment, services, facilitiesor assistance under subsection (2) or (3) may be made to theAuthority in such manner as may be prescribed and theAuthority shall proceed with such request and causeappropriate treatment, services, facilities or assistance to beprovided to such victim of crime in an expeditious manner.

(5) The Authority may consider the grant of an interimaward in relation to any request made under this section,under section 67 of this Act.

8. (1) A victim of crime shall have the right to make astatement in writing (in this Act referred to as the victimimpact statement) to the court or Commission to describethe manner in which the offence alleged to have beencommitted has impacted him physically, emotionally,psychologically, financially, professionally or in any othermanner.

(2) Where any victim of crime is unable to make, orincapable of making, such victim impact statement due toany reason acceptable to the court or Commission, any otherperson on behalf of the victim of crime as may be permittedby the court or Commission may make such statement.

(3) The victim impact statement shall consist of

Victim impactstatement

10Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a) a victim personal statement; and

(b) a victim impact report.

(4) A victim personal statement referred to in paragraph(a) of subsection (3) -

(a)shall set out the physical, emotional, psychological,financial, professional or other impact of the offenceon the victim of crime;

(b)may contain a statement, where applicable, whetherthe offence has been motivated by the age, gender,ethnicity, faith, religion, sexuality or disability ofthe victim of crime;

(c)may state whether the victim wishes to claimcompensation or requires any assistance as providedfor in this Act.

(5) A victim impact report referred to in paragraph (b) ofsubsection (3) shall be a report issued by a medical expert orpsychologist and shall-

(a)contain an opinion on the traumatic impact of theoffence on the victim of crime; and

(b)contain a report on needs assessment of the victimof crime, consequent to the impact of the offenceon the victim of crime.

(6) The victim personal statement and victim impactreport made by a victim of crime or any other person on hisbehalf to a court or Commission shall be made available tothe defence, and the victim of crime or other person whomade such statement or the medical expert or psychologistwho issued the victim impact report may be summoned togive evidence at any proceedings before such court orCommission.

11Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(7) A court or Commission may, at any stage of theproceedings and with notice to the defence, call for a victimimpact statement from the victim of crime or any other personon behalf of the victim of crime and the provisions ofsubsection (6) shall apply in relation to such victim impactstatement.

9. (1) A witness shall always be treated with respect tohis dignity and privacy in a manner that is fair in allcircumstances.

(2) Every witness is entitled to protection and it shall bethe duty of the State to provide such protection.

(3) (a) A witness shall be entitled to provide anyinformation or make a statement freely and voluntarily toany court, Commission or law enforcement authority relatingto the alleged commission of an offence or infringement ofany fundamental right or violation of any right granted underthe ICCPR Act.

(b) Subject to the provisions of the laws of evidence,and subject to the service of summons at the discretion of acourt or Commission on a witness, a witness shall be entitledto testify before any court or Commission freely andvoluntarily.

(4) Where the participation of a witness is required priorto, or during the course of, an investigation or inquiry, orduring the pendency of any proceedings in any court orCommission, such witness shall not be harassed, intimidated,coerced or treated in a manner that violates his rights andentitlements set out in this Act.

(5) A witness shall be entitled to protection against anyreal or possible harm, threat, intimidation, reprisal orretaliation resulting from such witness-

Rights andentitlements of awitness

12Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)having provided information or communication orlodged a complaint;

(b)having made a statement or submitted an affidavitto any law enforcement authority during aninvestigation or inquiry;

(c)having provided any testimony or given anyevidence in any court or before any Commission;

(d)being a public officer, having been engaged in anymanner in the administration of justice; or

(e)for instituting legal proceedings,

in relation to the commission of an offence or infringementof any fundamental right or violation of any right grantedunder the ICCPR Act, by any person.

10. (1) A victim of crime or witness or any other personon behalf of a victim of crime or witness may make acomplaint regarding the violation or denial, or imminentviolation or denial, of any right or entitlement specified inthis Part of this Act either orally or in writing to the Authoritywithin thirty days from the date of the alleged violation ordenial, or imminent violation or denial, of such right orentitlement.

(2) Where a complaint under subsection (1) has beenmade orally, it shall be recorded forthwith in writing by theofficer receiving such complaint.

(3) The procedure applicable for investigation or inquiryof any complaint received by the Authority under subsection(1) shall be as specified in the First Schedule to this Act.

Makingcomplaintsregardingviolation ofrights or denialof entitlementsof victims ofcrime orwitnesses

13Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

11. It shall be the duty of every public officer includingevery judicial officer and every member of the armed forcesand the police force to recognize, protect and promote therights and entitlements of victims of crime and witnesses setout in this Part of this Act.

12. Nothing in this Part of this Act shall be construed as-

(a)giving any person a right to require a publicauthority to incur specific expenditure in relationto rights and entitlements of victims of crime andwitnesses set out under this Part of this Act; or

(b)requiring a public authority to incur expenditurein relation to rights and entitlements of victims ofcrime and witnesses set out under this Part of thisAct.

13. (1) The Authority shall maintain a register calledVictim Information Register in such form and containingsuch information relating to victims of crime, as may bedetermined by the Authority.

(2) A victim of crime may, on application made by himselfor through an attorney-at-law, request the Authority to registerhimself in the Victim Information Register by providing theinformation referred to in subsection (1).

(3) A victim of crime shall, after registration in the VictimInformation Register, be entitled, upon a request made tothe Authority, to receive information on any of the followingmatters in relation to the offender, from the Authority: -

(a)the punishment imposed on the offender;

(b)any instance of escape from custody and recaptureof the offender, if any;

Duty of publicofficers torespect the rightsand entitlementsof victims ofcrime andwitnesses

Limitation ofrights andentitlements

VictimInformationRegister

14Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)the impending dates on which the offender is to bereleased from custody; or

(d)details of appeals against the conviction andsentence of the offender, if any.

(4) It shall be the duty of the Authority to provide theinformation requested by a victim of crime under subsection(3) in writing without delay.

(5) The Authority shall maintain confidentiality withregard to the information relating to victims of crime andwitnesses contained in the Victim Information Register andshall not share any such information except as required bylaw.

PART III

OFFENCES AGAINST VICTIMS OFCRIME AND WITNESSES

14. Any person who threatens a victim of crime or witnesswith any harm to his person, reputation or property, or to theperson or reputation or property of any other person in whomsuch victim of crime or witness has an interest, with theintention of

(a)causing alarm to such victim of crime or witness;

(b)causing such victim of crime or witness to refrainfrom

(i)lodging a complaint against such person witha law enforcement authority; or

(ii)testifying at any judicial or quasi-judicialproceedings against such person; or

Intimidation to avictim of crimeor witness

15Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)compelling such victim of crime or witness towithdraw a complaint lodged or legal actioninstituted against such person,

commits an offence under this Act, and shall, on conviction,by the High Court, be liable to a fine not exceeding onehundred and fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment ofeither description for a period not exceeding three years orto both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, such personmay also be ordered to pay compensation of an amount notexceeding five hundred thousand rupees.

15. Any person who voluntarily causes hurt or grievoushurt to a victim of crime or witness, with the intention of-

(a)causing such victim of crime or witness to refrainfrom-

(i)lodging a complaint against such person witha law enforcement authority; or

(ii)testifying at any judicial or quasi-judicialproceedings against such person;

(b)compelling such victim of crime or witness towithdraw a complaint lodged or legal actioninstituted against such person; or

(c)retaliating for a statement made or testimonyprovided by such victim of crime or witness in anycourt or before any Commission, against suchperson,

commits an offence under this Act, and shall on convictionby the High Court, be liable to a fine not exceeding threehundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not exceeding five years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

Causing hurt toa victim ofcrime or witness

16Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

16. Any person who wrongfully restrains a victim ofcrime or witness with the intention of-

(a)preventing such victim of crime or witness from-

(i)lodging a complaint against such person witha law enforcement authority; or

(ii)testifying at any judicial or quasi-judicialproceedings against such person;

(b)compelling such victim of crime or witness towithdraw a complaint lodged or a legal actioninstituted against such person; or

(c)retaliating for a statement made or testimonyprovided by such victim of crime or witness in anycourt or before any Commission against suchperson,

commits an offence under this Act, and shall on convictionby the High Court, be liable to a fine not exceeding threehundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not exceeding five years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

17. Any person who

(a)compels, or by practice of deceitful means or byabuse of authority or by any other means of illegalpractice induces or forces any victim of crime orwitness to leave any place; or

(b)intentionally or knowingly causes any loss, damageor destruction to a property in which a victim ofcrime or witness has a legitimate interest,

with the intention of preventing such victim of crime orwitness from lodging a complaint or making any statementagainst such person to a law enforcement authority or

Restraining avictim of crimeor witness

Compelling orinducing avictim of crimeor witness toleave any place,or causing lossor damage to theproperty of avictim of crimeor witness

17Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

testifying against such person at any judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings or in retaliation for a statement madeto a law enforcement authority or due to the testimony madeagainst such person in any judicial or quasi-judicialproceedings by such victim of crime or witness, commits anoffence under this Act, and shall on conviction by the HighCourt, be liable to a fine not exceeding three hundredthousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description fora period not exceeding five years or to both such fine andimprisonment. In addition, such person shall also be liableto pay such compensation as the Court may order him to payin relation to the loss, damage or destruction caused by himto the property of the victim of crime or witness.

18. Any person who causes any harassment, coercion,physical or mental suffering or an adverse change to theconditions of employment in the place of employment ofanother person, as a consequence of such other personhaving-

(a)provided any information or lodged a complaint;

(b)made a statement to any law enforcement authority,court or Commission;

(c)provided any testimony in any court or before anyCommission; or

(d)instituted legal proceedings,

in relation to the commission of an offence or infringementof any fundamental right or violation of any right under theICCPR Act by such person, commits an offence under thisAct, and shall on conviction by the High Court, be liable toa fine not exceeding three hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingfive years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Harassment to aperson in theplace ofemployment

18Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

19. Any person who is alleged, suspected or accused ofhaving committed an offence offers, provides or gives anygratification to any other person who is-

(a)intending or preparing to institute legalproceedings against such first mentioned personfor having committed such offence; or

(b)likely to provide information or testimony againstsuch first mentioned person to any law enforcementauthority, court or Commission,

with a view to preventing, discouraging or dissuading suchother person from instituting legal proceedings or providingtruthful information or testimony against such firstmentioned person, commits an offence under this Act, andshall on conviction by the High Court, be liable to a fine notexceeding three hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingfive years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

20. Any person who -

(a)having received any information provided for thepurpose of commencing or conducting aninvestigation or inquiry into an alleged offence;

(b)having gathered any information in the course ofan investigation or inquiry into an alleged offence;or

(c)having received any information referred to inparagraph (a) or (b) from another person,

provides, issues or gives to a third person, publishes orotherwise disseminates any such information or part thereof,particularly as regards the identity of a victim of crime,witness or informant and thereby places the life of such victimof crime, witness or informant in danger, commits an offence

Providinggratification toprevent legalproceedings, &c

Disclosure ofinformation

19Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

under this Act, and shall, on conviction by the High Court,be liable to a fine not exceeding three hundred thousandrupees or to imprisonment of either description for a periodnot exceeding five years or to both such fine andimprisonment:

Provided however, the provision, issuance or givingout, publishing or dissemination of information in goodfaith and in accordance with or in compliance with-

(i)any provision or procedure established bylaw;

(ii)an order made by a court; or

(iii)a directive issued by a person duly authorisedto do so by or under any written law,

shall not be an offence.

21. Any person who, with the intention of obtaining anyassistance or protection from the Authority, the Policeincluding the Protection Division, a court or Commission,provides any information knowing or having reasonablegrounds to believe that such information is false, commitsan offence under this Act and shall, on conviction by theHigh Court, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundredthousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description fora period not exceeding six years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

22. Any person who-

(a)is in charge of, or is providing protection orassisting in providing protection to a victim ofcrime or witness; or

(b)is otherwise in possession of any informationrelating to the protection being afforded to a victimof crime or witness,

Providing falseinformation

Disclosure ofinformation by apersonprovidingprotection

20Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

provides, issues or gives to another person such informationand thereby places the life of such victim of crime or witnessin danger, commits an offence under this Act and shall, onconviction by the High Court, be liable to a fine notexceeding three hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingfive years or to both such fine and imprisonment:

Provided however, the provision, issuance or givingout of information in good faith and in accordance with orin compliance with-

(i)any provision or procedure established by law;

(ii)an order made by a court; or

(iii)a directive issued by a person duly authorised to doso by or under any written law,

shall not be an offence.

23. Any person who attempts to commit, instigates orintentionally aids or abets any other person to commit orengages in any conspiracy for the commission of any offencereferred to in section 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 or 22commits an offence and shall, on conviction by the HighCourt, be liable to the same punishment provided for thatoffence in such section.

24. (1) (a) An offence under section 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,19, 20, 21, 22 or 23 shall be a cognizable offence within themeaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and abailable offence within the meaning of the Bail Act, No. 30of 1997.

(b) When enlarging a person on bail, the MagistratesCourt shall have the power to stipulate a condition in theorder, prohibiting communication with or coming into closeproximity with the victim of crime or witness or with suchother person as may be specified in such order.

Attempting,instigating,aiding & c., inthe commissionof an offence

An offenceunder section14, 15, 16, 17,18, 19, 20, 21,22 or 23 to becognizable andbailable

21Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(2) A trial against a person accused of having committedan offence under section 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,22 or23 shall be taken up before any other business of that courtand shall be held on a day-to-day basis and not be postponedduring the course of such trial, except due to unavoidablecircumstances which shall be specifically recorded.

(3) If, after an inquiry by a court, it is found that thereexists prima facie material to conclude that a personwho, at the relevant point of time was on bail in respectof any offence alleged to have been committed by him,has committed an offence under section 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,19, 20, 21, 22 or 23 of this Act, the court that granted bail tosuch person shall cancel such bail and such person shall beplaced on remand for such period as may be consideredreasonable by such court.

25. (1) In determining the appropriate sentence for anyoffence under this Act, the court shall have regard to thesentence prescribed for such offence in the Penal Code orany other law and the decisions laid down by courts ofappellate jurisdiction with regard to the sentencing policieson the imposition of punishments.

(2) Due regard shall also be given to aggravating andmitigating circumstances attending each offence.

(3) The Judicial Service Commission may issueguidelines under this Act with respect to the sentencingpolicy.

26. (1) A complaint in relation to an offence under thisPart of this Act shall be made in such form and manner asmay be prescribed, to-

(a)the Protection Division;

(b) the Authority; or

(c)any court, Commission or law enforcementauthority.

Determinationof sentence

Makingcomplaints inrelation tooffences underthis Part of thisAct

22Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(2) Where any complaint under paragraph (b) or (c) ofsubsection (1) is received by the Authority or any court,Commission or law enforcement authority, such complaintshall forthwith be referred to the Protection Division forinvestigation or inquiry.

PART IV

ENTITLEMENT OF A VICTIM OF CRIME OR WITNESSES

TO SEEK PROTECTION

27. Where a victim of crime or witness or any other personon behalf of a victim of crime or witness has reasonablegrounds to believe that such victim of crime or witness maybe subject to any harm, injury, intimidation, reprisal orretaliation as a consequence of the circumstances relating tohis being a victim of crime or witness, such victim of crimeor witness or other person shall be entitled to apply forprotection in terms of the provisions of this Part of this Act.

28. (1) The nature of protection that may be provided toany victim of crime or witness under this Part of this Act mayinclude

(a)the providing of security to the person or property;

(b)the provision of temporary accommodationincluding facilities for sustenance;

(c)the permanent or temporary re-location with theconsent of the victim of crime or witness, as thecase may be;

(d)the conducting of either the entirety or part of theproceedings in camera;

(e)the concealing of the identity of the victim of crimeor witness;

Entitlement toseek protection

Nature ofprotection thatmay be soughtby a victim ofcrime or witness

23Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(f)in the case of a child victim of crime or witness, theadoption of special measures to ensure his bestinterest and to protect his rights including the rightto education;

(g)the adoption of necessary measures to prevent thevictim of crime or witness from being harassed,intimidated, coerced, or influenced by encounteringthe presence of the accused at the venue of the trial,investigation or inquiry;

(h)the prevention of the disclosure, including in theprint media or electronic media, of the identity andbackground information of the victim of crime orwitness;

(i)the adoption of appropriate measures to preventthe disclosure of evidence that may be provided bythe victim of crime or witness, save as permitted inlaw for the purposes of pre-trial disclosure;

(j)where appropriate, the provision of temporary orpermanent employment; and

(k)the adoption of any other measure a court,Commission, the Authority or Protection Divisionmay consider necessary.

(2) The Authority or Protection Division may requestassistance from a public authority or public officer inproviding any measure of protection or assistance referredto in subsection (1) to a victim of crime or witness, andwhere such request is made, it shall be the duty of suchpublic authority or public officer, unless such publicauthority or public officer is unable to do so for reasons tobe stated, to assist the Authority or Protection Division asrequested.

29. (1) A victim of crime or witness who seeks protectionunder this Part of this Act shall make a request in such formand manner as may be prescribed, to-

Application forprotection

24Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)the Authority;

(b)the Protection Division;

(c)any police station;

(d)any court or Commission; or

(e)any law enforcement authority or public officer.

(2) Where the request for protection received underparagraph (c), (d) or (e) of subsection (1) is in relation to anoffence specified in the Second Schedule to this Act, suchrequest shall be referred to the Authority or ProtectionDivision, without delay.

(3) Where the request for protection received underparagraph (a), (b), (d) or (e) of subsection (1) is in relation toan offence not specified in the Second Schedule to this Act,such request shall be referred to the relevant police station,without delay.

30. (1) Upon receipt or reference of a request forprotection under section 29, in relation to an offencespecified in the Second Schedule to this Act-

(a)where such request is received by or referred to theAuthority, the Authority shall take immediatemeasures to cause a threat assessment to be made inrelation to the victim of crime or witness; or

(b)where such request is received or referred to theProtection Division, the Protection Division shalltake immediate measures to make a threatassessment in relation to the victim of crime orwitness,

and based on the findings of such threat assessment, theAuthority or Protection Division, as the case may be, shall

Threatassessment inrelation tooffencesspecified in theSecondSchedule

25Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

take appropriate measures to provide the necessaryprotection forthwith.

(2) Any request for protection made under this Part ofthis Act shall be treated as confidential.

31. (1) Where, in the case of an offence not specified inthe Second Schedule to this Act, the request for protection isreceived by or referred to a police station under section 29,the Protection Officer assigned to such police station undersection 38 shall immediately conduct a threat assessmentand based on the findings of the threat assessment, and withthe concurrence of the Superintendent of Police of the area,provide the necessary protection to the victim of crime orwitness.

(2) In the event that-

(a)the Authority, the Protection Division or the officer-in charge of the police station is of the opinion thatthere is a serious threat to a victim of crime orwitness, in relation to an offence which is notspecified in the Second Schedule; or

(b)the victim of crime or witness alleges bias againstthe police station of the area,

the Protection Division shall proceed to provide appropriateprotection to such victim of crime or witness.

32. (1) Whenever a court or Commission hasreasonable grounds to believe that a victim of crime orwitness in any legal proceedings requires protection frominjury, intimidation, reprisal or retaliation or, assistanceto attend and participate in any legal proceedings, suchcourt or Commission may direct the Authority, theProtection Division, a police station or other law enforcementauthority to take all necessary measures to provide orcause to be provided such protection to such victim of

Protection withregard tooffences notspecified in theSecondSchedule

Duty of court orCommission inrelation toproceedings

26Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

crime or witness and the Authority, the Protection Division,such police station or such law enforcement authority shallcomply with such direction, without delay.

(2) In complying with a direction issued by a court orCommission under subsection (1), the Authority, ProtectionDivision, police station or law enforcement authority maymake a preliminary needs assessment on the protectionneeded by such victim of crime or witness and provide suchprotection as may be necessary.

(3) Whenever the Authority, Protection Division, policestation or law enforcement authority, after providingprotection under subsection (2), is of the opinion that thereexists any ground for termination of protection specified inparagraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) of section 36, theAuthority, Protection Division, police station or lawenforcement authority, as the case may be, shall report suchfact with reasons to such court or Commission and thereuponsuch court or Commission may order the termination ofprotection so granted.

(4) The Authority, Protection Division, a police stationor other law enforcement authority may provide necessaryprotection to any victim of crime or witness, immediatelyupon the receipt of any information or request or complaintfrom such victim of crime or witness that such victim ofcrime or witness is likely to be subject to any harm, injury,harassment, intimidation or retaliation, whether prior to,during or after the conduct of any legal proceedings beforeany court or Commission.

33. (1) Where any law enforcement authority or publicofficer has reasonable grounds to believe that a victim ofcrime or witness requires protection from any possible injury,intimidation, reprisal or retaliation in attending andparticipating in any proceedings under any law, such lawenforcement authority or the public officer shall forthwithissue a communication to that effect to the Authority or tothe Protection Division.

Protection to beprovided by lawenforcementauthorities andpublic officers

27Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(2) The provisions of sections 29, 30 and 31 shall mutatismutandis apply to and in respect of providing protection inrelation to any matter referred to in subsection (1).

34. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, a court or Commission may, on applicationmade by or on behalf of any vulnerable victim of crime orwitness, order the Authority or the Protection Division thegrant of any special measures for the protection of suchvictim of crime or witness, as may be prescribed.

(2) The Minister shall, when prescribing special measuresfor the purposes of subsection (1), seek recommendations ofthe Authority.

(3) The court or Commission, in ordering the grant ofany special measures under subsection (1), shall ensure thatthe principles of fair trial are upheld in its proceedings.

(4) In determining the vulnerability of a victim of crimeor witness, the following factors may also be considered: -

(a)the nature of the offence alleged to have beencommitted and the attendant circumstances;

(b)the nature of the evidence or statement the witnessis expected to give or make;

(c)any relationship between the victim of crime orwitness and the accused;

(d)the age and level of understanding of the victim ofcrime or witness;

(e)the accuseds behavior or attitudes towards thevictim of crime or witness including the accusedsbehavior or attitudes towards the family membersor associates of, or any other person having a closekinship to, the victim of crime or witness; and

Special measuresfor vulnerablevictims of crimeor witnesses

28Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(f)any other relevant matter including the racial, socialand cultural background of the victim of crime orwitness, the gender including transgender, sexualorientation, possibility of being subject to socialmarginalization, domestic or employmentcircumstances, religious or political beliefs, and anyphysical disability or impairment the victim of crimeor witness suffers from.

(5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherlaw, a court or Commission may-

(a)in proceedings relation to sexual offences orviolence, permit a child victim of crime or childwitness to give evidence or make a statementthrough contemporaneous audio-visual linkagefrom a remote location, without requiring hispersonal attendance before such court orCommission; or

(b)on being satisfied that any vulnerable victim ofcrime or witness is unable to understand the natureof an oath or an affirmation, permit such victim ofcrime or witness to give evidence or make astatement without an oath or an affirmation beingadministered, and such victim of crime or witnessshall be informed that he is bound to state the truthon all matters to which his evidence or statementrelates.

(6) In this section, a vulnerable victim of crime orwitness includes

(a)a victim of crime or witness under eighteen years ofage;

(b)a person suffering from significant impairment ofintelligence and social functioning;

29Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)a victim of any sexual offence;

(d)a person with disability;

(e)a person who is a victim of trafficking under section360C of the Penal Code or a victim of domesticviolence within the meaning of the Prevention ofDomestic Violence Act, No. 34 of 2005;

(f)any victim of crime or witness who is determined tobe a vulnerable victim of crime or witness by acourt or Commission, upon such victim of crime orwitness or a counsel on his behalf making anapplication to such court or Commission andsatisfying such court or Commission that he shouldbe treated as a vulnerable victim of crime or witness;and

(g)any other person whom a court or Commission maydetermine to be a vulnerable victim of crime orwitness, for reasons recorded.

35. (1) The Authority or the Protection Division shallrequire a Protection Officer to conduct a continuous needsassessment of victims of crime and witnesses who havereceived protection under the provisions of this Act.

(2) A Protection Officer may, where he is of the opinionthat any protection arrangement made in respect of any victimof crime or witness needs to be varied, vary such protectionarrangement and shall report such fact, along with the reasonstherefor, to the Protection Division through the officer-in-charge of the relevant police station.

(3) In deciding whether any protection arrangement shallbe varied under this section, particular regard shall be hadto-

Continuousneeds assessmentby ProtectionOfficer andvariation ofprotectionarrangement

30Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)the nature and the extent of the risk to the safety ofthe victim of crime or witness;

(b)the practical aspects and the costs involved in thenew arrangements; and

(c)the ability of the victim of crime or witness or anyother person associated with him to adapt to thechanges in the circumstances arising from suchvariation.

(4) Where there is an urgent need to protect a victim ofcrime or witness in any police division, a Protection Officershall make such arrangement as he considers appropriate forthe purpose of providing such urgent protection to suchvictim of crime or witness.

36. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3) ofsection 32, the Authority, Protection Division or subject tothe provisions of subsection (2), a Protection Officer mayterminate the protection provided to any victim of crime orwitness under this Act after recording the reasons therefor,whenever-

(a)the need for such protection no longer exists; or

(b)the victim of crime or witness-

(i)requests that such protection be terminated;

(ii)refuses to receive such protection;

(iii)abuses the protection granted;

(iv)breaches any conditions agreed to;

(v)is found to have provided any falseinformation, statement, complaint ortestimony to the Authority, the Protection

Cessation ofprotection

31Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Division, any court, Commission, policestation or law enforcement authority, in orderto obtain protection; or

(vi)having obtained any protection in terms ofthis Act, provides false information, statement,complaint or testimony to the Authority, theProtection Division, any court, Commission,police station or law enforcement authority,in order to continue to receive suchprotection.

(2) A Protection Officer shall not terminate any protectionarrangement except with the concurrence of the Head of theProtection Division.

(3) Where a victim of crime or witness is dissatisfied withthe decision to terminate protection granted to him, he may-

(a)if such decision was taken by the Protection Officeror the Protection Division, appeal to the Authorityagainst such decision; or

(b)if such decision was taken by the Authority, appealto the Advisory Board appointed under section 74against such decision.

(4) The Authority or the Advisory Board, as the case maybe, after considering such matters as may deem necessary,may vary in an appropriate manner, or confirm, the decisionreferred to in subsection (1).

(5) In deciding whether any protection arrangement shallbe terminated under this section, particular regard shall behad to the nature and the extent of the risk to the safety ofthe victim of crime or witness.

32Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

37. (1) Any victim of crime or witness who has receivedany assistance or protection under this Act shall not

(a)abuse such assistance or protection;

(b)provide any false information or testimony to theAuthority, Protection Division, a court,Commission, police station or law enforcementauthority; or

(c)act contrary to the written advice or terms andconditions agreed upon with the Authority orProtection Division.

(2) Where there is credible information that a victim ofcrime or witness is acting in a manner that contravenessubsection (1), the Authority or the Protection Division shallconduct an inquiry and the findings of such inquiry shall becommunicated to the court or Commission. The court orCommission shall, after a further inquiry, shall make anappropriate order in regard to the assistance or protectionthat has been provided to such victim of crime or witness.

38. (1) The Inspector General of Police shall, inconsultation with the Authority, assign to each police stationsuch number of police officers to be designated as Victimsand Witnesses Protection Officers (in this Act referred to asProtection Officers) as may be necessary, for the purposesof this Part of this Act:

Provided however, at least one of such officers shall bea female officer.

(2) In deciding the number of Protection Officers requiredto be assigned to any police station, the Inspector General ofPolice shall take into account the population of the policedivision, the prevalence of serious crimes and the perceivedvulnerability of special categories of persons includingchildren, women or disabled persons in that police divisionand other relevant data and statistics related to that policedivision.

Duties of avictim of crimeor witness inregard toassistance andprotection

Victims andWitnessesProtectionOfficers

33Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(3) (a) The Head of the Protection Division, inconsultation with the Authority, shall issue directives to befollowed by the Protection Officers in performing anddischarging their duties and functions, and such directivesshall, where necessary, be treated as confidentialnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law.

(b) The Authority shall conduct special trainingprogrammes for the purpose of developing the competenceof the Protection Officers.

(4) A Protection Officer shall maintain a confidentialrecord of every action that he takes in providing protectionto a victim of crime or witness under this Act.

PART V

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY FOR THE PROTECTION

OF VICTIMS OF CRIME AND WITNESSES

39. (1) There shall be established an authority whichshall be called the National Authority for the Protection ofVictims of Crime and Witnesses (in this Act referred to as theAuthority).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal, and may sue and be sued in that name.

40. (1) The duties and functions of the Authority shallbe

(a)to protect and promote respect for, and recognitionof, the rights and entitlements of victims of crimeand witnesses as provided for in this Act;

NationalAuthority forthe Protection ofVictims ofCrime andWitnesses

Duties andfunctions of theAuthority

34Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(b)to investigate and inquire into any complaint orinformation received by the Authority regardingany alleged violation or denial, or imminentviolation or denial, of rights and entitlements ofvictims of crime and witnesses provided for in thisAct, and to-

(i)give directions or make recommendations toany person or authority to take correctivemeasures;

(ii)grant such financial or other assistance; or

(iii)take any other appropriate measures,

that ensure the protection and promotion of therights and entitlement of victims of crime andwitnesses provided for in this Act;

(c)to take necessary steps to ensure security andprotection of victims of crime and witnesses, byway of providing or arranging the provision of,necessary medical treatment, counselling orrehabilitation services, or reparation or restitutionmeasures;

(d)to formulate and implement a scheme for thepurpose of granting any interim awards to victimsof crime from the Protection Fund established underthis Act and to grant interim awards to such victimsof crime as recommended by the Advisory Boardunder section 69 of this Act;

(e)to create awareness among the public on the rightsand entitlements of victims of crime and witnessesand the relief or remedies available to them underthis Act;

35Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(f)to advise and make recommendations to theDepartment of Police, any other GovernmentDepartment or statutory institution and publicofficers, on measures that should be implementedto give effect to, protect and promote, the rightsand entitlements of victims of crime and witnessesprovided for in this Act;

(g)to review existing legislation, and the policies,practices or procedures adopted and followed bythe relevant institutions, relating to the protectionand promotion of the rights and entitlements ofvictims of crime and witnesses and to makerecommendations, if any, to amend or update suchlegislation, policies, practices or procedures toensure conformity with the latest recognizedinternational standards and best practices relatingto the same;

(h)upon request made by any court or Commission, toprovide necessary facilities to establish acontemporaneous audio-visual linkage forrecording of evidence or statement of a victim ofcrime or witness from a remote location;

(i)to develop and issue, in consultation with otherrelevant authorities, guidelines and procedureswhich ensure the best interest of victims of crimeand witnesses;

(j)to issue guidelines in regard to the independentfunctioning of the Protection Division;

(k)to take measures to sensitize public officersincluding Government Medical Officers, officersof the Sri Lanka Police, the Department of Prisonsor public officers associated with probation andsocial services-

36Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(i)on the needs of any victim of crime or witness;or

(ii)on any special needs of any such specificcategory of victims of crime or witnesses asmay be specified by the Authority;

(l)to conduct or promote the carrying out of researchinto ways and means through which

(i)the incidence of crime can be reduced;

(ii)the impact of specific crimes on victims couldbe minimized or prevented;

(iii)victims of crime can be effectivelytreated, rehabilitated, counselled, assisted,compensated and protected;

(iv)the causes that prevent victims of crime orwitnesses from seeking redress or reliefthrough the available criminal justicemechanisms may be identified andeliminated; and

(v)a conducive environment could be createdfor witnesses to make statements before thelaw enforcement authorities or to testifyfearlessly at any proceedings before any courtor Commission;

(m)to promote the application and observance of codesof conduct and recognized norms and best practicesrelating to the protection of the rights andentitlements of victims of crime and witnesses, bycourts, Commissions, any other tribunals, publicofficers and employees of statutory bodies involvedin the enforcement of law, including officers of theSri Lanka Police, the Prisons Department,Government Medical Officers and officers of theGovernment social service institutions;

37Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(n) to make recommendations to the Government andother appropriate authorities on the development,adoption and implementation of-

(i)crime prevention policies in order tominimize the incidence of victimization;

(ii)measures of restitution of victims of crime;and

(iii)measures of restorative justice as an optionto sentencing;

(o)having regard to the existing financial regulations,to lay down the procedure and criteria for thegranting of financial assistance to victims of crimeand witnesses;

(p)to organize training programmes on the treatmentof child victims of crime or child witnesses andidentify qualified personnel and proper proceduresthat may be employed to protect and meet anyspecial needs of such child victims of crime orwitnesses;

(q)to promote the development, adoption andimplementation of measures of restitution forvictims of crime as an option to sentencing in thecriminal justice system; and

(r)to perform or discharge any other duty or functionthat may be necessary to achieve the objects of thisAct.

(2) Where the Authority issues any directive or makesany recommendation to any person or authority, or requiresany person or authority to carry out any measure undersubsection (1), it shall be the duty of such person orauthority

38Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)to give effect to such directive or recommendationsor carry out such measure and report back to theAuthority of such fact; or

(b)where such person or authority is unable to giveeffect to such directive or recommendation, or carryout the measure, to report back to the Authority ofsuch inability, giving reasons for the same.

(3) The Authority shall monitor the implementation ofthe directive or recommendations or carrying out the measurereferred to in subsection (2) by calling for periodical reportsfrom such person, authority or any other relevant authority.

41. (1) The Authority shall have the power

(a)to receive any complaint or information on anyalleged violation or denial, or imminent violationor denial, of any right or entitlement of a victim ofcrime or witness under this Act;

(b)for the purpose of conducting an investigation orinquiry into any alleged violation or denial, orimminent violation or denial, of any right orentitlement of a victim of crime or witness underthis Act, to -

(i)require any person, other than a judicialofficer or Commissioner of a Commission, toappear before the Authority and to participatein such investigation or inquiry;

(ii)require any person, other than a court orCommission, to produce before the Authorityany document, a certified copy of anydocument or any other material in thepossession or custody of such person,including any report of investigation orinquiry, an extract of an information bookand extract of Police Officers Visiting Bookfor examination and to take copies thereof;

Powers of theAuthority

39Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(iii)require any person, other than a court orCommission, to provide to the Authority inwriting any information which such personpossesses:

Provided however, if the disclosure ofany information is detrimental to the nationalsecurity, such person shall not be required toprovide such information, and the onus ofproving that the information is confidentialshall lie with the person who so claims;

(iv)interview and record a statement of anyperson, other than a judicial officer orCommissioner of any Commission:

Provided however, anything stated duringthe course of recording of such statement shallnot be used against such person at anysubsequent trial of any charge or indictmentrelating to an offence;

(v)request any court or Commission to provideto the Authority certified copies of the recordsof any proceedings, documents and othermaterial filed of record in such court orCommission relating to any alleged offenceagainst a victim of crime or witness or thealleged violation or denial, or imminentviolation or denial, of any right orentitlement of a victim of crime or witness,without the payment of any fee, providedsufficient justification is shown for suchrequest; and

(vi)subject to prior approval of the relevantauthorities, enter into, inspect or examine anyplace or location, or observe and record anyevent or process progressing in any place,including an investigation, inquiry, trial orother proceeding;

40Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)for the purpose of providing redress to any victimof crime or witness, to-

(i)make an appropriate order to remedy, or toprovide relief, or to take corrective measureson any damage caused as a result of theviolation of rights or denial of entitlementsof any victim of crime or witness under thisAct;

(ii)direct, advise or recommend the relevantauthorities to adopt appropriate measure forthe promotion or protection of the rights andentitlements of any victim of crime or witnessunder this Act; and

(iii)use mechanisms including conciliation andmediation in addition to other available legalmechanisms;

(d)to make representations to the Attorney-General orany other authority on the basis of any investigationor inquiry into any alleged violation or denial, orimminent violation or denial, of any right orentitlement of a victim of crime or witness underthis Act;

(e)to direct the Protection Division to take over aninvestigation or inquiry into any offence under thisAct under paragraph (f) of subsection (1) of section56;

(f)to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of anymovable or immovable property;

(g)to enter into such contracts as may be necessary forthe performance and discharge of its duties andfunctions;

41Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(h)to invest monies lying to the credit of theProtection Fund in an appropriate and secure mannerand open and maintain current, savings or depositaccounts in banks;

(i)to appoint, dismiss and exercise disciplinary controlover officers and other employees, consultants andadvisors of the Authority as may be necessary forthe proper performance and discharge of its dutiesand functions;

(j)subject to the provisions of subsection (2), to acceptand receive donations, gifts, bequests and grantsfrom any source within or outside Sri Lanka and toutilize the same for the proper performance anddischarge of its duties and functions; and

(k)to do all such other things as may be necessary forthe proper performance and discharge of its dutiesand functions under this Act.

(2) The Authority or the Protection Division shall notobtain any assistance from any foreign government or foreignor international organization in providing assistance orprotection to a victim of crime or witness, without the priorapproval of the Department of External Resources.

(3) Any person who, without justifiable reason, fails tocomply with any requirement, direction or order made orissued by the Authority in the exercise of the powers vestedin the Authority under this section, commits an offence andshall, on conviction by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine notexceeding three hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingfive years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

42Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

42. (1) The administration and management of theaffairs of the Authority shall be vested in a Board ofManagement (in this Act referred to as the Board).

(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of administeringand managing the affairs of the Authority, exercise, perform,and discharge the powers, duties and functions conferredon, assigned to, or imposed on, the Authority by this Act.

(3) The Board shall consist of-

(a)the following ex-officio members

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Justice or anAdditional Secretary to such Ministry,nominated by such Secretary;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the Department of Police or anAdditional Secretary to such Ministry,nominated by such Secretary;

(iii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Womens Affairs oran Additional Secretary to such Ministry,nominated by such Secretary;

(iv)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Children or anAdditional Secretary to such Ministry,nominated by such Secretary;

(v)a member of the Human Rights Commissionof Sri Lanka established by the Human RightsCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996,nominated by such Commission;

Board ofManagement ofthe Authority

43Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(vi)the Chairman of the Legal Aid Commissionestablished by the Legal Aid Law, No. 27 of1978 or a nominee of such Chairman notbelow the rank of Commissioner;

(vii)the Commissioner-General of Prisons or anominee of such Commissioner-General notbelow the rank of Commissioner;

(viii)a nominee of the Attorney- General; and

(ix)a nominee of the Inspector General of Policeholding the rank of Senior Deputy InspectorGeneral of Police:

Provided however, where two or more subjectsspecified in subparagraph (i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) ofthis paragraph are assigned to a single Ministry,the nomination of a member of that Ministry to theAuthority shall be by the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned those subjects; and

(b)five members who are academically orprofessionally qualified and have experience in thefield of Law, Criminology, Human Rights orMedicine, or in social service or civil societyactivities appointed by the President (in this Actreferred to as theappointed members).

43. (1) The President shall appoint one member of theBoard as the Chairman of the Board who shall also be theChairman of the Authority.

(2) The Chairman of the Authority shall be appointed fora period of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment.

Chairman of theAuthority

44Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(3) The Chairman of the Authority may, at any time,resign from the office of Chairman by a letter addressed tothe President and such resignation shall take effect upon itbeing accepted by the President in writing.

(4) Where the Chairman of the Authority is, by reason ofillness or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily unable toperform the duties of his office, the President shall appointanother member of the Board to act in his place.

(5) The President may, for reasons assigned, remove theChairman of the Authority from the office of Chairman.

44. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Board, if such person

(a)is or becomes, a member of Parliament, a ProvincialCouncil or any local authority;

(b)is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)is, under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in anyother country, found or declared to be of unsoundmind; or

(d)is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any othercountry.

45. (1) An appointed member of the Board may, at anytime, resign from his office by letter to that effect addressedto the President and such resignation shall take effect uponit being accepted in writing by the President.

(2) The President may, for reasons assigned, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, remove an appointed member ofthe Board from office and such member shall cease to holdoffice from and after the date of publication of such Order inthe Gazette.

Disqualificationsfor being amember of theBoard

Resignation andremoval ofappointedmembers of theBoard

45Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(3) In the event of any appointed member of the Boardvacating office by death, resignation or removal from office,the President shall, having regard to the provisions ofparagraph (b) of subsection (3) of section 42, appoint anotherperson to succeed such member.

(4) The member appointed under subsection (3) shallhold office for the unexpired period of the term of office ofthe member whom be succeeds.

(5) Where any appointed member of the Board, by reasonof illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a periodnot less than three months, is temporarily unable to performthe duties of the office, such member shall inform the Presidentin writing, of such inability. Thereupon, the President may,having regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection(3) of section 42, appoint another person to act in his placefor such period.

46. Every appointed member of the Board shall, unlesssuch member vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a term of three years from the date ofhis appointment and shall, unless he has been removed fromoffice, be eligible for re-appointment.

47. The members of the Board may be paid suchremuneration out of the Fund of the Authority, at such ratesas may be determined by the President in consultation withthe Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

48. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall, if present,preside at every meeting of the Board. In the absence of theChairman from any such meeting, the members present shallelect one of the members present, to preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall befive members.

Term of officeof an appointedmember

Remunerationof members

Meetings of theBoard

46Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(3) The Chairman or the member presiding at any meetingof the Board may regulate the procedure in regard to itsmeetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

(4) All matters for decision by the Board shall be dealtwith at a meeting of the Board and shall be determined bythe majority of the members present and voting.

(5) In the event of an equality of votes on any matterconsidered at a meeting of the Board, the Chairman or themember presiding at such meeting shall have a casting votein addition to his original vote.

(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Board may regulate the procedure in regard to itsmeetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

49. No act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall bedeemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of anyvacancy therein, or any defect in the appointment of anymember thereof.

50. (1) The seal of the Authority shall be as determinedby the Board and may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Board.

(2) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody ofsuch person as the Board may determine from time to time.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except with the sanction of the Boardand in the presence of two members of the Board, who shallsign the instrument or document in token of their presence.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of instrumentsand documents to which the seal of the Authority has beenaffixed.

Any act notinvalidated byreason of avacancy in theBoard

Seal of theAuthority

47Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

PART VI

APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND STAFF OF THEAUTHORITY

51. (1) There shall be a Director-General of the Authority(in this Act referred to as the Director-General) who shallbe a person with professional qualifications in the field ofLaw, Administration or Criminology with at least fifteenyears of experience in any of such fields.

(2) The Director-General shall be appointed by the Boardand shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority.

(3) The Director-General shall, subject to the general orspecial directions and supervision of the Board

(a)be charged with the administration and managementof the affairs of the Authority, including theadministration and control of the staff; and

(b)be responsible for the performance and dischargeof all such duties and functions assigned to him bythe Board.

(4) (a) The Board may, in writing and subject to suchconditions as may be specified therein, delegate to theDirector-General any of the powers, duties or functions ofthe Authority, and the Director-General shall exercise,perform or discharge such powers, duties or functions in thename and on behalf of the Authority.

(b) The Board may, notwithstanding any delegation madeunder paragraph (a), by itself exercise, perform or dischargeany powers, duties or functions so delegated and may at anytime revoke such delegation.

Director-Generalof the Authority

48Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(5) The Director-General may, with the written approvalof the Board, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,delegate in writing to any officer of the Authority any of hispowers, duties or functions and such officer shall exercise,perform or discharge such powers, duties or functions subjectto the general or special direction of the Director-General.

(6) The term of office of the Director-General shall bethree years from the date of appointment and he shall, unlessremoved from office under subsection (7), be eligible for re-appointment.

(7) The Board may, with reasons assigned therefor,remove the Director-General from office, if the Director-General-

(a)becomes permanently incapable of performing hisduties;

(b)commits any act which, in the opinion of the Board,is of a fraudulent or illegal character or is prejudicialto the interests of the Authority; or

(c)fails to comply with any direction issued by theBoard.

(8) The office of the Director-General shall become vacantupon the death, removal from office under subsection (7) orresignation by letter in that behalf addressed to the Boardby the holder of that office.

(9) Where the office of the Director-General becomesvacant, the Board shall appoint another person to such office,having regard to the provisions of subsection (1).

(10) A member of the Board shall not be eligible to beappointed, whether permanently or temporarily, as theDirector-General.

49Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

52. (1) The Authority may appoint as staff of theAuthority such number of officers and other employees asmay be necessary for the efficient discharge of its functions.

(2) The Authority may, in respect of the officers and otheremployees appointed to the Authority under subsection (1)

(a)determine the terms and conditions of employmentof such officers and employees;

(b)fix the rates at which such officers and employeesshall be remunerated in keeping with relatedguidelines of the Government;

(c)exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss suchofficers and employees; and

(d)establish staff welfare and social security schemesfor the benefit of such officers and employees andmake contribution to any such schemes.

(3) The Board may make rules in respect of all or any ofthe matters referred to in subsection (2).

(4) The Authority shall not appoint as an officer or otheremployee of the Authority, any person who has beendismissed from any previous position held by such personin the public or private sector.

53. (1) At the request of the Authority, any officer inthe public service may, with the consent of that officerand the Secretary to the Ministry by or under which thatofficer is employed, and the Secretary to the Ministry ofthe Minister assigned the subject of Public Administration,be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority forsuch period as may be determined by the Authority or withlike consent, be permanently appointed to the staff of theAuthority.

Staff of theAuthority

Appointment ofpublic officersto the staff ofthe Authority

50Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to such officer.

(4) Where the Authority employs any person, who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which hehas agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,any period of service with the Authority by that person shallbe regarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

PART VII

VICTIMS OF CRIME AND WITNESSES ASSISTANCE ANDPROTECTION DIVISION

54. (1) There shall be established a Victims of Crime andWitnesses Assistance and Protection Division (in this Actreferred to as the Protection Division) consisting of suchnumber of police officers as may be determined by theAuthority, for the purpose of conducting investigations orinquiries in relation to offences under this Act and ofproviding assistance and protection to victims of crime andwitnesses under this Act.

(2) The police officers of the Protection Division shall beappointed subject to the provisions of the Constitution, onthe nomination made by the Inspector General of Police inconsultation with the Authority.

(3) The Inspector General of Police, in consultation withthe Authority, shall determine the criteria for the selectionof police officers to the Protection Division, and such criteriashall be published in the Gazette.

Establishment ofthe Victims ofCrime andWitnessesAssistance andProtectionDivision

51Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(4) The Inspector General of Police, with the concurrenceof the Authority, shall nominate a suitably qualified policeofficer not below the rank of Senior Superintendent of Policeas the Head of the Protection Division who shall act underthe supervision of a Senior Deputy Inspector General ofPolice and a Deputy Inspector General of Police nominatedby the Inspector General of Police.

(5) All matters relating to the appointment, promotion,transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of the policeofficers of the Protection Division shall be determined interms of the provisions of the Constitution, on therecommendation of the Inspector General of Police. TheInspector General of Police may seek the views of theAuthority in making recommendations on any such matter.

(6) (a) The Authority shall make rules to ensure theconfidentiality of the affairs of the Protection Division andimpartiality and accountability of the police officers of theProtection Division in the performance and discharge oftheir duties and functions under this Act.

(b) Every police officer appointed to the ProtectionDivision shall undertake in writing to abide by such rules.

(7) (a) The Authority shall refer any complaint withregard to any wilful non-compliance with any relevantprovision of this Act or any rule made by the Authorityunder paragraph (a) of subsection (6), by any police officerof the Protection Division to the Inspector General of Police,who shall inquire into such complaint and take suchmeasures as may be deemed appropriate in the relevantcircumstances.

(b) A certificate issued by the Authority stating that apolice officer of the Protection Division has contravenedany such provision or rule shall be prima facie evidence forthe purpose of initiating any action or inquiry against suchpolice officer.

52Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

55. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, the Protection Division shall haveislandwide jurisdiction to receive, investigate or inquire intoany complaint in relation to an offence under Part III of thisAct-

(a)made directly to the Protection Division;

(b)made to the Authority and referred to the ProtectionDivision; or

(c)referred to the Protection Division by any court,Commission or law enforcement authority.

(2) Every police officer attached to any police stationshall, whenever requested by the Protection Division, assistthe Protection Division, in exercising, performing anddischarging the powers, duties and functions of the ProtectionDivision.

56. (1) The powers, duties and functions of the ProtectionDivision shall be

(a)to investigate or inquire into complaints receivedby the Protection Division or referred to theProtection Division by the Authority, any court,Commission or law enforcement authority underthe provisions of this Act;

(b)to provide assistance and protection to victims ofcrime and witnesses;

(c)to lay down conditions for admitting a victim ofcrime or witness into a specific programme referredto in section 59;

(d)in the case of imminent threat to any victim of crimeor witness, provide immediate protection to suchvictim of crime or witness;

ProtectionDivision to haveislandwidejurisdiction

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe ProtectionDivision

53Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(e)to provide necessary guidance and advice, onrequest by a police station, with regard to theconduct of an investigation or inquiry into anoffence under this Act by such police station;

(f)on receipt of a direction issued by the Authoritybased on the gravity and the seriousness of thecircumstances, to take over any investigation orinquiry into any offence under this Act against anyvictim of crime or witness; and

(g)where the Protection Division is of the opinion thatthe gravity and the seriousness of any allegedoffence under this Act warrants its intervention inthe conduct of the investigation or inquiry intosuch offence, to take over such investigation orinquiry, with the concurrence of the Authority.

(2) The officers attached to the Protection Division shallmaintain confidentiality with regard to matters relating tovictims of crime and witnesses and shall not share anyinformation on such matters except as required by law.

PART VIII

THE ASSISTANCE AND PROTECTION PROGRAMME FOR VICTIMS OFCRIME AND WITNESSES

57. (1) The Authority shall, in consultation with theProtection Division and based on the guidelines to bedeveloped by the Authority, draw up an Assistance andProtection General Programme for Victims of Crime andWitnesses containing the procedure for the provision ofassistance and protection to victims of crime and witnesses(in this Act referred to as the General Programme).

Assistance andProtectionGeneralProgramme forVictims ofCrime andWitnesses

54Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(2) In developing guidelines for the General Programme,the Authority shall have due regard to the internationalnorms, standards, policies, procedures and best practicesmeant for granting assistance and protection to victims ofcrime and witnesses.

58. (1) The Authority shall-

(a)share information among the public about theGeneral Programme;

(b)create awareness among the public on the GeneralProgramme including-

(i)the procedure to be followed in seekingassistance and protection, whenever anyoffence specified in Part III of this Act iscommitted in relation to a victim of crime orwitness;

(ii)the available methods in which any relevantauthority may be contacted without delay forthe purpose of obtaining assistance andprotection for a victim of crime or witnessunder such General Programme; and

(iii)the nature of assistance and protection thatmay be sought under the General Programme.

(2) (a) The Authority shall formulate a manual containingthe General Programme referred to in subsection (1), andshall ensure that such manual is made available to all relevantpersons, authorities and institutions entrusted with the dutyof providing assistance and protection to victims of crimesand witnesses.

(b) It shall be the duty of every person, authority orinstitution which has the responsibility of implementingthe General Programme to comply with the guidelines issuedin relation to such General Programme in providing assistanceand protection to victims of crime and witnesses.

Duty of theAuthority toshareinformation onthe GeneralProgramme

55Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

59. (1) The Protection Division shall, based on theGeneral Programme drawn up by the Authority and theguidelines issued in that connection by the Authority, adopta specific programme for the purpose of providing assistanceand protection to any victim of crime or witness (in this Actreferred to as a specific programme).

(2) The Protection Division may admit a victim of crimeor witness to a specific programme on

(a)a request made by a victim of crime or witness;

(b)a recommendation made by the Authority;

(c)a report submitted by any law enforcement authorityor a public officer; or

(d)a notification received from a court orCommission.

(3) The Protection Division shall lay down the conditionsto be complied with for admitting a victim of crime or witnessinto a specific programme.

(4) Prior to admitting a victim of crime or witness to anyspecific programme under subsection (1), the ProtectionDivision shall require such victim of crime or witness toexpress his consent in writing to avail himself of theprotection or assistance under such specific programme andto abide by the conditions stipulated by the Authority orProtection Division in relation to such specific programme.

PART IX

COMPENSATION AND INTERIM AWARDS

60. The payment of any compensation or making aninterim award to a victim of crime under this Part of this Actshall be based on just and equitable basis.

Adopting aspecificprogramme fora victim ofcrime or witness

Compensationand interimawards to bemade on justand equitablebasis

56Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

61. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, a court may, on conviction of an accused,in addition to any penal sanction that may be imposed onthe convicted person in respect of the offence for which he isconvicted, order the convicted person to pay to the courtsuch amount of compensation as may be determined by suchcourt, under this Act.

(2) Where a court makes an order under subsection (1),the court may-

(a)specify the time within which such compensationshall be paid; or

(b)order the compensation to be paid on instalmentbasis, depending on the circumstances.

(3) Any sum ordered to be paid by the court under thissection shall be recoverable as if it were a fine imposed bysuch court, and the provisions relating to recovery ofcompensation contained in the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct shall apply to the recovery of compensation under thissection.

(4) Where the convicted person is impecunious or he hasno assets to be forfeited to recover compensation, the courtmay order the Authority to pay, subject to the availability ofresources and in accordance with the succeeding provisionsof this Act, a sum of money as compensation that iscommensurate to the victimization, not exceeding rupeesone million to the victim of crime.

62. Where a convicted person fails to pay thecompensation ordered to be paid under section 61, he shallbe liable-

(a)if such order was made by the Magistrates Court,to imprisonment of either description for a periodnot exceeding two years; or

Court may ordercompensation

Default ofpayment ofcompensation

57Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(b)if such order was made by the High Court, toimprisonment of either description for a period notexceeding five years:

Provided however, if the court is satisfied upon inquirythat the convicted person does not have the necessaryfinancial resources to pay the compensation, the court mayenter a community based correction order, and where suchorder is entered, the provisions relating to community basedcorrection orders contained in the Community BasedCorrections Act, No. 46 of 1999 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply in relation to that order.

63. The court may, before making an order to paycompensation under section 61, take the following mattersinto consideration: -

(a)all information relating to the offence includingthe nature of the injury suffered by the victim ofcrime as a result of the offence;

(b)any aggravating or mitigating factors;

(c)the report of the Government Medical Officer whohas examined the victim of crime;

(d)any evidence of psychological or emotional harmthat may have been caused to the victim of crime;

(e)any loss of earnings suffered by the victim of crimeon account of the injury;

(f)any expenses including medical expenses incurredby the victim of crime;

(g)the victim impact statement referred to insection 8;

Matters to beconsideredbefore orderingto paycompensation

58Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(h)any other compensation that has already been paidto such victim of crime by the convicted person, orany other compensation recovered from theconvicted person by any other court, Commission,body or person, or any other award that may havealready been made to such victim of crime; and

(i)any other information that may assist the court orthe Authority to determine the nature and the extentof injury, damage or loss that such victim of crimemay have suffered as a result of the offence.

64. (1) The onus of proving a claim for compensation orinterim award under this Part of this Act shall lie with theperson who makes the claim.

(2) Notwithstanding any rule of evidence or anyprohibition in respect of the admissibility of evidence, acourt determining the payment of compensation under thisAct or the Authority determining on the payment of aninterim award under this Act, may take into account anystatement of a victim of crime or witness or any other personrelevant to the proceedings.

65. (1) Where a court recovers any amount ascompensation from a convicted person under section 61,such court shall remit twenty per centum of the money sorecovered to the Protection Fund and the balance amountshall be paid to the victim of crime, his next of kin,dependents or heirs as the case may be.

(2) The receipt of compensation by a victim of crimeunder this section shall not prejudice the right of such victimof crime to claim any damages in any civil proceedings,provided that when determining the quantum of damages tobe awarded, such civil court may take into consideration thecompensation already received by such victim of crime underthis section.

Onus of provingthe claim

Receipt ofcompensationnot to be a barto civilproceedings

59Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

66. (1) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the courtunder this Act in regard to the quantum of compensationawarded or the refusal to award compensation by the court,shall have a right to seek a review of such decision-

(a)where such decision has been taken by aMagistrates Court, in the High Court of the Provincehaving jurisdiction; or

(b)where such decision has been taken by a High Court,in the Court of Appeal.

(2) The provisions relating to the procedure for seekingreview of decisions contained in Part VII of the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act shall mutatis mutandis apply to thefiling of applications for review of decisions under thissection.

67. (1) The Authority may consider paying an interimaward of money to a victim of crime in exceptionalcircumstances in the case of a serious offence, on therecommendation of the Advisory Board as set out insection 69.

(2) The interim award referred to in subsection (1) maybe made, depending on the availability of resources-

(a)on the application of a victim of crime or any otherperson on his behalf, as provided for in section 68;and

(b)irrespective of the final outcome of the proceedingsrelating to the offence alleged to have beencommitted.

(3) For the purposes of this section, a serious offencemeans an offence which is punishable with a sentence ofminimum of five years of imprisonment, with or without afine.

Appeals

Authority maymake an interimaward of moneyin exceptionalcircumstances

60Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

68. (1) (a) A victim of crime or any other person on hisbehalf may make an application to the Authority for interimaward of money supported by an affidavit, along with anyother document as may be specified by the Authority. Theaffidavit shall contain a true declaration of all sources ofincome of the victim of crime.

(b) Where the application, affidavit and other documentsare submitted by another person on behalf of the victim ofcrime under paragraph (a), such person shall clearly state thereasons as to why the victim of crime cannot submit suchapplication, affidavit and other documents by himself.

(2) The Authority shall refer any application, affidavitand other documents received under subsection (1) to theAdvisory Board, for recommendations.

69. (1) Upon receipt of a reference under subsection (2)of section 68, the Advisory Board shall-

(a)consider each application for interim award on justand equitable basis; and

(b)make its recommendations to the Authoritywhether to grant an interim award to the victim ofcrime,

within fourteen days from the receipt of the reference.

(2) In making recommendations on an application undersubsection (1), the Advisory Board shall-

(a)take into account all attendant circumstances ofthe offence committed against the victim of crimeand the injuries suffered by the victim of crime;

(b)consider all relevant evidence, documents andmaterial that would establish the authenticity ofthe claim for interim award; and

Application forinterim award ofmoney from theAuthority

Advisory Boardto recommendgranting ofinterim awards

61Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)take into account any compensation that has alreadybeen paid to the victim of crime by the accused orconvicted person or that has already been recoveredfrom the accused or convicted person by any court,Commission, body or person, in respect of theoffence alleged to have been committed.

70. (1) Upon receipt of recommendations of the AdvisoryBoard under section 69, the Authority may, in accordancewith the guidelines issued by the Authority, make an interimaward to a victim of crime.

(2) The sum of money awarded to a victim of crime asinterim award shall, on an order of the Authority which shallbe made subject to the provisions of subsection (3), be repaidby him to the Authority as per the scheme of repaymentreferred to in subsection (4).

(3) (a) Any order made by the Authority for the repaymentof the interim award shall be dependent on the earingcapacity of the victim of crime as declared by him in hisaffidavit.

(b) If the victim of crime is unemployed or has no meansof income to repay the interim award, an order shall not bemade for the repayment of the interim award.

(4) Where an order is made for the repayment of an interimaward, the Authority shall enter into a scheme of repaymentwith the victim of crime.

(5) The Authority may periodically assess the level ofearning capacity of a victim of crime and vary an order madefor the repayment of an interim award.

71. (1) Where a person fails, on an order made by theAuthority, to repay any sum of money received as interimaward under section 70, the Magistrates Court havingjurisdiction shall-

Grant of interimaward

Failure to repaythe interimaward

62Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)on application made to such Court by the Authority;and

(b)upon a certificate issued to the Magistrate underthe hand of the Chairman of the Authority that suchsum of money has not been repaid,

recover such sum of money as a fine imposed by the Court.

(2) A certificate issued under paragraph (b) of subsection(1) shall be prima facie evidence of the fact of such non-payment.

72. The Authority shall, in consultation with the AdvisoryBoard, issue guidelines in relation to the following matterspertaining to interim awards under this Part of this Act:-

(a)the form and manner of application for an interimaward;

(b)the time within which an application may be madefor the payment of an interim award;

(c)the circumstances under which an interim awardmay be paid;

(d)the procedure and manner of payment of an interimaward;

(e)the conditions under which an interim award maybe made;

(f)the circumstances under which an interim awardmay be repaid;

(g)the procedure for repayment of an interim award;and

(h)the circumstances under which an interim awardmay be withheld or the amount of award reduced.

Authority toissue guidelinesrelating tointerim awards

63Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

73. (1) A person shall not be entitled to receive anycompensation from a court or an interim award from theAuthority under this Act, if-

(a)it is established that the act constituting the allegedoffence -

(i)has not occurred;

(ii)is not covered under the criminal law; or

(iii)has been committed in self defence againstan attack by the victim of crime;

(b)the victim of crime is proved to be a member of anorganized criminal group, at the time of or after, thecommission of the offence; or

(c)at the end of or during the course of proceedings, asthe case may be, the victim of crime is found to beguilty of any offence specified in the SecondSchedule to this Act.

(2) Only a Sri Lankan citizen shall be eligible to make aclaim for and receive an interim award from the Authorityunder this Act.

74. (1) The Minister shall, in consultation with theAuthority, appoint an Advisory Board on Awards (in thisAct referred to as the Advisory Board), to makerecommendations to the Authority on the payment of anyinterim award of money under section 67.

(2) The Advisory Board shall consist of-

(a)a retired Judicial Officer, appointed by theMinister;

Non-entitlement forcompensationor interimaward

Advisory Boardon Awards

64Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(b)a representative of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance, not below the rankof Senior Assistant Secretary, nominated by theSecretary to such Ministry;

(c)a representative of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Justice, not below the rankof Senior Assistant Secretary, nominated by theSecretary to such Ministry;

(d)a representative of the Auditor-General, nominatedby the Auditor-General; and

(e)an attorney-at-law having not less than twenty yearsof experience in the field of Law of Delict,appointed by the Minister.

75. (1) The Minister shall appoint the retired JudicialOfficer referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section74 as the Chairman of the Advisory Board.

(2) The Chairman of the Advisory Board shall beappointed for a period of three years and shall be eligible forre-appointment.

(3) The Chairman of the Advisory Board may, at anytime, resign from the office by a letter addressed to theMinister and such resignation shall take effect upon it beingaccepted by the Minister in writing.

(4) Where the Chairman of the Advisory Board is, byreason of illness or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarilyunable to perform the duties of his office, the Minister shallappoint another member of the Advisory Board to act in hisplace.

(5) The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove theChairman of the Advisory Board from the office of Chairman.

Chairman ofAdvisory Board

65Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

76. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Advisory Board, if suchperson

(a)is or becomes, a member of Parliament, a ProvincialCouncil or any local authority;

(b)is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)is, under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in anyother country, found or declared to be of unsoundmind; or

(d)is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any othercountry.

77. (1) A member of the Advisory Board may, at anytime, resign from his office by letter to that effect addressedto the Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon itbeing accepted in writing by the Minister.

(2) The Minister may, for reasons assigned, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, remove a member of the AdvisoryBoard from office in consultation with any person whonominated such member to the Advisory Board undersubsection (2) of section 74 of this Act, if he is found guiltyof-

(a)misconduct in the performance of his duties; or

(b)an offence involving fraud or dishonesty.

(3) A member of the Advisory Board who is removedfrom office under subsection (2), shall cease to hold officefrom and after the date of publication of such Order in theGazette.

Disqualificationsfor being amember of theAdvisory Board

Resignation andremoval of amember of theAdvisory Board

66Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(4) In the event of any member of the Advisory Boardvacating office by death, resignation or removal from office,the Minister shall, having regard to the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 74, appoint another person tosucceed such member.

(5) The member appointed under subsection (4) shall holdoffice for the unexpired period of the term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

(6) Where any member of the Advisory Board, by reasonof illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period ofnot less than three months, is temporarily unable to performthe duties of the office, such member shall inform the Ministerin writing, of such inability. Thereupon, the Minister may,having regard to the provisions of subsection (2) of section74, appoint another person to act in his place for such period.

78. Every member of the Advisory Board shall, unlesssuch member vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a term of three years from the date ofhis appointment and shall, unless he has been removed fromoffice, be eligible for re-appointment.

79. The members of the Advisory Board may be paidsuch remuneration out of the Fund of the Authority, at suchrates as may be determined by the Minister in consultationwith the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

80. (1) The Chairman of the Advisory Board shall, ifpresent, preside at every meeting of the Advisory Board. Inthe absence of the Chairman from any such meeting, themembers present shall elect one of the members present, topreside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Advisory Boardshall be three members.

Term of officeof a member ofthe AdvisoryBoard

Remuneration ofmembers

Meetings ofthe AdvisoryBoard

67Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(3) The Chairman or the member presiding at any meetingof the Advisory Board may regulate the procedure in regardto its meetings and the transaction of business at suchmeetings.

(4) All matters for decision by the Advisory Board shallbe dealt with at a meeting of the Advisory Board and shallbe determined by the majority of the members present andvoting.

(5) In the event of an equality of votes on any matterconsidered at a meeting of the Advisory Board, the Chairmanor the member presiding at such meeting shall have a castingvote in addition to his original vote.

(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Advisory Board may regulate the procedure in regardto its meetings and the transaction of business at suchmeetings.

81. No act, decision or proceeding of the Advisory Boardshall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existenceof any vacancy therein, or any defect in the appointment ofany member thereof.

PART X

TESTIMONY THROUGH CONTEMPORANEOUS AUDIO-VISUAL LINKAGE

82. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, any victim of crime, witness or lawenforcement authority who wishes to-

(a)give evidence;

(b)obtain evidence; or

Any act notinvalidated byreason of avacancy in theAdvisory Board

Contemporaneousaudio-visuallinkage

68Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c) make a statement,

as the case may be, in relation to any investigation, inquiryor proceedings conducted by any court or Commission, maymake an application to such court or Commission to give orobtain such evidence or make such statement throughcontemporaneous audio-visual linkage from a remotelocation within or outside Sri Lanka.

(2) (a) Upon receipt of an application under subsection(1), the court or Commission may, in the best interests ofjustice and as a measure of protection to be afforded to avictim of crime or witness, and subject to the provisions ofsections 84 and 85, permit such victim of crime, witness orlaw enforcement authority to give or obtain such evidenceor make such statement, as the case may be, by usingcontemporaneous audio-visual linkage between such courtor Commission and a specified remote location within oroutside Sri Lanka (in this Act referred to as a remotelocation) as deemed appropriate.

(b) Where an application is made under subsection (1), itshall be competent for the court or Commission to hold orauthorise the holding of an identification parade undersection 124 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act throughcontemporaneous audio-visual linkage from a remotelocation.

(3) The court or Commission may, on its own motionbased on the attendant circumstances, obtain and recordany evidence or statement of any victim of crime or witnessthrough contemporaneous audio-visual linkage between thecourt or Commission and such remote location as may bedetermined by such court or Commission, subject to theprovisions of sections 84 and 85.

(4) Where the court or Commission grants permission togive or obtain any evidence or make any statement, or decidesto obtain and record any evidence or statement under

69Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

subsection (2) or (3), as the case may be, the Authority shall,at the request of such court or Commission, to the greatestextent possible, ensure provision of financial and otherresources that may be necessary to establish and maintainan effective linkage, subject to the availability of itsresources.

83. (1) (a) Where a victim of crime or witness intends tomake an application under subsection (1) of section 82 togive evidence or make a statement through contemporaneousaudio-visual linkage from-

(i)a remote location within Sri Lanka, such applicationshall be supported before the court or Commissionat least thirty days before such evidence or statementis required to be given or made, as the case may be;

(ii)a remote location outside Sri Lanka, suchapplication shall be supported before the court orCommission at least sixty days before such evidenceor statement is required to be given or made, as thecase may be.

(b) Where a law enforcement authority intends to makean application under subsection (1) of section 82, such lawenforcement authority shall, before making the applicationto the relevant court or Commission, make an application tothe Magistrates Court having jurisdiction for permissionfor such purpose.

(2) Where any victim of crime, witness or law enforcementauthority intends to make an application under subsection(1) of section 82, such victim of crime, witness or lawenforcement authority shall, before making such application,give reasonable prior notice of such application to theAttorney-General and all relevant parties to suchinvestigation, inquiry or proceedings:

Supporting anapplication andgiving notice ofan application

70Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Provided however, if, during the course of aninvestigation conducted in terms of Chapter XI of the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, an accused has not yet beenidentified or named, or an accused cannot be found orabsconding, or if it is necessary to maintain theconfidentiality of the investigation, a statement of a victimof crime or witness may be recorded by any law enfacementauthority without giving notice to any party, with thepermission of the court or Commission. Where the accusedis identified, named, found or arrested, such law enforcementauthority shall disclose the availability of such statement tothe accused and provide a transcript of such statement or adata storage device containing such statement to him priorto the commencement of the trial.

(3) The Attorney-General or any party who receives noticeof an application referred to in subsection (2), may make hisrepresentations to the court or Commission before whichthe investigation, inquiry or proceeding is to be conducted,within fifteen working days of the receipt of the notice ofsuch application, and such court or Commission shall makeand notify its decision on such representations along withthe reasons therefor, within fifteen working days of thereceipt of such representations.

(4) Where any victim of crime, witness or law enforcementauthority no longer requires to give, obtain or make suchevidence or statement, as the case may be, throughcontemporaneous audio-visual linkage from a remotelocation, such victim of crime, witness or law enforcementauthority shall notify such fact in writing to the Registrar orthe Secretary, as the case may be, of the respective court orCommission.

84. A court or Commission may permit to give or obtainany evidence or make any statement, or obtain and recordany evidence or statement through contemporaneous audio-visual linkage from a remote location, only if it is satisfiedthat the technical requirements specified below are met: -

Court orCommission tobe satisfied withtechnical andotherrequirements

71Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)the premises in which the court or Commission sitsand the remote location are equipped with adequatefacilities that-

(i)enable the persons who are directly relevantto the proceedings and present at suchpremises, to see and hear the persons who aredirectly relevant to the proceedings andpresent at such remote location; and

(ii)enable the persons who are directly relevantto the proceedings and present at such remotelocation, to see and hear the persons who aredirectly relevant to the proceedings andpresent at such premises;

(b)any requirement that may be prescribed by rules ofthe court or Commission, for or with respect to -

(i)the form of audio-visual linkage;

(ii)the equipment or class of equipment used toestablish the linkage;

(iii)the layout of cameras;

(iv)the standard or speed of transmission;

(v)the quality of communication; and

(vi)any other matter relating to the linkage; and

(c)any other requirement that the presiding judge,Magistrate, or Commission may deem necessary:

Provided however, the requirements that maybe imposed by the presiding judge, Magistrate orCommission under this paragraph shall not beinconsistent with any provision contained in thissection.

72Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

85. (1) A court or Commission, prior to commencing therecording of evidence or statement of a victim of crime orwitness through contemporaneous audio-visual linkage fromany remote location, shall, on the day and at the time fixedfor such purpose-

(a)satisfy itself that such contemporaneous audio-visual linkage is technically accurate and reliable;and

(b)ensure that a judicial officer or public officer whoshall be designated by such court or Commission ispresent at such remote location.

(2) The court or Commission may require the judicialofficer or public officer designated under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) to-

(a)interview, before or after recording of statement,the victim of crime or witness and any other persondirectly relevant to the proceedings and present atsuch remote location; and

(b)submit a report along with his observations, to suchcourt or Commission stating whether the victim ofcrime or witness is or was making the statementvoluntarily and without any coercion, duress orinfluence or as a result of any reward or gratification,

and such officer shall comply with such requirement.

(3) For the purposes of this section, public officerincludes an officer serving in the Sri Lanka Foreign Service.

86. A court or Commission shall, before grantingpermission to a victim of crime, witness or law enforcementauthority, to give or obtain evidence, or to make a statement,as the case may be, through contemporaneous audio-visual

Court orCommission tosatisfy itself ofaccuracy of thelinkage, &c.

An accusedsright to a fairtrial

73Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

linkage from a remote location under this Act, determinewhether the obtaining and recording of such evidence orstatement through such means from such location-

(a)serves the best interests of justice; and

(b)would not be detrimental to the right of an accusedto a fair trial.

87. Where any evidence or statement of any victim ofcrime or witness is to be given or obtained or made from anyremote location outside Sri Lanka under this Act, it shall beso given or obtained or made through contemporaneousaudio-visual linkage from the Sri Lankan diplomatic missionin the country from where such evidence or statement is tobe given or obtained or made.

88. The court or Commission may, in the best interest ofjustice and for reasons to be recorded, make an order varyingor revoking a permission granted to record evidence orstatement in relation to any proceedings throughcontemporaneous audio-visual linkage from a remotelocation, with notice to the relevant parties to suchproceedings.

89. (1) A victim of crime or witness giving evidence ormaking a statement through contemporaneous audio-visuallinkage from a remote location under this Part of this Actshall be deemed for all purposes to be a victim of crime orwitness giving evidence or making a statement before thecourt.

(2) For the purposes of this Part of this Act, court meansa court before which any criminal proceedings are beingconducted.

Sri Lankandiplomaticmission to be theremote locationoutside SriLanka

Order to vary orrevokepermission foraudio-visuallinkage

A witnessdeemed to be awitness of thecourt

74Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

PART XI

FINANCE

90. (1) The Authority shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Authority-

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted upon fromtime to time by Parliament for the use of theAuthority; and

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theAuthority by way of gifts, donations, contributions,bequests or grants from any source within or outsideSri Lanka.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authorityall such sums of money required to defray the expenditureincurred by the Authority in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

91. (1) There shall be a fund called the Victims of Crimeand Witnesses Assistance and Protection Fund (in this Actreferred to as the Protection Fund).

(2) The Protection Fund shall be administered andmanaged by the Authority.

(3) There shall be paid into the Protection Fund

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted upon fromtime to time by Parliament for such Protection Fund;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theAuthority to be remitted to the Protection Fund byway of gifts, donations, contributions, bequests orgrants from any source within or outside Sri Lanka;and

Fund of theAuthority

Protection Fund

75Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)all such sums of money remitted by a court undersubsection (1) of section 65.

(4) There shall be paid out of the Protection Fund allsuch sums of money as may be determined by the Authorityfor the payment of -

(a)compensation to victims of crime for any injurycaused to them;

(b)interim awards of money granted to victims of crimeunder section 70; and

(c)compensation to dependent family members,dependent next of kin and any other persondependent on a victim of crime who has died orbeen physically or mentally incapacitated as a resultof being a victim of crime.

(5) The Director-General shall be the principal accountingofficer of the Protection Fund and shall cause proper booksof accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure andassets and liabilities of the Protection Fund.

92. (1) The financial year of the Authority shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to bekept of the income, expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other financial transactions of the Authority.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to and in relation to the audit of the accounts ofthe Fund of the Authority and the Protection Fund.

(4) The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of1971 shall, mutatis mutandis apply to the financial controland accounts of the Fund of the Authority and the ProtectionFund.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts

76Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

PART XII

GENERAL

93. (1) The Authority shall, within six months of the endof each financial year, submit to the Minister an annualreport of the activities carried out by the Authority duringthat financial year and cause a copy of each of the followingdocuments relating to that year to be attached to thereport:-

(a)the audited accounts of the Authority for the yearalong with the Auditor-Generals report; and

(b)a report of proposed activities for the yearimmediately following the year to which such reportand accounts relate, including proposals fornecessary policy and legislative reforms.

(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the report anddocuments submitted under subsection (1) beforeParliament, within two months from the date of receiptthereof.

94. Any person who, without lawful authority,interferes or obstructs or attempts to interfere or obstructany court, Commission, the Authority, Board, ProtectionDivision, Advisory Board, law enforcement authority or anypublic or judicial officer, in the exercise, performance ordischarge of any power, duty or function under this Act,commits an offence under this Act and shall, on convictionby the High Court, be liable to a fine not exceeding threehundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not exceeding five years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

95. Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then, if that body of persons is

Annual report

Interference inthe exercise ofpowers, &c.

Offences by abody of persons

77Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)a body corporate, then every person who, at thetime of the commission of the offence, was a director,manager, officer or servant of such body corporate;

(b)a firm, then every person who was a partner of thatfirm and its chief executive officer, at the time ofthe commission of the offence;

(c)an unincorporated body other than a firm, then everyindividual who was a member of such body andevery officer who was responsible for themanagement and control of such body, at the timeof the commission of the offence; or

(d)a local authority or any other authority appointedby or under any law relating to a local authority toact on behalf of such local authority, then theperson who was the Chairman of such authority, atthe time of the commission of the offence,

shall be deemed to have committed that offence, unless suchperson, individual, officer or Chairman, as the case may be,proves to the satisfaction of the court that the offence wascommitted without his knowledge or that such personexercised all due diligence to prevent the commission ofthat offence.

96. (1) No person shall, in any proceedings, be compelledto divulge whether a victim of crime or witness is receivingor has received assistance or protection under this Act, unlessit becomes necessary for the purpose of giving effect to theprovisions of this Act or any other written law.

(2) No person shall, otherwise than for the purpose ofgiving effect to the provisions of this Act or in compliancewith the provisions of any other written law, divulge to anyother person whether a victim of crime or witness is receivingor has received assistance or protection under this Act.

Secrecy

78Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

97. In assessing the credibility of a testimony given by avictim of crime or witness in any court or Commission, thefact that a victim of crime or witness is receiving or hasreceived any assistance or protection under this Act, shallnot be relevant.

98. The Members of the Board, the Director-General andall other officers and employees of the Authority, andconsultants and advisors appointed by the Authority shallbe deemed to be public servants within the meaning and forthe purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) and of the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act.

99. Every officer of or above the rank of Assistant Directorof the Authority shall be a peace officer for the purposes ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure Act.

100. The Authority shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Anti-CorruptionAct, No. 9 of 2023, and the provisions of that Act shall beconstrued accordingly.

101. (1) The Authority may make rules in respect ofmatters for which rules are required to be made under thisAct including the following matters: -

(a)terms and conditions of employment, remunerationand disciplinary control of officers and otheremployees of the Authority, and welfare and socialsecurity schemes for such officers and employeesunder section 52; and

(b)ensuring the confidentiality of the affairs of theProtection Division and impartiality andaccountability of the police officers of the ProtectionDivision under section 54.

Assessment ofcredibility of atestimony

Officers andother employeesof the Authoritydeemed to bepublic servants

Officers of theAuthority to bepeace officers

Authoritydeemed to be aScheduledInstitutionwithin themeaning of theAnti-CorruptionAct

Rules

79Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(2) Every rule made by the Authority under subsection(1) shall, as soon as may be practicable, be published in theGazette.

102. (1) The Minister may make regulations under thisAct in respect of all matters which are required by this Act tobe prescribed or in respect of which regulations areauthorised to be made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication, or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(3) (a) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, withinthree months after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval.

(b) Any regulation which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval,but without prejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is deemed to be so rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette.

103. (1) The Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 4 of 2015 is hereby repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Assistance to andProtection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 4 of2015 (in this section referred to as the repealed Act)-

(a)every appointed member of the Board ofManagement of the National Authority for theProtection of Victims of Crime and Witnessesestablished under the repealed Act holding officeon the day immediately preceding the appointed

Regulations

Repeal andsavings

80Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

date shall, with effect from the appointed date, bedeemed to be a member of the Board of Managementof the Authority established under this Act andshall, unless he earlier resigns, dies or removed fromoffice, continue to hold office as such member untilthe expiration of his term of office for which he hasbeen appointed;

(b)all employees who were in the employment of theNational Authority for the Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses established under the repealedAct on the day immediately preceding theappointed date shall, with effect from the appointeddate, be deemed to be employees of the Authorityestablished under this Act;

(c)all suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings, mattersor things which have been instituted by or againstthe National Authority for the Protection of Victimsof Crime and Witnesses established under therepealed Act and which are pending on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date shall,with effect from the appointed date, be deemed tobe suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings, mattersor things which have been instituted by or againstthe Authority established under this Act;

(d)any decree, order or award entered or made in favourof or against the National Authority for theProtection of Victims of Crime and Witnessesestablished under the repealed Act by any court ortribunal or other body in any action, matter,proceeding or thing shall, with effect from theappointed date, be deemed to be a decree, order oraward entered or made in favour of or against theAuthority established under this Act and may beenforced accordingly;

81Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(e)all property movable or immovable, belonging tothe National Authority for the Protection of Victimsof Crime and Witnesses established under therepealed Act on the day immediately preceding theappointed date shall, with effect from the appointeddate, vest in and be deemed to be the property ofthe Authority established under this Act;

(f)all monies lying to the credit of the Victims of Crimeand Witnesses Assistance and Protection Fundestablished under the repealed Act on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date, shall,with effect from the appointed date, stand transferredto the Protection Fund established under this Act;

(g)all monies lying to the credit of the Fund of theNational Authority for the Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses established under the repealedAct on the day immediately preceding theappointed date, shall, with effect from the appointeddate, stand transferred to the Fund of the Authorityestablished under this Act;

(h)all contracts and agreements entered into by andwith the National Authority for the Protection ofVictims of Crime and Witnesses established underthe repealed Act and subsisting on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date, shallbe deemed to be contracts and agreements enteredinto by and with the Authority established underthis Act; and

(i)all debts, obligations and liabilities of the NationalAuthority for the Protection of Victims of Crimeand Witnesses established under the repealed Actand subsisting on the day immediately precedingthe appointed date shall, with effect from theappointed date, be deemed to be debts, obligationsand liabilities of the Authority established underthis Act.

82Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

104. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

child victim of crime and child witness respectivelymean, a person who is less than eighteen years ofage and who is either a victim of crime or is awitness;

Code of Criminal Procedure Act means the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979;

Commission includes-

(a)a Commission of Inquiry appointed under theCommissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393);

(b)a Special Presidential Commission of Inquiryestablished under the Special PresidentialCommissions of Inquiry Law, No. 7 of 1978;

(c)the Commission to Investigate Allegations ofBribery or Corruption established by the Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023;

(d)the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lankaestablished by the Human Rights Commissionof Sri Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996; and

(e)any other Commission empowered by law toconduct inquiries;

ICCPR Act means the International Covenant on Civiland Political Rights Act, No. 56 of 2007;

injury means any harm whatever illegally caused tothe body, mind, reputation or property of any personand includes any impairment or disability,emotional suffering, economic or other loss causedas a result of an act or omission constituting analleged-

Interpretation

83Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)offence under any law;

(b)infringement of any fundamental rightguaranteed under Article 11 or paragraph (1)or (2) of Article 13 of the Constitution; or

(c)violation of any right granted under theICCPR Act;

law enforcement authority means a police officer orany other person authorised by or under any writtenlaw to investigate into the commission of anoffence;

Minister means the Minister assigned the subject ofJustice;

organised criminal group means a group of personswho have organised themselves to commit crime;

public authority means any authority, corporation,board or other body established by or under anywritten law other than the Companies Act, No. 07of 2007 with funds or capital wholly or partiallyprovided by the Government by way of grant, loanor otherwise;

relevant authority means a law enforcement authorityor public authority which lawfully interacts withthe victim of crime or witness depending on thecircumstances of each case;

restorative justice means the evolvement of a procedurethrough which all parties to a dispute would beengaged in a conciliatory process for the purposeof achieving the goals of justice;

84Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

victim of crime means a person who has suffered anyinjury and includes, where appropriate-

(a)a member of the family of the victim of crimeor a dependent of the victim of crime;

(b)a person of significant importance to a victimof crime;

(c)a person who suffers injury in intervening toassist a victim of crime;

(d)a person who suffers injury in preventinganother person from victimization; and

(e)a child victim of crime; and

witness means any person who-

(a)has provided any information or lodged acomplaint with any law enforcementauthority and based upon such informationor complaint, an investigation or inquiry islikely to commence or has commenced, inconnection with the alleged commission ofan offence or infringement of anyfundamental right or violation of any rightgranted under the ICCPR Act;

(b)has provided any information or made astatement in the course of an investigation orinquiry conducted by a law enforcementauthority into the alleged commission of anoffence or infringement of any fundamentalright or violation of any right granted underthe ICCPR Act;

(c)has made a statement, submitted an affidavitor has testified, in relation to a complaintmade by a victim of crime or in any legalaction instituted by, or on behalf, of a victimof crime;

85Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(d)has provided any information orcommunication to a Commission or hasgiven evidence before a Commission;

(e)has reasonable grounds to believe that he maybe summoned by a court or Commission toparticipate in any manner in any proceedings,investigation or inquiry against any otherperson based on any information provided ora statement made to a law enforcementauthority, court or Commission, or based ona deposition or an affidavit submitted by him;

(f)has received summons from a court orCommission to make a statement, submit anaffidavit, testify or produce any document,report or object relating to any proceedingsbefore such court or Commission; or

(g)being a public officer, has been involved inany manner in the administration of justicein relation to the alleged commission of anoffence or infringement of any fundamentalright or violation of any right granted underthe ICCPR Act,

and includes-

(i)a victim of crime;

(ii)a child witness;

(iii)a parent or guardian of a child witness;

(iv)a family member or a dependent, of suchwitness;

(v)any other person of significantimportance to any witness;

86Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(vi)an expert witness; and

(vii)any person who has been summoned totestify before a court or Commissionon behalf of a person suspected oraccused of the alleged commission ofan offence or infringement of anyfundamental right or violation of anyright granted under the ICCPR Act.

105. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

FIRST SCHEDULE

PROCEDURE APPLICABLE FOR THE INVESTIGATION AND INQUIRY OF COMPLAINTS ON

VIOLATION OR DENIAL OF RIGHTS OR ENTITLEMENTS

1.(1) Every complaint received by the Authority under section10 of this Act shall be categorized as follows: -

(a)complaints regarding the violation or denial, or imminentviolation or denial, of any right or entitlement of a victimof crime or witness under this Act which shall be dealt withby the Authority;

(b)complaints regarding the commission of an offence underthis Act which shall be referred to the Protection Division;and

(c)matters on which no action is required to be taken in termsof this Act.

(2) Any decision under sub-paragraph (1)(c) shall be taken withthe approval of the Director (Legal) of the Authority (in this Schedulereferred to as the Director (Legal), who shall be appointed by theAuthority.

(3) The Authority shall formulate a procedure for dealing withcomplaints within a specified time period, and such procedure shallbe published in the Gazette.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

(section 10)

87Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

2. An investigation or inquiry into any complaint referred to inparagraph 1(1)(a) of this Schedule shall be carried out by an officerof the Authority who shall be nominated by the Director (Legal).

3.The officer referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule shallhave the powers set out in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section41 of this Act.

4.(1) The officer carrying out the investigation or inquiry shalltake notes of the investigation or inquiry in writing and shall arrive ata finding within a period of four weeks whether-

(a)the evidence discloses a violation or denial, or imminentviolation or denial, of any right or entitlement of the victimof crime or witness; or

(b)the evidence is not sufficient to substantiate the complaint.

(2) Where the investigation or inquiry cannot be concluded withina period of four weeks, such officer shall obtain permission from theDirector (Legal) for an extension of time.

5. (1) Where the officer carrying out the investigation or inquiryarrives at a finding that there has been a violation or denial, or imminentviolation or denial, of any right or entitlement of a victim of crime orwitness, he shall submit a report to the Director (Legal) with hisrecommendations along with any material used during the course ofthe investigation or inquiry and the notes of evidence.

(2) Where such officer arrives at a finding that the evidence isinsufficient to proceed with the investigation or inquiry, he shall stopthe investigation or inquiry with the approval of the Director (Legal)and the Director-General.

6. The Director (Legal) shall consider the report of the investigationor inquiry received by him under paragraph 5 of this Schedule anddirect the relevant persons to remedy or redress the violation ordenial, or imminent violation or denial, of the right or entitlementcomplained of and such persons shall comply with such directionwithin the time specified in the direction.

7. (1) Where the relevant matter cannot be resolved by way ofdirections or, where the directions are not complied with, the Director(Legal) shall, in consultation with the Director-General, report suchfact to the Board and request the Board to appoint a Panel to conductan investigation or inquiry into the matter.

(2) Upon receipt of such request, the Board shall appoint, byconsensus, a Panel consisting of three members of the Board andnominate one of the members of the Panel to be its Chairman.

88Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(3) The Panel conducting an investigation or inquiry into analleged violation or denial, or imminent violation or denial, of anyright or entitlement of a victim of crime or witness shall have thepowers set out in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 41 of thisAct.

(4) In the case of a division of opinion among the members of thePanel regarding any matter being investigated or inquired into by it,the opinion of the majority of the members shall prevail.

(5) At the conclusion of the investigation or inquiry under thisparagraph, the Panel shall submit a report on the same along with itsrecommendations, to the Board.

(6) On receipt of the report of the Panel, the Board shall take suchaction on the matter as it shall deem fit and appropriate.

SECOND SCHEDULE

(sections 29, 30, 31 and 73)

Offences in relation to which protection to victims of crime andwitnesses is to be provided by the Authority or Protection Division

ActSectionOffence

1Penal Code296murder(Chapter 19)

2297culpable homicide not amounting tomurder

3300attempt to murder

4316voluntarily causing grievous hurt

5354kidnapping

6355kidnapping or abducting in order tomurder

7356kidnapping or abducting with intentsecretly and wrongfully to confinea person

8357kidnapping or abducting a womanto compel her marriage, &c.

89Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

ActSectionOffence

9358kidnapping or abducting in order tosubject a person to grievous hurt,slavery, &c.

10360kidnapping or abducting a child withintent to steal movable propertyfrom the person of such child

11360Aprocuration

12360Bsexual exploitation of children

13360Ctrafficking

14362Acohabitation caused by a mandeceitfully inducing a belief oflawful marriage

15362Bbigamy

16362Cbigamy with concealment of theformer marriage

17362Dgoing through marriage ceremonywith fraudulent intention withoutlawful marriage

18364rape

19364Aincest

20365Bgrave sexual abuse

21373extortion

22374putting or attempting to put a personin fear of injury, in order to commitextortion

23375extortion by putting a person in fearof death or grievous hurt

24376putting or attempting to put a personin fear of death or grievous hurt inorder to commit extortion

25377extortion by threat of accusation ofan offence punishable with death orimprisonment for ten years

90Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

ActSectionOffence

26378putting a person in fear of accusationof an offence punishable with deathor with imprisonment for ten years,in order to commit extortion

27380robbery

28381attempt to commit robbery

29382voluntarily causing hurt incommitting or attempting to commitrobbery

30383robbery, with attempt to cause deathor grievous hurt

31384attempt to commit robbery whenarmed with deadly weapon

32385belonging to a wandering gang ofpersons associated for the purposeof habitually committing theft

33418mischief by fire or explosivesubstance, with intent to causedamage of an amount of onehundred rupees or upwards

34419mischief by fire or explosivesubstance with intent to destroy ahouse, &c.

35420mischief with intent to destroy ormake unsafe a decked vessel or vesselof a burden of ten tons or upwards

36421mischief referred to in section 420when committed by fire or anyexplosive substance

37435house-trespass in order to commitan offence punishable with death

38437house-trespass in order to commitan offence punishable withimprisonment for less than ten years

91Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

ActSectionOffence

39438house-trespass, having madepreparation for causing hurt, assault,&c.

40440lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit anoffence punishable withimprisonment

41441lurking house-trespass or house-breaking after preparation made forcausing hurt, assault, &c.

42444lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night after makingpreparation for causing hurt, &c.

43445grievous hurt caused whilstcommitting lurking house-trespassor house-breaking

44Anti-93bribery of Judges of the SupremeCorruptionCourt, Court of Appeal, High Courts,Act, No. 9judicial officers and Members ofof 2023Parliament

4594acceptance of gratification byMembers of Parliament forinteviewing public officials

4696bribery of police officers, peaceofficers and other public officials

4797bribery for giving assistance orusing influence with regard tocontracts

4898bribery for procuring withdrawal oftenders

4999bribery in respect of Governmentbusiness

50100bribery in commection with paymentof claims, appointments,employments, grants, leases, andother benefits

92Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

51101bribery of public officers by personshaving dealings with the Government

52102bribery of a member of localauthority, or of a scheduledinstitution, or of a governing bodyof a scheduled institution, andbribery of official of a local authorityor of a scheduled institution

53103use of threats or fraud to influencevote of a member of a localauthority, or of a scheduled institution,or of a governing body of ascheduled institution

54104trading in influence

55108offences relating to sporting events

56111corruption

57125obstructing justice

58Poisions,54Amanufacture, trafficking,Opium andimport or export and possessionDangerousof dangerous drugsDrugsOrdinance(Chapter 218)

5954Babetting the commission of, orattempting to commit, an offenceunder section 54A

60Prevention of2causing death, &c of a specifiedTerrorism,person or witness, criminal(Temporaryintimidation, mischief to theProvisions)Government property, &cAct, No. 48of 1979

613abetting, conspiring, attempting orinciting to commit an offence underthe Act

ActSectionOffence

93Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

6212contravention or breach of aprohibition or restriction ordermade under section 11 of the Act

6324committing an act constituting anoffence under the Act in relation toa vessel or aircraft registered inSri Lanka

ActSectionOffence

94Assistance to and Protection of Victims ofCrime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.