PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
3rd Session 1967-68. 2=c2\,
BS 7 Ag
EY eincs-7--7)2)
ASL, * Je)
Mee ..¢ A
LEN 3 aS Sasa
mS
QE
Vey
Registration of Persons
Act, No. 32 of 1968
Date of Assent : June 22, 1968
Printed on the Orders of Government
Printed st ton Gormmecre Pass, Ces, Tobe
Fra a SO Pg CRs
ewes Bidectp Gon Ceioang ia) ew (Cia; Ba: 4®
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
Feilen yaele 2 Shae Tee aaess 1 elon fo
Beers tn F Cieer year ioe” ie
Deze cach mg oper ot he Yea alewing, Ent
aap wl on need, om he gonati at
Price : 95 cents. Postage : 20 cents.


Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968

L. D.—0. 35/61

AN AcT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN
PERSONS WHO ARE IN CEYLON, FOR THE ISSUE OF
IDENTITY CARDS TO THE PERSONS 80 REGISTERED,
AND FOR PURPOSES CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: June 22, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,

by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and

1e House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Registration of Si,
Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968, and shall come into $24,
operation on’ such date as may be appointed by the
Minister by Order gublished in the Gazette (in this
Act referred to as the ‘ appointed date”).

2. (1) Every person who is in, or enters, Ceylon on Persons liable
or after the appointed date, and has attained, or *"s#sion
attains, the age of eighteen years, not being a person—

(@) who is not liable to registration by virtue of the

operation of the provisions of sub-section (2);
or

() who has entered, or enters, Ceylon before or on
or after that date in contravention of the
provisions of section 10 of the Immigrants
and Emigrants Act; or

(c) who remains in Ceylon on or after that date in
contravention of the provisions of section
15 of that Act,

shall be a person liable to registration.

(2) The following persons shall not be liable to
registration—

(a) a person who is the holder of a valid visa or
endorsement granted to him under the
Immigrants and Emigrants Act; or

(®) a person who is grempted from the operation of
Part III of that Act by, or by virtue of, an
Order made under section 2 (1) of that Act.

1a ro0me—6,10 ce)
j


2 Registration of Persons Act, No. 82 of 1968
Parr I
Administration
agreiniment of 3, (1) For the purposes of this Act, there may be
poy appointed—
(@) a person, by name or by office, to be or to act as
the Commissioner for the Registration of
Persons;

(b) a person, or two or more persons, by name or
by office, to be or to act as a Deputy
Commissioner, or Deputy Commissioners,
for the Registration of Persons; and

(c) two or more persons, by name or by office, to be

or to act as Assistant Commissioners for the
Registration of Persons.

(2) For the purposes of this Act, there may be
appointed such number of persons, by name or by office,
to be or to act as Registration Officers and Certifying
Officers, and such number of other officers and
servants, as may be necessary for such purposes.

Powers aod 4, In the exercise, performance or discharge of the
tbe powers, duties or functions, conferred, imposed or
assigned by or under this Act—

(@) the Commissioner shall be subject to the general

or special directions of the Minister; and

(® any* Deputy Commissioner, any Assistant

Commissioner, any Certifying Officer and
any Registration Officer shall be subject to
the general or special directions of the
Commissioner.
Descent 8. (1) The Commissioner may, either generally or
reve ale specially, authorize any Deputy’ Commissioner, any
‘Assistant Commissioner or any” Divisional Revenue
Officer to exercise, perform or discharge any power,
duty or function conferred or imposed upon, or
assigned to, the Commissioner by or under this Act:

Provided, however, that the preceding provisions of
this section shall not apply to the power to compound
offences conferred ‘upon the Commissioner by section
51.

(2) Any Government Agent may, subject to the
general direction and control of the Commissioner,
exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty or
function conferred or imposed upon, or assigned to,
the Commissioner by or under this Act.


Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 3
Parr II
Registration of Persons

6, For the purposes of this Act, the Commissioner Register of
shall open and maintain, or cause to be opened and Peo.
maintained, a book to be called the “ Register of
Persons”, in the prescribed form, in which persons
shall be registered from time to time, under and in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.

7. (1) The Minister may, by Order published in the Order appoint.
Gazette, appoint, in respect of all districts, a period iit reed
within which persons liable to registration who are in psoas lible
any such district are required to apply for such regis- See
tration under and in accordance with the provisions ‘pps ter sch
of this Act. The period so appointed shall commence *##"3"ion-
‘on the same date, and shall, subject to the provisions
of any Order published by’ the Minister under sub-
section (2), expire on the same date, in respect of all
districts.

(2) The date of the expiration of the period
appointed by Order published in the Gazette by the
Minister under sub-section (1) may be altered, in
respect of any district, from time to time by the
Minister by a like Order.

(3) The Minister shall cause copies of any Order
made under the preceding provisions of this section to
be published in such Sinhala, Tamil and English
newspapers, and to be exhibited in such conspicuons
place or places in all or any districts, as he may deem

calculated to give publicity thereto.

(8) Regulations may be made under this Act pres-
cribing the period within which persons who are not
liable to registration, but who subsequently become so
liable, shall apply for such registration under and in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.

8. A person liable to registration shall, within the  Obtizatoe of
appropriate appointed period, apply for such regis- Peon. nthe
tration under and in accordance with the provisions t spply for
of this Act. fg registra:

9, (1) Every application for registration shall be  Applisstioas for
addressed to the Commissioner, and shall be delivered “sition
to the appropriate Certifying Officer for transmission
to the Commissioner or Government Agent.

(2) Every application for registration—

(a) shall be in writing;


4 Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968

(®) shall be in the prescribed form and shall contain
the prescribed particulars;

(c) shall be signed by the applicant;

(@) shall bear three impressions of the appropriate
identifying mark of the applicant taken by
the appropriate Certifying Officer; and =”

(e) shall bear the prescribed endorsements under
the hand of such Certifying Officer.

Where a person is unable to make such
application himself by reason of the fact that he is
physically disabled or is of unsound mind, such
application may be made and signed on his behalf by
his guardian or other person having the care and
custody of such person.

(3) An application for registration shall be
accompanied by three unmounted copies of a
photograph of the applicant of the prescribed
dimensions, specifications, standards and quality.
One such copy shall bear, at the back thereof, the
signature, or one impression of the appropriate
identifying mark, of the applicant, affixed in the
presence of the appropriate Certifying Officer, and
an endorsement under the hand of such Officer
certifying that it is a copy of a phatogren: of the
pa and that such signature or mark was so -
affixed in the presence of such Officer.

(4 It shall be the duty of the appropriate
Certifying Officer, upon being requested so to do, to
take the impressions referred to in paragraph (d) of
sub-section (2), and to make the ebdersiminta
referred to in paragraph (¢) of that sub-section, and
sub-section (3).

5) Upon the receipt of an application for regis-
teat, the appropriate Certifying Officer shall,—

(@) if such application is not returned to the
applicant as required by paragraph (c) of
the sub-section, make a written acknowledg-
ment of the receipt of such application to
the applicant; and

(®) if such application has been duly made under
and in accordance with the provisions of
this Act or any regulation made thereunder,
transmit such application, within seven
days of its receipt, to the Commissioner; or


Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 5
(0) if such application has not been so made, return
it to the applicant for compliance with such
provisions.
40. (1) An application for registration may be Greanieen
rejected by the Commissioner— Tppteation for
. raion 8
(2) if the application is not made under and in @rsytelby”
accordance with the provisions of this Act, So idcon
or auy-Tegplation made thereunder; cr
(®) if the applicant is not a person liable to
Tegistration under this Aot, or is not a person
Tiable to such registration by virtue o E para-
graph (8) or paragraph (c) of sub-section (1)
of section 2, or paragraph (a) or paragraph
(®) of sub-section (2) of that section; or 4
(©) if the applicant is already a registered person;
or
(@ on the ground specified in section 37,
and accordingly, no such application shall be
rejected by the Commissioner except in any of the
circumstances referred to in the preceding provisions
of this section.
(2) In the event of any application for registration
or any application for a ‘duplicate of an identity card
being rejected by the Commissioner it shall be his duty
to inform the applicant in writing that such applica-
tion has been rejected and such written information
shall include a statement of the grounds for such ‘
Tejection.
(8) Where the Commissioner rejects an application
for registration in the circumstances specified in
paragraph (a) or Paragraph. (2) of sub-section (1),
tho applicant shall be entitled to make a fresh
application for such registration under this Act.
44. (1) Upon the receipt of an application for pispeeal of
Tegistration, the Commissioner— be Lireareeled
(@) may reject the application on any ground re- 2 ssoner,
ferred to in section 10; or “ 7
(®) if he does not so reject it, shall allow the
application.
(2) Where the Commissioner allows an application
for registration, he shall register the applicant in
the Register of Persons by entering in such Register
the prescribed particulars relating to the applicant.


6 Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968

Lalit Every entry made in the ‘ister of Persons under
this sub-section is" du this ot referred to as a
“* registration entry ”’. A person registered under this
sub-section is in this Act referred to as a ‘ registered
person ””.

_(3) Where the Commissioner has, in consequence of

: his decision on any pplication for registration,
registered the applicant, the Commissioner shall cause
. a copy of ene registration entry relating to the appli-
cant ‘certified under his hand to be served on the
applicant.
Appeals to an 42. Any applicant for registration who is
eyreeaar' aggrieved by the decision of the Commissioner on his
dsssioas of the application for registration may, within a period of
ScRpitetons three weeks reckoned from the date on which notice of
tee registration. such decision was served on such applicant, appeal
against that decision to any appropriate Tribunal.
Fiesty of 13. The decision of the Commissioner on any
feces tthe application for registration shall, where no appeal
on applications against such decision is preferred to an appropriate
te waniaton. ‘Tribunal within the period allowed therefor by this
Act, be final and conclusive.
Parr III
Identity Cards
Tdeatity cards 44. The Commissioner shall, as soon as practi-
to be issued to cable after a person becomes a registered person, issue
penons. to that person an identity card. Such card—

(@ shall be in the prescribed form and shall
contain the prescribed particulars;

(®) shall bear one of the copies of the photograph
furnished by that person along with his
application for registration; and

(0) shall bear the signature, or a facsimile of the
signature, of the Commissioner, the Deputy
Commissioner, an Assistant. Commissioner,
or a Registration Officer or, in lieu of, or in
addition to, such signature or facsimile, a
distinguishing mark imposed on that card
by a machine or other device by or under the
authority of the Commissioner.

eatty cara 45. (1) The holder of an identity card shall, on

tobe prodvred a request made by the Commissioner or any other

mea reasite:  Drescribed officer, produce that card at such time and
place as shall be specified in such request, and permit
it to be inspected:


Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 7

Provided, however, that no person shall be deemed

to have contravened the preceding provisions of this

section, if his identity card had, at the time of the

alleged contravention, been lost and he has complied

with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 16

_ relating to the reporting of such loss to the nearest

police station, and the making of an application for
the issue of a duplicate identity card.

(2) If in any prosecution against any person for an
offence under this Act by reason of a contravention
of the provisions of sub-section (1), there is produced
a certificate issued by the Commissioner, a Deputy
Commissioner, an Assistant Commissioner, or a
police officer of a rank not below that of Assistant
Superintendent or any such public officer as may be
notified for such purpose by the Minister from time
to time in the Gazette, to the effect that he is satisfied
that such person is the holder of an identity card, it
shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved’ by
such person, that such person is the holder of such
car

46. (1) Any person who has lost his identity card —tsue ot
shall immediately report such loss to the nearest police ¢smte
station, and shall thereafter forthwith apply to the incase of loss
Commissioner for a duplicate of that identity card. —_° o"siosl-

-  () An application for a duplicate of an identity
card under this section—

(a) shall be made in the prescribed form;

(®) shall bear a stamp or stamps of the value of
the prescribed fee for the issue of such
duplicate;

(©) shall be signed by the applicant; and

(@) shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the
relevant extract of the information book of
the police station to which the loss of the
original of such card was reported by the
applicant, and three unmounted copies of a
photograph of the applicant of the prescribed
dimensions, specifications, standards and
quality, one of which shall bear the signature
or impression, and the endorsement, referred
to in section 9 (3).

(8) Upon the receipt of an application for the issue

of a duplicate of an identity card made under and in
> accordance with the preceding provisions of this


8  Kegistration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968

“ "section, the Commissioner shall issue such duplicate
to the applicant unless he rejects such application
upon the ground that the application is not made under
aad in accordance with the provisions of this Act, or
any regulation made thereunder.

(4) An applicant for the issue of a duplicate identity -
card under this section shall be liable to pay. for the
cost of the copies of the photograph which accompany
his application for such duplicate.

Iewoe of 47. (1) Where an identity card is damaged,

flee ain defaced, or illegible or in danger of becoming illegible,

Bac, theholder of that card shall forthwith—

of oagial. (a) report that fact in writing to the Commissioner;
and

(®) apply to the Commissioner for a duplicate of

that card.

@) An application for a duplicate of an identity
card under this section—

(a) shall be in the prescribed form;

(®) shall be signed by the applicant; and

(c) shall be accompanied by three unmounted copies

of a photograph of the applicant of the
prescribed dimensions, specifications, stand-
ards and quality, one of which shall bear the .
signature or impression, and the endorse-
ment, referred to in section 9 (3), and the
original of that card.

(8) No application for the issue of a duplicate
identity card. shall be refused by the Commissioner
exoept upon the ground thet the application is not
made under and in accordance with the provisions of
this Act, or any regulation made thereunder.

(4) Regulations may be made under this Act pro-
viding for the issue by the Commissioner upon the
expiration of each such period of time as may be
specified therein to the holders of existing identity
cards of new identity cards in replacement of sucl
existing cards. Such regulations may contain provi-
sions similar or substantially similar to the provisions
made by this Act in relation to the issue of duplicate
identity cards.

(6) An applicant for the duplicate of an identity
card under this section shall be liable to pay the cost
of the copies of the photograph which accompany .
such application.


Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 9
48. (1) Where a person who has lost his identity neorery ot
card subsequently recovers possession of that card, leileiy
such person shall,— 7
(a) if the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 16
have been complied with by such person
- prior to such recovery, forthwith inform the
police station referred to in that sub-section,
and the Commissioner of the fact of such
recovery; and
(0) if a duplicate of that card had been issued to
him prior to such recovery, surrender the
original of that card to the Commissioner for
cancellation within the prescribed period.

(2) Any person who finds an identity card which
was not issued to him shall forthwith surrender that
card to the Commissioner or the nearest police station.

19. (1) In the event of the death of the holder of an surrender of
identity card, the person having the custody of that ® entity card
card shall forthwith surrender it to the Registrar of
Deaths to whom the occurrence of that death is
reported, and such Registrar shall, upon such
surrender, transmit that card to the Commissioner.

(2) Regulations may be made under this Act provi-
ding for the surrender of identity cards by persons
leaving Ceylon permanently.

20. An applicant for the duplicate of an identity appeals to an
card who is aggrieved by the decision of the Commis. shart
sioner on such application may, within a period of syains tac.
three weeks reckoned from the date on which notice s0%# of the
of such decision was served on such applicant, appeal t eppications
against that decision to an appropriate tribunal. Sate”

21, The decision of the Commissioner on any  icslty ot
application for a duplicate of an identity card shall, site
where no appeal against such decision is preferred to timar‘sn app
an appropriate Tribunal within the period allowed ssteos for
therefor by this Act, be final and conclusive. ‘entity cards.

22, The holder of an identity card shall not  raeatity cara
transfer or assign that card to any other person, and * stim
any such transfer or assignment effected in contraven-
tion of the preceding provisions of this section shall
be null and void.

28. (1) No person, other than the Commissioner ateration of
or any other officer, acting in the course of his duty as ieatity caré.
such, shall make any mark, endorsement, or entry


10 Registration of Persons Act, No. 82 of 1968
upon, or erase, cancel or alter any such mark, endorse-
ment or entry contained in, any identity card, or
otherwise deface or destroy such card.

(2) Any mark, endorsement, or entry, or any
erasure, cancellation or alteration, referred to in sub-

' section (1) shall be properly authenticated by the -

Commissioner or other officer responsible therefor.
Sz,pzg,!"° 24. The Commissioner shall not issue more than
card to be one identity card to any person, notwithstanding that:
‘weed toanx such person, whether by inadvertence or otherwise, is
registered more than once in the Register of Persons;
and accordingly any such card sued by the Commis:
sioner in contravention of the preceding provisions of
this section shall be invalid and of no effect for the
purposes of this Act.
Parr IV
RecistRation oF Persons TRIBUNALS
Regictration 25. (1) The Minister, after consultation with the
Tribunals. Minister of Justice, may, in respect of each district,
estublish such number of Tribunals to be known as
Rogistration of Persons Tribunals as may be neces-
sary for the purposes of this Act. Any such Tribunal
(in this Act referred to as a “ Tribunal”) may,
after like consultation, be abolished by the Minister. ~ *
(2) A Tribunal shall consist of one member, and
accordingly there may be appointed one person, by
name or by office, to be or to act as such member.
Jaristition 26. Every appeal against the decision of the
of 2 Tribunal. Commissioner on any application for registration, or
for the duplicate of an identity card, made to any
appropriate Tribunal may be entertained, heard and
determined by such Tribunal.

+ Record of 27. A Tribunal shall keep a record of all such
pate proceedings before the Tribunal as relate to the
‘Tabonal entertaining, hearing and deciding of every appeal

made to the Tribunal under this Act.
Power to 28, A Tribunal shall, for the purpose of enter-
jnmon | taining and hearing and deciding every sppeal made
set; to the Tribunal under this Act, have all the powers
of a District Court—
(@ to summon and compel the attendance of ..
witnesses;


Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 11
(®) to compel the production of documents; and
() to administer any oath or affirmation to

witnesses.

29. Every person giving evidence on any matter Perons giving

~ before a Tribunal shall be bound to state the truth on S”eee blew
such matter. bound to state
tbo rth.

30. Every decision of a Tribunal on any appeal Desision of
made to the ‘Tribunal under this Act shall contain the eb
reasons therefor. ‘enue.

81. The decision of a Tribunal on any appeal Cove of
made to the Tribunal under this Act shall, unless Bifes's®
for special reason the Tribunal directs otherwise, Tubs.
contain an order as to the person who is to pay the
costs of the proceedings relating to the appeal and
shall determine the amount of such costs.

32. (1) The proceedings before a Tribunal on any Procaiure and
appeal made to the Tribunal under this Act shall as  Prtice before
fax as possible be free from the formalities, and
technicalities of the rules of procedure and evidence
ordinarily or normally applicable to a court of law,
and may be conducted by the Tribunal in any manner,
not inconsistent with the principles of natural
justice, which to the Tribunal may seem best adapted
to elicit proof concerning the matters that are being
investigated.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
Practice and procedure to be followed in the making
of any appeal to a Tribunal under this Act, and by
a Tribunal in the entertaining, hearing and deciding
of euch appeal, shall be as proscribed by regulations
made under this Act.

38, (1) The decision of a Tribunal on any appeal Dszsons by
made to the ‘Tribunal under this Act shall be Anal * >"
and conclusive.

(2) A Tribunal shall cause notice of its decision
on any appeal made to the Tribunal under this Act
to be served on the Commissioner, and also on the
appellant, through the Commissioner.

84. Every offence of contempt committed against Posishment ot
or in disrespect of the authority of a Tribunal shall ‘*""
be punishable by the Supreme Court or any Judge
thereof under section 47 of the Courts Ordinance 4s


12 Registration of Persons Act, No. $2 of 1968
though it were an offence of contempt committed
against or in disrespect of the authority of that
Court.
Fallow to obey 85. (1) If any person upon whom a summons is
fe evidcace. Served, or caused to be served, by a Tribunal— -
& (@) fails without cause, which in the opinion of
the Tribunal is reasonable, to appear before
the Tribunal at the time and place
mentioned in the summons; or
(®) refuses to be sworn or, having been duly
sworn, refuses or fails without cause,
which in the opinion of the Tribunal is
reasonable, to answer any question put to
him during the proceedings on any appeal
relating to matters relevant to the appeal;
or
(c) refuses or fails without cause, which in the
opinion of the Tribunal is reasonable, to
produce and show to the Tribunal any
document or other thing which is in his
possession or power and which is in the
opinion of the Tribunal necessary for
arriving at the trath of the matters
relevant to the appeal; or
(@ interferes with the lawful process of the-.
‘Tribunal,
such person shall be guilty of the offence of contempt
against or in disrespect of the authority of the
Tribunal.

(2) Where a Tribunal determines that a person has
committed any offence of contempt (referred to in
sub-section (1) ) against or in disrespect of its autho-
rity, the Tribunal may transmit, or cause to be
transmitted, to the Supreme Court a certificate
setting out such determination. Every such certificate
shall Ee signed by the Tribunal.

(8) In any proceedings for the punishment of an
offence of contempt which the Supreme Court may
think fit to take cognizance of as provided in
section 34, any document purporting to be a certi-
ficate signed and transmitted to the Court under
sub-section (2) shall—

(a) be received in evidence, and be deemed to
be such a certificate without further proof .-
unless the contrary is proved; and


Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 13

(0) be conclusive evidence that the determination
set out in the certificate was made by the
Tribunal and of the facts stated in the
determination.

(4) In any proceedings taken as provided in
section 34 for the punishment of any alleged offence
of contempt against or in disrespect of the authority
of a Tribunal, the member of the Tribunal shall not,
except with his own consent, be summoned or
examined as a witness.

Part V
GENERAL

36. The cost of the copies of the photograph Governmost to
which are required, under section 9, to accompany any Beth 7 of,
application for registration shall be paid by the  frpbs stom
Government, and accordingly shall be a charge on the Ssh 2%
Consolidated Fund of Ceylon. The mode and manner registration.
of such payment by the Government shall be as
prescribed.

87. (1) The Commissioner or any other authorized Power of Cam:
officer may direct an applicant for registration, or lens owt
for a duplicate of an identity card, to furnish, within cants tor regis
such period as may be specified in the direction, the #83 9%, dpi
Commissioner or such ‘other officer with such informa- cards to farnish
tion or documents indicated in the direction relating ‘festa.
to the prescribed particulars specified in the appli-
cation as may be necessary for the purpose of
enabling the Commissioner to dispose of the applica:
tion, and if the applicant fails to comply with such
direction, the Commissioner may reject the
application.

(2) For the unposes of sub-section (1) and of
sections 38 and $9, the expression ‘authorized
officer ”? means any Deputy Commissioner, any
Assistant Commissioner, any Government. Agent, or
Assistant Government Agent or Divisional Revenue
Officer.

88, For the purpose of ensuring that the provi- Porer
sions of this Act are being complied with, the Com- ‘em, “mm,
missioner or any other authorized officer may, from tame
time to time, by general or special direction, require fetus,"
any employer to furnish, within such period as may be fate
specified in the direction, to the Commissioner or such | *™P!27m«
other officer a return containing all such particulars


14 Registration of Persons Act, No. 82 of 1968
relating to the persons in the employment of such
employer as may be indicated in the direction, and it
shall be the duty of such employer to comply with that
direction.
Power of 39. (1) The Commissioner, or any other authorized ©
Segoe officer, —
Secure iafm. (2) may direct any person to furnish, within such
ee i. period as shall be specified in the direction,
Brand § the Commissioner or such other officer with
Bold soguires. such information within his knowledge as
shall be so specified relating to any other
person referred to in the direction, being
information which is necessary for the
following purposes, namely, the disposal of
any application made by such other person
under this Act, or for the verification of the
correctness of any particulars specified in any
such application, or of any return or infor-
mation made or furnished by such other
person under this Act; and

(®) may, from time to time, hold all such inquiries

‘as he may deem necessary for any of such
purposes.

(2) For the purposes of any inquiry held under ~
sub-section (1), the Commissioner or any other autho-
tized officer, shall have all the powers of a District
Court—

(@ to summon and compel the attendance of

witnesses;

(®) to compel the production of documents; and

(0) to administer any oath or affirmation to

witnesses.
(8) Section 142 of the Civil Procedure Code and
section 132 of the Evidence Ordinance shall apply to &
witness in any proceedings at any inquiry held under
sub-section (1) as though those proceedings were
proceedings before a civil court.
curiate 40. If in any prosecution for an offence under
iarned O7 this Act, there is produced a certificate issued by the
‘officers for Commissioner, a Bepaty ‘Commissioner, an Assistant
=e Commissioner, or a police officer of a rank not below

that of Assistant Superintendent, to the effect that


Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 15
he is satisfied that the person either against whom the
prosecution is instituted, or in respect of whom such
offence is alleged to have been committed, is a person—

(@) who is liable to registration, it shall be

presumed, until the contrary is proved by the
defence, that such person is a person of the
description referred to in that certificate; or

(®) who was in any district on a date specified in

that certificate, it shall be presumed, until
the contrary is proved by the defence, that
such person was in that district on that date.

44. No prosecution shall be instituted in any Limitation in
court for any offence under this Act except with the TON ie...
prior written sanction of the Commissioner.

42. (1) Every document purporting to be at Proof of isin
instrument finds or issued by the Commissioner, in em ised by
pursuance of any provision of this Act, or any regula- Commissioner.
tion made thereunder, and to be signed by him or on
his behalf, shall be received in evidence and shall, until
the contrary is proved, be deemed to be an instrument
made or pet him.

2 Prima facie evidence of any instrument
referred to in sub-section (1) may, in any legal
proceedings, be given by the production of a document

~ purporting to be certified to be a true copy of the
instrument by, or on bebalf of, the Commissioner.
_ (8) In this section, the expression “ instrument ””
includes any identity card, certificate, direction or
other instrument.

43. The Commissioner, each Deputy Commis- commision,
sioner, each Assistant Commissioner, every Govern- dened
ment -Agent, every Registration Officer, every officers.
Certifying Officer and every other officer acting under
the authority of the Commissioner, shall be deemed to
be a peace officer within the meaning of the Criminal
Procedure Code for the purpose of exercising any
Power conferred upon a peace officer by that Code.

44. (1) Any person who— Offences.

(®) fails to make an application for registration in

compliance with the provisions of section 8;

() gives any incorrect information in such appli-
cation or in response to any inquiry ; or

(c) makes more than one such application,

2H 1008 a8)


16 Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall
be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees.

(2) Any person who abets or incites any other person

liable to registration not to make an application for
registration as required by this Act shall be guilty
of an offence under this Act, and shall be liable to
rigorous imprisonment for a term of one year.

(8) Any employer—

(a) who fails to carry out the duty imposed on him
by section 38 to comply with any direction
issued to him under that section to furnish
a return relating to any person or persons
in his employment; or

(6) who furnishes any such return containing any
particular regarding such person or persons
that is untrue or incorrect,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall
be liable to a fine of one thousand rupees,—

(i) in the case referred to in paragraph (a) of this
sub-section, in respect of each such person or
persons in relation to whom he has omitted
to furnish such return; and

(ii) in the case referred to in paragraph (8) of this
sub-section, in respect of each such person or
persons to whom such untrue or incorrect- -
particular relates.

(4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply
with any provision of this Act, other than any su
provision as is referred to in sub-sections (1) to @, or
any regulation made thereunder, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and shall be liable to a fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees, or to imprisonment of
either description for a term of not less than three
months but not more than one year, or to both such
fine and imprisonment.

Borden of 45. Upon an application made for registration,
proof cast on the burden of proving the truth or accuracy of any
ierrae particulars furnished, or statement made, in connec-
tion with such application shall lie on the applicant.
‘the operation 46. (1) The provisions of this Act shall be without
of tbe Imm prejudice to the operation of the Immigrants and
Emigrete Act Emigrants Act, and accordingly the fact that a person
Bot igea or ‘has applied for registration or is registered in the
Uitested by Register of Persons or is the holder of an identity card ,
this Bet. shall not, if that person has entered or is remaining


Registration of Persons Act, No. 82 of 1968 17
in Ceylon in contravention of the provisions of the
Immigrants and Emigrants Act, be deemed or cons-
trued to make lawful his entry or residence in Ceylon.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall be without

~ prejudice to the operation of the Citizenship Act, the
Indian and Pakistani Residents (Citizenship) Act or
the Indo-Ceylon Agreement (Implementation) Act,
No. 14 of 1967, and accordingly the fact that a
person has applied for registration or is registered
in the Register of Persons or is the holder of an
identity card shall not in any manner be held to be
proof that such person is or was entitled to citizenship
cf Ceylon under the provisions of any of the citizen-
ship laws referred to in this sub-section.

47, An identity card which has been issued or 2ersia
obtained by means of a false representation, or fraud, jeuily
or which is not surrendered to the Commissioner
under section 18 (1) (b) within the period referred
to in that section, shall be invalid and of no effect for
the purposes of this Act.

48. All offences under this Act shall be triable Offences to be

_ summarily by a Magistrate. stmmeniy by
2 Maguntrae,
49. (1) Where an offence under this Act is  Lishiliy io
committed— committed by
Seay corporate
(@ by a body corporate, every person who, at the swim.
time of the commission of the offence, was a 7"
director, general manager, secretary or other
similar officer of the body corporate or was
purporting to act in such capacity; or
(®) by @ body unincorporate, every person who,
at the time of the commission of the offence,
was the head or secretary, or a member of the
governing board, of that body, or was pur-
porting to act in such capacity,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he
proves that such offence was committed without bis
consent or connivance and that he exercised all such
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence as
he ought to have exercised having regard to the nature
of his functions in such capacity and in all the
cireumstances.


18 Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968

(2) For the purposes of this section, the term—

(@) “ governing board”, in relation to a body
‘unincorporate, means the person or persons
for the time being charged with the manage-
ment or administration of the affairs of that .—
body;

(0) “head”, in relation to a body unincorporate,
means the chairman or president for the
time being of that body or, in the absence of
a chairman or president, the person who for
the time being occupies the position of head,
by whatsoever name called, of the manage-
ment or administration of the affairs of that
body; and

(c) “secretary ”’, in relation to a body unincorpo-
rate, includes any person who for the time
being occupies the position of secretary, hy
whatsoever uzme called.

Offences to be 50. All offences under this Act shall be cognizable

cognistble. offences for the purposes of the application of the
provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, notwith-
standing anything contained in the First Schedule to
that Code.

‘Componnaing 51. The Commissioner may compound any offence __,

of offences under sub-section (1) of section 44 by accepting from
the person who is alleged to have, or is reasonably
suspected of having, committed that offence a sum of
money not exceeding half the amount of the maximum
fine that is liable to be imposed under this Act on
such person for that: offence.

‘Regulations, 52. (1) The Minister may make regulations for
the purpose of giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the
powers conferred by sub-section (1), the Minister may
make regulations for or in respect of all or any of the
following matters :—

(@ all matters stated or required by this Act to be

prescribed;

(b) all matters for which regulations are required
or authorized by this Act to be made;

(2) the maximum price that may be charged for
phstorraphs taken for the purposes of this

cts


Registration of Persons Act, No. 52 of 1968 19

(d) the mode or manner in which identifying marks

shall be taken for the purposes of this Act;

(e) all matters relating to the taking of photographs

for the purposes of this Act, and in

particular—

(i) the mode or manner in which photographs
may be taken, and the dimensions,
specifications, standards and quality
of such photographs,

(ii) the registration of persons as photo-
graphers for any area or areas in
Ceylon, and the circumstances in
which such registration may be
allowed, refused or cancelled,

(iii) the fees payable for registration as a
photographer, and

(iv) the procedure to be followed by applicants
for registration in obtaining photo-
graphs for the purposes of this Act;

(f) the establishment and maintenance of registers
and registries; and

(g) all matters incidental to, or connected with,
the matters aforesaid.

(8) No regulation made by the Minister under this
Act shall come into force until it has been approved
by the Senate and the Honse of Representatives, and
notification of such approval is published in the
Gazette.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister under
this Act shall, on its coming into force as herein before
Provided, be as valid and effectual as if it were herein
enacted.

53. (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in Service of
this Act, any document, decision or other matter “=
which is required by or under this Act to be served
on, or notified to, any perso. shall, if it is not served
On, or notified personally to, such person, be deemed
to have been duly served or notified—

(a) if it is left at the usual or last known place
of abode or of business of such person, or,
in case such person is resident in an estate,
if it is left with the Superintendent of that
estate for transmission to such person; or


20 Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968

(0) if it is sent to him by post in a registered letter
addressed to his last known place of abode
or of business, or in case such person is
resident on any estate, if it is sent by post in
a registered letter addressed “to the
Superintendent of that estate for transmis- .-
sion to such person.

(2) In this section—

(a) the term ‘‘ document ” means any order, notice,
or other document by whatsoever name or
designation called; and

(®) the term ‘« Superintendent ”’, in relation to any
estate, means the person in charge of that
estate by whatsoever name or designation
called

Fen. found 54. All sums paid or recovered by way of fees,

Podited wike fines and penalties under this Act shall be credited to

Gelisted” the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

Ceylon

Tnterpretation. 55. In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires—

“ appropriate appointed period ””, in relation to a
person liable to. registration, ‘means the
period within which such person is required, --~
by virtue of the operation of section 7 or any
Order made thereunder, to apply for regis-
tration under and in accordance with the
provisions of this Act;

“appropriate Certifying Officer”, in relation to
any applicant for registration or any
— person, means the Certifying
Officer within whose area of appointment
such applicant or person, as the case may
be, is ordinarily resident; _

“appropriate identifying mark”, in relation to
any person, means—

(@) if such person has a left thumb, an
impression in ink of that thumb; or

(®) if such person has no left thumb, an
impression in ink of his right thumb;
or

(c) if such person has no left thumb and right
thumb, an impression in ink of any «.:
finger of his left hand or right hand;


Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 21

“ appropriate Tribunal ””, in relation to an appeal

from the decision of the Commissioner on an

application for registration or for the dupli-

cate of an identity card, means a Registra-

tion of Persons Tribunal for the district from
which the application was made;

“ Assistant Commissioner ’’ means a_ person
appointed to be, or to act as, an Assistant
Commissioner for the Registration of
Persons for the purposes of this Act;

“ Certifying Officer” means a person appointed to
be, or to act as, a Certifying Officer for the
purposes of this Act;

“ Commissioner "’ means a person sppoinied to be,
or to act as, the Commissioner for the Regis-
tration of Persons for the purposes of this
Act;

“Deputy Commissioner” means a _ person
appointed to be, or to act as, a Deputy Com-
missioner for the Registration of Persons
for the purposes of this Act;

“district” means an administrative district
established under the Administrative
Districts Act;

“employer” means any person who on his own
behalf, or on whose behalf any other person,
employs any person, and includes any person
who on behalf of any other person exploys
any person, and in particular in the case of
any estate, includes any Superintendent,
Assistant Superintendent, Conductor or
Kangany;

“Government Agent” means the Government
Agent for a district, and includes any
‘Assistant Government Agent, or any Addi-
tional Assistant Government Agent, for that
district, or auy Office Assistant, or any extra
Office Assistant, to such Government Agent;

“holder ”, in relation to an identity card, means
‘a person to whom such card is issued under
this Act;

“identity card ”” means an identity card issued by
the Commissioner under this Act, and
includes a duplicate thereof so issued;


22 Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968

“person ’” means an individual;

“person liable to registration” means a person
who, under the provisions of this Act, is
liable to registration;

“« registered person ”” means a person registered in
the Register of Persons under this Act;

“ Registration Officer” means a person appointed
to be, or to act as, a Registration Officer for
the purposes of this Act:

“Register of Persons” means the Register of
Persons, and includes any ‘part thereof,
opened and maintained by the Commissioner
under this Act;

“registered photographer” means a person
registered as a photographer under the
provisions of any regulation made under this
Act;

“ registered or registration ” means registered, or
registration, as the case may be, in the
Register of Persons under this Act.
