PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CONSULAR FUNCTIONS (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 18 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th May, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 12.25Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 19, 2006

1Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

2PL 001038425 (11/2005)

[Certified on 18th May, 2006]

L.D.O. 74/2003.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CONSULAR FUNCTIONS ACT AND TO INCLUDE

PROVISION TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE VIENNA CONVENTION ON

CONSULAR RELATIONS AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Consular Functions(Amendment) Act, No. 18 of 2006.

2.The Consular Functions Act, No. 4 of 1981 (hereinafterreferred to as the principal enactment) is hereby amendedby the repeal of the Long Title to that enactment and thesubstitution therefor of the following Long Title :

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE VIENNACONVENTION ON CONSULAR RELATIONS ; TOPROVIDE A LEGAL REGIME TO GOVERN THECONSULAR FUNCTIONS CARRIED OUT BYDIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR OFFICERS OF SRILANKA IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES AND TO GOVERNTHE GRANT WITHIN SRI LANKA OF IMMUNITES,PRIVILEGES AND FUNCTIONS TO CONSULAROFFICERS OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES ; AND TOPROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTEDTHEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO..

3.The principal enactment is hereby amended by thesubstitution for the Enacting Clause to that enactment of thefollowing :

WHEREAS an International Convention onConsular Relations (hereinafter referred to asthe Convention) was adopted at Vienna, onthe Twenty - Fourth day of April One ThousandNine Hundred and Sixty Three, by the UnitedNations Conference on Consular Relations ;

Replacement ofLong Title toAct, No. 4 of1981.

Short title.

Replacement ofEnacting Clauseof principalenactment.Preamble.

2Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

AND WHEREAS the aforesaid Conventionentered into force on the Nineteenth day ofMarch One thousand Nine Hundred and Sixty -Seven :

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka intends to accedeto the aforesaid Convention by the deposit ofan Instrument of Accession on behalf of theGovernment of Sri Lanka, with the Secretary-General of the United Nations :

AND WHEREAS it is necessary for theGovernment of Sri Lanka to make legislativeprovision to give effect to Sri Lankasobligations under the aforesaid Convention :

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by theParliament of the Democratic Socialist Republicof Sri Lanka as follows :.

4.The principal enactment is hereby amended by theinsertion immediately before section 2 of that enactment ofthe following heading :

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF CONSULAR RELATIONS AND IDENTIFICATION OFCONSULAR FUNCTIONS.

5.Section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor :

2. (1) For the purposes of this Act, consularrelations shall be deemed to be establishedconsequent to the establishment of diplomaticrelations between two States. A consular postmay be established in the territory of thereceiving State.

Insertion ofheading beforesection 2 of theprincipalenactment.

Establishmentof consularrelations andauthorisationof consularofficers toperformconsularfunctions.

Replacement ofsection 2 of theprincipalenactment.

3Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

(2) Consequent to the establishment ofconsular relations, consular functions shall beexercised by a consular officer through aconsular post :

Provided that, consular functions may alsobe exercised by diplomatic missions inaccordance with the provisions of theConvention.

(3) Every consular officer is authorized todischarge within a foreign State to which he isaccredited or appointed, any consular functionin accordance with the provisions of any writtenlaw, or any consular functions as identified interms of the Convention and which are set outin the Schedule, provided that the discharge ofsuch function is not prohibited by the laws ofsuch foreign State.

(4) The functions set out in sections 3, 4, 5, 6and 7 of the principal enactment shall beexercised by the consular officers of a consularpost in addition to the functions set out in theSchedule.

(5) Every consular post shall have its ownconsular premises from which it shall dischargeits consular functions..

6.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 2 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 2A of that enactment :

2A. Where a sending State has no diplomaticmission and is not represented by the diplomaticmission of a third State, a consular officer maywith the consent of the receiving State andwithout prejudice to his consular status, beauthorised to perform diplomatic acts :

Performanceof diplomaticacts byconsularofficers.

Insertion of newsection 2A in theprincipalenactment.

4Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

Provided however, that the performance ofsuch acts shall in no way confer upon suchconsular officer, the right to claim diplomaticprivileges and immunities..

7.The following new Parts are hereby insertedimmediately after section 7 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as Part II (section 7A, 7B, 7C, 7D 7E, 7F, 7G, 7H,7J, 7K, 7L, 7M and 7N) and Part III (sections 7P, 7Q, 7R, 7S, 7T, 7U,7V, and 7W) of that enactment :

PART II

IMMUNITIES, FACILITIES AND PRIVILEGES OF CAREER CONSULAR POSTS

IN SRI LANKA

7A. (1) The receiving State shall accord fullfacilities for the performance of the functionsof the consular post in Sri Lanka.

(2) Consular permises from which a consularpost discharges its functions shall be inviolableas provided herein.

(3) The authorities of the receiving Stateshall not enter that part of the consular premisesthat is used exclusively for the purpose of thework of the consular post, otherwise than withthe consent of the head of the consular post ofthe sending State.

(4) The receiving State shall take appropriatesteps to protect the consular premises againstany intrusion or damage and to prevent anydisturbance of the consular post.

7B. The residence of the consular post of asending State and the consular premises of thesending State shall be exempt from all national

Insertion of PartII and Part III inthe principalenactment.

Inviolabilityof consularpremises.

Exemptionfrom taxation.

5Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

taxation at whatever level: Provided that suchexemption shall not extend to the paymentrequired to be made in respect of specificservices rendered.

7C. The consular archives of a consular postshall be inviolable.

7D. The receiving State shall ensure freedomof movement and travel within its territory toall members of a consular post : Providedhowever that this freedom shall be subject tosuch restrictions, which may be imposed forreasons of national security.

7E. (1) The receiving State shall ensure andprotect the freedom of communication on thepart of the consular post for all its officialpurposes. The consular post may employappropriate means of communication forcommunicating in the discharge of its functions.

(2) The official correspondence of theconsular post relating to the discharge of theconsular functions of the consular post, shallbe inviolable.

(3) The consular bag shall be neither openednor detained and shall contain only officialcorrespondence and documents or articlesintended exclusively for official use : Providedthat if there is a reasonable suspicion on thepart of the relevant authorities of the receivingState that the bag contains something other thanthe aforesaid official correspondence, they mayrequest that the bag be opened in their presenceby an authorised representative of the sendingState. If the request is refused the bag shall beforthwith be returned to its place of origin.

Freedom ofcommunica-tion.

Inviolabilityof consulararchives.

Freedom ofmovementwithinreceivingState.

6Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

(4) The consular courier entrusted with thetransit of the consular bag shall be providedwith an official document indicating his statusand the number of packages, which constitutethe consular bag : Provided however a consularpost may send one of its members to takepossession of the bag directly from the Captainof the ship or aircraft on which the same wasbrought.

7F. (1) A consular officer shall have the rightof access to and to communicate freely withnationals of the sending State and likewisenationals of the sending State shall have thesame access and freedom , to communicate withthe consular officers of the sending State.

(2) The relevant authorities of the receivingState shall forthwith inform the consular postof the sending state if a national of such State isarrested or committed to prison, or to custodypending trial or is in any manner detained :Provided that in such cases the consular officersshall in conformity with the laws and regulationsof the receiving State, have the right to visitsuch nationals, converse or correspond withthem and arrange where necessary, legalrepresentation for such nationals.

7G. It shall be the duty of the relevantauthorities of the receiving State tocommunicate to the relevant consular post

(a)the information relating to the deathof a national of the sending State ;

(b)the necessity for the appointment ofa guardian or trustee for a minorperson or person of unsound mindwho is a national of the sendingState ; or

Right ofconsularofficer tocommunicatewith nationalof sendingState.

Informationto becommunicatedto theconsularofficer of asendingState.

7Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

Communicati-on withrelevantauthorities.

Consular feesand charges.

(c)information relating to any wreck oraccident in relation to a vessel oraircraft of the sending State.

7H. The consular officers of the sending Stateshall have the right to communicate with therelevant authorities of the receiving State onall matters relating to the exercise of theirconsular functions, to the extent that it ispermitted by the laws and regulations of thereceiving state.

7J. The consular post may levy for thedischarge of its consular functions within theterritory of the receiving State, such fees andcharges as are required in respect thereto. Theamounts so levied as fees and charges shall beexempt from all dues and taxes of the receivingState.

7K. (1) All consular officers shall be treatedwith due respect at all times and consularofficers shall not be liable to arrest or detention(other than for the commission of a grave crimeand pursuant to a decision of a competent court)or any other form of restriction on their personalfreedom.

(2) In the event of the arrest or detention of aconsular officer for a grave crime as specifiedin subsection (1) the receiving State shall notifythe head of the consular post of such fact. If theperson arrested, is the head of the consular posthimself, they shall notify the sending State ofsuch fact through the means of the diplomaticchannel.

(3) Consular officers and consular employeesshall not in respect of acts performed in the

Inviolabilityof consularofficers andfreedomfrom arrest&c,.

8Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

exercise of their consular functions, be subjectto the jurisdiction of any Court or administrativeauthority of the receiving State :

Provided however, the provisions ofsubsection (3) shall not apply to civilproceedings instituted against a consular officeror a consular employee

(a)in respect of any contract entered intoby such officer otherwise than as anagent of the sending State ; or

(b)in respect of third party damage arisingout of an accident in the receivingState.

(4) Except as otherwise provided for insubsection (1) of this section consular officersshall not be committed to prison or be liable toany other form of restriction on their personalfreedom save in the execution of a judicialdecision of a court of competent jurisdiction,having the effect of a final judgement.

(5) Where criminal proceedings areinstituted against a consular officer, such officershall appear before the competent authoritieswhen summoned to do so: Provided that anysuch proceedings shall be conducted with duerespect to such officer in consideration of hisofficial position and other than as provided forin subsection (1), and in such a manner as willnot substantially hamper the exercise ofconsular functions.

(6) Where pursuant to the circumstances setout in subsection (1) it becomes necessary todetain a consular officer, the receiving Stateshall ensure that any proceedings against suchofficer shall be instituted with the minimum ofdelay.

9Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

7L. Members of a consular post may be calledupon to attend as witnesses in judicial oradministrative proceedings and any consularofficer shall not decline to so give evidence,except in relation to any matter connected tothe exercise of their official functions or wherethey are required to produce any offcialdocument or correspondence.

7M. The privileges and immunities providedfor in subsections (1) and (3) of section 7K andsection 7L may at any time be waived by thesending State in regard to a member of theconsular post, by the sending State forwardinga written communication to that effect to thereceiving State.

7N. (1) Consular officers and consularemployees and members of their families shallbe exempt from any obligation with regard tothe registration of aliens and residence permitsin the receiving State.

(2) Members of consular posts and membersof their families shall be exempt from socialsecurity requirements with respect to theservices rendered by them for the sending State.

(3) Consular officers and consular employeesand members of their families shall be exemptfrom all dues and taxes other than in the caseof

(a)indirect taxes ;

(b)dues on private immovable propertysituated in the receiving State ;

(c)succession or inheritance dues ;

Liability togiveevidence.

Waiver ofprivilegesandimmunities.

Exemptions.

10Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

(d)dues and taxes on private income ;

(e)charges levied on specific services ;and

(f)registration fees, mortgage fees, stampduties and court record fees.

(4) The receiving State may in accordancewith its laws grant exemption from all customsduties, taxes and related charges other thancharges for storage or similar services in respectof

(a)articles for the official use of theconsular post ;

(b)articles for the personal use of aconsular officer or members of hisfamily including articles for hisestablishment. The articles intendedfor consumption shall not exceed thequantities stipulated by any rules orregulations of the receiving State inrelation thereto.

(5) The receiving State shall exemptmembers of the consular post and members oftheir families from all personal services andmilitary obligations or contributions.

(6) In the event of the death of a member of aconsular post or a member of his family, thereceiving State shall permit the export of hismovable property other than any articles thatmay be prohibited and shall not levy any dutieson the transfers of movable property of thedeceased.

11Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

PART III

IMMUNITIES, FACILTIES AND PRIVILEGES OF HONORARY CONSULARPOSTS IN SRI LANKA

7P. The receiving State shall protect theconsular premises from which a consular postheaded by a honorary consular officerdischarges its functions.

7Q. The consular premises of the sendingState shall be exempt from all national taxationin respect of acts performed in the course oftheir consular functions : Provided that suchexemption shall not extend to the paymentrequired to be made in respect of specificsecivces rendered.

7R. The consular archives and documents ofa honorary consular post shall be inviolable.

7S. The receiving State may in accordancewith its laws grant exemption from all customsduties, taxes and related charges other thancharges for storage or similar services suppliedby or at the instance of the sending State for theofficial use of the honorary consular post.

7T. Where proceedings are instituted againstan honorary consular officer, he must appearbefore the competent authorities : however suchproceedings must be conducted with duerespect to his official position.

7U. The receiving State shall accord allprotection to an honorary consular officer asbefits his position.

Protection ofpremises.

Exemptionfromtaxation.

Inviolabilityof consulararchives.

Exemptionfrom customsduties.

Appearanceat criminalproceedings.

Protection ofhonoraryconsularofficers.

12Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

7V. (1) Consular officers and consularemployees and members of their families shallbe exempt from any obligation with regard tothe registration of aliens and residence permitsin the receiving State.

(2) The receiving State shall exempthonorary consular officers from all personalservices and military obligations orcontributions.

(3) An honorary consular officer shall beexempt from all dues and taxes on theremuneration and emoluments if any, which hereceives from the sending State for theperformance of his consular functions.

7W. The provisions of section 7D to 7J of PartII of this Act as are applicable to Career ConsularPosts shall mutatis mutandis apply, to and inrelation to Honorary Consular Posts.

8.The principal enactment is hereby amended by theinsertion immediately before section 8 of that enactment ofthe following heading :

PART IV

GENERAL.

9.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 8 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 8A and 8B of that enactment :

8A. (1) Without prejudice to the privilegesand immunities enjoyed by persons to whomthe provisions of this Act applies, every suchperson shall respect the laws and regulations ofthe receiving State. They shall also have a dutynot to interfere in the internal affairs of thereceiving State.

Exemptions.

Applicabilityof theprovisions ofsections 7D to7J to this Part.

Insertion ofheading beforesection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsections 8A and8B in theprincipalenactment.Respect forthe laws andregulations ofthe receiviingState.

13Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

(2) Consular premises shall not be used inany manner incompatible with the exercise ofconsular functions.

8B. Consular officers who are nationals of, orare permanently resident in, the receiving State,shall enjoy only immunity from jurisdictionand personal inviolability in respect of officialacts performed in the exercise of theirfunctions..

10.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the definition of the expressionsconsular functions and consular officer and thesubstitution therefor of the following definitions :

consular archives includes all papers, documents,correspondence, books, films, tapes andregisters of the consular post, together withthe ciphers and codes, the card - indexes andany article of furniture intended for theirprotection or safekeeping ;

consular functions means any consular functionauthorized by any written law, or any consularfunction specified in the Schedule hereto andshall in addition include any functionreferred to in sections 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of thisAct ;

consular officer means any person, including thehead of a consular post, entrusted with theexercise of consular functions ;

consular post means and consulate - general,consulate, vice-consulate, consulate agencyor honorary consulate ;

Limitedimmunitywhereconsularofficers arenationals ofreceivingState.

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

14Consular Functions (Amendment)Act, No. 18 of 2006

consular premises means the buildings or parts ofbuildings and the land ancillary thereto,irrespective of ownership, which is usedexclusively for the purposes of the consularoffice..

11.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.