PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

TREASURY CERTIFICATES
OF DEPOSIT

ACT, No. 9 OF 1989

[Certified on 11th May, 1989]

>»

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
. . Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 12, 1989 -

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT TRE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 45 cents | ss Postage : 75 cents


Treasury Certificates of Deposit Act, No. 9 of 1989
[Certified on 11th May, 1989]
L.D.—O. 83/88

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE BORROWING OF MONEY, BY THY
GOVERNMENT, BY THE ISSUE OF TREAS‘7RY CERTIFICATES OF
Deposit.

BE it enacted by ithe Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Treasury Certificates of
epostt Act, No. 9 of 1989.

2. (1) The Minister, whenever authorized thereto by a
resolution of Parliament, may direct the Deputy Secretary
to the Treasury tc borrow, by the issue in Sri Lanka of
Treasury Certificates of Deposit, sums not exceeding tke
amount specified in such resolution ; and the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury.may also, with the approval of the
Minister, borrow, from time to time, by the issue of such
Treasury Certificates of Deposit such sums as may be
_ required to pay cff at maturity, Treasury Certificates of
Deposit, lawfully issued by him under this Act and out-
standing.

(2) All acts or things necessary for the purpose of, end
in connection with, the issue and payment of Treasury
Certificates of Deposit under this Act shall be dene on
behalf of the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury by an
officer of the Central Bank authorized in that behelt ae the
Monetary Board of that bank.

(3) Every Treasury Certificate of Deposit issued uncer
ihis Act shall bear the signature in facsimile of the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury.

(4) The Monetary Board may delegate the functions
' relating to the issue and payment of Treasury Certificates
of Deposit to a person authorized in writing in that behalf.

3. The principal moneys represented by Treasury Certi-
ficates of Deposit issued under this Act are hereby charged
on, and shall be payable out of, the Consolidated Fund of
Sri Lanka.

4, The proceeds of the issue of the Treasury Gertifieates
of Deposit shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund of Sri
Lanka.

9—D 004403—8,680 (89/03) ,

Short
title.

Power to
borrow by
the issue of
Treasury
Certificates
of Deposit,

Principal of
Treasury
Certificates
of Deposit
charged

on Consoli-
dated

Fund.

Proceeds of
Treasury
Certificates
of Deposit,


Amounts
and

period of
currency of
Treasury
Certificates
of Deposit.

Payment of
Treasury
Certificates
of Deposit.

\

Cancellation
of repaid

- Treasury

Certificates
of Deposit,

2 Treasury Certificates of Deposit Act, No. 9 of 1989

-5. (1) Every Treasury Certificate of Deposit issued under
this Act shall be for the sum of one thousand rupees or a
multiple of one thousand rupees and shall be payable ait
par ; on production of such Treasury Certificate of Deposit
by the bearer, at such time or times as the Minister shell,
before the issue of such Treasury Certificate of Deposit, fix,
but not later than two years from the date of issue.

(2) The liability of the Government to pay ona Treasury
Certificate of Deposit issued under this Act shall cease after
exviration of six years from the date of issue of such

_ Treasury Certificate of Deposit and the bearer of any such

Treasury Certificate of Deposit shall not be entitled, aiter
the expiration of that period, to payment of the - principal
represented by such Treasury Certificate of Deposit or ts
any compensation in respect of non-payment of such prin-
cipal.

6. There shall be appropriated out of the Consolidated
Fund of Sri Lanka the sums necessary to pay the principal
represented by Treasury Certificates of Deposit and the
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury shall pay such principal
at the ‘freasury in Colombo or at any other place determin-

_ed by the Monetary Board, when such Treasuary Certificates

of Deposit fall due for payment.

7- Upon repayment of the principal moneys represented ,
by Treasury Certificates of Deposit, the certificates shall
be delivered to the Centarl Bank which shall cause them
to be cancelled and retained on behalf of the Government

_of Sri vara
