ws

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

NATIONAL SECURITY LEVY
(AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 4 OF 2001

_ {Certified on 1ith April, 2001]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of Apri! 12, 2001

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT CF GCVERNMENT PRINTING, SRILANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIGNS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50


National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 4 of 200]

[Certified on 11th April, 2001]
L.D.—O. 11/2001.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL SEcuRITY Levy Act, No. 52
oF 1991; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the National Security Levy
(Amendment) Act, No. 4 of 2001.

2. Section 3 of the National Security Levy Act, No.52
of 1991, (hereinafter referred to as “the principal enactment’)
as last amended by Act No. 24 of 2000 is hereby further
amended in subsection (2) of that section as follows :—

(1) by the repeal of paragraphs (ff) and (fff) of that
subsection, and the substitution, of the following
paragraph therefor :~

(ff) the value of any ship or aircraft which is
imported into Sri Lanka, if it is proved to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner-General of
Iniand Revenue that such ship or aircraft is being
used for international transportation of goods
or passengers ;

(2) in item A of paragraph (j) of that subsection—

(a) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (viii) thereof,
and the substitution therefor of the following
sub-paragraph :—

2-H 011606-5,550 (2001/037~

Short title.

Amendment of
section 3 of Act
No. 52 of 1991.


2 National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 4 of 2001

“(viii) services of a construction contractor or
sub-contractor for the construction of
any building, road, bridge, water
supply, drainage or sewerage system,
harbour, airport or any infrastructure
project in telecommunications or
electricity, not being—

(a) services for the supply of any
material, plant, machinery or
equipment; or

(b) professional or consultancy
services,

for the purposes of, or in connection with,
such construction, ” ;

(b) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (xi)
thereof, for the words and figures “No. 10 of
1972 or courier” of the words and figures “No.
10 of 1972, airline agent licensed under
regulations made under the Air Navigation
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 55 of 1992 or
courier ” ;

(c) by the insertion immediately after sub-
paragraph (xi) thereof, of the following new sub-
paragraphs :—

“(xia) services of a port operator or port
container terminal operator, provided
al any port ;

(xib) services of a computer software
developer in respect of software
developed by such person for use
wholly outside Sri Lanka and for
which payment is received in foreign
currency through a bank ;


¢

National Security Levy (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 4 of 2001

(xic)

(xid)

services provided over the internet,
using custom built software, by an
enterprise set up on or after April 1,
2001, exclusively for the provision
of such services being services
enabling or facilitating the sale of
goods, or for the provision of
services, by a person in Sri Lanka to
persons outside Sri Lanka, for
payment in foreign currency ;

client support services provided over
the internet or telephone, by an
enterprise set up on or after April 1,
2001, exclusively for the provision
of such services, to one or more
identified clients outside Sri Lanka,
for payment in foreign currency ;”.;

(d) by the addition immediately after paragraph (k)
thereof, of the following new paragraph :~

({)_ the value of any aviation fuel imported for the
use of any aircraft.

3. Section 4 of the principal enactment as last amended
by Act No. 24 of 2000 is hereby further amended as

follows :—

(1) in paragraph (&) of that section, by the substitution for
the words and figures “for every quarter commencing
on or after July 1, 2000”, of the words and figures
“for every quarter commencing on or after July |, 2000
but prior to April 1, 2001” ; and

(2) by the addition at the end of that section, of the
following new paragraph :-

“(1) for every quarter commencing on or after April

1, 2001-

at

“

Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.


National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 4 of 200]

(i) an amount equivalent to—

(A) seven and one half per centum of
the turnover of that person, not
being turnover referred to in item
(B) of this sub-paragraph ; and

(B

—

one half per centum of the turnover
of that person arising from the
import or manufacture of any plant,
machinery or equipment, not being
any motor car, motor coach or lorry,
within the meaning of the Motor
Traffic Act (Chapter 203),

for the first month of that quarter, on or before
the fifteenth day of the second month of that
quarter ;

(ii) an amount equivalent to—

(A) seven and one half per centum of
the turnover of that person, not
being turnover referred to in item
(B) of this sub-paragraph ; and

(B

—_

one half per centum of the turnover
of that person, arising from the
import or manufacture of any plant,
machinery or equipment, not being
any motor car, motor coach or lorry,
within the meaning of the Motor
Traffic Act (Chapter 203),

for the second month of that quarter, on or
before the fifteenth day of the third month of
that quarter ; and

(iii) the amount of the levy payable by such
person for that quarter, reduced by the
aggregate of the amounts paid by him


National Security Levy (Amendment) 5°

Act, No. 4 of 2001

in accordance with the provisions of
sub-paragraph (i) and sub-paragraph
(ii) of this paragraph, on or before the
fifteenth day of the month immediately
succeeding that quarter.”.

4. The Schedule to the principal enactment as last
amended by Act No. 24 of 2000 is hereby further amended
as follows :—

(1) in item 11 of that Schedule, by the substitution for
the words and figures “on or after July 1, 2000”, of
the words and figures “on or after July 1, 2000 but
prior to April 1, 2001”. and

(2) by the addition at the end of that Schedule, of the
following item :—

“(12) For every quarter commencing on or after
April J, 2001-

(i) on turnover other than turnover
referred to in paragraph (11) of this item

7.5 per centum

(ii) on turnover arising from the import or
manufacture of any plant, machinery
or equipment, not being a motor car,
motor coach or lorry within the
meaning of the Motor Traffic Act
(Chapter 203)

0.5 per centum.”’.

5. Where the Director-General of Customs collects
during the period commencing on April 1, 2001, from an
importer of an article not being plant, machinery or equipment,
an amount in excess of six and one half per centium but not
exceeding seven and one half per centum of the value of such
article, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes to
a

ad

Amendment of
the Schedule to
the principal
enactment.

Validation,


Transitional
provisions.

6 National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 4 of 2001

have been, and to be, validly made, and the Director-General
of Customs is hereby indemnified against all actions, civil or
criminal, in respect of such collection.

6. (1) Where a person to whom this Act applies is
required by section 4 of the principal enactment as amended
by sections 3 and 4 of this Act, to pay any amount to the
Commissioner-General, in respect of any month or quarter,
prior to the date on which this Act is certified as an Act of
Parliament, such person shall be deemed for all purposes to
have complied with the requirements of those sections, if he
pays that amount to the Commissioner-General, within thirty
days of the date on which this Act is certified as an Act of
Parliament. Where such amount is not so paid, such amount
shall be deemed to be in default after the expiration of thirty
days from the date on which this Act is certified as an Act of
Parliament and such person shall be deemed to be a defaulter
with effect from that date.

(2) Where a person to whom this Act applies is required
by section 4 of the principal enactment as amended by sections
3 and 4 of this Act, to pay to the Commissioner-General in
respect of the period commencing on April 1, 2001 and ending
on the date on which this Act is certified as an Act of
Parliament an amount in excess of six and one half percentum
of the turnover of that person for that period, such person
shall be deemed for all purposes, to have complied with the
requirements of that section, if he pays to the Commissioner-
General, within thirty days of the date on which this Act is
certified as an Act of Parliament the difference between the
amount he was required by section 4 of the principal enactment
as amended by sections 3 and 4 of this Act, to pay for that
period, and the amount paid by him for that period, as the
case may be. Where the difference is not so paid, such
difference shall be deemed to be in default after the expiration
of thirty days from the date on which this Act is certified as
an Act of Parliament and such person shall be deemed to be a
defaulter within the meaning of the principal enactment, with
effect from that date.

ae


National Security Levy (Amendment) 7
Act, No. 4 of 200/

7. The amendment made to section 3 of the principal Retrospective
enactment by section 2 of this Act, shall— effect.

(a) inso far as the amendment relates to the repeal of
paragraphs (ff) and (fff) of subsection (2) of that
section, be deemed for all purposes to have come
into force on April 1, 2001 ;

(6) in so far as the amendment relates to sub-
contractors be deemed, for all purposes, to have
come into force on January 1, 2001 ;

(c) inso far as the amendment relates to port operators
and port container terminal operators, be deemed,
for all purposes, to have come into force on
February 15, 2000;

(d) in so far as the amendment relates to computer
software developers, be deemed for all purposes
to have come into force on March 8, 2001 ;

(e) inso far as the amendment relates to the import of
ships or aircrafts, be deemed for all purposes, to
have come into force on January 1, 1999 ; and

(f) inso far as the amendment relates to the import of
aviation fuel, be deemed, for all purposes, to have
come into force on April 1, 2001.

8. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala Sinhala text to

and Tamil texts of thts Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. prevail in case of
inconsistency.


— eo

Annuat subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs, 885 (Local), Rs. 1,f80(Foreign),
payable to the SuPcRINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, No. 32, Transworks House.
Lotus Roap, Coomno 0} before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.

n ae
