SOCIAL SECURITY BOARD (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 33 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 7th October, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 08, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

1Social Security Board (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1999

Generalamendment ofAct, No. 17 of1996 and otherwritten law.

Short title.

H - 022545

[Certified on 07 th October, 1999]

L.D.O.54/98.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE SOCIAL SECURITY BOARDACT, NO. 17 OF 1996

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1. This Act may be cited as the Social Security Board(Amendment) Act, No.33 of 1999.

2. Wherever in the Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of1996 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment)or in any other written law or in any notice, communication,form or other document issued, made, required, or authorisedby or under the principal enactment or such other writtenlaw, the expression Social Security Board occurs, thereshall be substitued the expression the Sri Lanka SocialSecurity Board

3. Section 3 of the Principal enactment is hereby amendedby the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and thesubstitution of the following subsection therefor :-

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the Directors asthe Chairman of the Board, and may appoint anotherDirector to be a working Director of the Board.

4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor :-

(4) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, thefunctions of the Board shall be to establish a Pension andSocial Security Benefit Scheme (hereinafter referred to asthe Scheme) for self employed persons other than thosein the fisheries and agriculture sectors, and to administerand manage such scheme with the following objectives inview:-(a) to provide social security to self employedpersons during their old age and on disability ;

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

2Social Security Board (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1999

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

(b) to provide relief to the dependants of selfemployed persons, upon death ;

(c) to encourage self employed persons to continuein their respective occupations and to developtheir capabilities and skills;

(d) to encourage youth to be self employed and todevelop their capabilities and skills;

(e) to educate self employed persons on the benefitsof thrift and resource management; and

(f) to improve the living standards of self employedpersons generally..

5. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the insertion immediately after paragraph (f) of that sectionof the following new paragraph :-

(ff) collaborate with state institutions or non-governmental organizations discharging functions similarto the functions of the Board ;

6. The following new section is hereby insertedimmedialtey after section 6 and shall have effect as section6A of the principal enactment.

6A. (1) The Minister shall appoint aTechnical Advisory Committee (hereinafterrefferred to as the Committee) consisting ofnot more than nine persons, from amongpersons who, in the opinion of the Ministerhave had experience, or shown capacity, in thefields of social security, social welfare,insurance, actuarial evaluation, administration,finance or management.

(2) The Chairman of the Board shall be theChairman of the Committee.

Insertion of newsection 6A in theprincipalenactment

TechnicalAdvisoryCommittee.

3Social Security Board (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1999

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

(3) The functions of the Committee shallbe -

(a) to advise the Board on such matters relatingto the administration and management of thescheme as may, from time to time, be referredto it by the Board;

(b) to advise the Board on any matter theCommittee deems necessary orconducive to the attainment of theobjectives towards the attainment of whichthe scheme is being administered andmanaged; and

(c) to advise the Board with regard to the makingof rules by the Board.

(4) The members of the Committee may be paidsuch remuneration as may be determined by the Board,subject to the approval of the Minister, from the Fund ofthe Board..

7. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:-

(1) in subsection (1) of the section, by the substitution,for the words a contributor shall be entitled, of thewords a contributor shall, subject to the provisionsof subsection (1A), be entitled; and

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section of the following subsection:-

(1A) A contributor who is certified, by a MedicalPractitioner registered under the Medical Ordinance, to bementally retarded and who has commenced to contributeto the Fund before reaching the age of thirty five yearsshall be entitled to a pension on reaching the age of fortyyears.

4Social Security Board (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1999

8. Section 13 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words be paid to his survivingspouse, of the words be paid to such person or persons asmay have been nominated by him in the prescribed form anddeposited with the Board, and in lieu of such nomination, bepaid to his surviving spouse.

9. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:-

(1) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (c) ofsubsection (2), of that section, of the following newparagraph:-

(cc) all such sums of money as may betransferred to the Board by any, GovernmentDepartment, or Public Corporation ;; and

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (3) ofthat section, of the following new subsections:-

(4) The initial capital of the Board shall be onehundred million rupees which may be increasedfrom time to time, by such amounts as may beauthorised by an Appropriation Act or by resolutionof Parliament. The amount of such capital shall bepaid out of the Consolidated Fund in suchinstalments as the Minister in charge of the subjectof Finance may, in consultation with the Ministerdetermine, and such sums shall be credited to theFund.

(5) From and after the inclusion of the Boardunder section 8 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28of 1979, the profits and income of the Board shallbe exempt from income tax.

Amendment ofsection 13 oftheprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

5Social Security Board (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1999

10. The following section is hereby inserted immediatelyafter section 28, and shall have effect as section 28A of theprincipal enactment:-

28A. (1) The Minister may give the Boardgeneral directions as to the exercise of thepowers and discharge of the functions, of theBoard, and it shall be the duty of the Board togive effect to every such direction.

(2) The Minister may direct the Board, inwriting, to furnish him with such informationwith respect to the discharge of the functionsof the Board as may be specified in such writingand it shall be the duty of the Board to giveeffect to every such direction.

11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Insertion of newsection 28A inthe Principalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Power ofMinisterto givedirections

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.