PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
‘SRI LANKA |

TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OF
WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
(AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 51 OF 1988

[Certified on 7th December, 1988]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part lI of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 09, 1988

PEINJED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LAWKaA

s

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 60 cents, | Postage : 75 cents


Termination of Employment of Workmen
(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 51 of 1988
[Certified on 7th December, 1988]

~~

LL. D.-—O. 2/85.

AN ACr TO AMEND THE TFRMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OF
WORKMEN (SPECIAL Provisions) Act, No. 45 or 1971

BF it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socia-
list Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Termination of Employ-
ment of Workmen (Special Provisions) (Amendment)
Act, No. 51 of 1988.

2. Section 2 of the Termination of Employment of Work-
men (Special Provisions) Act, No. 45 of 1971 (hereinafter
referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended by the insertion of the following new subsection
immediately after subsection (4) of that section :—

“(5) Where any employer terminates the scheduled

employment of any workman by reason of punishment —

imposed by way of disciplinary action the employer
shall notify such workman in writing the reasons for the
termination of employment before the expiry of the
second working day after the date of such termination. ”.

3. Section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby amen-
ded by the substitution, in paragraph (b) of subsection (1)
of that section, for the words “a period of less than one
year ; or”, of the words and figures “a period of less than
one hundred and eighty days inclusive of—

(i) every day of absence on any ground approved by tha
employer ;

(ii) every day of absence due to any injury to the work-
man caused by an accident arising out of, and in
the course of his employment ;

(iii) every day of absence due to anthrax or any occup-
ational disease specified in Schedule III of the
(Chapter

Workman’s Compensation Ordinance

7 139) ;
(iv) every day on which the employer fails to provide
work for the workman ;

Short title.

Amendment
of section
2 of Act,

No. 45 of
1971.

Amendment
of section
3 @f the
principal
enactment,


Insertion of
new section
6 in the
principal
enactment,

Amendment
of section

7 of the
principal
enactment.

2 Termination of Employment of Workmen
(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 51 of 1988 -

(v) every day of absence due to a lockout, or strike that
is not illegal, if such days do not in the aggregate
exceed thirty days; and

(vi) every holiday or day of absence from work to which
a workman is entitled, by or under, the provisions
of any written law,

in the cortinous period of twelve months commencing
from the date of employment if such termination takes
place within that period of twelve months; or ”.

4. Tie foliowing new section is hereby inserted imme-
diately after section 6a, and shall have effect as section 62
of the principal enactment :—

iNo order:to 6s. (1) No order shall be made by the

after six «Commissioner under section 6 or section 6a

i of in pursuance of an application made by a

application Workman unless such application was made
and rights within six months of the termination to.
of workman ° . gs

to seek _. Which such application related.

other legal

remedy.

(2) Nothing in this Act shall be read and
construed as effecting section 2 or section 5
of this Act or the rights of a . workman
whose employment has been terminated to

apply for any other legal remedy in respect
of such termination or as effecting the
jurisdiction of any court, tribunal or institu-

tion to grant relief in respect of such
termination. ”.

5. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as fcoilows :—

(1) by the substitution, in subsection (1) of that section,
for the expression “the provisions of section 6”, of

the expression “an order made under section 6 or
section 6a”; and

(2) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that section,
for the expression “ the provisions of section 6”, of

the expression “an order made under section 6 or
section 6a’,


Termination of Employment of Workmen 3
(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 51 of 1988

G. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (b) of subsection (1)
of that section and the substitution of the following para-
graph therefor :—

(6) (i) to pay the workman, in any case where ‘the

offence relates to non-compliance with an order

made under section 6, the wages and benefits
specified in that order and wages and _ benefits
which would have been payable to him, if he had
been in employment for the period commencing on

. the date specified in the order made under section 6
and ending on the date of conviction of such
employer ; or

(ii) to pay the workman, in any case where the
offence relates. to non-compliance with an order
made under section 6a, the sum of money specified
fin such order, ”.

Amendment
of section

8 of the
principal
enactment.
