PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 12.25 Postage : Rs. 4.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of January 10, 2003

FISCAL MANAGEMENT (RESPONSIBILITY)ACT, No. 3 OF 2003

[Certified on 09th January, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 20031

2H 0168506,600 (02/10)

[Certified on 09th January, 2003]

L.D.O. 61/2002.

AN ACT TO ENSURE THAT THE FINANCIAL STRATEGY OF THEGOVERNMENT IS BASED ON PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBLE FISCALMANAGEMENT ; TO FACILITATE PUBLIC SCRUTINY OF FISCAL

POLICY AND PERFORMANCE ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Fiscal Management(Responsibility) Act, No. 3 of 2003, and shall come intooperation on such date as the Minister may appoint, by Orderpublished in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date).

2.The fiscal strategy of the Government shall be basedon the principles of responsible fiscal management hereinafterreferred to.

3.The objectives underlying responsible fiscalmanagement which need to be adhered to, by the Governmentin outlining the fiscal strategy of the government are asfollows :

(a)reduction of government debt to prudent levels, byensuring that the budget deficit at the end of the year2006, shall not exceed five per centum of theestimated gross domestic product and to ensure thatsuch levels be maintained thereafter ;

(b)prudent management of the financial risks faced bythe government, having regard to the changingeconomic circumstances ;

(c)adoption of policies relating to spending which donot increase government debt to excessive levels ;

Short title anddate of operation.

Objectivesunderlyingresponsible fiscalmanagement.

Governmentstrategy to bebased onresponsible fiscalmanagement.

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 20032

(d)adoption of policies relating to spending and taxing,as are consistent with a reasonable degree of stabilityand predictability in the level of tax rates in thefuture ;

(e)ensuring that the sum which is calculated as theguarantee and given as a percentage of the grossdomestic product for the current financial year alongwith the two preceding financial years, does not inthe aggregate exceed 4.5 percentum ;

(f)ensuring that at the end of the financial yearcommencing on January 1, 2006, the totalliabilities of the Government (including external debtat the current exchange rates) do not exceedeighty-five per centum of the estimated grossdomestic product for that financial year ; and that atthe end of the financial year commencing on January1, 2013, the total liabilities of the Government(including external debt at the current exchangerates) do not exceed sixty per centum of the estimatedgross domestic products for that financial year ;and

(g)ensuring that the policy decisions of the Governmenthave regard to the financial impact of such decisionon future generations.

4.(1) The fiscal strategy of the Government shall be setout in a Fiscal Strategy Statement (hereinafter referred to asthe Statement).

(2) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, shallin every year on the day fixed for the second reading of theAppropriation Bill in Parliament, cause the Statement of theGovernment to be released to the public and to also be laidbefore Parliament.

(3) The Government may, at any time for reasons to bestated by the Minister, revise its Statement.

Fiscal StrategyStatement.

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 20033

Objectives ofStatement.

Contents ofStatement.

(4) Where the Government revise its Statement, theMinister shall cause the revised Statement to be released tothe public and tabled in Parliament, and the revised Statementshall be effective from the date of its release.

(5) The Minister shall

(a)if Parliament is sitting on the date of the release ofthe revised Statement, cause a copy of suchStatement to be tabled in Parliament within twoweeks of the date of such release ; or

(b)if Parliament is not sitting on the date of the releaseof the revised Statement, cause a copy of suchStatement to be tabled in Parliament within twoweeks of the next sitting of Parliament.

5.The objectives of a Statement is to increase publicawareness of the Governments fiscal policy and to establishstandards for evaluating the Governments conduct of itsFiscal strategy.

6.A Statement shall

(a)specify the Governments medium term fiscal policy,within which the Governments short term fiscalobjectives will be formulated ;

(b)explain the broad strategic priorities on which thebudget is, or will be based ;

(c)specify the key fiscal measures which theGovernment considers important in view of thestrategy and the overall fiscal policy to beimplemented ;

(d)specify in respect of the next financial year and thethree succeeding financial years in conformity withthe fiscal policy

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 20034

(i)the Governments fiscal objectives and targets,in relation to expenditure, revenue, debt andother fiscal indicators, with special referencebeing made to the Governments debt, if any,to the Employees Provident Fund and theEmployees Trust Fund ;

(ii)the expected outcome of the key measuresspecified in paragraph (c) ;

(e)explain how the fiscal objectives and strategicpriorities specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) areconsistent with the principles of responsible fiscalmanagement ;

(f)explain, if such objectives and priorities departsubstantially from the principles of responsible fiscalmanagement

(i)the reasons for the departure ;

(ii)the steps that the Government is taking toreturn to those principles ;

(iii)the period of time within which theGovernment indends to return to theseprinciples ; and

(g)give reasons justifying the departure, where theStatement departs from the immediately precedingStatement.

7.The Minister shall on the day fixed for the secondreading of the Appropriation Bill in Parliament, in each year,cause to be tabled in Parliament, a Budget Economic andFiscal Position Report.

8.The objectives in making the Budget Economic andFiscal Position Report available is to provide informationwhich will provide a basis for the evaluation of theGovernments fiscal performance as against its fiscal strategyas set out in its Statement.

Objectives of theBudget Economicand FiscalPosition Report.

Budget Economicand FiscalPosition Report.

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 20035

Contents ofBudget EconomicFiscal PositionReport.

9.(1) The Budget Economic and Fiscal Position Reportshall contain, in relation to the next financial year and thetwo succeeding financial years, the following information :

(a)estimates relating to the gross domestic product ;

(b)estimates relating to consumer prices ;

(c)estimates relating to employment andunemployment ;

(d)estimates relating to the current account position ofthe balance payments ;

(e)estimates relating to revenue expenditure ;

(f)estimates relating to government borrowing ;

(g)the basis, economic or otherwise which has beenused in the preparation of the estimates specified inparagraphs (a) to (f) ;

(h)a statement relating to the sensitivity of the estimatesspecified above, to the changes which may occur inconnection with the economic or other basis used inthe preparation of such estimates ;

(i)a statement, quantified as far as practicable, of therisks that may have a material effect on the fiscalposition, such as

(i)contingent liabilities including guarantees andindemnities, granted by the Government underany written law ;

(ii)public announcements relating to proposals ofthe Government in connection withGovernment spending not included in theestimates referred to in paragraph (e) ;

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 20036

(iii)on going negotiations of the Governmentwhich have not been finalized ; and

(j)such other information which may be necessary toreflect fairly, the financial position of theGovernment, in respect of each such financial year.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3) the informationcontained in the Budget Economic and Fiscal Position Reportshall take into account, as far as possible, all governmentdecisions and all other circumstances that may have a materialeffect on the fiscal and economic position of the Government.

(3) Nothing contained in this section shall be read andconstrued as requiring the inclusion in the Budget Economicand Fiscal Position Report, a disclosure of any informationwhich, in the written opinion of the Minister, will

(a)be prejudicial to national security ;

(b)compromise Sri Lanka in a material way, innegotiation, litigation or commercial activity.

10.(1) The Minister shall cause to be released to thepublic, in respect of every year, a Mid-Year Fiscal PositionReport, by the last day of the month of June of the relevantyear or the lapse of six months from the date of the passing ofthe Appropriation Act, whichever is later.

(2) The Minister shall

(a)if Parliament is sitting on the date of the release ofthe Mid-Year Fiscal Position Report, cause a copyof such Report to be tabled in Parliament within twoweeks of the date of such release ; or

(b)if Parliament is not sitting on the date of the releaseof the Mid-Year Fiscal Position Report, cause a copyof such Report to be tabled in Parliament within twoweeks of the next sitting of Parliament.

Mid-Year FiscalPosition Report.

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 20037

Objectives of theMid-Year FiscalPosition Report.

Contents of theMid-Year FiscalPosition Report.

11.The objectives of the Mid-Year Fiscal Position Reportis to provide updated information of the Governments fiscalperformance and to thereby enable the public to evaluate theGovernments fiscal performance as against the fiscal strategyas set out in its current Statement.

12.The Mid-Year Fiscal Position Report in respect of afinancial year shall contain

(a)a statement of the estimated and actual expenditurefor the first four months of that year ;

(b)a statement of the estimated and actual revenue forthe first four months of that year ;

(c)a statement of the estimated and actual cash flowsfor the first four months of that year ;

(d)a statement of the estimated and actualborrowings for the first four months of that year ;and

(e)such other statements which may be necessary toreflect fairly, the financial position of theGovernment, in respect of the first four months ofsuch financial year.

(2) Where there is a shortfall in the estimated revenue orcash flow, or an excess in the estimated expenditure orborrowings, the mid year fiscal position Report shall statethe reasons for such shortfall.

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), theinformation contained in the Mid-Year Fiscal Position Reportshall take into account, as far as possible, all governmentdecisions and all other circumstances that may have a materialeffect on the fiscal position (including decisions taken andcircumstance that exist, after the passing of the AppropriationAct for that year).

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 20038

(4) Nothing contained in this section shall be read andconstrued as requiring the inclusion in the Mid-Year FiscalPosition Report, the disclosure of any information, which inthe written opinion of the Minister, will

(a)be prejudicial to national security ;

(b)compromise Sri Lanka in a material way, innegotiation, litigation or commercial activity.

(5) Where any information on any matter required to beincluded in a Mid-Year Fiscal Position Report remainsunchanged from the information in relation to such matter asis included in the last Budget Economic and Fiscal PositionReport, the Mid-Year Fiscal Position Report shall state thatsuch information remains so unchanged.

13.(1) The Minister shall cause to be released to thepublic, in respect of each financial year, a Final BudgetPosition Report, not later than five months from the end ofthe financial year.

(2) The Minister shall

(a)if Parliament is sitting on the date of the release ofthe Final Budget Position Report, cause a copy ofsuch Report to be tabled in Parliament within twoweeks of the date of such release ; or

(b)if Parliament is not sitting on the date of therelease of the Final Budget Position Report,cause a copy of such Report to be tabled inParliament within two weeks of the next sitting ofParliament.

(3) The Final Budget Position Report for a financial yearmay be incorporated with the Budget Economic and FiscalPosition Report in respect of a financial year, which isintroduced after the commencement of that financial year.

Final BudgetPosition Report.

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 20039

Objectives of theFinal BudgetPosition Report.

Contents of theFinal BudgetPosition Report.

14.The objectives of the Final Budget Position Reportis to provide updated information of the Governments fiscalperformance and to thereby enable the public to evaluate theGovernments fiscal performance as against its fiscal strategyas set out in its current Statement.

15.The Final Budget Position Report in respect of afinancial year shall contain

(a)a statement of the estimated and actual expenditurefor that year ;

(b)a statement of the estimated and actual revenue forthat year ;

(c)a statement of the estimated and actual cash flowsfor that year ; and

(d)a statement of the estimated and actual borrowingsfor that year ; and

(e)such other statements which may be necessary toreflect fairly, the financial position of theGovernment, at the end of such financial year.

(2) Where there is a shortfall in the estimated revenue orcash flow or an excess in the estimated expenditure orborrowing, the Final Budget Position Report shall sate thereasons for such shortfall or excess.

16.(1) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister,shall within three weeks of the publication our Proclamationor Order requiring the holding of a general election for theelection of members of Parliament, cause to be released tothe public a Pre-election Budgetary Position Report containinginformation on the fiscal position of the country.

(2) The Minister shall, within two weeks of the first sittingof the new Parliament, cause a copy of the Report specifiedin subsection (1) to placed before Parliament.

Pre-electionBudgetaryPosition Report.

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 200310

17. (1) Every Pre-election Budgetary Position Reportshall contain the following information for the currentfinancial year :

(a)estimates of revenue and expenditure ;

(b)estimates of the Government borrowings ;

(c) the economic and other assumptions that have beenused in preparing such estimates ;

(d)a statement of the risks, quantified where practicable,that may have material effect on the fiscal position,such as

(i)contingent liabilities including guarantees andindemnities given by the Government underany Act ;

(ii)publicly announced proposals for spending bythe Government that have not been includedin the estimates referred to in paragraph (a) ;and

(iii)Government negotiations in progress and notfinalized ; and

(e)such other information as may be necessary to reflectfairly the financial position of the Government as atthe date of the said Report.

(2) The information in the Pre-election Budgetary PositionReport, shall, subject to the provisions of subsection (3) takeinto account to the fullest possible extent any decision of theGovernment having a material effect on the fiscal position.

(3) Nothing in this section shall be read or construed asrequiring the inclusion in a Pre-election Budgetary PositionReport, of any information, the disclosure of which would, inthe opinion of the Minister given in writing

Contents of Pre-electionBudgetaryPosition Report.

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 200311

Statements ofResponsibility.

Minister toprovideinformation forpreparation ofPre-ElectionBudgetaryPosition Report.

(a)be prejudicial to national security ;

(b)compromise Sri Lanka in a material way innegotiation, litigation or commercial activity.

(4) Where information on any matter required to beincluded in a Pre-election Budgetary Position Report remainsunchanged from the information on that matter included in aprevious Budget Economic and Fiscal Position Report or aMid-Year Budget Fiscal Position Report, the Pre-electionBudgetary Position Report shall state that such informationremains unchanged from the information included in eitheror both of these previous reports.

18.For the purpose of enabling the Secretary to preparea Pre-Election Budgetary Position Report under section 16,the Minister shall, within one week of the publication of theProclamation or Order requiring the holding of a GeneralElection for the election of Members of Parliament, discloseto the Secretary, details of all Government decisions and othercircumstances

(a)within the knowledge of the Minister ; and

(b)which have, or could have, material fiscal oreconomic implications.

19.Every Pre-election Budgetary Position Report shallbe accompanied by

(a)statement signed by the Minister to the effect thatthe Minister has complied with the requirements ofsection 18 ;

(b)a statement by the Secretary to the effect that theinformation in the report, to the fullest extentpossible

(i)reflects the best professional judgement of theofficers of the Ministry of the Minister ;

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 200312

(ii)takes into account all economic and fiscalinformation available to the Ministry ;

(iii)incorporates the fiscal implications of theGovernment decisions and circumstancesdisclosed to him or her by the Minister undersection 18.

20.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and(3), the Government shall not borrow from the Central bank.

(2) The Government may borrow from the Central Bank,by way of advances, to meet a temporary excess of cashdisbursements over cash receipts in a financial year :

Provided that every such advance shall be repaid withinsix months of the date of such advance and the total of suchadvances, outstanding at any time in a financial year, shallnot exceed ten per centum of the estimated revenues of theGovernment for that financial year.

(3) Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed toprohibit the Central Bank from subscribing to primary issuesof Government Treasury Bills.

21.All Statements and Reports referred to in this Actshall be prepared in accordance with the best practiceaccounting methods relating to public sector accounts.

22.(1) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance, may in writing, request anyMinistry, Department, Public Corporation or Company inwhich the Government owns shares, to furnish to him or her,such information as is necessary for the preparation of theStatement referred to in section 4 and the Reports referred toin sections 7, 10, 13 and 16.

(2) A Ministry, Department, Public Corporation orCompany to which a request is made in terms of subsection(1) shall forthwith comply with such request so as to enable

Restrictions onBorrowing fromCentral Bank.

Power ofSecretary toobtaininformation.

Reports andStatements toconform toaccountingstandards.

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 200313

Reference toReports ofStandingCommittees ofParliament.

Publication andsale of reports.

Departure fromthe provisions ofthis Act.

the Secretary to take the information requested into accountin the preparation of the Statement or Report, as the casemay be.

23.Upon the Statement referred to in section 4 and theReports referred to in sections 7, 10, 13 and 16 being placedbefore Parliament, such Statement or Report shall standreferred to the relevant Standing Committee of Parliament.

24.The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance, may by Notificationpublished in the Gazette

(a)specify the place at which copies of the Statementreferred to in section 4 and the Reports referred toin sections 7, 10, 13 and 16 are made available forinspection, free of charge ; and

(b)specify the place at which copies of the Statementand the Reports are available for sale.

25.No civil or criminal proceeding shall be institutedagainst a public officer for anything done in good faith oromitted to be done by such public officer under this Act.

26.(1) The Government may in exceptionalcircumstances, with the approval of Parliament granted byway of a Resolution of Parliament and for such period as maybe specified in such Resolution, depart from the requirementsof this Act.

(2) The Minister shall in every instance where a departurefrom the requirements of this Act is made, inform Parliamentof

(a)the reasons for such departure ;

(b)the steps that the Government will be taking toovercome the causes necessitating such departure ;

Protection ofaction.

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 200314

(c)the period of time within which the Governmentexpects such departure from the requirements, tocome to an end.

(3) The Minister shall in every instance where a departureis made

(a)if Parliament is sitting on the date when suchdeparture is necessitated, inform Parliament withintwo weeks of the date of the departure of the mattersspecified in subsection (2) relating to suchdeparture ; or

(b)if Parliament is not sitting on the date of suchdeparture, take steps to ensure that Parliament isinformed within two weeks of the next sitting ofParliament of the matters specified in subsection (2)in relation to such departure.

27.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of the Act the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Fiscal Management (Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of 200315

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.