PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, No. 27 OF 2013

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th June, 2013]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 21, 2013

1Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No.27 of 2013

2PL 0072954,090 (06/2013)

[Certified on 20th June, 2013]

L.D.O. 32/2013.

AN ACT TO MAKE SPECIAL PROVISION TO EXEMPT INTERNALLY

DISPLACED PERSONS FROM CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THEREGISTRATION OF ELECTORS ACT, NO. 44 OF 1980; AND TO PROVIDE

FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS certain persons have been internally displacedas a result of any actions of a terrorist militant or other groupduring the recent past:

AND WHEREAS the State has formulated a policy to enableinternally displaced persons and their children eligible tovote to exercise their right to franchise in the electoral districtin which their permanent places of residence were situatedprior to being internally displaced:

AND WHEREAS it has now become necessary to makespecial legal provision in order to give effect to such policy:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Registration of Electors(Special Provisions) Act, No. 27 of 2013.

2.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in theRegistration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980, any citizen ofSri Lanka

(a) who is or had been an internally displaced person;

(b) whose name appeared in the register of electors forany electoral district in the Northern Province orEastern Province for any year, until the end of theyear 2009; and

(c) whose name has not been entered in any register inoperation subsequent to the year 2009,

Preamble.

Short title.

Internallydisplacedpersons eligibleto be registered.

2Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No.27 of 2013

shall on proof of the matters specified in paragraphs (a), (b)and (c) and on production of a certificate issued by the GramaNiladhari of the area in which he is presently residing, to theeffect that he is or he had been an internally displaced person,be entitled to apply to the registering officer of the electoraldistrict within which he was permanently resident prior toMay 18, 2009, to be registered in the register of electors ofsuch electoral district.

(2) The application referred to in subsection (1), shall bemade on or before the date specified by the Commissioner ofElections by notice published in the Gazette.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theentitlement granted under that subsection shall be extendedto the children of a citizen referred to in subsection (1)

(a) who had not attained the age of eighteen years onthe date on which such citizen became an internallydisplaced person and have attained the age ofeighteen years or more on the date on which therevision commenced in respect of the register inoperation, at the time in which the application ismade;

(b) who were born after such citizen became aninternally displaced person and have attained theage of eighteen years or more on the date on whichthe revision commenced in respect of the register inoperation, at the time in which the application ismade ; and

(c) whose name has not been entered in any register inoperation subsequent to the year 2009,

on production of the birth certificate of such child sought tobe registered and a certificate issued by the Grama Niladhariof the area in which he is presently residing on proof of thematters specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) and (c) above.

3Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No.27 of 2013

3.(1) The registering officer shall prepare a list of namesof persons referred to in section 2 and shall give notice in theGazette and in at least one newspaper each in the Sinhalese,English and Tamil languages that such list has been completedand is open for inspection at all reasonable hours of the dayat the office of the registering officer.

(2) (a) Any person who has applied to be registered in anyregister of electors for any electoral district in the NorthernProvince or Eastern Province and whose name has notappeared in the list referred to in subsection (1), may appealin writing to the registering officer within one week of thenotice published in the Gazette.

(b) The provisions of subsection (8) to (16) of section 14of the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980 shall,mutatis mutandis, apply to objections and appeals againstdecisions of the registering officer.

(c) If upon such appeal and inquiry, the registering officerdecides not to include the name of such appellant in theSupplementary Register referred to in section 4, the aggrievedappellant may appeal to the revising officer within one weekof the decision of the registering offecer and the provisionsof subsection (2) to (5) of section 15 of the Registration ofElectors Act, No. 44 of 1980 shall mutatis mutandis apply toan appeal made under this paragraph.

4.The registering officer of each Electoral District shallprepare and certify a Supplementary Register containingthe names of the persons whose names appear in the listprepared under section 3 after inquiry and adjudication ifany, and finalize such Register in terms of that section:

Provided that, the registering officer may certify theSupplementary Register during the pendency of an appealto the revising officer and shall thereafter enter in, or expungefrom, such Register, the name of any person in accordancewith the decision of the revising officer on the determinationof such appeal.

List of Claims.

SupplementaryRegister.

4Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No.27 of 2013

5.(1) No person whose name appears in theSupplementary Register shall be entitled to have his nameentered in any other register of electors, notwithstandingthat he may be qualified to have his name entered in two ormore registers.

(2) No perosn shall be entitled to have his name enteredmore than once in the same register, notwithstanding that hemay be qualified to have his name so entered.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, if a personwhose name appears in the Supplementary Register has hisname appearing in any other register of electors and uses hisvote in two or more electoral districts, he shall be guilty ofan offence and shall on conviction before a Magistrate beliable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years orto a fine not exceeding Rupees One Hundred Thousand orto both such imprisonment and fine.

(4) Any person referred to in section 2, who furnishesfalse information or forged documents for any purposereferred to in this Act, shall be guilty of an offence and shallon conviction before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceedingRupees fifty thousand or to both such imprisonment andfine.

6.(1) This Act shall be in operation for a period of twoyears commencing from the date of operation of this Act.

(2) The Minister may, at any time within one month priorto the expiration of the period of operation of this Act, byOrder published in the Gazette, extend for a further period,the operation of the Act, so however that the aggregateperiod of any one extension shall not exceed two years fromthe date of the extension so granted.

(3) The Order made under subsection (2) shall be operativewhen the signature of the Minister is affixed thereto andevery such Order shall be published in the Gazette.

Period ofoperation of theAct andextensionthereof.

Offences.

5Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No.27 of 2013

(4) Every Order made under subsection (2) shall be placedbefore Parliament for its approval within a period of threemonths from the date of publication of such Order in theGazette.

(5) A notification specifying the date on whichParliament has approved the Order shall be published in theGazette.

7.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

8.In this Act

Commissioner of Elections has the same meaningas in the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of1980;

internally displaced person means a citizen of SriLanka who was permanently resident in theNorthern Province or Eastern Province and whowas forced or obliged to leave his residence atany time prior to May 18, 2009, as a result of anyaction of a terrorist militant or other group, andcurrently resides in Sri Lanka outside his originalplace of residence in the Northern Province orEastern Province or had re-settled in his originalplace of residence subsequent to the date onwhich the revision of the register of electors forthe year 2012 commenced ;

registering officer has the same meaning as in theRegistration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980;

register in operation has the same meaning as inthe Registration of Electors Act No. 44 of 1980;

revising officer has the same meaning as in theRegistration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980.

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

6Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)Act, No.27 of 2013

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.