PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PIRIVENA EDUCATION
ACT, No. 64 OF 1979

[Certified on 23rd October, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Deznccratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 26, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF SOVPENMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

eee ow

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Frice: Be. 1.10 Postage : 50 cents


Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979

[Certified on 23rd October, 1979]
L.D.—O. 83/78

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REORGANIZATION OF PIRIVENA
EDUCATION ; FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PIRIVENA EDUCA-
TION BOARD; FOR THE REGISTRATION, MAINTENANCE AND
ADMINISTRATION OF PIRIVENAS AND FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF PIRIVENA TRAINING INSTITUTES AND FOR CONNECTED
MATTERS.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :— :

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Pirivena Education
Act, No. 64 of 1979. '

(2) This Act shall come into operation on such date
(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”) as the
Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.

PART I

Arms AND OBJECTS OF PirIvENA EDUCATION

2. The objects of Pirivena Education shall be to provide
educational facilities—

(a) to Bhikkus; and
(b) to male lay pupils over fourteen years of age who are
desirous of following a course of studies imparted

in a Pirivena and who wish to receive their educa-
tion in a Buddhist environment.

3. The aims of Pirivena Education shall be—

(a) to foster an interest among Bhikkus in the protection

and progress of the threefold Sasane namely,
Pariyatti, Patipaththi, Pativedha ;

(b) to foster discipline, knowledge in the Tripitaka and
devotion to Dhamma among Bhikkus in order to
maintain the order of Bhikkus descending from the
lineage of Sariputtra. and Moggallana Maha
Theras ; |

(ce) to give a training in practical knowledge, necessary
for the Dhamma dutha activities in Sri Lanka and
abroad and in other services appropriate to
Bhikkus ; and , 43

(d) to provide facilities for Bhikkus to acquire a thorough
knowledge in various subjects and languages in-
cluding Buddhist Philosophy, Buddhist Culture,
Buddhist History, Sinhala, Pali and Sanskrit.

2—A 42605—17,500 (79/10)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Objects of
Pirivena
Education.

Aims of
Pirivena
Education.


2 Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979

PART II

PIRIVENA EDUCATION BOARD

Pirivena 4. (1) There shall be established a Board to be called
enon the Pirivena Education Board (hereinafter referred to as
; the “ Board”) consisting of the following members :—

(a) the Mahanayake Thera of the Malwatte Chapter of
the Siam Nikaya or any other Bhikku of that
Nilsaya nominated by him ;

(b) the Mahanayake Thera of the Asgiriya Chapter of
the Siam Nikaya or any other Bhikku of that Nikaya
nominated by him ;

(c) the Mahanayake Thera of the Sri Lanka Amarapura
Nikaya or any other Bhikku of that Nikaya nomi-
nated by him ;

(d) the Mahanayake Thera of the Sri Lanka Ramanya
Nikaya or any other Bhikku of that Nikaya nomi-
nated by him;

(e) the Director-General ;

(f) the Director in charge of Pirivena Education ;

(g) three Bhikkus, who have experience in Pirivena
Education, nominated by the Minister ; and

(h) three laymen, who profess Buddhism and who have
considerable experience in Buddhist Education and
Buddhist activities, nominated by the Minister.

(2) The members of the Board shall at the first meeting
of the Board elect from among its members a Bhikku to be
the Chairman of the Board.

(3) The Director in charge of Pirivena Education
shall be the Secretary of the Board.

(4) The Chairman shall preside at the meeting of the
Board. In the absence of the Chairman at any meeting of
the Board, the members of the Board shall elect from among
themselves a Bhikku to preside at that meeting. |

(5) A person shall be disqualified for being nominated or
being a member of the Board if he—

(a) is bankrupt or has been adjudicated an insolvent ; or

(b) has been found guilty of any criminal offence involv-
ing moral turpitude; or

' (c) is under any law for the time being in force suit
or declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be of unsound mind.


Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979 3

(6) Every member of the Board nominated by the
Minister under paragraph (g) or paragraph (h) of sub-
section (1) (hereinafter referred to as “nominated mem-
ber”) shall subject to the provisions of subsections (7), (8)
and (9), hold office for a period of three years from the
date of nomination and shall be eligible for renomination :

Provided, however, that a person who is nominated in
place of a nominated member who resigns or dies or other-
wise vacates office shall, unless he earlier resigns, dies or
otherwise vacates office, hold office for the unexpired part
of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(7) Any nominated member may resign his office by
letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister.

(8) The Minister may remove from office any nominated
member without assigning any reason therefor.

(9) Any nominated member shall vacate office if he
absents himself without the permission of the Chairman
from three consecutive meetings of the Board. —

(10) Where any member of the Board becomes by reason
of illness or other infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office then—

(a) if he is the Mahanayake Thera of any of the
Nikayas specified in paragraphs (a) to (d) of
subsection (1), a Bhikku nominated by that Maha-
nayake Thera or where he is unable to nominate
a Bhikku, a Bhikku elected by that Nikaya ;

(b) if he is a Bhikku nominated by any of the Mahana-
yaka Theras specified in paragraph’ (a) to (d) of
subsection (1), any other Bhikku nominated by
the respective Mahanayake Thera ;

(c) if he is the Director-General or the Director in charge
of Pirivena Education, another officer of the Depart-
ment of Education nominated by the Minister ;

and

(d) if he is a nominated member, another suitable person
nominated by the Minister,

may act in his place.

(11). The members of the Board shall not be entitled to
any remuneration as members of the Board:

Provided, however, that the Minister may, in consultation
with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, pay
an allowance to such members if he considers it expedient so
to do. |


Powers,
duties and
functions

of the Board.

4 Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979

(12) Six members of the Board shall form the quorum -
for any meeting of the Board:

Provided, however, that where there has been no quorum.
for two consecutive meetings of the Board, it shall be law-
ful for the Chairman to discharge any function of the Board
which he considers urgent and necessary without the
approval of the Board and such function shall be deemed
to have been discharged with the approval of the Board.

(13) The Board shall meet at least once in every three
months,

(14) The Chairman shall convene a special meeting of the
Board on a written request made by not less than four
members of the Board.

(15) The Board may act notwithstanding any vacancy
among its members and any decision of the Board shall not
be invalid by reason only of the fact that there is a vacancy
in the membership of the Board. .

(16) The procedure for the transaction of business of the
Board shall be determined in accordance with the rules
made by the Board under this Act.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act or any
regulations made thereunder, the Board shall exercise, per-
form and discharge the following powers, duties and
functions :—

(a) advising the Minister on all aspects of Pirivena
Education ;

(b) promoting the study of and research into Pirivena
Education ;

(c) inquiring into and reporting on any matter referred
to the Board by the Director-General.

(2) Where the Director-General refers any matter to the
Board for inquiry or report, the Director-General as 2
member of the Board shall not take part in any delibera-
tions in respect of that inquiry or report.

(3) The Director-General shall be the chief executive
authority of the Board.


Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979 5

6. (1) The Board may in accordance with rules made
in that behalf appoint committees from among its members
for the purpose of conducting inquiries or investigations

on any matter enet may come up before the Board for
inquiry.

(2) The Board may co-opt any person or persons not being
a member or members of the Board subject to the approval
of the Minister, to any such committees of the Board for the
purpose of any inquiry or inyestiganon:,

PART YT

CLASSIFICATION OF PIRIVENAS AND ESTABLISHMENT OF
PmIvena TRAINING INSTITUTES -

7. All Pirivenas other than Pirivena Training Institutes
Shall be classified into the following three groups :—

{a) Mulika Pirivenas ;
(ob) Maha Pirivenas ;
{c) Pirivena Vidyayathana.

8. (4) Classes from Pirivena Grade I to Pirivena Grade
V shall be conducted in a Mulika Pirivena.

(2) A Mulika Pirivena shall be a residential educational
institution providing classes for Bhikkus resident in the
Mulika Pirivena:

Provided that male lay pupils may be allowed, to attend
classes in a Mulika Pirivena.

(3) In the curriculum of a Mulika Pirivena the teaching
of the traditional Pirivena curriculum and the training of
Bhikkus according to the vinaya pales shall be given a
foremost place.

(4) The Commissioner of Examinations on the advice of
the Board may, at the end of the course of studies in a
Mulika Pirivena, hold an examination for pupils of a Mulika
Pirivena.

9. (1) Classes for the examinations held by the Oriental
Studies Society and for any other examinations with a
Similar curriculum aporoved by the Board shall pe con-
ducted in a Maha Pirivena. !

Committees
of the Board.

Classification
of Pirivenas
other than
Pirivena
Training
Institutes.

Mulika
Firivena,

Maha
rurivena


Pirivena
Vidya-
yathana.

The
curriculum
and duration
of course of
study.

The situation
and manage-
ment of
Pirivenas.

Pirivena
Training
Institutes,

Director-

General to --

determine
courses of
study.

6 Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979

(2) A Bhikku who has passed the examination held at the
end of the course of studies in a Mulika Pirivena or any
other examination of a similar standard recognized by the
Board may be admitted to a Maha Pirivena: :

Provided that male lay pupils who have passed the
examinations referred to in the preceding provisions of this
subsection may be admitted to a Maha Pirivena.

10. (1) Classes for the examinations held by the Oriental
Studies Society or by the Department of Examinations or
by any University recognized by the Board shall be con-
ducted in a Pirivena Vidyayathanaya.

(2) Bhikkus who have passed the examination held at
the end of the course of studies in a Mulika Pirivena and
male lay pupils who have passed the Grade VIII examina-
tion in a Government School may be admitted to a Pirivena
Vidyayathanaya.

11. Subject to section 8 (3), the Board shall prescribe
the curriculum and the duration of the course of studies in
any Pirivena.

12. (1) A Mulika Pirivena and a Maha Pirivena may be
held within the same premises and under the same
management.

(2) A Pirivena Vidyayathanaya shall not be held within
the premises of a Mulika Pirivena or a Maha Pirivena or
under the same management as a Mulika Pirivena or a
Maha Pirivena.

13. The Board shall establish educational institutions
which shall be known as Pirivena Training Institutes for
the training of Bhikkus for the purpose of achieving the
following objects :—

(a) teaching in Pirivenas ;

(b) the propagation of the Buddha Dhamma and Buddhist
Culture and the promotion of the Buddhist way of
life ;

(c) social service ; ae

(d) the practice of Buddhist eneditatine: :

(e) the acquisition of the knowledge of the Buddha
Dhamma and the Vinaya; and

(f) the teaching of Buddhism.

14, The Director-General shall, from time to time, in
consultation with the Board determine which of the objects
referred to in section 13 shall be selected for the purpose of
providing courses of study at any specified: t Pirivena ‘Train-
ing Institute.


Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979 7

15. Every Pirivena Training Institute shall have an
Advisory Committee consisting of three members, of whom
one shall be the Manager of such Institute. The other two
members shall be appointed by the Director-General. -

16. The members of the Advisory Committee referred
to in section 15 shall not be entitled to any remuneration :

Provided, however, that the Minister may, in consulta-
tion with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
pay an allowance to such members if he considers it expe-
dient to do so.

17. Subject to the provisions of this Act it shall be the
duty of the Advisory Committee of a Pirivena Training
Institute to assist the Principal of that Institute in the
proper management of the Institute.

PART IV
Powers, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL

18. (1) Subject to the general direction and control of
the Minister, the Director-General shall be responsible for
the administration of this Act.

(2) ‘There shall be appointed other officers of the Depart-
ment of Education to assist the Director-General in the
exercise, performance and discharge of his powers, duties
and functions under this Act.

(3) The Director-General may, on appileation made
in that behalf, in consultation with the Board register a
Pirivena that conforms to the zu renne of this Act or

regulations nie thereunder.

(4): Any Pirivenii auplstered snder this Act or deemed
to be registered under this Act shall be eligible for a grant
from State funds in accordance with this Act or any regu-

: lations made thereunder.

Advisory
Committee
of Pirivena
Training
Institutes,

Members not
to receive -
remuneration,

Powers and
duties of
Advisory
Committee,

Powers,
duties and
functions of
the Director-
GeneraL


Manager of
a Pirivena.

Managers of
Mulika
Pirivenas,
Maha Piri-
venas and
Pirivena
Vidya-
yathana,

8 ‘Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979

PART V
MANAGERS, PRINCIPALS AND TEACHERS OF PIRIVENAS i

19. Every Pirivena shall have a Manager appointed by
the Director-General.

20. (1) Where a Pirivena is a Mulika Pirivena or a Maha
Pirivena or a Pirivena Vidyayathanaya, the Viharadhipathi
of the temple to which the land on which the Pirivena is
situated belongs shall be appointed as the Manager of that
Pirivena if the Viharadhipathi consents to that appointment.

(2) Where the Viharadhivathi does not consent to his
appointment under subsection (1), another Bhikku shall be
annninted as the Manager of that Pirivena on the recom-
mendation of the Viharadhipathi, if the Director-General
is satisfied that the Bhikku is suitable for the appointment.

(3) Where the Director-General is not satisfied that the
Bhikku who is recommended by a Viharadhipathi is suitable
for appointment as the Manager, the Director-General may
sppoint a suitable Bhikku as the Manager of that Pirivena.

(4) A Bhikku shall not be appointed as a Manager of more
than one Pirivena :

Provided that where a Mulika Pirivena and a Maha Piri-
vena are situated within the same premises the same Bhikku
may be appointed as Manager of both those Pirivenas.

(5) Where a Bhikku is a Viharadhipathi of more than one
temple and two or more Pirivenas are situated on the lands
belonging to those temples (except in the circumstances set
out in the proviso to subsection (4)), the Viharadhipathi
may elect to be appointed as the Manager. of any one of
those Pirivenas and the Viharadhipathi may, with the con-
currence of the Board, nominate a Bhikku for appointment
as aig ag of any one of those other inivenae

. (6) Where a Viharadhipathi of a nN, is a minor oF
sutfers from any mental or physical disability, the Director-
General shall, after consulting the Dayakha Sabha of the
temple and the Board, appoint a suitable Bhikku to act as
Manager of any Pirivena situated on any land belonging to
that temple, until the Viharadhipathi attains majoEey or
recovers from such disability. =


Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979 9

(7) Where there is a dispute to the office of a Viharadhi-
pathi of a temple the Director-General shall, after con-
sulting the Board, make a temporary appointment as
Manager of any Pirivena situated on any land belonging to
that temple until that dispute is determined.

21. The Board shall recommend to the Director-General
a suitable Bhikku for appointment as the Manager of a
Pirivena Training Institute.

22. (1) A Bhikku who holds any paid office under the
Republic shall not be appointed as a Manager of a Pirivena.

(2) Where a Viharadhipathi of a temple is a holder of a
paid office under the Republic, he shall, for the purpose of
section 20, be deemed to have not consented to his appoint-
ment as a Manager of a Pirivena and accordingly subsections
(2) and (3) of that section shall apply to the appointment of
a manager of a Pirivena referred to in that section.

23. The Manager of a Pirivena shall be responsible to the
Director-General for the proper administration and main-
tenance of that Pirivena.

24. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any regu-
lations made thereunder, the powers, duties and functions
of the Manager of a Pirivena shall be—

(a) to provide suitable and adequate accommodation,
furniture, equipment, sanitary and other facilities
for the Pirivena as may be required by the Director-
General; .

(b) to maintain such educational and cultural standards
in the Pirivena as may be prescribed ; -

‘ (c) to appoint or discontinue subject to the approval of
the Board the Principal and teachers of the Piri-
vena ; ;

(d) to utilize in the best interest of the Pirivena the grant
paid out of State funds in respect of the Pirivena ;

-(e) to be responsible for the general administration and

proper maintenance of the Pirivena ;

(f) to ensure that the staff of the Pirivena carries out the
functions and duties assigned to-such staff and
complies-with such instructions as may be issued ky
the Director-General from time to time; and ~~

Manager of a
kirlvena
Training
Institute.

Holder of a
paid office
under the
Republic
disqualified
for appoint-
ment as
Manager.

Manager
of a
Pirivena.
to be
responsible
to the
Director-
General

Powers,
duties

and
functions of
Managers of
Pirivenas.


10 Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979

’ (g) to recommend a suitable person acceptable to the
Board and the Director-General to act as Manager
where the Manager is unable to perform his duties
by reason of illness or absence from Sri Lanka
or for any other cause.

Principal of 25. A person shall not be eligible for appointment as the
Pirivenas. Principal of a Pirivena unless—

(a) he is a Bhikku who has received Upasampada not
less than five years prior to the date of appoint-
ment; and

(b) he—

(i) has passed the Pandits’ examination of the
Oriental Studies Society ; or

(ii) holds a degree of a University recognized by
the Director-General ; or

(iii) holds a degree of the Anuradhapura Buddha
Sravaka Dharmapitaya ; or

(iv) holds a first-class trained teacher’s certificate
awarded by a Pirivena Training Institute
approved by the Director-General :

(v) holds the Final Examination Certificate of the
Vidyodaya and Vidyalankara Maha Pirivenas :
Provided that a Bhikku who was a Princi-
pal of a Pirivena on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date may, notwith-
standing paragraph (b) continue as Principal

of that Pirivena.

Teachers of 26. (1) A person shall not be eligible for appointment as
Pirivenas. a teacher of a Pirivena unless he is a Bhikku:

Provided, however, that where a Bhikku is not available
for appointment as a teacher in respect of such subjects as
may be specified by the Director-General, a qualified layman
may be appointed as a teacher of a Pirivena.

(2) The minimum educational qualifications for teachers
of Pirivenas shall be as prescribed and different qualifica-
tions may be prescribed in respect of different subjects.

(3) A Bhikku appointed as a teacher to a Pirivena shall
be paid a monthly stipend and it shall be paid to a
‘Kepakaru’ nominated by the teacher:


Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979 11

Provided, however, that a Bhikku who was a full-time
Pirivena teacher on the day immediately preceding the
appointed date may continue to draw his salary.

(4) A layman appointed as a teacher of a Pirivena shall
be paid such salary, in accordance with the qualifications
held by him, as may be prescribed and such Balary may be
paid direct to him.

(5) The Board shall maintain for the purposes of this Act
a Register of Pirivena Teachers which shall include teachers
and Principals of all registered Pirivenas.

27. (1) All matters connected with the conditions of
service including the procedure in respect of appointments,
dismissals and disciplinary control of teachers and princi-
pals, and the payment of salaries shall be as prescribed.

(2) Only male persons shall be eligible for appointment
to the staff of a Pirivena either as a teacher or otherwise.

PART VI

GENERAL

28. Every Pirivena the registration of which has been
confirmed under regulation 3 (6) of the Code of Regulations
for Pirivenas published in Gazette No. 11,828 of August 7,
1959, as amended from time to time, and in existence on the
day immediately preceding the appointed date shall be
deemed to be a Pirivena registered under this Act.

29. Every Manager of a Pirivena, and every Principal
or teacher of a Pirivena, which under section 28 is deemed
to be registered under this Act, and who is functioning as
such on the day immediately preceding the appointed date
shall be deerned to be respectively the Manager, Principal
or a teacher of that Pirivena appointed under this Act and
shall, subject to this Act or any regulation made thereunder,
continue in that capacity under this Act.

~ 30. The Board may with the approval of the Minister
make rules in respect of the matters set out in sections
4(16) and 6 and every rule made under this section shall
come into operation on the date on which those rules are
approved at a meeting of the Board summoned for the

Purpose.

Certain
matters

to be
prescribed,

Existing
Pirivenas
to continue
under this
Act,

Manager,
Principal
and teacher
of any
existing
Pirivenas.

Board may
make rules,


Registered
Pirivenas to
comply with
this Act.

Grants
payable to
a Pirivena,

Regulations.

12 Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979

31. Every Pirivena registered or deemed to be regis-
tered under this Act shall comply with the provisions of
this Act and the regulations made thereunder.

32. The grants payable from State funds to any
Pirivena registered or deemed to be registered under this
Act in respect of maintenance, salaries of teachers and
library grants shall be according to the rate prescribed
by the Minister in consultation with the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance.

33. (1) The Minister may, with the concurrence of the
Board, make regulations for all matters in respect of
Which regulations are authorized or required to be made
under this Act. .

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may with the
concurrence of the Board make regulations in respect of
all or any of the following matters :—

(a) the registration, classification and grading of Piri-
venas, cancellation of such registration, payment of
grants from State funds and the terms and condi-
tions subject to which such grants shall be paid ;

(b) the matters to be taken into consideration in the
determination of the maximum number of Piri-
venas in Sri Lanka eligible for registration and
the maximum number of pupils eligible for admis-
sion to a Pirivena ;

(c) the maintenance of a register of Pirivena teachers
and the appointment and discontinuance of Mana-
gers of Pirivenas and their functions and duties ;

(d) the appointment, transfer, discontinuance, qualifica-
tions and grading of teachers including Principals
Of Pirivenas and the determination of the scales

of salaries ;

(e) the procedure for the payment of salaries to the
members of the staff of a Pirivena ;

(f) the admission of pupils to Pirivenas, their age limits
and the maintenance of specified ratios as between
Bhikkus and lay pupils in Pirivenas and courses
and schedules of studies in Pirivenas and the
books, apparatus and equipment to be used
therein ; @


Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979 13

(g) the training of Bhikkus at Pirivena Training Insti-
tutes, the courses of study and their duration ;

(h) the examination and inspection of Pirivenas, certifi-
cates and diplomas to be awarded in Pirivenas ; and

(i) the maintenance of discipline in Pirivenas.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister under this
Act shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into
operation on the date of the publication or on such later
date as may be specified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after the date of its publication, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which
is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from
the date of disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
so deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

34. The Code of Regulations for Pirivenas published in
Gazette No. 11,828 of August 7, 1959, as amended from time
to time, is hereby rescinded :

Provided, however, that notwithstanding such rescission,
any regulation which is in force on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date and which is not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act shall be deemed to have
been made under the provisions of this Act and shall have
effect as such and may at any time be amended, varied or
rescinded by regulations made under this Act.

35. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“ Bhikku ” includes a Samanera ;

“ Director-General”? means the person for the time being
holding the office of the Director-General of Educa-
tion and except for the purposes of section 4
includes a Deputy Director-General, a Director of
Education or other officer authorized by the
Director-General to act on his behalf for the
purposes of this Act;

Rescission.

Interpreta-
tion.


14 Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979

“ Pirivena ’’ means—

(a) an educational institution receiving a grant
from State funds under section 32: and
managed by a Bhikku and having for its aims
and objects the aims and objects specified in
sections 2 and 3; or

(b) a Pirivena Training Institute established under
section 13;
“Pirivena Education” means the education provided in
a Pirivena; and
“temple and Viharadhipathi” have the same meaning
-as in the Buddhist Temnporalities Ordinance.
