ied

SS
PARR, ae be
sO joe,

Pon Me hep en

u a . '
ene so

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

DEFENCE LEVY (AMENDMENT) >
ACT, No. 62 OF 1993

[Certified on 29th December, 1993]

Printed on the Order of Government oR ge hee

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 31, 1993

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRC LANEA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREBAU, COLOMBO

Price: 60 cents. Postage: Re. 1.00


Defence Levy (Amendment) Act, No. 62 of 1993
[Certified on 29th December, 1993]

L. D.—O. 72/93.
AN AcT TO AMEND THE DEFENCE Levy Act, No. 52 or 1991

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Defence Levy (Amend-
ment) Act, No. 62 of 1993.

2. The long title of the Defence Levy Act, No. 52 of 1991
(hereinafter referred to as “the principal enactment”) is
hereby amended by the substitution, for the words and
figures, “ FOR THE YEARS COMMENCING RESPECTIVELY, ON
JANUARY 1, 1992 AND ON JANUARY 1, 1993”, of the words and
figures, “ FOR THE YEARS COMMENCING RESPECTIVELY, ON
January 1, 1992, on, JANUARY 1, 1993 AND ON JANUARY 1, 1994”.

3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures, “for every quarter of the
years commencing respectively, on January 1, 1992
and on January 1, 1993”, of the words and figures,
“for every quarter of the years commencing respec-
tively, on January 1, 1992, on January 1, 1993 and on
January 1, 1994”; and
(2) in subsection (2) of that section by the repeal of
paragraph (d) of that subsection and the substitu-
tion therefor of the following paragraph :—
“(d) the proceeds from the sale of any article to
any exporter, if the Commissioner-General is
satisfied, on the production of a letter of
credit opened in any bank in Sri Lanka in
respect of the export of that article or other
documentary evidence, that suck article has
in fact been exported from Sri Lanka.”,

4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraph (c) of that section and the subs-
titution therefor of the folowing paragraphs :—

“(c) for every quarter commencing on or after July 1,

1992 but prior to January 1, 1994—

(i) an amount equivalent to three per centum of the
turnover of that person for the first month of
that quarter, on or before the fifteenth day of
the second month of that quarter ;

Short title.

Amendment
of the long
title of Act
No. 52 of
1991.

Amendment
of section

8 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
ef section

4 of the
principal
enactment.


2 Defence Levy (Amendment) Act, No. 62 of 1993

(ii) an amount equivalent to three per centum of
the turnover of that person for the second
month of that quarter, on or before the .
fifteenth day of the third month of that.
quarter ; and

(iii) the amount of the levy payable by such person |
for that quarter, reduced by the aggregate of |
the amounts paid by him in accordance with
the provisions of sub-paragraph (i) and of |
sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, on or |
before the fifteenth day of the month ©
immediately succeeding the end of that —
quarter ;

{d) for every quarter commencing on or after January 1
1994—

(i) an amount equivalezt to three and one-half per
centum of the turnover of that person for the
first month of that quarter, cn or hefore the
fifteenth day of the second month of that
quarter ;

(ii) an amount equivalent to three and one-half per
centum of the turnover of that person for the
second month of that quarter, on or before the
fifteenth day of the third month of that
quarter ; and

(iii) the amount of the levy payable by such person
for that quarter reduced by the aggregate of
the amounts paid by him in accordance with
the provisions of sub-paragraph (i) and
of sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, on or
before the fifteenth day of the month
immediately succeeding the end of that

quarter. ”.
Amendment 5. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
of section 5
of the as follows :— ;
principal
enactm

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and the
substitution herefor, of the following subsection :— —

“(f)every bank shall—


Defence Levy (Amendment) Act, No. 62 of 1993 3

(a) at the time at which it opens any letter
of credit in any month in ang relevant
quarter, on an application made in that
behalf being made by any person to
whom this Act applies, being an
importer of any article, collect from
such person an amount equal to—

(i) one per centum of the value of that
letter of credit, where such
letter of credit is opened prior to
August 7, 1992;

(ii) three per centum of the value of
that letter of credit, where such
letter of credit is opened on or
after August 7, 1992 but prior to
January 1, 1994; and

(iii) three and one-half per centum of
the value of that letter of credit,
where such letter of credit, is
opened on or after January 1,
1994;

(b) at the time when one of the documents
of payment in respect of an article
(not being an article in respect of which
a letter of credit has been opened by
such bank) is presented to it, in any
month in any relevant quarter,
commencing on or after January 1, 1994,
by any person to whom this Act
applies, collect from such person an
amount equal to the amount which
such bank would have been required
to collect in accordance with the
preceding provisions of this section,
had a letter of credit been opened by
it, on the date on which such document
is presented to it, in respect of such

article,
and shall remit the amount so collected to
the Commissioner-General on or before the
fifteenth day of the month immediately
succeeding the month in which the amount
was collected, together with a declaration in


Amendment
of section 8
of the
principal
enactment,

- Amendment
of section 10
the
principal
enactment.

Replacement
of the
Schedule to

the principal
' enactment.

4 Defence Levy (Amendment) Act, No. 62 of 1993

such form and containing such particulars
as may be specified by the Commissioner-
General. ”,

(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the sub-
stitution for the words, “the letter of credit
with reference to which”, of the words “ the
letter of credit or, to the document of pay-
ment referred to in paragraph (b) of sub-
section (1), as the case may be, with reference
to which ”.

6. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby
emended by the substitution for the words and _ figures,
“ Chapters, V, V2I, IX, X and XII of the Turnover Tax Act”,
of the words and figures “ Chapters V, VII, IX, X, XII and
SIVA of the Turnover Tax Act”.

7. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) by the substitution for the expressions ‘ Commissioner-
General”, “person” and “quarter” of the
expressions “ Commissioner-General ” and
“quarter”; and

- (2) by the insertion, immediately, after the definition of
“manufacture”, of the following definition :—

*“ person ” includes a company or body of persons
or any Government department but does not
include the United Nations Organization or
any specialized agency of such Organization
or the diplomatic mission of any foreign
Government or any member of the diplomatic
staff of such mission ;’.

8. The ‘Schedule to the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following Schedule substituted therefor :-—

“SCHEDULE . [Section 3]
Quarter Rate
For the quarter commencing on .
January 1, 1992 1 per centum
For the quarter commencing on
April 1. 1902 2.3 per centum


Defence Levy (Amendment) Act, No. 62 of 1993 5

Quarter Rate
For every quarter commencing
on or after July 1, 1992 but prior
3 per cenim

to January 1, 1994

For every quarter commencing
on or after January 1, 1994 but

prior to January 1, 1995 3.5 per centum "*.

9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail o

vail.
Ee inconsistency.
