PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 2 OF 2012

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 09th February, 2012]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 10, 2012

1Employees Provident Fund (Amendment)

Act, No. 2 of 2012

Short title.

20055084,090 (02/2011)

[Certified on 09th February, 2012]

L. D. O. 43/2008.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND

ACT, NO. 15 OF 1958

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Employees ProvidentFund (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2012.

2.Section 3 of the Employees Provident Fund Act, No.15 of 1958, (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended by the insertion immediatelyafter subsection (1) of that section, of the following newsubsection:

(1A) Where an employee becomes a member of theFund established under subsection (1), theCommissioner-General of Labour shall assign anidentification number to such employee and employerin the prescribed manner..

3.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (e)of that subsection, of the following newparagraph :

(ee)may invest such amount of moneys of theFund according to such terms and conditionsas may be prescribed, to purchase a land forthe construction of a Secretariat on behalf ofthe Fund or to construct such Secretariat onany land belonging to or held by the Fund,for the use of the Fund; " and" ;

Amendment ofsection 3 of Act,No. 15 of 1958.

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Employees Provident Fund (Amendment)

Act, No. 2 of 20122

(2)in paragraph (ff) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words account, for a periodnot exceeding six years prior to the date of suchtransfer, and of the words account and.

4. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 23 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 23A of that enactment:

23A. (1) Every member of the Fund who

(a) has made contributions to the Fund

for a period of not less than ten years;

(b) is presently employed; and

(c) possesses not less than three

hundred thousand rupees to hiscredit in his individual account,

shall, for the purpose of

(i) housing; or

(ii) medical treatment,

be entitled to withdraw such amount as doesnot exceed thirty per centum of the amountlying to his credit in his individual account :

Provided that the Minister may in the interestof the national economy from time to timeprescribe the maximum amount which may bewithdrawn from any such individual account.

(2) A member of the Fund who subject tothe provisions of subsection (1) makes awithdrawal from the amount lying to his creditin his account, shall upon the completion of aperiod of ten years from the date of suchwithdrawal, subject to the provisions of

Insertion of newsection 23A inthe principalenactment.

Housingbenefits andbenefitsrelating tomedicaltreatment.

3Employees Provident Fund (Amendment)

Act, No. 2 of 2012

paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection (1) beentitled to make a second withdrawal of suchamount as does not exceed thirty per centumfrom such account for any one of the abovepurposes.

(3) Every member shall, during the periodhe is a contributor to the Fund be entitled toonly two withdrawals from his individualaccount.

(4) For the purpose of this section

housing includes

(a)the construction of a house on aland belonging to a member ;

(b)the purchase of a land for theconstruction of a house;

(c)the purchase of a house;

(d)the redemption of a mortgage onhousing property; or

(e)the settlement of an outstandingbalance of the housing loanreceived from the approved bank,

by such member; and

medical treatment includes

(a)heart surgery;

(b)by-pass surgery;

(c)treatment for cancer includingsurgery;

(d)kidney transplant or surgery;

Employees Provident Fund (Amendment)

Act, No. 2 of 20124

(e)cesarean operation; or

(f)hospitalization for not less thanfourteen days on the account of anaccident.

(5) A member of the Fund, his or her spouseand his or her children shall be entitled to themedical treatment referred to in this section.

(6) The Minister may appoint, by Orderpublished in the Gazette different dates for thebringing in to operation of the provisions ofsub-paragraph (i) or (ii) of subsection (1) ..

5.Section 31A of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words at the rate ofone per centum of the words at the rate of two per centum.

6.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 31A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 31B of that enactment:

31B. (1) It shall be the duty of everyemployer having in his employment aminimum of fifty employees to furnish amonthly return containing such particulars asmay be prescribed, to the Commissioner-General of Labour with a copy to the CentralBank not later than the end of the succeedingmonth.

(2) Every monthly return referred to insubsection (1) shall with effect from July 1,2012 be submitted by electronic means..

7.Section 37 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words fine notexceeding one thousand rupees and fine not exceeding

Duty tofurnishreturns.

Amendment ofsection 31A ofthe principalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 31B inthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 37 of theprincipalenactment.

5Employees Provident Fund (Amendment)

Act, No. 2 of 2012

fifty rupees for each day of the words "fine not exceedingtwo thousand five hundred rupees and fine not exceedingseventy five rupees for each day" respectively.".

8.Section 46 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof by the insertionimmediately after paragraph (n) of that subsection of thefollowing new paragraph:

(nn)in respect of the procedure to be followed in grantinghousing benefits and benefits relating to medicaltreatment;.

9.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof anyinconsistency.

Amendment ofsection 46 of theprincipalenactment.

Employees Provident Fund (Amendment)

Act, No. 2 of 20126

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.