PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 10.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 24, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd of June, 2022]

CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 17 OF 2022

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 20221

[Certified on 23rd of June, 2022]

L.D.O. 58/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE (CHAPTER 101)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Civil Procedure Code(Amendment) Act, No. 17 of 2022.

2.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 154 of the Civil Procedure Code(Chapter 101) and shall have effect as section 154A of thatCode:

154A. (1) Notwithstanding the provisionsof the Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 14), in anyproceedings under this Code, it shall not benecessary to adduce formal proof of theexecution or genuineness of any deed, ordocument which is required by law to beattested, other than a will executed under theWills Ordinance (Chapter 60), and on the faceof it purports to have been duly executed,unless

(a)in the pleadings or further pleadingsin an action filed under regularprocedure in terms of this Code, theexecution or genuineness of suchdeed or document is impeached andraised as an issue; or

(b)the court requires such proof:

Short title

Insertion of newsection 154A intoChapter 101

Proof ofdeed ordocumentunnecessaryin certainevents

2Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2022

Provided that, the provisionsof this section shall not beapplicable in an event, a party toan action seeks to produce anydeed or document not included inthe pleadings of that party at anyproceedings under this Code.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1),shall mutatis mutandis apply in the actionson summary procedure under this Code..

3.Notwithstanding anything contained in section 2 ofthis Act, and the provisions of the Evidence Ordinance, inany case or appeal pending on the date of coming intooperation of this Act

(a)(i)if the opposing party does not object or hasnot objected to it being received as evidenceon the deed or document being tendered inevidence; or

(ii)if the opposing party has objected to it beingreceived as evidence on the deed or documentbeing tendered in evidence but not objectedat the close of a case when such document isread in evidence,

the court shall admit such deed or document asevidence without requiring further proof;

(b)if the opposing party objects or has objected to itbeing received as evidence, the court may decidewhether it is necessary or it was necessary as thecase may be, to adduce formal proof of the executionor genuineness of any such deed or documentconsidering the merits of the objections taken withregard to the execution or genuineness of such deedor document.

TransitionalProvisions

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 20223

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

4Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.