PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs. 4.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of October 04 , 2002

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 04th October, 2002]

Printed on the Order of Government

FACTORIES (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 19 OF 2002

1Factories (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 2002

2H 016426 5,550 (07/2002)

[Certified on 04th October, 2002]

L. D.O. 46/2000.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FACTORIES ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Factories (Amendment)Act, No. 19 of 2002.

2.Section 68 of the Factories Ordinance is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection :

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Partrelating to the hours worked and periods ofemployment, the pressure of work in any factory maybe dealt with by the overtime employment of womenand young persons who have attained sixteen yearsof age but have not attained eighteen years of age :

Provided that the overtime worked by a womanshall not exceed in the aggregate sixty hours in anycalendar month and overtime worked by a youngperson who has attained the age of sixteen years butnot attained the age of eighteen years, shall notexceed in the aggregate fifty hours in any calendarmonth. ;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) ofthat section, and the substitution therefor, of thefollowing paragraph :

(a)the total number of hours worked, includingovertime, by a woman or young person,

Short title.

Amendement ofsection 68 ofChapter 128.

2Factories (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 2002

exclusive of intervals allowed for meals andrest, shall not exceed sixty hours in anyweek. ;

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) ofthat section of the following new subsection :

(2A) An employer shall not engage inovertime

(a)a pregnant woman during herpregnancy ; and

(b)a nursing mother, for a period of oneyear calculated from the date of thebirth of the child; and

(c)a woman delivered of a stillbornchild, for a period of three monthscalculated from the date of such stillbirth,

unless she expresses her consent to be engaged insuch overtime, in writing. ; and

(4)by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(4)the Minister may by regulation

(a)prohibit or restrict the overtimeemployment of women or youngpersons or any class thereof, if itappears that such overtimeemployment will prejudicially affectthe health of such women or youngperson ;

3Factories (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 2002

(b)prescribe the conditions to bemaintained within the factoryincluding the provision of rest roomfacilities during the times that awoman or young person is engagedin overtime employment therein ;

(c)prescribe the manner of providingtransport facilities to women engagedin overtime employment during thenight..

3.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

4Factories (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 2002

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.