PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

P. HARRISON COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)

ACT, No. 44 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th November, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.50Postage : Rs. 50.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 28, 2014

1P. Harrison Community DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2014

[Certified on 24th November, 2014]

L.D.O. Inc. 11/2013

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE P. HARRISON COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as theP. Harrison Community Development Foundation hasheretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out its objects and transacting all mattersconnected with the said Foundation according to the rulesagreed to by its members :

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application.

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the P. HarrisonCommunity Development Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 44 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theP. Harrison Community Development Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the Foundation) or shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetualsuccession, under the name and style of the P. HarrisonCommunity Development Foundation (hereinafter referredto as the Corporation), and by that name may sue and besued with full power and authority to have, and use a commonseal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

2PL 0070412000 (10/2014)

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofP. HarrisonCommunityDevelopmentFoundation.

P. Harrison Community DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 20142

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Coporation.

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be

(a)to take necessary steps to make awareness of socialvalues among people;

(b)to promote mutual understanding and co-operationamong ethnic groups; and

(c)to provide grants, scholarships, gifts, donationsand financial assistance for the benefit of needyyouth.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specifiedin subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure thatsuch implementation shall be carried out without anydistinction based on race, religion, language, caste,sex, political opinion, place of birth or any of suchgrounds.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act theManagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Board of Directors(hereinafter referred to as the Board) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe CentralGovernment orProvince.

General objectsof theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3P. Harrison Community DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2014

(2) (a) The Board of Directors of the Foundation thatholds office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall function as the Boardof the Corporation until the first Board is appointed or electedin the manner provided for by rules made undersection 7.

(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradviser shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to thedeath, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of anoffice bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules ofthe Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill suchvacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherence of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including thepower:

(a)to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovateand otherwise obtain lands or buildings whichmay be required for the purposes of the Corporationand to deal with or dispose of the same as maybe deemed expedient with a view to promoting theobjects of the Corporation;

Powers of theCorporation.

P. Harrison Community DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 20144

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or withoutsecurities and to receive grants, gifts or donationsin cash or kind:

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedwith the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation.

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(d)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Corporation, in such manneras the Board may determine;

(e)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation;

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation;

(g)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of theCorporation;

(h)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCorporation;

5P. Harrison Community DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2014

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation; and

(j)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of the various officers, agentsand servants of the Corporation;

(d)The procedure to be follwed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board orany sub- Committee thereof, notices and agenda ofsuch meetings, the quorum and the conduct ofbusiness thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)the management of the affairs of the Corporationand the accomplishment of its objects anddissolution of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

P. Harrison Community DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 20146

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and inlike manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the Government Gazette.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and onaccount of the Corporation shall be deposited in one ormore banks approved by the Board to the credit of theCorporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and libilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andthe Auditing.

Register ofmembers.

7P. Harrison Community DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2014

(4) For the purposes of this section, "qualified auditor"means(a)an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute establisehd by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issuedby the Council of such Institute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the corporation for each financial year and submit suchreport together with the audited statement of accounts to theSecretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary SocialServices Organizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organizations (Registration and Supervision) Act,No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of theyear succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign andlocal moneys received by the Corporation during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall bepaid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

Annual Report.

P. Harrison Community DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 20148

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition orotherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power tosell, mortgage, lease exchange or otherwise dispose of thesame.

14.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of theobjects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence oftwo members of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Board as may be decided by suchBoard.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is bythe rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income orproperty among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members ofthe Corporation immediately before the dissolution at ageneral meeting by the majority of votes of the memberspresent.

Seal of theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

9P. Harrison Community DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 2014

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

P. Harrison Community DevelopmentFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 44 of 201410

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.