PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 14 OF 1997

{Certified on 22nd July, 1997]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 25, 1997

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

‘TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 7

Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 4.10


Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1997

[Certified on 22nd July , 1997)
L. D.— 0. 73/95.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Civil Procedure Code
(Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1997 and shall come into
operation on such date, as the Minister may by Order published
in the Gazette, appoint.

2. Section 55 of the Civil Procedure Code (hereinafter
referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended by
the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and the substitution
therefor of the following subsection :—

(1) Upon the plaint being filed and the copies of
concise statements required by section 49 presented,
the court shall order summons in the form No. 16 in
the First Schedule to issue, signed by the Registrar of
the court, requiring the defendant to answer the
plaint on or before a day to be specified in the
summons, such day, being a day not later than three
months from the date of the institution of the action
in court. ”.

3. Sections 59, 60 and 61 of the principal enactment are
hereby repealed and the following sections substituted
therefor :—

“Service of §9.(1) Summons shall ordinarily be served —

, Summons to be by .
registered post. by registered post.

(2) (a) In the case of a corporation, or
incorporate body summons may be delivered
to the registered office or if there is no

* registered office,the principal place of business
of such corporation or body.
2-D 042320- 13,550 (96/11)

Short title and date
of operation.

Amendment of
section 55 of
Chapter 101.

Replacement of
sections 59, 60 and
61 of the principal
enactment.


Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1997

(6) Where the defendant is a public officer
the court may send summons by registered
post to the head of the department in which the
defendant is employed, and it shall be the duty
of such head of department to cause the sum-
mons to be served personally on the defendant.

(c) Where the court is prima facie satisfied
that the defendant is in the employment of
another person, the court may send the
summons to the employer at his place of
business or, where the employee is a company
or corporation, to any secretary, manager or
other like officer of the company or corporation,
and it shall be the duty of such employer or
officer, as the case may be, to cause the
summons to be served personally on the
defendant.

(3) In every case in which the summons are
- sent by registered post to a person other than
the defendant, the court shall also forward a
duplicate of such summons, and it shall be the
duty of the head of department, employer or
officer, as the case may be, to return such
duplicate to the court forthwith with an
acknowledgment of the summons by the
defendant or with a statement of the service
endorsed thereon and signed by the person
effecting the service and countersigned by the
person to whom the summons had been
forwarded by courtifhe has not himself effected
the service.

(4) Where a defendant appears in court in
person on summons being served on him in the
manner referred to above, he shall produce his
national identity card or a valid passport, as the
case may be, and it shall be the duty of the
judge to satisfy himself that the person who
has appeared before him and the person on
whom summons have been served in the
manner aforesaid, is one and the same person.


Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1997

(5) Where a defendant is represented by a
registered attorney, the attorney shall in the
proxy tendered on behalf of the defendant,
state the number of the identity card or the
passport, as the case may be, of the defendant
and shall also make an endorsement thereon
certifying the identity of such defendant, where
a proxy is tendered on behalf of a company or
a body corporate it shall be tendered under the
seal of such company or the body corporate, as
the case may be.

(6) In this section—
“head of department”—

(a) whenused with reference toamember
of any unit of the Sri Lanka Army,
Navy or Air Force, means the
Commanding Officer of that unit ;

- (b) when used with reference to a person
employed in a local authority, if the
local authority is a Municipal
Council, means the Municipal
Commissioner of that Council ; if
the local authority is an Urban
Council or a Preadeshiya Sabha,
means the Chairman of that Council
or Sabha ;

(c) when used with reference to any other
public officer means the head of the
department of Government in which
such person is employed ; and

“national identity card” when used with
reference to any person, means the
identity card issued to such person
under the Registration of Persons Act,
No. 32 of 1968.


Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1997

Personal service.

Proof of service.

60. (1) Thecourt shall, where it is reported
that summons could not be effected by regis-
tered post or where the summons having been
served and the defendant fails to appear, direct
that such summons be served personally on the
defendant by delivering or tendering to him
the said summons through the Fiscal or the
Grama Niladhari within whose division the
defendant resides or in any case where the
plaintiff is a lending institution within the
meaning the Debt Recovery (Special Provi-
sions) Act, No. 2 of 1990, through the Fiscal or
other officer authorized by court, accompanied
by a precept in form No. 17 of the First
Schedule. In the case of a corporation sum-
mons may be served personally by delivering
or tendering it to the secretary or like officer
or a director or the person in charge of the
principal place of business of such corporation.

(2) Iftheservice referred to in the preceding
provisions of this section cannot by the exercise
of due diligence be effected, the Fiscal or
Grama Niladhari shall affix the summons to
some conspicuous part of the house in which
the defendant ordinarily resides or in the case
of a corporation or unincorporate body, to the
usual place of business or office of such
corporation or such body and in every such
case the summon shall be deemed to have been
duly served on the defendant.

61. When a summons is served by regis-
tered post, the advice of delivery issued under
the Inland Post Rules, and the endorsement of
service, if any, and where the summons is
served in any other manner, and affidavit of
such service shall be sufficient evidence of the
service of the summons and of the date of such
service, and shall be admissible in evidence
and the statements contained therein shall be
deemed to be correct unless and until the
contrary is proved.’.


Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1997

4, Section 62 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “shall fix a day on
or before which”, of the words “shall fix aday, not being aday
later than three months from the day on which the defendant
was earlier required to answer the plaint,on or before which, ”.

5. Section 209 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

“Court always to 209. When disposing of any application or

have power © 8i¥ action under this Ordinance, whether of regu-

or reserve costs.
lar or of summary procedure, the court may,
unless elsewhere in this Ordinance otherwise
directed, give to either party, the costs of such
application or action, or may reserve the con-
sideration of such costs for any future stage of
the proceedings. The court may in its order,
fix the amount of the costs of such application
or action, so however, that the amount so fixed
shall not be less than fifty per centum of the
amount of costs that may be given in an
application or action of that category, at such
Tates as may be prescribed for the purposes
of section 214, and not more than two hundred
per centum of the amount of costs that may be
given in an application or action of that
category, at such rates as may be prescribed
for the purposes of section 214. Any order
for the payment of costs only, is a decree for
money within the provisions of section 194 as
to payments by instalments.”.

6. Section 210 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

“Court shall direct 210. The decree or order shall direct by

by be paid ant “© who, the costs of each party are to be paid, and

estimate valuein Whether in wholeor in what part or proportion.

certain cases. The court shall, in decrees entered in such
classes of action as are prescribed, give its
estimate of the value of the action, and such
estimate shall be deemed to be the value of the
action, for the purposes of applying the rates
prescribed for the purposes of section 214, to
that action.”.

3-D 042320-

Amendment of
section 62 of the
principal enactment.

Replacement of
section 209 of the
principal enactment.

Replacement of
section 210 of the
principal enactment.


6

Amendment of
section 211 of the
principal enactment.

Replacement of
section 213 of the
principal enactment.

Replacement of
section 214 of the
principal enactment.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1997

7. Section 211 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)
thereof ; and

(2) by the addition immediately after the renumbered
subsection (1) of the following new subsection :—

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the
powers of the court under subsection (1), the court
may give costs to a party, in the case of any frivolous
or vexatious action or application or defence by the
other party or in the case of expense to such party,
occasioned by the delay or default of the other party
or by the making of any unnecessary or unreasonable
application by the . other party, so however, that the
costs so ordered shall in no case exceed five hundred
per centum of the costs that may be ordered in an
application or action of that category, at the rates
prescribed for the purposes of section 214. ”.

8. Section 213 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

“Court may give 213. The court may give interest on

interest on costs. . .
costs at the legal rate per annum as specified in
section 192 of the Ordinance, calculated from
the date of the decree, and may direct that
costs, with or without interest, be paid out of,
or charged upon, the subject matter of the
action.”.

9. Section214 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the following section substituted therefor :—

“Coststobe taxed. 214. All bills of costs, whether between
party and parties, or between registered at-
torney and client, shall be taxed by the Regis-
trar of the court in either case according to such

sy


Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1997

rates as may be prescribed. If either party is
dissatisfied with this taxation, the matter in
dispute shall be referred to the court for its
decision, and the decision of the court (except
when it is the decision of the Court of Appeal)

be liable to an appeal to the Court of Appeal.”.

10. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 417 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 417a of that enactment :—

“ Amount of 417a. The security for payment of costs
payment or costs, fixed by order made under section 416 or 417
shall in no case exceed the aggregate of the

following :—

(a) the total costs that can be ordered in an
action of that category, at the rates
prescribed for the purposes of section
214; and

(b) five hundred thousand rupees to meet
incidential expenses, such as expenses
that may be incurred in procuring the
evidence and attendance of witnesses
living abroad.”.

11. Sections 705A and 705 b of the principal enactmentare
hereby repaled.

12. Section 756 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and the
substitution therefor of the following subsection :-—

“(1) The security which is required to be
deposited by a party appellant shall be made by
way of deposit of a sum of money or
hypothecation of immovable property, (to
cover the costs of appeal and to no greater
amount :

Insertion of new
section 417A in the
principal enactment.

Repeal of sections
705A and 705B of
the principal
enactment

Amendment of
section 756 of the
principal enactment.


Addition of new
section

840 in the principal
enactment.

Amendment of First

Schedule to the

principal enactment.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1997

Provided that where money is deposited as
security, the same shall be deemed to have
been hypothecated in favour of the Registrar
of the court, for the payment of all costs which
shall be incurred and taxed in prosecution of
such appeal if the appellant is decreed to pay
the same: ”’.

13. The following new section is hereby added immediately
after section 839 of the principal enactment and shall have
effect as section 840 of that enactment :—

“Regulations.

840. (1) The Minister may make regulations
for, and in respect of all or any of the matters,
for which regulations are required or author-
ised to be made by this Ordinance, or which are
require by this Ordinance to be prescribed.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister
shall be published in the Gazette and shall
come into operation on the date of such
publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation shall, as soon as
convenient after publication in the Gazette, be
brought before Parliament for approval. Any
regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of its
disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any
regulation made by the Minister is so deemed
to be rescinded, shall be published in the
Gazette.”.

14. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended by the repeal of form No.129 of that

Schedule.


Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1997
15. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby repealed.

16. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

9

Repeal of Second
Schedule to the
principal enactment.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180

(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, No. 32,

Transworks House, Lotus RoaD, CoLomBo 01 before 15th December each year in respect
of the year following.
