PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 25 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th of August, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 16.00Postage : Rs. 45.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 17, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

Short title.

[Certified on 16th of August, 2018]

L.D.O. 70/2016

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 2018.

2.Section 5 of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of2002 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment)is hereby amended in subsection (15) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words dialysis and, services providedby the Out Patients Department but excluding medicalconsultation services; of the words dialysis, any healthcareservices provided by the Out Patients Department healthcare of any medical institution or professionally qualifiedperson providing such care and medical consultationservices:.

3.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (a) of the first proviso to subsection(1) thereof, by the substitution for the words starting fromshall be and ending with the words within Sri Lanka ofthe following:

shall be

(i)rupees twenty five for each suchgarment, for any period commencingprior to November 1, 2016;

(ii)rupees seventy five for each suchgarment, for any period commencingon or after November 1, 2016 but

Amendment ofsection 5 of Act,No.14 of 2002.

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

2Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

ending on or immediately after the dateof commencement of this (Amendment)Act;

(iii)rupees seventy five for each suchgarment other than panties, socks, briefsand boxer shorts identified under theHarmonized Commodity Descriptionand Coding System Numbers forCustom Purposes, for any periodcommencing on or after the date ofcommencement of this (Amendment)Act;

(iv)rupees seventy five for six pieces ofpanties, socks, briefs and boxer shorts,identified under the HarmonizedCommodity Description and CodingSystem Numbers for Custom Purposes,for any period commencing on the dateof commencement of this (Amendment)Act,

supplied within Sri Lanka..

4.Section 25A of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (iv) of subsection (1) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words and figures established by theMonitory Law Act, (Chapter 422) (with effect from July 1,2003) of the words and figures established by the MonitoryLaw Act, (Chapter 422) (with effect from July 1, 2003), orthe Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance Scheme established byregulation made under the said Act, (with effect from April1, 2018).

5.Section 25C of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) thereof as follows:

(1)in paragraph (e) of that subsection, by the substitutionfor the words and figures (e) commencing from

Amendmentof section25A of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 25C ofthe principalenactment.

3Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

January 1, 2015, but prior to May 2, 2016 of thewords and figures (e) commencing from January1, 2015 but prior to May 2, 2016 and commencingfrom July 12, 2016 but prior to November 1, 2016;

(2)in paragraph ( f ) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words and figures ( f )commencing from May 2, 2016 of the words andfigures ( f ) commencing from May 2, 2016, butprior to July 12, 2016 and commencing fromNovember 1, 2016.

6.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 58 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 58A of that enactment:

58A. (1) From such date as shall bedetermined by the Minister by Order publishedin the Gazette, where a tourist has proved by aclaim in writing in the specified form to thesatisfaction of the Commissioner-General ofInland Revenue or any person authorized byhim in writing in that behalf,

(a)that such tourist has purchased anyspecified goods in Sri Lanka as shallbe prescribed, from an authorizedretailer;

(b)that the value of such goods are inexcess of the minimum value as shallbe prescribed; and

(c)that such tourist has paid the tax onsuch purchases as per the tax invoiceas specified by the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue andissued to him by such authorizedretailer,

such tourist shall if he produces the relevantgoods to the authorized person for inspection

Insertion of newsection 58A inthe principalenactment.

Refund oftax totourists.

4Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

at the point of departue and if such goodsare being removed from Sri Lanka at thetime of his departure from Sri Lanka, theCommissioner-General of Inland Revenue orthe authorized person may on being satisfiedwith the facts specified in paragraphs (a), (b)and (c), refund or make necessary arrangementsto refund to such tourist such amount of thetax paid, on the basis of a refund scheme asshall be prescribed, at the time of such removalof goods from Sri Lanka.

(2) any authorized retailer who violates anyconditions subject to which his registration ismade commits an offence and shall onconviction after summary trial before aMagistrate be liable to a fine of rupees OneHundred Thousand and to the cancellation ofhis registration.

(3) For the purposes of this section

(a)authorized retailer means anyregistered person who has beenissued with a certificate ofregistration as an authorizedretailer by the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue onthe application made to him orany person authorized by theCommissioner-General of InlandRevenue in that behalf, to registerunder this Act as an authorizedretailer on the fulfilment of theconditions as specified bythe Commissioner-General ofInland Revenue;

5Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

(b)tourist means any individualwho is not a citizen of Sri Lankaor resident in Sri Lanka and whois not less than eighteen years oldas at the date of first day of hisvisit to Sri Lanka, and stays inSri Lanka for less than ninetydays on a visitor Visa issued bythe Controller of Immigration andEmigration..

7.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in PART II thereof as follows:

(1)in paragraph (a) of that PART

(a)by the repeal of item (i) and the substitutiontherefor of the following:

(i)wheat, wheat flour or infant milkpowder with effect from November1, 2016;

(b)by the substitution, in item (iv) for thewords Aircrafts, Helicopters, of the wordsand figures Aircrafts or Helicopters, [priorto the date of commencement of this(Amendment) Act];

(c)by the repeal of item (v) and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(v)books (other than cheque books,periodicals, magazines, newspapers,diaries, ledger books and exercisebooks), for any period prior toNovember 11, 2016;

books, magazines, jouranals orperiodicals (other than newspapers)

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

6Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

for any period on or after November11, 2016 identified underthe Harmonized CommodityDescription and Coding SystemNumbers for Custom purposes; and

unused postage and revenue stampsof the Government of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka orof a Provincial Council;;

(d)in item (xxii) of that paragraph

(i)by the substitution in sub-item (i)for the words sunglasses of thewords and figures sunglasses [priorto the date of commencement of this(Amendment) Act];

(ii)by the substitution in sub-item (iv)for the words wood (sawn) of thewords and figures wood (sawn)[prior to the date of commencementof this (Amendment) Act];

(iii)by the substitution in sub-item (v)for the words and figures Sri LankaExport Development Act, No. 40 of1979 of the words Sri LankaExport Development Act, No.40of 1979 [prior to the date ofcommencement of this(Amendment) Act];

(iv)by the repeal of sub-item (vii) andthe substitution therefor of thefollowing:

(vii)energy saving bulbs, forany period with effect fromJanuary 1, 2017 and rawmaterial for themanufacture of energysaving bulbs;;

7Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

(e)by the addition immediately after item(xxvi), of the following:

(xxvii) plants, machinery or accessoriesfor renewable energy generationidentified under the HarmonizedCommodity Description andCoding System Numbers forCustom Purposes with effect fromNovember 11, 2016;

(xxviii) electrical goods identified underthe Harmonized CommodityDescription and Coding SystemNumbers for Custom Purposeswith effect from November 1,2016;

(xxix)medical machinery or medicalequipment identified underthe Harmonized CommodityDescription and Coding SystemNumbers for Custom Purposeswith effect from November 11,2016;

(xxx)hot air balloons identified underthe Harmonized CommodityDescription and Coding SystemNumbers for Custom Purposeswith effect from January 1,2017..

(2) (a)in item (xi) of paragraph (b) of that PART

(i)in sub-item (b), by the substitution for thewords and figures on or after November 1,2016 by any person of the words andfigures on or after November 1, 2016 butprior to the date of commencement of this(Amendment) Act by any person;

8Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

(ii)by the addition immediately after sub-item(b), of the following new sub-item:

(c)if such supply has taken place on orafter April 1, 2019, other than anylease or rent by any person, andwhere such supply-

(i) is not relating to a sale of anycondominium housing unit;or

(ii)is a supply of a condominiumhousing unit of acondominium housing projectand the maximum price or themarket value (whichever ishigher) of any single unit ofthat project does not exceedrupees fifteen million.;

(b)by the repeal of item (xii) and the substitutiontherefor of the following:

(xii)(a) all healthcare services provided bymedical institutions or professionallyqualified persons providing such care,prior to May 2, 2016 and for the periodcommencing from July 11, 2016, butending on or before November 1,2016;

(b) on or after the date of commencementof this (Amendment) Act, allhealthcare services provided bymedical institutions or professionallyqualified persons providing such careother than hospital room charges.;

9Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

(c)by the repeal of item (xxx) and the substitutiontherefor of the following:

(xxx)locally manufactured jewellery, priorto November 1, 2016 and for any periodfrom November 22, 2016.;

(d)by the insertion immediately after item (L) ofthe following:

(Li)geriatric services or child care services;

(Lii)international telecommunicationservices provided by External GatewayOperators to local telecommunicationoperators..

(3)in paragraph (c) of that PART,

(a)by the substitution in item (xx) for the wordsand figures purposes (effective from17.7.2007) of the words and figurespurposes [effective from 17.7.2007, butprior to the date of commencement of this(Amendment) Act] ;

(b)by the substitution in item (xxviii) for thewords and figures cinematogaphic camerasand projector parts and accessories of thewords cinematogaphic cameras, projectorparts and accessories, prior to the date ofcommencement of this (Amendment)Act;

(c)by the substitution in item (xxix) for thewords and figures (with effect from January1, 2011) of the words and figures [witheffect from January 1, 2011, but prior to thedate of commencement of this (Amendment)Act];

10Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

(d)by the substitution in item (xxxiii) for thewords agricultural products or plants of anytype of the words and figures agriculturalproducts or plants of any type, prior to thedate of commencement of this (Amendment)Act; and

(e)by the substitution in item (xxxvi) for thewords fabric, specified under the HarmonizedCommodity Description and Coding SystemNumbers for Custom Purposes of the wordsand figures fabric, specified under theHarmonized Commodity Description andCoding System Numbers for CustomPurposes, prior to the date of commencementof this (Amendment) Act.

8.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

11Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.