PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIG
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 61 OF 1988
« [Certified on 17th December, 1988]
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as 2 Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988
PRINTED AT TE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
To FF FURGHAGED AT ENE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMOBO
Price : 60 cents. Postage : 75 cents.


Public Trustee (Amendment)
Act, No. 61 of 1988
{Certified on 17th December, 1988]
LD—O 16/86
AN Act 70 AMEND THe Pustic ‘TrustE ORDINANCE
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Repiiblic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Public Trustee (Amend- short title
ment) Act, No. 61 of 1988, r
2 Section 4 of the Public Trustee Ordinance (herein- Replacement
after referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby gf section
repealed and the following new section substituted there- ‘Chapter #8.
for =
‘Appointment 4. (1) There may be appointed a deputy or
Sovrers deputies to assist the Public Trustee,
‘of Deputy
ee (2) The act of appointment of any Deputy
Public Trustee shall specify whether he is
appointed as such for the whole of Sri Lenka
or any part thereof (the area for which such
Deputy Public Trustee is appointed being i
hereinafter referred to as “the area of his
appointment”).
L (3) Any Deputy Public Trustee appointed
i under subsection (2) shall, subject to the
general or specific orders of the Public
‘Trustee within the area of his appointment,
be competent to discharge any of the duties
and exercise any of the powers of the Public
Trustee, and, when discharging such duties
or exercising such powers, shall have the
same privileges and be subject to the same
liabilities as the Public Trustee.
(4) There may be appointed such legal
officers and other staff as may be necessary
to assist the Public Trustee or any Deputy
Public Trustee in the administration of this
Ordinance, 2


2 Public Trustee (Amendment)
Act, No. 61 of 1988
Insertionot 3, ‘The following new section is hereby inserted imme-
Ion in the. diately after section 10 of the principal enactment, and
Peete shall have effect as section 10a, of that enactment :—
any sti Wa. (1) Any Sri Lankan citizen pro-
Gitizen'pro- ceeding for employment outside Sri Lanka
ceeding for may, register with the Public Trustee,
employment — the names of the persons to whom any com
Lani, to pensation shall be payable in the event of
Berton. to his death while being so employed.
Whom com=
pon (2) Where a Sri Lankan citizen dies while
in the event being employed outside Sri Lanka, his
of his death. employer may transmit to the Public
Trustee, any sum payable as compensation
in respect of such death, to be paid by the
Public Trustee to the persons entitled thereto.
(3) On receipt of any sum under
subsection (2) the Public Trustee may,
distribute such sum to the persons nominated
by the deceased under subsection (1) or in
the absence of such nomination, to the
persons entitled thereto. ”,
Insertion of 4. The following new sections are hereby inserted imme-
Rew ici'ogs diately after section 25 of the principal enactment, and
in the shall have effect as sections 254 and 25n of that enactment :—
enactment.
Application 25a. (1) Where the Public Trustee makes
Of provisional @% application for probate or letters. of
Possession of administration in respect of the estate of the
property PY deceased person, he may at the same time
‘Trustee. ‘make an application for an order authorising
him to take provisional possession of the
movable and immovable property of the
estzte (in this section referred ‘to as an
“order for provisional possession”).
2) The court may make an order for pro-
‘visional possession of an estate at the stage
‘when it enters an order nisi in the appli-
cation by the Public ‘Trustee for the issue of
probate or letters of administration in respect
of that estate. If the court at any stage dis-
charges such order nisi, it shall also cancel
the order for provisional possession.


? Public Trustee (Amendmens) 3
‘Act, No. 61 of 1988 .
Public (3) Where the Public Trustee takes
"Trustee to be possession of the movable and immovable
Fompetent to Property of an estate of a deceased person
action as by virtue of an order for provisional posses-
‘useeien sion, he shall hold such property in trust for
the heirs of the estate.
25p, Where the Public Trustee has reason
to believe that the. managing trustee of any
trust of which he has been appointed custo-
dion trustee has, in the exercise of the
powers of management or any other power
of diserction vested in such trustees, com-
mitted a breach of such trust, he may Z
institute an action in’ the District Court
within the local limits of whose civil juris-
diction the whole or any part of the subject
matter of the trust is held or situate, to obtain
a decree—
(a) directing the removal of any trustee ;
(2) directing accounts and inquiries ;
(c) declaring what proportion of the trust
property or of the interest therein,
shall be allocated to any particular
object of the trust ;
(d) authorizing the whole or any part of
the trust property to be let, sold,
mortgaged or exchanged ;
(e) settling a scheme for the management
of the trust ;
(f) directing the specific performance of
any act by any trustee ;
(g) appointing the Public Trustee as the
. sole trustee; and
(h) granting such other or further relief
as the nature of the case may .
warrant. ’.
5. Section 49 of the principal enactment. is hereby re- Replacement
ealed and the following section substituted therefor:— $f Seo?
principal
ene om 49. (1) Notwithstanding anything to. the “n#etment.
be irastce’Y  céntrary in the Buddhist Temporalities Ordi-
Sronemple —_ nance, the Public Trustee may—
(a) hold movable property in trust for
the benefit of a temple. The income


5 4 Public Trustee (Amendment)
‘Act, No. 61 of 1988

Gerived from any such property
shall vest in the trustee or Control-
ling Viharadhipathi of that temple
jn accordmee with section 20 of the

Ordinance ;
(b) manage any immovable property
. vested in the trustee or Controlling
Vihrabhipathi of a temple, being
immovable property which is twenty
acres or over in extent on contract
containing such terms and condi-
tions as may be agreed upon by. the

* Publfe Trustee and such trustee or

Controlling Viharadhipathi.

, (®) % this section, the expressions
“trustee”, “Controlling Vibsradhipathi”
and “temple” shall have the same meanings
respectively, as in the Buddhist Tempora-
ties Ordinance.

(8) The provisions of this section shall
come into operation on such date as may
be appointed by the Minister, by Order
published in the Gazette.’

Amendment Section 52 of the principal enactment is hereby

St'the "amended in subsection (1) of that section by the insertion

Principal ramediately after paragraph (h) thereof, of the folicwing
new paragraph :—

“ (i) the matters ‘on which rules are required by this

Ordinance to be prescribed”.
