PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

API WENUWEN API FUND
ACT, No. 6 OF 2008

[Certified on 19th February, 2008]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2008

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TOBE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 14.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00


Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008

[Certified on 19th February, 2008]
L.D.—O 28/2007. _

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FUND TO BE CALLED
AND KNOWN AS THE “Apt WENUWEN API FUND” TO PROVIDE LOANS
FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OR PURCHASE OF HOUSES FOR ARMED SERVICE
PERSONNEL ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :— :

1. This Act may be cited as the Api Wenuwen Api Fund
Act, No. 6 of 2008.

2. (1) There shall be established a Fund to be called and
known as the “Api Wenuwen Api Fund”, (hereinafter referred
to as the “Fund”) for the purpose of giving effect to the aims
and objects of the Fund as set out in section 4.

(2) The Fund established under subsection (1) shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession under the name
and style of “Api Wenuwen Api Fund” and by that name may
sue and be sued with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3. (1) The administration, management and control of
the Fund shall be vested in a Board of Management
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”).

(2) The Board shall consist of-—
(a) the following ex-officio members :—
(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister

in charge of the subject of Defence, or his
nominee ; ;

2 —PL 002609 — 4,300 (11/2007)

Short title.

Establishment of
the “Api
Wenuwen Api
Fund”.

Board of
Management of
the Fund.


2 Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008

Gi) a Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka, nominated by the Governor of the
Central Bank;

(iii) the President or a member of the Council of
the Institute of Chartered Accountants
nominated by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka established by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka Act, No. 23 of 1959;

(iv) the Director or a member of the Faculty of
the Postgraduate Institute of Management
of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura,
nominated by the Board of Management of
the Postgraduate Institute of Management;
and

(b) two members who shall be appointed by the
Minister in charge of the subject of Defence from
among those who possess necessary
qualifications, experience or expertise in the
fields of Law and Finance (hereinafter referred
to as “appointed members”).

(3) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Defence shall be the Chairman of
the Board.

(4) An appointed member of the Board may at any time
resign his office by written communication addressed to
the appointing authority with a copy to the Chairman of
the Board.

(5) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed.
or continuing in office, as a member of the Board, if such
person—

(a) is, or becomes, a member of Parliament or a
Provincial Council or a local authority; or


Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008 3

(b)  isconvicted of an offence involving moral turpitude,
punishable with imprisonment for a term not less
than six months; or

(c) is under any jaw in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country found or declared to be of unsound mind;
or

(d) is a person who, has been declared an
undischarged insolvent or bankrupt under any
law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country.

(6) (a) Any appointed member shall hold office for a
period of three years from the date of appointment.

(b} Where an appointed member of the Board vacates
his office by death, resignation or otherwise before the
expiry of his term of office, his successor shall hold office
for the unexpired period of the term of office of his
predecessor.

(7) The Board shall appoint a person to be the Secretary
to the Board.

(8) The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all
meetings of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman
from any meeting, the Deputy Governor of the Central
Bank appointed under subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a)
of subsection (2) of section 3 shall preside at that meeting.
In the absence of both the Chairman and the Deputy
Governor, any member «! the Board, who is present at the
meeting, shall be elected by the other members, as the
Chairman, for that meeting.

(9) (a) In the event of any difference of opinion
between the members of the Board, the decision of the
majority of the members present shall be binding and
effectual.


4 Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008

(6) In the event of an equality of votes of the members of
the Board, the Chairman shal! have a casting vote.

(10) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed to
be invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy
amongst its members.

(11) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be
four members.

(12) Subject to the provisions of subsection (11), the
Board may make rules to regulate the procedure with regard
to its meetings and the transaction of business at such
meetings.

The aims and 4, The aims and objects of the Fund shall be —
objects of the .

Fund. oo, . .
(a) to formulate schemes to provide financial assistance

for construction of houses for armed service
personnel;

(b) to provide assistance to armed service personnel
eligible under the Act to obtain housing facilities;

‘(c) to make provision for the grant of assistance to armed
service personnel to obtain and repay the loans
obtained by them from financial institutions ;

(d) to formulate a scheme to ensure the repayment of
the loans, in the event any armed service personnel
dies or is permanently disabled or injured, in action
or otherwise.

Powers of the 5. (1) The Board shall, in the name of the Fund, have the

Board. power to. do all things necessary for or conducive or
incidental to the carrying out the aims and objects of the
Fund.


Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008 5

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Board shall exercise and
discharge the following powers and functions :—

(a) toratse funds, to receive grants, gifts, and donations,
in cash or in kind, whether from local or foreign
sources;

(b) to purchase, acquire or hold any property, movable
or immovable, which may become vested in it by
this Act or by virtue of any purchase, gift, grant,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and to sell,
mortgage, lease, grant, convey. device, assign,
exchange or otherwise dispose of any property to
which the Fund may become entitled;

{c} to conduct any lottery subject to the provisions of
the Lotteries Ordinance (Chapter 45), in order to
raise funds for the furtherance of the objects of the
Fund;

(d) subject to the provisions of the Act, to appoint
officers, employees and servants, and to remunerate
them and to make rules regarding the appointment,
promotion, remuneration and disciplinary control
of such officers, employees, and servants and the
grant of leave and other benefits to them;

(e) to enter into and perform, either directly or
through officers, employees, servants and
agents authorized in that behalf by the Board, ail
such contracts and agreements as may be necessary
for the exercise, performance and discharge of
the powers, duties and functions and for the
carrying out the objects of the Fund;


The chief
accounting
officer to be
responsible for
the
administration
and management
of the Fund.

Payments into
the Fund.

6 Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008

(f) to invest money belonging to the Fund at the
discretion of the Board in any such investments
as are authorized by law for the investment of
money, to recall, invest and vary such investments
at the discretion of the Board. and to collect
any income arising or accruing from such
investments;

(g) to open, operate and close bank accounts and to
borrow or raise money, with the property of the Fund
. as Security or without such security, for the purposes

of the Fund; and,

(h) to do all such other acts or things as are incidental
_ or conducive to the carrying out of the objects of
the Fund.

6. There shall be a chief accounting officer of the
Fund appointed by the Board who shall with the approval
of the Board, be responsible for the administration and
management of the Fund established under section 2, and
in particular for the matters provided for in section 7
and sectiun 8. .

7. There shall be paid into the Fund—

(a) any grants, gifts, donations received or any funds
raised or received, either locally or from aboard;

(b) any funds, grants, gifts, donations received or
collected either locally or from abroad for the
Fund, prior to the commencement of this Act;

(c) any grant received from the government from time
to time for the purpose of carrying out the aims
and objects of the Fund;

. (d) such sums as may be transferred from time to time
from the President’s Fund established by the
President’s Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978;


Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008 7

(e) any sum of money transferred from the National
Defence Fund established under the National
Defence Act, No. 9 of 1985;

(f) any income from investments or other receipts due
to the Fund.

8. There shall be paid out of the Fund—

(a) all expenses necessary. to achieve the objects of the
Fund;

(b) the interest accrued on loans granted to armed
services personnel;

(c) ailsuch other payments as are approved by the Board
as being necessary for the purpose of carrying out
the ebjects of the Fund.

9. There shall be an account maintained by the Fund at
the Central Bank in the name of the “Api Wenuwen Api
Fund” and the moneys paid into the Fund under section 7
shall be credited to the said Account.

19. The Fund shall, with the concurrence of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance, be exempt from the
payment of any tax on the income or profits of the Fund to
such extent as is permitted in terms of the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 10 of 2006.

11. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities,
and all other tansactions of the Fund.

(2) The Board shall cause its books to be balanced as
on the thirty-first day of December of the same year, and shall
prepare the following financial statements and submit them
to the Board, for its approval, on or before the thirty-first day
of March in the following year :—

(a) an income and expenditure account, containing
details of all income and expenditure of the Fund in
that year;

Payments out of
the Fund.

Account to be
maintained at
the Central
Bank.

Exempt of the
Fund from taxes.

Accounts and
Audit.


8 Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008

(b) the balance sheet, containing the summary of all
"assets and liabilities of the Fund, held by the Fund
as at thirty-first day of December,

(c} a statement of cash flow showing all monies paid
into the Fund and all monies paid out of the Fund in
that year.

(3) The chief accounting officer of the Fund shall
submit, under his signature, the income and expenditure
account, the balance sheet, and the statement of cash flow
prepared in accordance with subsection (2) to the Board,
for its approval.

(4) The Board shall, by a resolution of the Board,
approve the income and expenditure account, balance
sheet and the statement of cash flow submitted to it by the
chief accounting officer, under subsection (3).

(5) The Board shall cause the report of the chief
accounting officer on the administration of affairs of the
Fund which shall contain a detailed report of the steps
taken for the furtherance of the objectives of the Act, to
be transmitted to the Minister along with the following
documents :—

(i) the Auditor - General’s report for the relevant year;
and

(ii) documents specified in subsection (2) of this
section.

(6) The Minister shall cause copies of the report and
documents transmitted to him under subsection (5) of this
section to be laid before Parliament.

(7) The Auditor-General shall audit the accounts of the
Fund every year in accordance with the Article 154 of the
Constitution.


Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008 9.

12. (1) The seal of the Fund —
(a) — shall be in the custody of the Board ;

(b) may bealtered in such manner as may be determined
by the Board; and

(c) shall not be affixed to any document except with
the sanction of the Board and in the presence of
two members of the Board, who shall sign the
documents in token of their presence. However
the power to affix the seal may be delegated to
any officer of the Fund, by a resolution of the
Board. :

(2) The Board shall cause to be maintained a Register of
all documents to which the seal of the Board has been affixed.

13. (1) The Board may make rules in respect of any
matter required by this Act.

(2) Norule made by the Board shal! have effect unless it
has been approved by the Minister and published in the
Gazette.

14, (1) The Minister may make regulations for matters
required by the Act to be prescribed or in respect of which
regulations are authorized to be made.

(2) Inparticular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations in respect of all or any of the following
matters :-——

(a) the manner and the method of the distribution of
the moneys in the Fund;

(b) the circumstances or reasons to be considered in
granting an extended period for the payment of the
loan and the interest accrued thereon;

(c) the manner and the method of payment of loan
installments,

The seal of the
Fund,

Rules.

Regulations.


Application for a
Joan.

Manner of
processing such
application.

10 Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008

(d) the criteria to be considered in assessing the eligibility
for a loan,

(e) the manner and form in which lotteries are to
conducted;

(f) the manner and form of making an application fora
loan; and

(g) the manner in which loans granted from the Fund
shall be recovered.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
brought before Parliament for its approval. Every
regulation which is not so approved by the Parliament shall
be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval, but without prejudice to any thing previously
done thereunder.

(5) Notice of the date on which any regulation is so
disapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

15. Any armed service personnel who is eligible for
a loan under this Act, may make an application in the
prescribed form to the Board.

16. On receipt of such application, the officer
authorized in that behalf by the Board shall process such
application and intimate to the Board, the eligibility of
such applicant with reasons for such decision. The Board,
on satisfying itself about the selection of the applicant
shall inform the applicant its decision. The decision of
the Board shall be made within four weeks from the receipt
of such application.


Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008 H

17. (1) Any applicant, who is aggrieved by the
decision of the Board, may appeal to the Minister against
such decision.

(2) On receipt of such appeal, the Minister shall, after
giving a-hearing to the applicant and also to a representative
of the Board —

(a) allow the appeal and reverse the decision of the
Board,

(b) call for further information to be furnished or
evidence to be taken;

(c) affirm the decision of the Board.

18. The decision of the Minister shall be communicated
to the Board and also to the applicant, who shall comply
with the decision.

19. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against any member of the Board or any officer, servant or
agent in any action brought against the Fund.

20. (1) Any expense incurred by the Fund on any suit,
action or prosecution brought by or against the Board before
any court shall be paid out of the moneys of the Fund and
any cost recovered by the Board in any such suit, action or
prosecution shall be credited to the Fund.

(2) Any expense incurred in any writ. action or prosecution
brought against any member of the Board, or any officer,
employee, servant. or agent before any court, in respect of
‘my act, which is done or is purported to be done by such
person under any law or on the direction of the Board, shall
be re-imbursed to him by the Fund.

Appeal to the
Minister.

Decision of the
Minister to be
communicated to
the applicant.

No writ to issue
against person or
property of a
member or
officer &c,. of
the Fund.

Recovery of
expenses in any
suit.


Officers and
Servants of the
Fund deemed to
be public
servants under
the Penal Code.

Fund is deemed
to be a scheduled
institution within
the meaning of
the Bribery Act.

Interpretation.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

12 Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008

21. Allofficers and servants of the Fund shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning and for the purpose
of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

22. The Fund shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter
26).

23. In the Act, “Armed Service Personnel” means the
service personne! of the Sri Lanka Army, the Sri Lanka
Navy and the Sri Lanka Air Force and a member of the
Sri Lanka Police Force established respectively by the Army
Act (Chapter 357), the Navy Act (Chapter 358),the Air Force
Act (Chapter 359) and Police Ordinance (Chapter 53).

24. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhata and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local). Rs 1.180

(Foreign). Payable to the SurekiNTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS LB) i..AU, DEPARTMEN: «

GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, No. 163, KtRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.
