PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRILANKA

TAX AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE AMNESTY
ACT, No. 4 OF 1997

[Certified on 29th April, 1997]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Social:
Republic of Sri Lanka of May 02, 1997

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

‘Price: Rs. 9.00 Postage : Rs.


Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty
Act, No. 4 of 1997

(Certified on 29th April, 1997]
L.D.—O. 3/97.

AN ACT TO. ENABLE THE DEPOSIT IN SAVINGS ACCOUNTS IN THE
NATIONAL SAVINGS BANK, OF MONEYS REPRESENTING
ACCUMULATED PROFITS AND INCOME, RETAINED IN OR OUTSIDE
Sri LANKA, AND IN RESPECT OF WHICH A PERSON HAS NOT
FURNISHED A RETURN OF INCOME OR WHICH HAVE NOT BEEN
DISCLOSED IN A RETURN FURNISHED BY SUCH PERSON UNDER THE
LAW RELATING TO THE IMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX, OR OF
RELEVANT FOREIGN CURRENCY HELD BY A PERSON OUTSIDE SRI
LANKA AND CONVERTED INTO SRI LANKAN RUPEES FOR THE
PURPOSE OF SUCH DEPOSIT ; TO ENABLE THE WITHDRAWAL OF THE
MONEYS DEPOSITED IN SUCH SPECIAL ACCOUNTS FOR SPECIFIED
PURPOSES ; TO INDEMNIFY PERSONS AGAINST LIABILITY TO PAY
CERTAIN TAXES, AND AGAINST PROSECUTIONS OR PENALTIES FOR
OFFENCES IN RELATION TO SUCH TAX LAWS AND EXCHANGE
CONTROL LAWS ; WITH A VIEW TO SECURING FULL COMPLIANCE,
IN THE FUTURE, BY SUCH PERSONS, WITH TAX LAWS AND LAWS
RELATING TO EXCHANGE CONTROL; AND FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Paliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1. This Actmay becited asthe Tax and ForeignExchange — Short title.
‘Amnesty Act, No. 4 of 1997,

2. (1) This Act shall, subject to the provisions of Person to whom
subsection (2), apply to any person who— this Act applies.

(a) under the law for the time being applicable to the ©
imposition of income tax or surcharge on income
tax, was liable to pay income tax for any year of

- assessment ending on or before March 31, 1996,
in respect of any profits and income which arose,

~ oraccrued, on or before March31, 1996, and who
‘> has not furnished a return of income under the

"40° provisions of such law for any such year of

mul yo 53°. assessment or who has not disclosed such profits
ines *!- or income in any return furnished by him under

the provisions of such law for any such year of
assessment ; or

2—D 043239—9,535 (97/02)


2 Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty
Act, No. 4 of 1997

(b) holds any relevant foreign currency’: ouisi¢e Sri
‘ Lanka.

(2) This Act shall not apply to any person in relation to
whom any investigation was pending on February 15, 1997
for—

(a) any alleged or suspected evasion of any tax payable
under, the law for the time being applicable to the
imposition of income tax or the Finance Act,
No. 11 of 1963 or the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 -
of 1981, or the National Security Levy Act,

No. 52 of 1991, in respect of any profits and
: income or turnover, as the case may be, which
; arose or accrued to, or was derived, hl such
Person on or before March 31, 1996 ;

©) any alleged or suspected Widlation; of any provision

of the Exchange Control Act or the Prevention of

'. Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48 of
1979.

(3) Every person referred to in subsection (1), not being
a person referred to in subsection (2), shall, hereafter in this
Act, be referred to as “a person to whom this Act applies”.

Persons to whom 3. A person to whom this Act applies who—
this Act applies SEE AS OG Gt le aye ei te UN)
rae py taspedta - (a) has any moneys (not being relevant foreign currency),
accounts in the in or out side Sri Lanka, which represent
Bank. ~ accumulated profits or income for any year of
| assessment ending on or before March 31, 1996,
and in respect of which such person has not made
_ areturn of income or which such person has not
disclosed in the returns of income made by him
» under the law for the time being applicable to the
“* Imposition of, income tax or surcharge on income

tax ; or en


Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty 3
Act, No. 4 of 1997

(6) holds any relevant foreign currency,

‘may, in the case of such moneys as are referred to in
paragraph (a), deposit such moneys or convert and deposit
such moneys, on or after February 15, 1997, but prior to
August 15, 1997, to his credit, in a special account opend by
him for that purpose in the Bank, and in the case of such
foreign currency as is referred to in paragraph (b), convert and
deposit such foreign currency, on or after February 15,1997,but
prior to August 15, 1997, to his credit, in a special account
opened by him for that purpose in the Bank. ns

4. (1) Every person who deposits any moneys in a
special account in the Bank under the provisions of section 3
shall make a declaration to the Bank in the Form set out in te
popeaulen to this sxc

(2) The Bank shall cause a copy of every declaration
made to it under subsection (1) to be transmitted to the
-Commissioner- General, and in the case of a declaration made
in respect of any foreign currency converted and deposited,
the Bank shall cause acopy of such declaration to be transmitted
to the Controllor of Exchange. i

5. Notwithstanding anything in any other law the Bank
shall not permit any person who has deposited any moneys in
any such special account as is referred to in séction 3 to
withdraw, prior to the expiration of a period of two years from
the daté on which the deposit was made, the whole or any part
of the amount lying to the credit of such person in such special
account (other than the interest accruing on such amount),
except for the purposes, and after the period, specified in the
proviso to subsection (1) of section 6.

6. .(1) Any person who has deposited any moneys in any
such special accountas is referred to in section 3 may withdraw
the balance amount lying to his credit in such special account
after the expiration of a period of two years from the date on
which he made the deposit :

. Purposes for

Declarations to be '
furnished by
depositors.

Restrictions on
withdrawal of
moneys. deposited
in special
accounts.

which moneys
deposited in
special accounts
may be
withdrawn.


Intosest on
noneys deposited
in special 605
neces,

4 _ Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty

' Act, No. 4 of 1997

Provided, however, that such person may upon being
authorised in writing by the Commissioner -General to do so,
withdraw, after the expiration of a period of one month from
the date on which he made the deposit, the whole or any part
of such balance amount, for investment in an agricultural or
industrial undertaking or in any undertaking or facility for
infrastructure development, being an undertaking or a facility
which has been duly authorised by any Government Authority

or by any local authority or the Board of Investment of Sri

Lanka established by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka .
Law, No. 4 of 1978. 3

(2) Where any person who withdraws after the period
of one month from the date on which he has made the
deposit, any moneys lying to his credit in any such special
account as Is referred to in section 3, for any of the purposes
specified in the proviso to subsection (1), fails to apply such
moneys for the purpose for which such moneys were
withdrawn, such person shall be guilty of an offence under this
Act and shall on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine of an amount equal to the
moneys withdrawn and an amount not exceeding one hundred
thousand rupees.

(3) Where any person withdraws after the expiration of a
period of one month from the date on which he made the
deposit, any moneys lying to his credit in any such special
account as is referred to in section 3, for any of the purposes
specified in the proviso to subsection (1), the Bank shall cause
to be transmitted to . the Commissioner-General, the details
regarding every such withdrawal.

errs ley

iy

7. The Bank shall pay interest on the amount lying to the
credit of any person in any such special account as is referred
ty in section 3, at the current rate of interest payable by the
Bank on moneys lying to the credit of savings accounts. The
in{crest so accruing may be withdrawn by sush person after
the expiration of a period of one month from the date on which
he made the deposit.


_ Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty 5
‘Act, No. 4 of 1997

8. _ Any person to whom this Act applies, who has deposited © Indemnification
any moneys in any such special account as is referred to in 0™ certain taxes
: : and prosecutions.
section 3, shall not be liable—

(a) to pay—

- (i) any income tax or surcharge on income tax
payable respectively, under the law for the
time being applicable to the imposition of
income tax and the law for the time being

_ applicable to the imposition of surcharge -

~ On income tax, in respect of such part of his
profits and income for any year of
assessment ending on or before March 31, -

1996, as is represented by any moneys
deposited by him in such special account ;

— (ii) any wealth tax or surcharge on wealth tax
payable respectively, under the law for the
time being applicable to the imposition of
wealth tax and the law for the time being
applicable to the imposition.of surcharge

_ _ on wealth tax, in respect of such part of his
. net wealth for any year of assessment
~ ending on or before March 31, 1996, as was
acquired by the utilization of any such part
of his profits and income as is referred to

in sub-paragraph (i) ;

(iii) any business turnover tax under the Finance
Act, No. 11 of 1963 or any turnover tax
under the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981
~ or any National Security Levy under the
National Security Levy Act, No. 52 of
1991, in respect of the turnover from which
'. such part. of the profits and income as is
referred to in sub paragraph (i), arose or was

© derived 5 Ot v2


Preces : ng
provisions of this
Act, not to be
construed as
authorizing the
revision of any
assessment
previously made.

6 - Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty

- Act, No. 4 of 1997

(b) to a prosecution or to a penalty for any offence :
une

(i) the law for the time being applicable to the
imposition of, income tax or surcharge on
income tax or wealth tax or the surcharge
on wealth tax in relation to any year of
assessment ending on or before March 31,

- 1996, in respect of, or in connection with, —
such part of his profits and income as is
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph
(a) or such part of his net wealth as is
referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of

~ paragraph (a) ;

Gi) the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963 or the
Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981 or the
National Security Levy Act, No. 52 of 1991
in respect of, or in connection with, such
turnover as is referred to in sub-paragraph
(iii) of paragraph (a) ;

(iii) the Exchange Conirol Act, in respect of the

whole or any part of the relevant foreign

~ currency converted and deposited by himin
‘such special account. ~

9. Nothing in the preceding provisions of this Act shall -
be read or construed as authorizing the revision of— .

' (a) any assessment made under the provisions of—

@ the i for the time being relating to the
imposition of, income tax or surcharge on
income tax or wealth tax or surcharge on
wealth tax ; or

(ii) the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963, the Turnover
Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981, or the National .
Security Levy Act, No. 52 of 1991 ;


Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty 7
Act, No. 4 of 1997

(b) any requirement imposed before March 31,1996, on
any person to whom this Act applies and in
relation to any violation by him of any provision
of the Exchange Control Act ; or

(c) any other matter,

which has become final and conclusive “idee the provisions
of any such law.

10. (1) Subject to the provisions SOF subsection (2), every
officer or employee of the Department of Inland Revenue or
of the Department of Exchange Control or of the Bank shall
preserve, and aid in preserving, secrecy with regard to all
matters that may come to his knowledge in the administration
of this Actand shall not give, divulge or reveal, any information
whatsoever regarding any such special account as is referred
to in section 3 to any individual, corporation, bank, court,
institution, entity, department, official, agent, representative
of the Government of Sri Lanka or to any other legal or natural
person.

(2) Notwithstanding thie p provisions of subsection (1), the
Commissioner-General or the Controller of Exchange, or an
officer or employee of the Bank, as the case may be, shall if he
is required to do so—

(i) by the person to whom such matter or information
relates ;

(ii) by any provision of any law giving effect to an
international convention on narcotics or hijacking,
in any criminal proceedings instituted under that
law, In any court ; 7

: (iii) by an order of the Supreme Court, stele apolicaifon
therefor, on the ground that moneys in any special
account referred to in section 3 have been, or are
being used, in furtherance of an act which

‘constitutes an offence under the Prevention of
Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48 of
_ 1979 ; or

“ (iv) by an order of court in any legal proceedings instituted |

_ by or against the Bank or by or against the holder

_ of aspecial.account referred in section 3, relating

"toa banking transaction arising from such special
account, fg TOA: ig

Maintenance ~
of
secrecy.


Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.

8 Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty
Act, No. 4 of 1997

communicate to such person or court in so far as such
communication is strictly necessary for the purposes of
complying with such requirement or order of court, any matter
or information which has come to his knowledge in the
administration of this Act.

(3) Any officer or employee of the Department of Inland
Revenue or of the Department of Exchange Control or of the
Bank whoacts in contravention of the provisions of subsection
(1) shall, be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonment. :

‘11. Intheeventof any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

12. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

_.,“Bank” means the National Savings Bank established by
_ the National Savings Bank Act, No. 30 of
1971 ;

“Commissioner-General”, “local suiherity”™ net wealth.
“profits and income”, and “year of assessment”

9964

ap « «, Shall have the respective meanings assigned to

‘s, them by the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of
1979: )

“Controller of Exchange” means the officer designated as
‘ the head of the Department of Exchange Control
of the Central Bank and includes an officer

designated as assistant to him ;

“Exchange Control Act” means the Exchange Control
_- Act (Chapter 423) ;

“Foreign currency” means any currency other than Sri
~- Lankacurrency and includes any currency payable
"bya foreign Governmentor institution toa person

3, in, or resident in, Sri Lanka in respect of his
pension or other gratuities due to him and all


Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty © 9
Act, No. 4 of 1997

deposits, credits and balances payable in any
currency other than Sri Lankan currency and any
such drafts, travellers’ cheques, letters of credit
and bills of exchange as are expressed or drawn in
Sri Lanka currency but payable in any currency |
other than Sri Lankan currency ;

“person” includes a company, a body of persons or a
partnership ;

“relevant foreign currency” in relation to a person means
foreign currency held on March 31, 1996 by such
person outside Sri Lanka in violation of the
provisions of the Exchange Control Act, being or
being attributable to, profits and income or not
being or not being attributable to profits and
income, and which was acquired by him outside
Sri Lanka by way of gift, donation, inheritance or
otherwise ;

“the law for the time being applicable to the imposition
of income tax” means the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 28 of 1979 ; =

“the law for the time being applicable to the imposition of
surcharge on income tax” means the Surcharge on
Income Tax Act, No.26 of 1982, the Surcharge on
Income Tax Act, No. 12 of 1984, the Surcharge
on Income Tax Act, No. 7 of 1989 ;

“the law for the time being applicable to the imposition of

~ wealth tax or surcharge on wealth tax” means the

Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, the Surcharge.

on Wealth Tax Act, No. 25 of 1982 and the
Surcharge on Wealth Tax Act, No. 8 of 1989 ;

*“turnover” and “quarter” shall have the respective
meanings assigned to them by the Turnover Tax
Act, No. 69 of 1981.


10 Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty
Act, No. 4 of 1997

SCHEDULE (SECTION 4)

TAX AND ForeiGn ExcHANGE AMNESTY AcT, No. 4 oF 1997 :

DECLARATION UNDER SECTION 4
Income Tax FileNo. _ if any en ee «cd

National Identity Card Number /Company Registration
Number aie Hane wiwri ah RRA ONAN

Special Amnesty Savings Deposit Account No. ...........cceeceees ies:
Name of Business, if any ..............ccecececseeeeeeeees SOPH OPER PSE CLES
Date niin saeeelaeees Sens

Ty Mr/MIS/MISS/WE: ice cic.cececosuuvasucccosurcs dda ec asus eu daalysbiseee Watts

(address)

ist (1) request you to accept in terms of the Tax and Foreign Exchange
Amnesty Act, No. 4 of 1997, asum of Rupees ..0.....6.leccc cee ceceeeeeeeenene
(RS ..... ere Te eens .) being moneys _

(@) Rsv. held by me/ by the company in Sri Lanka ;

(6) \Rsiii. eee nei obtained by the conversion of foreign currency
(not being relevant foreign currency) held by me out side Sri
‘+ -Lanka;and- =;
PALM) RS OF AES obtained by the. conversion of relevant
. foreign currency

to be placed in a Special Amnesty Savings Deposit Account in the name of
BEE BORE ER CD See OD ae er ees

(2) undertake not to withdraw any part of this amount before the
expiration of a period of two years from the date of this deposit, except for
the purposes, and after the period, specified in the Proviso to subsection (1)
of section 6 of the aforesaid Act;

(3) agree to my/our Special Amnesty Savings ae Pass Book cpeane
kept in the safe custody of your Bank ;

(4) further agree to be bound by the rules pertaining to savings seeaodlts
in your Bank for the time being, and which may come into effect from time
to time.

eee eee eee)

Sipnstice/Sigsanices of
Depositor/Depositors

Designation if declaration is on behalf of a Company.
Signed in my presence. ‘

Signature of Branch Manager.
