Price : Rs. 9.75Postage : Rs.4.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

REMOVAL OF OFFICERS (PROCEDURE)ACT, No. 5 OF 2002

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 27, 2002

[Certified on 26th March, 2002]

Printed on the Order of Government

Removal of Officers (Procedure)Act, No. 5 of 20021

2H 0133945,550 (02/2002)

[Certified on 26th March, 2002]

L. D. O. 6/2002.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED FOR

THE REMOVAL OF PERSONS APPOINTED TO CERTAIN OFFICES SPECIFIED

IN PART II OF THE SCHEDULE TO ARTICLE 41C OF THECONSTITUTION ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Removal of Officers(Procedure) Act, No. 5 of 2002.

2.The holders of the Office of

(a)the Attorney - General;

(b)the Inspector - General of Police,

shall not be removed from such Office, except inaccordance with the procedure as set out hereinafter inthis Act.

3. The persons appointed to the Offices referred to insection 2 may be removed from office on any one or more ofthe following grounds :

(a)being adjudged an insolvent by a court of competentjurisdiction ;

(b)being unfit to continue in office by reason of ill healthor physical or mental infirmity ;

(c)being convicted of an offence involving moralturpitude, treason or bribery ;

(d)being found guilty of misconduct or corruption ;

Grounds ofremoval ofpersons holdingOffices referred toin section 2.

Holders of certainOffices not to beremoved exceptin accordancewith theprocedure set outin this Act.

Short title.

Removal of Officers (Procedure)Act, No. 5 of 20022

(e)being found guilty of gross abuse of power of hisoffice ;

(f)being found guilty of gross neglect of duty ;

(g)being found guilty of gross partiality in office ; or

(h)ceasing to be a citizen of Sri Lanka.

4.(1) The removal of the holder of either of the Officesspecified in section 2 on any one or more of the groundsreferred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (h) of section 3, shallbe by the President.

(2) In the exercise of the power referred to in subsection(1), the President shall take into consideration such evidencewhether oral or written, which in the opinion of the Presidentis adequate to support the existance of the grounds referredto in that subsection.

5. (1) The removal by the President of the holder ofeither of the Offices specified in section 2 on any one or moreof the grounds referred to in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) or (g) ofsection 3, shall be after the presentation of an address ofParliament supported by a majority of the total number ofMembers of Parliament (including those not present) for theappointment of a Committee of Inquiry :

Provided however, that no resolution for the presentationof such an address shall be entertained by the Speaker, unlessnotice of such resolution is signed by not less than one-thirdof the total number of Members of Parliament including thosenot present.

(2) Upon receipt of a resolution in accordance withsubsection (1), a Committee of Inquiry (hereinafter referredto as the Committee) shall be constituted to inquire andreport its findings in respect of the alleged grounds, on whichthe removal is being sought.

Removal ongrounds referredto paragraphs (a),(b), (c) or (h) ofsection 3.

Procedure to befollowed forremoval in certaincases.

Removal of Officers (Procedure)Act, No. 5 of 20023

Constitution of theCommittee.

Chairman topreside at sittings.

Functions of theCommittee.

6.The Committee constituted in terms of subsection (2)of section 5, shall comprise of the following persons :

(a)where the inquiry is in relation to the Attorney-General, the Committee shall consist of three personsof which the Chairman shall be the Chief Justiceand two other persons appointed from amongpersons who have previously held the office ofAttorney-General or persons who have reachedeminence in the field of law, appointed by theSpeaker with the concurrence of the Prime Ministerand the Leader of the Opposition; and

(b)where the inquiry is in relation to the Inspector-General of Police, the Committee shall consist ofthree persons of which the Chairman shall be a Judgeof the Supreme Court nominated by the Chief Justice,the person holding office as Chairman of the PoliceCommission established under Article 155A of theConstitution and a person who has reached eminencein the field of law or management of publicadministration, appointed by the Speaker with theconcurrence of the Prime Minister and the Leaderof the Opposition.

7.(1) The Chairman of the Committee shall preside atall sittings of the Committee.

(2) The Committee may regulate the procedure with regardto the inquiries to be conducted by such Committee.

8. (1) The functions of the Committee shall be

(a)to inquire into and investigate the alleged groundson which the removal of the holder of, either of theOffices specified in section 2, is being sought ; and

(b)to make findings in respect of the alleged groundsof removal of the holders of such Offices andforthwith communicate such finding to the Speaker ;

Removal of Officers (Procedure)Act, No. 5 of 20024

(2) The decision of the Committee, shall be the decisionof the majority.

9. For the purpose of discharging its functions, theCommittee shall have all or any of the following powers :

(a)procure and receive all such evidence, written or oraland to examine all such persons as witnesses, as theCommittee may think necessary or desirable toprocure or examine ;

(b)require the evidence, whether written or oral of anywitness, to be given on oath or affirmation (Suchoath or affirmation would be such as would beadministered if he were giving evidence in a courtof law) and such oath or affirmation shall beadministered to every such witness by an officerauthorized in that behalf by the Committee;

(c)summon any person residing in Sri Lanka to attendany inquiry of the Committee to give evidence orproduce any document or other thing in hispossession, and examine him as a witness or requirehim to produce any document or other thing in hispossession ;

(d)admit, notwithstanding the provisions of theEvidence Ordinance, any evidence whether writtenor oral, which would otherwise be inadmissible inany civil or criminal proceedings ;

(e)admit or exclude the public from such inquiry orinvestigation or any part thereof.

10.(1) A person who gives evidence before theCommittee shall in respect of such evidence, be entitled toall the privileges to which a witness giving evidence before acourt of law is entitled to in respect of such evidence given byhim before such court.

Powers of theCommittee.

Immunity ofwitnesses beforethe Committee.

Removal of Officers (Procedure)Act, No. 5 of 20025

Contempt ofCommittee.

Summons.

(2) No person shall in respect of any evidence written ororal, given by that person to, or before the Committee be liableto any action, prosecution or other proceeding civil or criminalin any court :

Provided that nothing in the preceding provisions of thissubsection shall

(a)affect, or be deemed or construed to affect, anyprosecution or penalty for any offence under ChapterXI of the Penal Code ;

(b)prohibit or be deemed or construed to prohibit or bedeemed or construed to prohibit the publication ordisclosure of the name or of the evidence or any partof the evidence of any witness who gives evidencebefore the Committee, for the purposes of theprosecution of that witness under Chapter XI of thePenal Code.

11. (1) Every summons issued by the Committee shallbe under the hand of the Chairman of the Committee.

(2) Summons shall be served by delivering it to the personnamed therein, or where that is not practicable, by leaving itat the last known place of abode of that person or by sendingit by registered post.

(3) Every person to whom a summons is served shallattend before the Committee at the time and place mentionedtherein, and shall answer the questions put to him by theCommittee or produce such documents or other things as arerequired of him and are in his possession or authority,according to the tenor of the summons.

12.(1) An act done or omitted to be done in relation tothe Committee whether in the presence of the Committee orotherwise, shall constitute an offence of contempt against, orin disrespect of, the authority of the Committee, if such act, ifdone or omitted to be done in relation to the Supreme Court,would have constituted an offence of contempt against, or indisrespect of the authority of, such Court.

Removal of Officers (Procedure)Act, No. 5 of 20026

(2) Any person who

(a)fails without cause which in the opinion of theCommittee is reasonable, to appear before theCommittee at the time and place mentioned in thesummons served under this Act ; or

(b)refuses to be sworn or affirmed, or having being dulysworn or affirmed refuses or fails without cause,which in the opinion of the Committee is reasonable,to answer any question put to him touching thematters being inquired into, or investigated by theCommittee ; or

(c)refuses or fails without cause, which in the opinionof the Committee is reasonable, to comply with therequirements of a notice or written order or directionissued or made to him by the Committee ; or

(d)upon whom summons is served under this Act,refuses or fails without cause, which in the opinionof the Committee is reasonable, to produce and showto the Committee any document or thing, which isin his possession, control or authority and which isin the opinion of the Committee necessary forarriving at the truth of the matters being inquiredinto, or investigated,

shall be guilty of the offence of contempt against, or indisrespect of, the authority of the Committee.

(3) Every offence of contempt committed against or indisrespect of the Authority of the Committee shall bepunishable by the Supreme Court as though it were an offenceof contempt committed against, or in disrespect of theauthority of that Court, and the Supreme Court is hereby vestedwith jurisdiction to try every such offence.

Removal of Officers (Procedure)Act, No. 5 of 20027

Officers andservants to assistthe Committee.

Officers andservants to bepublic servants.

(4) Where the Committee determines that a person is guiltyof the offence of contempt under subsection (1) or subsection(2), against or in disrespect of its authority, the Committeemay transmit to the Supreme Court a certificate setting outsuch determination ; every such certificate shall be signed bythe Chairman of the Committee, provided that in the case ofan inquiry or investigation with regard to the removal of theAttorney- General, the Chief Justice shall take cognizance ofsuch offence of contempt and deal with such offence in themanner and offence of contempt against the Supreme Courtwould be dealt with.

(5) In any proceedings for the punishment of an offenceof contempt which the Supreme Court may think fit to takecognizance of, as provided by in this section, any documentpurporting to be a certificate signed and transmitted to suchCourt under subsection (4), shall

(a)be received in evidence, and be deemed to be such acertificate without further proof ; and

(b)be evidence that the determination set out in thecertificate and the facts stated in such determinationwas made by the Committee.

(6) In any proceedings taken as provided for in this sectionfor the punishment of an alleged offence of contempt against,or in disrespect of, the authority of the Committee, no memberof the Committee shall, and notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in this Act, be summoned or examined as a witness.

13. The Committee may obtain the assistance of suchofficers and servants as may be necessary to assist it in thedischarge of its functions under this Act.

14. The officers and servants appointed to assist theCommittee shall be deemed to be public servants within themeaning of the Penal Code and every inquiry or investigationconducted by the Committee shall be deemed to be a judicialproceeding within the meaning of that Code.

Removal of Officers (Procedure)Act, No. 5 of 20028

15.(1) No proceedings, civil or criminal, shall beinstituted against any member of the Committee or any officeror servant appointed to assist the Committee other than forcontempt, or against any other person assisting the Committeein any other way, for any lawful act which in good faith isdone or omitted to be done, by him as such member or officeror servant or other person.

(2) A member of the Committee or an officer or servantappointed to assist the Committee shall not be required toproduce in any court, any document received by, or to discloseto any court, any matter or thing coming to the notice of theCommittee in the course of any inquiry or investigationconducted by the Committee under this Act, except as maybe necessary for the purposes of proceedings for contempt orfor an offence under this Act.

(3) No proceedings civil or criminal, shall be instituted inany court against any member of the Committee in respect ofany finding or report made by the Committee under this Act.

16. The officers and servants appointed to assist theCommittee shall be deemed to be officers of a Scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

17. The Speaker shall, upon receipt of the findings of theCommittee in terms of paragraph (b) of section 8 and where afinding of guilt has been arrived at, place such finding in theform of a resolution in the Order Paper of Parliament for theremoval of the holder of such office in respect of whom theinquiry was held.

18. The resolution so placed on the Order Paper in termsof section 17 shall be dealt with in accordance with theStanding Orders of Parliament. Upon the majority of Membersof Parliament (including those not present) voting in favourof such resolution, the holder of such office to whom suchresolution relates shall forthwith be removed from office bythe President.

Removal.

Officers andservants to beScheduledofficers.

Resolution forremoval.

Immunity fromsuit.

Removal of Officers (Procedure)Act, No. 5 of 20029

Interpretation.

19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

20.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Attorney-General means the holder of the Office ofAttorney-General of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka ; and

Inspector-General of Police means the holder of theOffice of Inspector-General of Police of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Removal of Officers (Procedure)Act, No. 5 of 200210

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.