PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ASIAN INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTBANK AGREEMENT (RATIFICATION) ACT, No. 7 OF 2016

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 30th May, 2016]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 40.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 03, 2016

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 20161

2PL 0099102961 (05/2016)

[Certified on 30th May, 2016]

L.D.O. 4/2016

AN ACT TO ENABLE SRI LANKA TO BECOME A MEMBER OF THE ASIANINFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT BANK AUTHORISING THE RATIFICATION

OR ACCEPTANCE BY SRI LANKA OF THE AGREEMENT, ESTABLISHING

THAT BANK, TO WHICH SRI LANKA IS A SIGNATORY, AND TO PROVIDE

FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Asian InfrastructureInvestment Bank Agreement (Ratification) Act, No. 7 of2016 and shall come into operation on such date as theMinister may by order published in the Gazette.

2.The Minister assigned the subject of Finance or aperson authorized by him shall on behalf of the Governmentof Sri Lanka -

(a)ratify, accept or approve the Articles of Agreementestablishing the Asian Infrastructure InvestmentBank , ( in this Act referred to as the agreementand the bank respectively), to which Sri Lanka isa signatory and which is set out in the Schedule tothis Act; and

(b)deposit with the Bank an instrument of suchratification, acceptance or approval of theagreement by the Government of Sri Lanka withoutreservation in accordance with the written laws ofSri Lanka.

3.The provisions of Chapter IX of the Agreement shallhave the force of law in Sri Lanka and accordingly, the Bankshall have in Sri Lanka the status, immunities, privilegesand exemptions as specified in chapter IX, of the Agreementor as granted in terms of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No.9 of 1996 or any other written law.

Short title.

Authorization ofratification,acceptance orapproval of theAgreementestablishing AsianInfrastructureInvestment Bank.

Status, immunities,privileges andexemptionsaccorded to theBank in Sri Lanka.

2Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

4.There shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fundsuch sums as are payable, or may, from time to time, becomepayable, to the Bank by the Government of Sri Lanka asrequired to be paid in terms of the Agreement.

5.(1) The Minister assigned the subject of Finance may,if he deems necessary on behalf of the Government of SriLanka, for the purpose of payment of subscription underparagraph 5(b) of Article 6 of the agreement create and issueto the Bank, in such form as he deems necessary, any suchnon-negotiable and non-interest bearing promissory notesor other obligations payable at par value on demand to theaccount of the Bank, in lieu of the currency of Sri Lanka insuch circumstances stipulated in Article 6 of theagreement.

(2) For the purpose of providing any sums required to bepaid out of the Consolidated Fund under section 4, theMinister assigned the subject of Finance may raise loans, onbehalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, by the creation andissue to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, in such form as hemay deem necessary, of non-interest bearing and non-negotiable promissory notes or obligations.

(3) The Central Bank of Sri Lanka is hereby authorized toaccept and hold any promissory notes or obligations createdand issued in accordance with the provisions of subsection(2) of this section subject to the provisions of any otherwritten law.

(4)There shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund suchsums as may be required for the redemption of any notes orobligations created and issued to the Central Bank of SriLanka under subsection (1) of this section.

6.All sums received by or on behalf of the Governmentof Sri Lanka from the Bank under the Agreement shall bepaid into the Consolidated Fund, and the sums so received,in so far as they represent capital, shall, unless otherwise

Payments out of theConsolidated Fund.

Issue ofGovernmentpromissory notesor obligations.

Receipts.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 20163

provided in that behalf under any written law, be appliedfrom time to time as the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance may direct in the redemption of notes or otherobligations issued to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka underthis Act.

7.(1) The Minister assigned the subject of Finance maymake Orders as he may consider reasonably necessary forgiving effect to any of the provisions of the Articles.

(2) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication.

(3) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall as soonas is convenient after its publication in the Gazette be placedbefore Parliament for its approval. Any order not so approvedshall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of suchdisapproval.

(4) Notification of the date of which any Order is sodeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

8.The Minister assigned the subject of Finance maytake all such steps, and make all such arrangements, as hemay consider reasonably necessary to enable theGovernment of Sri Lanka to meet or discharge its financialobligations or liabilities under the Agreement.

9. For the purposes of this Act

Central Bank means the Central Bank of Sri Lankaestablished under the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422).

10.In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Orders.

GeneralProvisions.

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

4Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

SCHEDULE[SECTION 2]

ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT OF THE ASIAN INFRASTRUCTUREINVESTMENT BANK

The Government on whose behalf this Agreement is signed

CONSIDERING the importance of regional cooperation tosustain growth and promote economic and social development of theeconomies in Asia and thereby contribute to regional resilienceagainst potential financial crises and other external shocks in thecontext of globalization;

ACKNOWLEDGING the significance of infrastructuredevelopment in expanding regional connectivity and improvingregional integration, thereby promoting economic growth andsustaining social development for the people in Asia, and contributingto global economic dynamism;

REALIZING that the considerable long-term need for financinginfrastructure development in Asia will be met more adequately by apartnership among existing multilateral development banks and theAsian Infrastructure Investment Bank (hereinafter referred to as theBank);

CONVINCED that the establishment of the Bank as a multilateralfinancial institution focused on infrastructure development will helpto mobilize much needed additional resources from inside and outsideAsia and to remove the financing bottlenecks faced by the individualeconomies in Asia, and will complement the existing multilateraldevelopment banks, to promote sustained and stable growth in Asia,

HAVE AGREED to establish the Bank, which shall operate inaccordance with the following:

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 20165

CHAPTER I

PURPOSE, FUNCTIONS AND MEMBERSHIP

Article 1Purpose

1. The purpose of the Bank shall be to (i) foster sustainableeconomic development, create wealth and improve infrastructureconnectivity in Asia by investing in infrastructure and otherproductive sectors; and (ii) promote regional cooperation andpartnership in addressing development challenges by working inclose collaboration with other multilateral and bilateral developmentinstitutions.

2. Wherever used in this Agreement, references to Asia andregion shall include the geographical regions and compositionclassified as Asia and Oceania by the United Nations, except asotherwise decided by the Board of Governors.

Article 2Functions

To implement its purpose, the Bank shall have the followingfunctions:

(i)to promote investment in the region of public and privatecapital for development purposes, in particular fordevelopment of infrastructure and other productive sectors;

(ii)to utilize the resources at its disposal for financing suchdevelopment in the region, including those projects andprograms which will contribute most effectively to theharmonious economic growth of the region as a wholeand having special regard to the needs of less developedmembers in the region;

(iii)to encourage private investment in projects, enterprisesand activities contributing to economic development in theregion, in particular in infrastructure and other productivesectors, and to supplement private investment when privatecapital is not available on reasonable terms and conditions;and

(iv)to undertake such other activities and provide such otherservices as may further these functions.

6Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

Article 3Membership

1. Membership in the Bank shall be open to members of theInternational Bank for Reconstruction and Development or the AsianDevelopment Bank

(a)Regional members shall be those members listed in Part Aof Schedule A and other members included in the Asiaregion in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 1. Allother members shall be non-regional members;

(b)Founding Members shall be those members listed inSchedule A which, on or before the date specified in Article57, shall have signed this Agreement and shall havefulfilled all other conditions of membership before thefinal date specified under paragraph 1 of Article 58.

2. Members of the International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment or the Asian Development Bank which do not becomemembers in accordance with Article 58 may be admitted, under suchterms and conditions as the Bank shall determine, to membership inthe Bank by a Special Majority vote of the Board of Governors asprovided in Article 28.

3. In the case of an applicant which is not sovereign or notresponsible for the conduct of its international relations, applicationfor membership in the Bank shall be presented or agreed by themember of the Bank responsible for its international relations.

CHAPTER II

CAPITAL

Article 4Authorized Capital

1. The authorized capital stock of the Bank shall be one hundredbillion United States dollars ($100,000,000,000), divided into onemillion (1,000,000) shares having a par value of 100,000 dollars($100,000) each, which shall be available for subscription only bymembers in accordance with the provisions of Article 5.

2. The original authorized capital stock shall be divided into paid-in shares and callable shares. Shares having an aggregate par value

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 20167

of twenty billion dollars ($20,000,000,000) shall be paid-in shares,and shares having an aggregate par value of eighty billion dollars($80,000,000,000) shall be callable.

3. The authorized capital stock of the Bank may be increased bythe Board of Governors by a Super Majority vote as provided inArticle 28, at such time and under such terms and conditions as itmay deem advisable, including the proportion between paid-in andcallable shares.

4. The term dollar and the symbol $ wherever used in thisAgreement shall be understood as being the official currency ofpayment of the United States of America.

Article 5Subscription of Shares

1. Each member shall subscribe to shares of the capital stock ofthe Bank. Each subscription to the original authorized capital stockshall be for paid-in shares and callable shares in the proportion two(2) to eight (8). The initial number of shares available to be subscribedby countries which become members in accordance with Article 58shall be that set forth in Schedule A.

2. The initial number of shares to be subscribed by countrieswhich are admitted to membership in accordance with paragraph 2of Article 3 shall be determined by the Board of Governors; provided,however, that no such subscription shall be authorized which wouldhave the effect of reducing the percentage of capital stock held byregional members below seventy-five (75) per cent of the totalsubscribed capital stock, unless otherwise agreed by the Board ofGovernors by a Super Majority vote as provided in Article 28.

3. The Board of Governors may, at the request of a member,increase the subscription of such member on such terms andconditions as the Board may determine by a Super Majority vote asprovided in Article 28; provided, however, that no such increase inthe subscription of any member shall be authorized which wouldhave the effect of reducing the percentage of capital stock held byregional members below seventy-five (75) per cent of the totalsubscribed capital stock, unless otherwise agreed by the Board ofGovernors by a Super Majority vote as provided in Article 28.

8Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

4. The Board of Governors shall at intervals of not more than five(5) years review the capital stock of the Bank. In case of an increasein the authorized capital stock, each member shall have a reasonableopportunity to subscribe, under such terms and conditions as theBoard of Governors shall determine, to a proportion of the increaseof stock equivalent to the proportion which its stock theretoforesubscribed bears to the total subscribed capital stock immediatelyprior to such increase. No member shall be obligated to subscribe toany part of an increase of capital stock.

Article 6Payment of Subscriptions

1. Payment of the amount initially subscribed by each Signatoryto this Agreement which becomes a member in accordance withArticle 58 to the paid-in capital stock of the Bank shall be made infive (5) installments, of twenty (20) per cent each of such amount,except as provided in paragraph 5 of this Article. The first installmentshall be paid by each member within thirty (30) days after entry intoforce of this Agreement, or on or before the date of deposit on itsbehalf of its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval inaccordance with paragraph 1 of Article 58, whichever is later. Thesecond installment shall become due one (1) year from the entry intoforce of this Agreement. The remaining three (3) installments shallbecome due successively one (1) year from the date on which thepreceding installment becomes due.

2. Each installment of the payment of initial subscriptions to theoriginal paid-in capital stock shall be paid in dollars or other convertiblecurrency, except as provided in paragraph 5 of this Article. TheBank may at any time convert such payments into dollars. All rights,including voting rights, acquired in respect of paid-in and associatedcallable shares for which such payments are due but have not beenreceived shall be suspended until full payment is received by theBank.

3. Payment of the amount subscribed to the callable capital stockof the Bank shall be subject to call only as and when required by theBank to meet its liabilities. In the event of such a call, payment maybe made at the option of the member in dollars or in the currencyrequired to discharge the obligations of the Bank for the purpose ofwhich the call is made. Calls on unpaid subscriptions shall be uniformin percentage on all callable shares.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 20169

4. The Bank shall determine the place for any payment underthis Article, provided that, until the inaugural meeting of the Boardof Governors, the payment of the first installment referred to inparagraph 1 of this Article shall be made to the Government of thePeoples Republic of China, as Trustee for the Bank.

5. A member considered as a less developed country for purposesof this paragraph may pay its subscription under paragraphs 1 and 2of this Article, as an alternative, either:

(a)entirely in dollars or other convertible currency in up toten (10) installments, with each such installment equal toten (10) percent of the total amount, the first and secondinstallments due as provided in paragraph 1, and the thirdthrough tenth installments due on the second and subsequentanniversary dates of the entry into force of this Agreement;or

(b)with a portion in dollars or other convertible currency anda portion of up to fifty (50) per cent of each installment inthe currency of the member, following the schedule ofinstallments provided in paragraph 1 of this Article. Thefollowing provisions shall apply to payments under thissub-paragraph (b):

(i)The member shall advise the Bank at the time ofsubscription under paragraph 1 of this Article ofthe proportion of payments to be made in its owncurrency;

(ii)Each payment of a member in its own currencyunder this paragraph 5 shall be in such amount asthe Bank determines to be equivalent to the fullvalue in terms of dollars of the portion of thesubscription being paid. The initial payment shallbe in such amount as the member considersappropriate hereunder but shall be subject to suchadjustment, to be effected within ninety (90) daysof the date on which such payment was due, as theBank shall determine to be necessary to constitutethe full dollar equivalent of such payment;

10Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

(iii)Whenever in the opinion of the Bank, the foreignexchange value of a members currency hasdepreciated to a significant extent, that member shallpay to the Bank within a reasonable time anadditional amount of its currency required to maintainthe value of all such currency held by the Bank onaccount of its subscription;

(iv)Whenever in the opinion of the Bank, the foreignexchange value of a members currency hasappreciated to a significant extent, the Bank shallpay to that member within a reasonable time anamount of that currency required to adjust the valueof all such currency held by the Bank on account ofits subscription;

(v)The Bank may waive its rights to payment undersub-paragraph (iii) and the member may waive itsrights to payment under sub-paragraph (iv).

6. The Bank shall accept from any member paying its subscriptionunder sub-paragraph 5 (b) of this Article promissory notes or otherobligations issued by the Government of the member, or by thedepository designated by such member, in lieu of the amount to bepaid in the currency of the member, provided such amount is notrequired by the Bank for the conduct of its operations. Such notes orobligations shall be non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing, and payableto the Bank at par value upon demand.

Article 7Terms of Shares

1. Shares of stock initially subscribed by members shall be issuedat par. Other shares shall be issued at par unless the Board ofGovernors by a Special Majority vote as provided in Article 28decides in special circumstances to issue them on other terms.

2. Shares of stock shall not be pledged or encumbered in anymanner whatsoever, and they shall be transferable only to the Bank.

3. The liability of the members on shares shall be limited to theunpaid portion of their issue price.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201611

4. No member shall be liable, by reason of its membership, forobligations of the Bank.

Article 8Ordinary Resources

As used in this Agreement, the term ordinary resources of theBank shall include the following:

(i)authorized capital stock of the Bank, including both paid-in and callable shares, subscribed pursuant to Article 5;

(ii)funds raised by the Bank by virtue of powers conferred byparagraph 1 of Article 16, to which the commitment tocalls provided for in paragraph 3 of Article 6 is applicable;

(iii)funds received in repayment of loans or guarantees madewith the resources indicated in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii)of this Article or as returns on equity investments andother types of financing approved under sub-paragraph 2(vi) of Article 11 made with such resources;

(iv)income derived from loans made from the aforementionedfunds or from guarantees to which the commitment tocalls set forth in paragraph 3 of Article 6 is applicable; and

(v)any other funds or income received by the Bank which donot form part of its Special Funds resources referred to inArticle 17 of this Agreement.

CHAPTER III

OPERATIONS OF THE BANK

Article 9Use of Resources

The resources and facilities of the Bank shall be used exclusivelyto implement the purpose and functions set forth, respectively, inArticles 1 and 2, and in accordance with sound banking principles.

Article 10Ordinary and Special Operations

1. The operations of the Bank shall consist of:

(i)ordinary operations financed from the ordinary resourcesof the Bank, referred to in Article 8; and

12Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

(ii)special operations financed from the Special Fundsresources referred to in Article 17.

The two types of operations may separately finance elements ofthe same project or program.

2. The ordinary resources and the Special Funds resources of theBank shall at all times and in all respects be held, used, committed,invested or otherwise disposed of entirely separately from each other.The financial statements of the Bank shall show the ordinaryoperations and special operations separately.

3. The ordinary resources of the Bank shall, under nocircumstances, be charged with, or used to discharge, losses orliabilities arising out of special operations or other activities forwhich Special Funds resources were originally used or committed.

4. Expenses appertaining directly to ordinary operations shall becharged to the ordinary resources of the Bank. Expenses appertainingdirectly to special operations shall be charged to the Special Fundsresources. Any other expenses shall be charged as the Bank shalldetermine.

Article 11Recipients and Methods of Operation

1. (a) The Bank may provide or facilitate financing to any member,or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, orany entity or enterprise operating in the territory of a member, aswell as to international or regional agencies or entities concernedwith economic development of the region.

(b) The Bank may, in special circumstances, provide assistanceto a recipient not listed in sub-paragraph (a) above only if the Boardof Governors, by a Super Majority vote as provided in Article 28 (i)shall have determined that such assistance is designed to serve thepurpose and come within the functions of the Bank and is in theinterest of the Banks membership; and (ii) shall have specified thetypes of assistance under paragraph 2 of this Article that may beprovided to such recipient.

2. The Bank may carry out its operations in any of the followingways:

(i)by making, co-financing or participating in direct loans;

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201613

(ii)by investment of funds in the equity capital of an institutionor enterprise;

(iii)by guaranteeing, whether as primary or secondary obligor,in whole or in part, loans for economic development;

(iv)by deploying Special Funds resources in accordance withthe agreements determining their use;

(v)by providing technical assistance in accordance with Article15; or

(vi)through other types of financing as may be determined bythe Board of Governors, by a Special Majority vote asprovided in Article 28.

Article 12Limitations on Ordinary Operations

1. The total amount outstanding of loans, equity investments,guarantees and other types of financing provided by the Bank in itsordinary operations under sub-paragraphs 2 (i), (ii), (iii) and (vi) ofArticle 11 shall not at any time be increased, if by such increase thetotal amount of its unimpaired subscribed capital, reserves and retainedearnings included in its ordinary resources would be exceeded.Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding sentence, the Boardof Governors may, by a Super Majority vote as provided in Article28, determine at any time that, based on the Banks financial positionand financial standing, the limitation under this paragraph may beincreased, up to 250% of the Banks unimpaired subscribed capital,reserves and retained earnings included in its ordinary resources.

2. The amount of the Banks disbursed equity investments shallnot at any time exceed an amount corresponding to its total unimpairedpaid-in subscribed capital and general reserves.

Article 13Operating Principles

The operations of the Bank shall be conducted in accordancewith the principles set out below.

1. The Bank shall be guided by sound banking principles in itsoperations.

14Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

2. The operations of the Bank shall provide principally for thefinancing of specific projects or specific investment programs, forequity investment, and for technical assistance in accordance withArticle 15.

3. The Bank shall not finance any undertaking in the territory ofa member if that member objects to such financing.

4. The Bank shall ensure that each of its operations complies withthe Banks operational and financial policies, including withoutlimitation, policies addressing environmental and social impacts.

5. In considering an application for financing, the Bank shall paydue regard to the ability of the recipient to obtain financing or facilitieselsewhere on terms and conditions that the Bank considers reasonablefor the recipient, taking into account all pertinent factors.

6. In providing or guaranteeing financing, the Bank shall pay dueregard to the prospects that the recipient and guarantor, if any, willbe in a position to meet their obligations under the financing contract.

7. In providing or guaranteeing financing, the financial terms,such as rate of interest and other charges and the schedule forrepayment of principal shall be such as are, in the opinion of theBank, appropriate for the financing concerned and the risk to theBank.

8. The Bank shall place no restriction upon the procurement ofgoods and services from any country from the proceeds of anyfinancing undertaken in the ordinary or special operations of theBank.

9. The Bank shall take the necessary measures to ensure that theproceeds of any financing provided, guaranteed or participated in bythe Bank are used only for the purposes for which the financing wasgranted and with due attention to considerations of economy andefficiency.

10. The Bank shall pay due regard to the desirability of avoidinga disproportionate amount of its resources being used for the benefitof any member.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201615

11. The Bank shall seek to maintain reasonable diversification inits investments in equity capital. In its equity investments, the Bankshall not assume responsibility for managing any entity or enterprisein which it has an investment and shall not seek a controlling interestin the entity or enterprise concerned, except where necessary tosafeguard the investment of the Bank.

Article 14Terms and Conditions for Financing

1. In the case of loans made or participated in or loans guaranteedby the Bank, the contract shall establish, in conformity with theoperating principles set forth in Article 13 and subject to the otherprovisions of this Agreement, the terms and conditions for the loanor the guarantee concerned. In setting such terms and conditions, theBank shall take fully into account the need to safeguard its incomeand financial position.

2. Where the recipient of loans or guarantees of loans is not itselfa member, the Bank may, when it deems it advisable, require that themember in whose territory the project concerned is to be carried out,or a public agency or any instrumentality of that member acceptableto the Bank, guarantee the repayment of the principal and the paymentof interest and other charges on the loan in accordance with the termsthereof.

3. The amount of any equity investment shall not exceed suchpercentage of the equity capital of the entity or enterprise concernedas permitted under policies approved by the Board of Directors.

4. The Bank may provide financing in its operations in thecurrency of the country concerned, in accordance with policies thatminimize currency risk.

Article 15Technical Assistance

1. The Bank may provide technical advice and assistance andother similar forms of assistance which serve its purpose and comewithin its functions.

2. Where expenditures incurred in furnishing such services arenot reimbursable, the Bank shall charge such expenditures to theincome of the Bank.

16Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

CHAPTER IV

FINANCES OF THE BANK

Article 16General Powers

In addition to the powers specified elsewhere in this Agreement, theBank shall have the powers set out below:

1. The Bank may raise funds, through borrowing or other means,in member countries or elsewhere, in accordance with the relevantlegal provisions.

2. The Bank may buy and sell securities the Bank has issued orguaranteed or in which it has invested.

3. The Bank may guarantee securities in which it has invested inorder to facilitate their sale.

4. The Bank may underwrite, or participate in the underwritingof, securities issued by any entity or enterprise for purposes consistentwith the purpose of the Bank.

5. The Bank may invest or deposit funds not needed in itsoperations.

6. The Bank shall ensure that every security issued or guaranteedby the Bank shall bear on its face a conspicuous statement to theeffect that it is not an obligation of any Government, unless it is infact the obligation of a particular Government, in which case it shallso state.

7. The Bank may establish and administer funds held in trust forother parties, provided such trust funds are designed to serve thepurpose and come within the functions of the Bank, under a trustfund framework which shall have been approved by the Board ofGovernors.

8. The Bank may establish subsidiary entities which are designedto serve the purpose and come within the functions of the Bank, onlywith the approval of the Board of Governors by a Special Majorityvote as provided in Article 28.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201617

9. The Bank may exercise such other powers and establish suchrules and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate in furtheranceof its purpose and functions, consistent with the provisions of thisAgreement.

Article 17Special Funds

1. The Bank may accept Special Funds which are designed toserve the purpose and come within the functions of the Bank; suchSpecial Funds shall be resources of the Bank. The full cost ofadministering any Special Fund shall be charged to that SpecialFund.

2. Special Funds accepted by the Bank may be used on terms andconditions consistent with the purpose and functions of the Bankand with the agreement relating to such Funds.

3. The Bank shall adopt such special rules and regulations as maybe required for the establishment, administration and use of eachSpecial Fund. Such rules and regulations shall be consistent with theprovisions of this Agreement, except for those provisions expresslyapplicable only to ordinary operations of the Bank.

4. The term Special Funds resources shall refer to the resourcesof any Special Fund and shall include:

(i)funds accepted by the Bank for inclusion in any SpecialFund;

(ii)funds received in respect of loans or guarantees, and theproceeds of any equity investments, financed from theresources of any Special Fund which, under the rules andregulations of the Bank governing that Special Fund, arereceived by such Special Fund;

(iii)income derived from investment of Special Fundsresources; and

(iv)any other resources placed at the disposal of any SpecialFund.

18Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

Article 18Allocation and Distribution of Net Income

1. The Board of Governors shall determine at least annually whatpart of the net income of the Bank shall be allocated, after makingprovision for reserves, to retained earnings or other purposes andwhat part, if any, shall be distributed to the members. Any suchdecision on the allocation of the Banks net income to other purposesshall be taken by a Super Majority vote as provided in Article 28.

2. The distribution referred to in the preceding paragraph shall bemade in proportion to the number of shares held by each member,and payments shall be made in such manner and in such currency asthe Board of Governors shall determine.

Article 19Currencies

1. Members shall not impose any restrictions on currencies,including the receipt, holding, use or transfer by the Bank or by anyrecipient from the Bank, for payments in any country.

2. Whenever it shall become necessary under this Agreement tovalue any currency in terms of another or determine whether anycurrency is convertible, such valuation or determination shall bemade by the Bank.

Article 20Methods of Meeting Liabilities of the Bank

1. In the Banks ordinary operations, in cases of arrears or defaulton loans made, participated in, or guaranteed by the Bank, and incases of losses on equity investment or other types of financingunder sub-paragraph 2 (vi) of Article 11, the Bank shall take suchaction as it deems appropriate. The Bank shall maintain appropriateprovisions against possible losses.

2. Losses arising in the Banks ordinary operations shall becharged:

(i)first, to the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 above;

(ii)second, to net income;

(iii)third, against reserves and retained earnings;

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201619

(iv)fourth, against unimpaired paid-in capital; and

(v)last, against an appropriate amount of the uncalledsubscribed callable capital which shall be called inaccordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 6.

CHAPTER V

GOVERNANCE

Article 21Structure

The Bank shall have a Board of Governors, a Board of Directors, aPresident, one or more Vice-Presidents, and such other officers andstaff as may be considered necessary.

Article 22Board of Governors: Composition

1. Each member shall be represented on the Board of Governorsand shall appoint one Governor and one Alternate Governor. EachGovernor and Alternate Governor shall serve at the pleasure of theappointing member. No Alternate Governor may vote except in theabsence of his principal.

2. At each of its annual meetings, the Board shall elect one of theGovernors as Chairman who shall hold office until the election ofthe next Chairman.

3. Governors and Alternate Governors shall serve as such withoutremuneration from the Bank, but the Bank may pay them reasonableexpenses incurred in attending meetings.

Article 23Board of Governors: Powers

1. All the powers of the Bank shall be vested in the Board ofGovernors.

2. The Board of Governors may delegate to the Board of Directorsany or all its powers, except the power to:

(i)admit new members and determine the conditions of theiradmission;

(ii)increase or decrease the authorized capital stock of theBank;

20Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

(iii)suspend a member;

(iv)decide appeals from interpretations or applications of thisAgreement given by the Board of Directors;

(v)elect the Directors of the Bank and determine the expensesto be paid for Directors and Alternate Directors andremuneration, if any, pursuant to paragraph 6 of Article 25;

(vi)elect the President, suspend or remove him from office,and determine his remuneration and other conditions ofservice;

(vii)approve, after reviewing the auditors report, the generalbalance sheet and the statement of profit and loss of theBank;

(viii)determine the reserves and the allocation and distributionof the net profits of the Bank;

(ix)amend this Agreement;

(x)decide to terminate the operations of the Bank and todistribute its assets; and

(xi)exercise such other powers as are expressly assigned tothe Board of Governors in this Agreement.

3. The Board of Governors shall retain full power to exerciseauthority over any matter delegated to the Board of Directors underparagraph 2 of this Article.

Article 24Board of Governors: Procedure

1. The Board of Governors shall hold an annual meeting andsuch other meetings as may be provided for by the Board ofGovernors or called by the Board of Directors. Meetings of theBoard of Governors shall be called by the Board of Directorswhenever requested by five (5) members of the Bank.

2. A majority of the Governors shall constitute a quorum for anymeeting of the Board of Governors, provided such majority representsnot less than two-thirds of the total voting power of the members.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201621

3. The Board of Governors shall by regulation establishprocedures whereby the Board of Directors may obtain a vote of theGovernors on a specific question without a meeting and provide forelectronic meetings of the Board of Governors in specialcircumstances.

4. The Board of Governors, and the Board of Directors to theextent authorized, may establish such subsidiary entities, and adoptsuch rules and regulations, as may be necessary or appropriate toconduct the business of the Bank.

Article 25Board of Directors: Composition

1. The Board of Directors shall be composed of twelve (12)members who shall not be members of the Board of Governors, andof whom:

(i)nine (9) shall be elected by the Governors representingregional members; and

(ii)three (3) shall be elected by the Governors representingnon-regional members.

Directors shall be persons of high competence in economic andfinancial matters and shall be elected in accordance with Schedule B.Directors shall represent members whose Governors have electedthem as well as members whose Governors assign their votes tothem.

2. The Board of Governors shall, from time to time, review thesize and composition of the Board of Directors, and may increase ordecrease the size or revise the composition as appropriate, by aSuper Majority vote as provided in Article 28.

3. Each Director shall appoint an Alternate Director with fullpower to act for him when he is not present. The Board of Governorsshall adopt rules enabling a Director elected by more than a specifiednumber of members to appoint an additional Alternate Director.

4. Directors and Alternate Directors shall be nationals of membercountries. No two or more Directors may be of the same nationalitynor may any two or more Alternate Directors be of the samenationality. Alternate Directors may participate in meetings of theBoard but may vote only when the Alternate Director is acting inplace of the Director.

22Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

5. Directors shall hold office for a term of two (2) years and maybe re-elected:

(a)Directors shall continue in office until their successorsshall have been chosen and assumed office;

(b)If the office of a Director becomes vacant more than onehundred and eighty (180) days before the end of his term,a successor shall be chosen in accordance with ScheduleB, for the remainder of the term, by the Governors whoelected the former Director. A majority of the votes castby such Governors shall be required for such election.The Governors who elected a Director may similarly choosea successor if the office of a Director becomes vacant onehundred and eighty (180) days or less before the end ofhis term;

(c)While the office of a Director remains vacant, an AlternateDirector of the former Director shall exercise the powersof the latter, except that of appointing an Alternate Director.

6. Directors and Alternate Directors shall serve withoutremuneration from the Bank, unless the Board of Governors shalldecide otherwise, but the Bank may pay them reasonable expensesincurred in attending meetings.

Article 26Board of Directors: Powers

The Board of Directors shall be responsible for the direction of thegeneral operations of the Bank and, for this purpose, shall, in additionto the powers assigned to it expressly by this Agreement, exerciseall the powers delegated to it by the Board of Governors, and inparticular:

(i)prepare the work of the Board of Governors;

(ii)establish the policies of the Bank, and, by a majorityrepresenting not less than three-fourths of the total votingpower of the members, take decisions on major operationaland financial policies and on delegation of authority to thePresident under Bank policies;

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201623

(iii)take decisions concerning operations of the Bank underparagraph 2 of Article 11, and, by a majority representingnot less than three-fourths of the total voting power of themembers, decide on the delegation of such authority to thePresident;

(iv)supervise the management and the operation of the Bankon a regular basis, and establish an oversight mechanismfor that purpose, in line with principles of transparency,openness, independence and accountability;

(v)approve the strategy, annual plan and budget of the Bank;

(vi)appoint such committees as deemed advisable; and

(vii)submit the audited accounts for each financial year forapproval of the Board of Governors.

Article 27Board of Directors: Procedure

1. The Board of Directors shall meet as often as the business ofthe Bank may require, periodically throughout the year. The Boardof Directors shall function on a non-resident basis except as otherwisedecided by the Board of Governors by a Super Majority vote asprovided in Article 28. Meetings may be called by the Chairman orwhenever requested by three (3) Directors.

2. A majority of the Directors shall constitute a quorum for anymeeting of the Board of Directors, provided such majority representsnot less than two-thirds of the total voting power of the members.

3. The Board of Governors shall adopt regulations under which,if there is no Director of its nationality, a member may send arepresentative to attend, without right to vote, any meeting of theBoard of Directors when a matter particularly affecting that memberis under consideration.

4. The Board of Directors shall establish procedures whereby theBoard can hold an electronic meeting or vote on a matter withoutholding a meeting.

24Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

Article 28Voting

1. The total voting power of each member shall consist of thesum of its basic votes, share votes and, in the case of a FoundingMember, its Founding Member votes:

(i)The basic votes of each member shall be the number ofvotes that results from the equal distribution among all themembers of twelve (12) per cent of the aggregate sum ofthe basic votes, share votes and Founding Member votesof all the members.

(ii)The number of the share votes of each member shall beequal to the number of shares of the capital stock of theBank held by that member.

(iii)Each Founding Member shall be allocated six hundred(600) Founding Member votes.

In the event a member fails to pay any part of the amount due inrespect of its obligations in relation to paid-in shares under Article 6,the number of share votes to be exercised by the member shall, aslong as such failure continues, be reduced proportionately, by thepercentage which the amount due and unpaid represents of the totalpar value of paid-in shares subscribed to by that member.

2. In voting in the Board of Governors, each Governor shall beentitled to cast the votes of the member he represents.

(i)Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement,all matters before the Board of Governors shall be decidedby a majority of the votes cast.

(ii)A Super Majority vote of the Board of Governors shallrequire an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the total numberof Governors, representing not less than three-fourths ofthe total voting power of the members.

(iii)A Special Majority vote of the Board of Governors shallrequire an affirmative vote of a majority of the total numberof Governors, representing not less than a majority of thetotal voting power of the members.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201625

3. In voting in the Board of Directors, each Director shall beentitled to cast the number of votes to which the Governors whoelected him are entitled and those to which any Governors who haveassigned their votes to him, pursuant to Schedule B, are entitled.

(i)A Director entitled to cast the votes of more than onemember may cast the votes for those members separately;

(ii)Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement,all matters before the Board of Directors shall be decidedby a majority of the votes cast.

Article 29The President

1. The Board of Governors, through an open, transparent andmerit-based process, shall elect a president of the Bank by a SuperMajority vote as provided in Article 28. He shall be a national of aregional member country. The President, while holding office, shallnot be a Governor or a Director or an Alternate for either.

2. The term of office of the President shall be five (5) years. Hemay be re-elected once. The President may be suspended or removedfrom office when the Board of Governors so decides by a SuperMajority vote as provided in Article 28.

(a) If the office of the President for any reason becomes vacantduring his term, the Board of Governors shall appoint anActing President for a temporary period or elect a newPresident, in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article.

3. The President shall be Chairman of the Board of Directors butshall have no vote, except a deciding vote in case of an equal division.He may participate in meetings of the Board of Governors but shallnot vote.

4. The President shall be the legal representative of the Bank. Heshall be chief of the staff of the Bank and shall conduct, under thedirection of the Board of Directors, the current business of the Bank.

Article 30Officers and Staff of the Bank

1. One or more Vice-Presidents shall be appointed by the Boardof Directors on the recommendation of the President, on the basis of

26Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

an open, transparent and merit-based process. A Vice-Presidentshall hold office for such term, exercise such authority and performsuch functions in the administration of the Bank, as may bedetermined by the Board of Directors. In the absence or incapacityof the President, a Vice-President shall exercise the authority andperform the functions of the President.

2. The President shall be responsible for the organization,appointment and dismissal of the officers and staff in accordancewith regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, with the exceptionof Vice-Presidents to the extent provided in paragraph 1 above.

3. In appointing officers and staff and recommending Vice-Presidents, the President shall, subject to the paramount importanceof securing the highest standards of efficiency and technicalcompetence, pay due regard to the recruitment of personnel on aswide a regional geographical basis as possible.

Article 31The International Character of the Bank

1. The Bank shall not accept Special Funds, loans or assistancethat may in any way prejudice, limit, deflect or otherwise alter itspurpose or functions.

2. The Bank, its President, officers and staff shall not interfere inthe political affairs of any member, nor shall they be influenced intheir decisions by the political character of the member concerned.Only economic considerations shall be relevant to their decisions.Such considerations shall be weighed impartially in order to achieveand carry out the purpose and functions of the Bank.

3. The President, officers and staff of the Bank, in the dischargeof their offices, owe their duty entirely to the Bank and to no otherauthority. Each member of the Bank shall respect the internationalcharacter of this duty and shall refrain from all attempts to influenceany of them in the discharge of their duties.

CHAPTER VI

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 32Offices of the Bank

1. The principal office of the Bank shall be located in Beijing,Peoples Republic of China.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201627

2. The Bank may establish agencies or offices elsewhere.

Article 33Channel of Communication; Depositories

1. Each member shall designate an appropriate official entity withwhich the Bank may communicate in connection with any matterarising under this Agreement.

2. Each member shall designate its central bank, or such otherinstitution as may be agreed upon with the Bank, as a depositorywith which the Bank may keep its holdings of currency of thatmember as well as other assets of the Bank.

3. The Bank may hold its assets with such depositories as theBoard of Directors shall determine.

Article 34Reports and Information

1. The working language of the Bank shall be English, and theBank shall rely on the English text of this Agreement for all decisionsand for interpretations under Article 54.

2. Members shall furnish the Bank with such information it mayreasonably request of them in order to facilitate the performance ofits functions.

3. The Bank shall transmit to its members an annual reportcontaining an audited statement of its accounts and shall publishsuch report. It shall also transmit quarterly to its members a summarystatement of its financial position and a profit and loss statementshowing the results of its operations.

4. The Bank shall establish a policy on the disclosure ofinformation in order to promote transparency in its operations. TheBank may publish such reports as it deems desirable in the carryingout of its purpose and functions.

Article 35Cooperation with Members and InternationalOrganizations

1. The Bank shall work in close cooperation with all its members,and, in such manner as it may deem appropriate within the terms ofthis Agreement, with other international financial institutions, andinternational organizations concerned with the economic developmentof the region or the Banks operational areas.

28Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

2. The Bank may enter into arrangements with such organizationsfor purposes consistent with this Agreement, with the approval ofthe Board of Directors.

Article 36References

1. References in this Agreement to Article or Schedule refer toArticles and Schedules of this Agreement, unless otherwise specified.

2. References in this Agreement to a specific gender shall beequally applicable to any gender.

CHAPTER VII

WITHDRAWAL AND SUSPENSION OF MEMBERS

Article 37 Withdrawal of Membership

1. Any member may withdraw from the Bank at any time bydelivering a notice in writing to the Bank at its principal office.

2. Withdrawal by a member shall become effective, and itsmembership shall cease, on the date specified in its notice but in noevent less than six (6) months after the date that notice has beenreceived by the Bank. However, at any time before the withdrawalbecomes finally effective, the member may notify the Bank in writingof the cancellation of its notice of intention to withdraw.

3. A withdrawing member shall remain liable for all direct andcontingent obligations to the Bank to which it was subject at the dateof delivery of the withdrawal notice. If the withdrawal becomesfinally effective, the member shall not incur any liability forobligations resulting from operations of the Bank effected after thedate on which the withdrawal notice was received by the Bank.

Article 38Suspension of Membership

1. If a member fails to fulfill any of its obligations to the Bank,the Board of Governors may suspend such member by a SuperMajority vote as provided in Article 28.

2. The member so suspended shall automatically cease to be amember one (1) year from the date of its suspension, unless theBoard of Governors decides by a Super Majority vote as provided inArticle 28 to restore the member to good standing.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201629

3. While under suspension, a member shall not be entitled toexercise any rights under this Agreement, except the right ofwithdrawal, but shall remain subject to all its obligations.

Article 39Settlement of Accounts

1. After the date on which a country ceases to be a member, itshall remain liable for its direct obligations to the Bank and for itscontingent liabilities to the Bank so long as any part of the loans,guarantees, equity investments or other forms of financing underparagraph 2 (vi) of Article 11 (hereinafter, other financing) contractedbefore it ceased to be a member is outstanding, but it shall not incurliabilities with respect to loans, guarantees, equity investments orother financing entered into thereafter by the Bank nor share either inthe income or the expenses of the Bank.

2. At the time a country ceases to be a member, the Bank shallarrange for the repurchase of such countrys shares by the Bank asa part of the settlement of accounts with such country in accordancewith the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article. For thispurpose, the repurchase price of the shares shall be the value shownby the books of the Bank on the date the country ceases to be amember.

3. The payment for shares repurchased by the Bank under thisArticle shall be governed by the following conditions:

(i)Any amount due to the country concerned for its sharesshall be withheld so long as that country, its central bankor any of its agencies, instrumentalities or politicalsubdivisions remains liable, as borrower, guarantor orother contracting party with respect to equity investmentor other financing, to the Bank and such amount may, atthe option of the Bank, be applied on any such liability asit matures. No amount shall be withheld on account of thecontingent liability of the country for future calls on itssubscription for shares in accordance with paragraph 3 ofArticle 6. In any event, no amount due to a member for itsshares shall be paid until six (6) months after the date onwhich the country ceases to be a member;

(ii)Payments for shares may be made from time to time, uponsurrender of the corresponding stock certificates by the

30Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

country concerned, to the extent by which the amount dueas the repurchase price in accordance with paragraph 2 ofthis Article exceeds the aggregate amount of liabilities, onloans, guarantees, equity investments and other financingreferred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph, until theformer member has received the full repurchase price;

(iii)Payments shall be made in such available currencies as theBank determines, taking into account its financial position;

(iv)If losses are sustained by the Bank on any loans,guarantees, equity investments or other financing whichwere outstanding on the date when a country ceased to bea member and the amount of such losses exceeds theamount of the reserve provided against losses on that date,the country concerned shall repay, upon demand, theamount by which the repurchase price of its shares wouldhave been reduced if the losses had been taken into accountwhen the repurchase price was determined. In addition,the former member shall remain liable on any call forunpaid subscriptions in accordance with paragraph 3 ofArticle 6, to the same extent that it would have been requiredto respond if the impairment of capital had occurred andthe call had been made at the time the repurchase price ofits shares was determined.

4. If the Bank terminates its operations pursuant to Article 41within six (6) months of the date upon which any country ceases tobe a member, all rights of the country concerned shall be determinedin accordance with the provisions of Articles 41 to 43. Such countryshall be considered as still a member for purposes of such Articlesbut shall have no voting rights.

CHAPTER VIII

SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION OF OPERATIONS OF THE BANK

Article 40Temporary Suspension of Operations

In an emergency, the Board of Directors may temporarily suspendoperations in respect of new loans, guarantees, equity investmentand other forms of financing under sub-paragraph 2 (vi) of Article11, pending an opportunity for further consideration and action bythe Board of Governors.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201631

Article 41Termination of Operations

1. The Bank may terminate its operations by a resolution of theBoard of Governors approved by a Super Majority vote as providedin Article 28.

2. After such termination, the Bank shall forthwith cease allactivities, except those incident to the orderly realization, conservationand preservation of its assets and settlement of its obligations.

Article 42Liability of Members and Payments of Claims

1. In the event of termination of the operation of the Bank, theliability of all members for uncalled subscriptions to the capital stockof the Bank and in respect of the depreciation of their currenciesshall continue until all claims of creditors, including all contingentclaims, shall have been discharged.

2. All creditors holding direct claims shall first be paid out of theassets of the Bank and then out of payments to the Bank or unpaid orcallable subscriptions. Before making any payments to creditorsholding direct claims, the Board of Directors shall make sucharrangements as are necessary, in its judgment, to ensure a pro ratadistribution among holders of direct and contingent claims.

Article 43Distribution of Assets

1. No distribution of assets shall be made to members on account oftheir subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank until:

(i)all liabilities to creditors have been discharged or providedfor; and

(ii)the Board of Governors has decided, by a Super Majorityvote as provided in Article 28, to make such distribution.

2. Any distribution of the assets of the Bank to the members shallbe in proportion to the capital stock held by each member and shallbe effected at such times and under such conditions as the Bank shalldeem fair and equitable. The shares of assets distributed need not beuniform as to type of asset. No member shall be entitled to receive itsshare in such a distribution of assets until it has settled all of itsobligations to the Bank.

32Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

3. Any member receiving assets distributed pursuant to this Articleshall enjoy the same rights with respect to such assets as the Bankenjoyed prior to their distribution.

CHAPTER IX

STATUS, IMMUNITIES, PRIVILEGES AND EXEMPTIONS

Article 44Purposes of Chapter

1. To enable the Bank to fulfill its purpose and carry out thefunctions entrusted to it, the status, immunities, privileges andexemptions set forth in this Chapter shall be accorded to the Bank inthe territory of each member.

2. Each member shall promptly take such action as is necessaryto make effective in its own territory the provisions set forth in thisChapter and shall inform the Bank of the action which it has taken.

Article 45Status of the Bank

The Bank shall possess full juridical personality and, in particular,the full legal capacity:

(i)to contract;

(ii)to acquire, and dispose of, immovable and movableproperty;

(iii)to institute and respond to legal proceedings; and

(iv)to take such other action as may be necessary or useful forits purpose and activities.

Article 46Immunity from Judicial Proceedings

1. The Bank shall enjoy immunity from every form of legalprocess, except in cases arising out of or in connection with theexercise of its powers to raise funds, through borrowings or othermeans, to guarantee obligations, or to buy and sell or underwrite thesale of securities, in which cases actions may be brought against theBank only in a court of competent jurisdiction in the territory of acountry in which the Bank has an office, or has appointed an agentfor the purpose of accepting service or notice of process, or hasissued or guaranteed securities.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201633

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article,no action shall be brought against the Bank by any member, or byany agency or instrumentality of a member, or by any entity orperson directly or indirectly acting for or deriving claims from amember or from any agency or instrumentality of a member. Membersshall have recourse to such special procedures for the settlement ofcontroversies between the Bank and its members as may be prescribedin this Agreement, in the by-laws and regulations of the Bank, or inthe contracts entered into with the Bank.

3. Property and assets of the Bank shall, wheresoever locatedand by whomsoever held, be immune from all forms of seizure,attachment or execution before the delivery of final judgment againstthe Bank.

Article 47Immunity of Assets and Archives

1. Property and assets of the Bank, wheresoever located and bywhomsoever held, shall be immune from search, requisition,confiscation, expropriation or any other form of taking or foreclosureby executive or legislative action.

2. The archives of the Bank, and, in general, all documentsbelonging to it, or held by it, shall be inviolable, wheresoever locatedand by whomsoever held.

Article 48Freedom of Assets from Restrictions

To the extent necessary to carry out the purpose and functions ofthe Bank effectively, and subject to the provisions of this Agreement,all property and assets of the Bank shall be free from restrictions,regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature.

Article 49Privilege for Communications

Official communications of the Bank shall be accorded by eachmember the same treatment that it accords to the officialcommunications of any other member.

Article 50Immunities and Privileges of Officers and Employees

All Governors, Directors, Alternates, the President, Vice-Presidents and other officers and employees of the Bank, includingexperts and consultants performing missions or services for theBank:

34Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

(i)shall be immune from legal process with respect to actsperformed by them in their official capacity, except whenthe Bank waives the immunity and shall enjoy inviolabilityof all their official papers, documents and records;

(ii)where they are not local citizens or nationals, shall beaccorded the same immunities from immigrationrestrictions, alien registration requirements and nationalservice obligations, and the same facilities as regardsexchange regulations, as are accorded by members to therepresentatives, officials and employees of comparablerank of other members; and

(iii)shall be granted the same treatment in respect of travellingfacilities as is accorded by members to representatives,officials and employees of comparable rank of othermembers.

Article 51Exemption from Taxation

1. The Bank, its assets, property, income and its operations andtransactions pursuant to this Agreement, shall be exempt from alltaxation and from all customs duties. The Bank shall also be exemptfrom any obligation for the payment, withholding or collection ofany tax or duty.

2. No tax of any kind shall be levied on or in respect of salaries,emoluments and expenses, as the case may be, paid by the Bank toDirectors, Alternate Directors, the President, Vice-Presidents andother officers or employees of the Bank, including experts andconsultants performing missions or services for the Bank, exceptwhere a member deposits with its instrument of ratification,acceptance, or approval a declaration that such member retains foritself and its political subdivisions the right to tax salaries, andemoluments , as the case may be, paid by the Bank to citizens ornationals of such member.

3. No tax of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or securityissued by the Bank, including any dividend or interest thereon, bywhomsoever held:

(i)which discriminates against such obligation or securitysolely because it is issued by the Bank; or

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201635

(ii)if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is the placeor currency in which it is issued, made payable or paid, orthe location of any office or place of business maintainedby the Bank.

4. No tax of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or securityguaranteed by the Bank, including any dividend or interest thereon,by whomsoever held:

(i)which discriminates against such obligation or securitysolely because it is guaranteed by the Bank; or

(ii)if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is thelocation of any office or place of business maintained bythe Bank.

Article 52Waivers

The Bank at its discretion may waive any of the privileges,immunities and exemptions conferred under this Chapter in any caseor instance, in such manner and upon such conditions as it maydetermine to be appropriate in the best interests of the Bank.

CHAPTER X

AMENDMENT, INTERPRETATION AND ARBITRATION

Article 53Amendments

1. This Agreement may be amended only by a resolution of theBoard of Governors approved by a Super Majority vote as providedin Article 28.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article,the unanimous agreement of the Board of Governors shall be requiredfor the approval of any amendment modifying:

(i)the right to withdraw from the Bank;

(ii)the limitations on liability provided in paragraphs 3 and 4of Article 7; and

(iii)the rights pertaining to purchase of capital stock providedin paragraph 4 of Article 5.

36Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

3. Any proposal to amend this Agreement, whether emanatingfrom a member or the Board of Directors, shall be communicated tothe Chairman of the Board of Governors, who shall bring theproposal before the Board of Governors. When an amendment hasbeen adopted, the Bank shall so certify in an official communicationaddressed to all members. Amendments shall enter into force for allmembers three (3) months after the date of the official communicationunless the Board of Governors specifies therein a different period.

Article 54Interpretation

1. Any question of interpretation or application of the provisionsof this Agreement arising between any member and the Bank, orbetween two or more members of the Bank, shall be submitted to theBoard of Directors for decision. If there is no Director of its nationalityon that Board, a member particularly affected by the question underconsideration shall be entitled to direct representation in the Board ofDirectors during such consideration; the representative of suchmember shall, however, have no vote. Such right of representationshall be regulated by the Board of Governors.

2. In any case where the Board of Directors has given a decisionunder paragraph 1 of this Article, any member may require that thequestion be referred to the Board of Governors, whose decisionshall be final. Pending the decision of the Board of Governors, theBank may, so far as it deems necessary, act on the basis of thedecision of the Board of Directors.

Article 55Arbitration

If a disagreement should arise between the Bank and a countrywhich has ceased to be a member, or between the Bank and anymember after adoption of a resolution to terminate the operations ofthe Bank, such disagreement shall be submitted to arbitration by atribunal of three arbitrators. One of the arbitrators shall be appointedby the Bank, another by the country concerned, and the third, unlessthe parties otherwise agree, by the President of the InternationalCourt of Justice or such other authority as may have been prescribedby regulations adopted by the Board of Governors. A majority voteof the arbitrators shall be sufficient to reach a decision which shall befinal and binding upon the parties. The third arbitrator shall beempowered to settle all questions of procedure in any case where theparties are in disagreement with respect thereto.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201637

Article 56Approval Deemed Given

Whenever the approval of any member is required before any actmay be done by the Bank except under paragraph 2 of Article 53,approval shall be deemed to have been given unless the memberpresents an objection within such reasonable period as the Bank mayfix in notifying the member of the proposed act.

CHAPTER XI

FINAL PROVISIONS

Article 57Signature and Deposit

1. This Agreement, deposited with the Government of the PeoplesRepublic of China (hereinafter called the Depository), shall remainopen until December 31, 2015 for signature by the Governments ofcountries whose names are set forth in Schedule A.

2. The Depository shall send certified copies of this Agreementto all the Signatories and other countries which become members ofthe Bank.

Article 58Ratification, Acceptance or Approval

1. This Agreement shall be subject to ratification, acceptance orapproval by the Signatories. Instruments of ratification, acceptanceor approval shall be deposited with the Depository not later thanDecember 31, 2016, or if necessary, until such later date as may bedecided by the Board of Governors by a Special Majority vote asprovided in Article 28. The Depository shall duly notify the otherSignatories of each deposit and the date thereof.

2. A Signatory whose instrument of ratification, acceptance orapproval is deposited before the date on which this Agreement entersinto force, shall become a member of the Bank, on that date. Anyother Signatory which complies with the provisions of the precedingparagraph, shall become a member of the Bank on the date on whichits instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval is deposited.

Article 59Entry into Force

This Agreement shall enter into force when instruments of ratification,acceptance or approval have been deposited by at least ten (10)

38Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

Signatories whose initial subscriptions, as set forth in Schedule A tothis Agreement, in the aggregate comprise not less than fifty (50) percent of total of such subscriptions.

Article 60Inaugural Meeting and Commencement of Operations

1. As soon as this Agreement enters into force, each membershall appoint a Governor, and the Depository shall call the inauguralmeeting of the Board of Governors.

2. At its inaugural meeting, the Board of Governors:

(i)shall elect the President;

(ii)shall elect the Directors of the Bank in accordance withparagraph 1 of Article 25, provided that the Board ofGovernors may decide to elect fewer Directors for aninitial period shorter than two years in consideration of thenumber of members and Signatories which have not yetbecome members;

(iii)shall make arrangements for the determination of the dateon which the Bank shall commence its operations; and

(iv)shall make such other arrangements as necessary to preparefor the commencement of the Banks operations.

3. The Bank shall notify its members of the date of thecommencement of its operations.

DONE at Beijing, Peoples Republic of China on June 29, 2015,in a single original deposited in the archives of the Depository,whose English, Chinese and French texts are equally authentic.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201639

SCHEDULE A

Initial Subscriptions to the Authorized Capital Stock for CountriesWhich May Become Members in accordance with Article 58

PART A

REGIONAL MEMBERS

Number of SharesCapital Subscription(in million $)

Australia36,9123,691.2

Azerbaijan2,541254.1

Bangladesh6,605660.5

Brunei Darussalam52452.4

Cambodia62362.3

China297,80429,780.4

Georgia53953.9

India83,6738,367.3

Indonesia33,6073,360.7

Iran15,8081,580.8

Israel7,499749.9

Jordan1,192119.2

Kazakhstan7,293729.3

Korea37,3883,738.8

Kuwait5,360536.0

Kyrgyz Republic26826.8

Lao Peoples Democratic Republic 43043.0

Malaysia1,095109.5

Maldives727.2

Mongolia41141.1

Myanmar2,645264.5

40Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

Number of SharesCapital Subscription(in million $)

Nepal80980.9

New Zealand4,615461.5

Oman2,592259.2

Pakistan10,3411,034.1

Philippines9,791979.1

Qatar6,044604.4

Russia65,3626,536.2

Saudi Arabia25,4462,544.6

Singapore2,500250.0

Sri Lanka2,690269.0

Tajikistan30930.9

Thailand14,2751,427.5

Turkey26,0992,609.9

United Arab Emirates11,8571,185.7

Uzbekistan2,198219.8

Vietnam6,633663.3

Unallocated16,1501,615.0

TOTAL750,00075,000.0

PART B.

NON REGIONAL MEMBERS

Number of SharesCapital Subscription(in million $)

Austria5,008500.8

Brazil31,8103,181.0

Denmark3,695369.5

Egypt6,505650.5

Finland3,103310.3

France33,7563,375.6

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201641

Germany44,8424,484.2

Iceland17617.6

Italy25,7182,571.8

Luxembourg69769.7

Malta13613.6

Netherlands10,3131,031.3

Norway5,506550.6

Poland8,318831.8

Portugal65065.0

South Africa5,905590.5

Spain17,6151,761.5

Sweden6,300630.0

Switzerland7,064706.4

United Kingdom30,5473,054.7

Unallocated2,336233.6

TOTAL250,00025,000.0

GRAND TOTAL1,000,000100,000.0

SCHEDULE B

ELECTION OF DIRECTORS

The Board of Governors shall prescribe rules for the conduct ofeach election of Directors, in accordance with the followingprovisions.

1. Constituencies. Each Director shall represent one or moremembers in a constituency. The total aggregate voting power of eachconstituency shall consist of the votes which the Director is entitledto cast under paragraph 3 of Article 28.

2. Constituency Voting Power. For each election, the Board ofGovernors shall establish a Minimum Percentage for constituencyvoting power for Directors to be elected by Governors representing

42Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

regional members (Regional Directors) and a Minimum Percentagefor constituency voting power for Directors to be elected byGovernors representing non-regional members (Non-RegionalDirectors):

(a)The Minimum Percentage for Regional Directors shall beset as a percentage of the total votes eligible to be cast inthe election by the Governors representing regionalmembers (Regional Governors). The initial MinimumPercentage for Regional Directors shall be 6%.

(b)The Minimum Percentage for Non-Regional Directorsshall be set as a percentage of the total votes eligible to becast in the election by the Governors representing non-regional members (Non-Regional Governors). The initialMinimum Percentage for Non-Regional Directors shallbe 15%.

3. Adjustment Percentage. In order to adjust voting power acrossconstituencies when subsequent rounds of balloting are requiredunder paragraph 7 below, the Board of Governors shall establish,for each election, an Adjustment Percentage for Regional Directorsand an Adjustment Percentage for Non-Regional Directors. EachAdjustment Percentage shall be higher than the correspondingMinimum Percentage:

(a)The Adjustment Percentage for Regional Directors shallbe set as a percentage of the total votes eligible to be cast inthe election by the Regional Governors. The initialAdjustment Percentage for Regional Directors shall be15%.

(b)The Adjustment Percentage for Non-Regional Directorsshall be set as a percentage of the total votes eligible to becast in the election by the Non-Regional Governors. Theinitial Adjustment Percentage for Non-Regional Directorsshall be 60%.

4. Number of Candidates. For each election, the Board ofGovernors shall establish the number of Regional Directors andNon-Regional Directors to be elected, in light of its decisions on thesize and composition of the Board of Directors pursuant to paragraph2 of Article 25:

(a)The initial number of Regional Directors shall be nine;

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201643

(b)The initial number of Non-Regional Directors shall bethree.

5. Nominations. Each Governor may only nominate one person.Candidates for the office of Regional Director shall be nominated byRegional Governors. Candidates for the office of Non-RegionalDirector shall be nominated by Non-Regional Governors.

6. Voting. Each Governor may vote for one candidate, casting allof the votes to which the member appointing him is entitled underparagraph 1 of Article 28. The election of Regional Directors shallbe by ballot of Regional Governors. The election of Non-RegionalDirectors shall be by ballot of Non-Regional Governors.

7. First Ballot. On the first ballot, candidates receiving the highestnumber of votes, up to the number of Directors to be elected, shall beelected as Directors, provided that, to be elected, a candidate shallhave received a sufficient number of votes to reach the applicableMinimum Percentage:

(a)If the required number of Directors is not elected on thefirst ballot, and the number of candidates was the same asthe number of Directors to be elected, the Board ofGovernors shall determine the subsequent actions tocomplete the election of Regional Directors or the electionof Non-Regional Directors, as the case may be.

8. Subsequent Ballots. If the required number of Directors is notelected on the first ballot, and there were more candidates than thenumber of Directors to be elected on the ballot, there shall besubsequent ballots, as necessary. For subsequent ballots:

(a)The candidate receiving the lowest number of votes in thepreceding ballot shall not be a candidate in the next ballot.

(b)Votes shall be cast only by:

(i)Governors who voted in the preceding ballot for acandidate who was not elected; and

(ii)Governors whose votes for a candidate who waselected are deemed to have raised the votes for thatcandidate above the applicable AdjustmentPercentage under (c) below.

44Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 2016

(c)The votes of all the Governors who cast votes for eachcandidate shall be added in descending order of number,until the number of votes representing the applicableAdjustment Percentage has been exceeded. Governorswhose votes were counted in that calculation shall bedeemed to have cast all their votes for that Director,including the Governor whose votes brought the total overtheAdjustment Percentage. The remaining Governorswhose votes were not counted in that calculation shall bedeemed to have raised the candidates total votes abovethe Adjustment Percentage, and the votes of thoseGovernors shall not count towards the election of thatcandidate. These remaining Governors may vote in thenext ballot;

(d)If in any subsequent ballot, only one Director remains tobe elected, the Director may be elected by a simple majorityof the remaining votes. All such remaining votes shall bedeemed to have counted towards the election of the lastDirector.

9. Assignment of Votes. Any Governor who does not participatein voting for the election or whose votes do not contribute to theelection of a Director may assign the votes to which he is entitled toan elected Director, provided that such Governor shall first haveobtained the agreement of all those Governors who have elected thatDirector to such assignment.

10. Founding Member Privileges. The nomination and voting byGovernors for Directors and the appointment of Alternate Directorsby Directors shall respect the principle that each Founding Membershall have the privilege to designate the Director or an AlternateDirector in its constituency permanently or on a rotating basis.

Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Agreement(Ratification) Act, No. 7 of 201645

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.