PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SRI LANKA INVENTORS INCENTIVES
ACT, No. 53 OF 1979 /

[Certified on 23rd August, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 24, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT, PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price : 90 cents Postage : 25 cents


Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives
Act, No. 53 of 1979

[Certified on 23rd August, 1979]
L. D—O. 62/78.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PUBLIC -

AUTHORITY CALLED THE SRI LANKA INVENTORS COMMISSION
AND FOR THE PROMOTION AND ENCOURAGEMENT OF SRI LANKA

INVENTIONS AND THEIR MANUFACTURE AND FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO,

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Inventors
Incentives Act, No. 53 of 1979, and shall come into operation
on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette (in this Act referred to as the
“appointed date”).

2. There shall be established on the appointed date an
authority which shall be called the Sri Lanka Inventors
Commission (hereafter in this Act referred to as “the
Commission’) and which shall consist of the persons who
are for time being members of the Commission under
section 4.

3. The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it by
section 2, be a body corporate and shall‘ have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued
in its corporate name. -

4. (1) The Commission shall consist of a Commissioner
and two Assistant Commissioners appointed by the Cabinet
of Ministers on the recommendation of the Minister.

(2) Such Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner shall
be a citizen of Sri Lanka and an inventor with one or more
inventions registered as such with the Registrar of Patents
of Sri Lanka.

(3) Where in the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers there
_is no person suitably qualified for appointment to the Com-
mission a person who has distinguished himself in science
or industry or is otherwise specially qualified in relation to
some aspect of the work of the Commission may be tempo-
rarily appointed to the Commission.

(4) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or from continuing as a member of the Commission if he
is a Member of Parliament.

Short title
and date of
operation,

Establish-
ment of the
Commission.

corporate.

Members of
the
Commission.


Term of
office of
members.

Resignation
or removal
of members.

Remuneration
of members
of the
Commission.

Members to
disclose
interest in
any decision
to be made
by the
Commission.

Commission
may act
despite
vacancy.

,

_ Objects of
the

Commission.

2 Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives
Act, No. 53 of 1979

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 6 the term of
office of the members of the Commission shall be three
years:

Provided that a member appointed in place of a member
who resigns or is removed or otherwise vacates office. shall,
unless he earlier resigns or is removed or otherwise vacates
office, hold office for the unexpired part of the term of office
of the member whom he succeeds.

(2) Any member of the Commission vacating office by
effluxion of time shall be eligible for re-appointment.

6. (1) A member of the Commission may resign from
the Commission by letter addressed to the Minister.

(2) All members of the Commission shall hold office
during good behaviour and may be removed from office by
the Cabinet of Ministers.

(3) Where a member is temporarily unable to discharge
the duties of his office on account of ill health, absence from
Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Cabinet of Ministers may
subject to section 4 appoint some other person to act as
a member in his place.

7. The members of the Commission may be paid such
remuneration as may be determined by the Minister with
the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.

8. A member of the Commission who is directly oF
indirectly interested in any matter which forms the subject
of any proceeding of the Commission or of any decision pro-
posed to be made by the Commission, shall disclose in
writing the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Com-
mission and such member shall not take part in any proceed-
ing or decision in respect of such matter.

9. No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be
declared invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy among its members or any defect in the appoint-
ment of any of its members.

19. The objects of the Commission shall be—
(a) to encourage the making or creation of inventions
by citizens of Sri Lanka;

(bx to give technical, financial and legal’ assistance t?
inventors ;


Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives 3
Act, No. 53 of 1979

- {c) to exercise, discharge and perform all the powers,
functions and duties conferred or imposed on such
Commission under this Act; and

(d) to do all such other acts or things as may be neces-
sary for, or conducive to, the attainment of the
objects specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
this section.
11. (1) The Commission shall have the following Powers,
powers, functions and duties :— and dates

: ' ' , of the
(a) to give technical assistance to inventors after Commission.

examination of their inventions to determine their
patentability and to help them prepare patent
applications, under such terms and conditions as
may be specified by the Commission ;

(6) to grant financial aid to inventors to enable them tt
develop, perfect and produce their patented inven-
tions or those which are pending patent, under such
terms and conditions as may be specified by the
Commission ;

(c) to render legal assistance to inventors by representing
them in filing their patent applications in Sri Lanka
or abroad and by protecting their secured patents
from infringement in patent cases, under such terms
and conditions as may be specified by the Commis-
sion ;

(d) to recommend to government lending institutions
inventions that are beneficial to Sri Lanka so as to
enable such institutions to give long-term loans
to inventors to manufacture their inventions, with
only their patents, as security, the amount of any
such loan to be granted depending upon the impor-
tance and market of their inventions as determined
by the Commission ;

(e) to help inventors find markets for their inventions
in Sri Lanka and abroad ; :

(f) to encourage Sri Lankan inventors to make known
their inventions by giving annually sizeable cash
awards and medals to be known as the “ Presiden-
tial Awards for Inventions” to patented inventions
in Sri Lanka in the fields of agriculture, chemistry,
medicine, national defence, pharmacy, physics,
public safety and welfare, public works, transporta-


Conditions
under
which
facility or
service ig
given to
inventor or
researcher.

4 Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives
Act, No. 53 of 1979

tion and such other fields of science and technology.
such awards shall be open to all inventors in Sri
Lanka without distinction as to nationality ;

(g) to establish and maintain a public research laboratory
and experimental station where authorized
inventors and researchers may avail themselves of
its facilities and services for carrying out or perfect-
ing their approved inventions and researches ;

(h) to promote and encourage inventiveness and creative-
ness among people in Sri Lanka and to assist them
in creating new inventions in those fields of science
and technology specified in paragraps (f) through
an annual “ Creative Research Contest” with cash
prizes and medals to the winners chosen by the
respective judges of the “Presidental Awards for
Inventions ” ;

(2) to publish and disseminate information about inven-
tions, researches and science in general ;

(j) to hold regular monthly sessions for the exchange of
ideas among inventors;

(k) to help Sri Lankan inventors join international -
competitions for inventions and researches, or to:
recommend them to such competitions ; and

(1) to organize creative societies in schools, colleges and
universities to promote and encourage creativeness
among Sri Lankan youth.

(2) For the purpose of giving annually the cash awards

'and medals specified in paragraph (f) of subsection (1), the :

President shall appoint a panel of judges, consisting of three |
distinguished persons in the respective fields of endeavour, —
referred tn in that paragraph.

12. The inventor or researcher shall by written agree-
ment before making use of the facilities provided by the
Commission under paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (g) of
subsection (1) of section 11, contract to give the Commission
not less than one-tenth of all royalties arising from such™:
inventions or research, depending upon the extent of the
facilities or services to such inventor or researcher to.
maintain the public research laboratory or’ experimental.

Station.


Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives 5
_ Act, No. 53 of 1979

13. The laboratory facilities and services of the. Ceylon
Institute of Scientific-and Industrial Research or any other
government research institution, shall be made available to
inventors or researchers who may need the same as recom-
mended by the Commission. All expenses incurred by any
such institution in making available laboratory facilities to
the Commission shall be chargeable to the Commission.

~ 14, All functions relating to the promotion and develop-
ment of inventions conferred upon any person or body of
persons corporate or unincorporate by any written law are
hereby transferred to the Commission which shall hereafter
exercise those functions. |

15. (1) The Commission may make rules for the proper
administration of the affairs of the Commission, for the
regulation of employment of the staff of the Commission
and generally for the exercise and performance of its powers
and duties under this Act. | |

(2) No rule made by the Commission shall have effect
until it has been approved by the Minister.

16. (1) Where any immovable property is required to
be acquired for any purpose of the Commission and the
Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, approves of
the proposed acquisition, that property shall be deemed to
be required for a public purpose and may accordingly he
acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and be transferred

to the Commission.

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immovable
property under the Land Acquisition Act for the Commission
shall be paid from the Fund.

17. Where any immovable property of the Republic is

required for the purpose of the Commission, such purpose

shall be deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant
or lease of such property may be made under section 6 of the
Crown Lands Ordinance and, accordingly, the provisions of
that Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of
such property to the Commission. ,

Laboratory
facilities,

Transfer of
functions
relating

to promotiar: .
and
development
of inventions:
to the
Commission,

Power to
make rules,

Acquisition
of

immovable
property for
the purpose
of the .
Commission.

Special .
grant of
lease of
roperty
longing
to the
Republic
to the
Commission,


Power of
bodies of
persons or
loca}
authority °
to enter
into
contracts
with the
Commission.

Protection
for action
taken under
this Act

or on the
direction

of the
Commission.

No writ to
issue
against the
person or
property of
a member
of the

Commission.

Administra-
tion and
Staff,

6 Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives
Act, No. 53 of 1979

18. Any body of persons, coporate or unincorporate or
any local authority may, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in any written law orinstrument, relating to its
function, enter into and perform or carry out all such
contracts and agreements with the Commission as may be
necessary for the performance of the duties and the exercise
of the powers of the Commission.

19. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie—

(a) against the Commission for any act which in good
faith is done or is purported to be done by the
Commission under this Act; or

(b) against any member, officer, servant or agent of the
Commission for any act which in good faith is done
or is purported to be done by him under this Act
or on the direction of the Commission.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Commission in any suit
or prosecution brought by or against the Commission before
any court shall be paid out of the Fund, and any costs paid
to, or recovered by the Commission in any such suit or
prosecution shall be credited to the Fund.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is
referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit or
prosecution brought against him before any court in respect
of any act which is done or is purported to be done by him
under this Act or on the direction of the Commission shall,
if the court holds that such act was done in good faith,
be paid out of the Fund, unless such expense is recovered
by him in such suit or prosecution.

20. No writ against the person or property of a member
of the Commission shall be issued in any action brought
against the Commission.

21 (1) The Commission shall have the following divisions
for the purpose of its administration :—

(a) Patent Examining Division ;
‘(b) Research Division ;
(c) Legal Division ;

(d) Evaluation and Financing Division ;


Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives : 7

Act, No. 53 of 1979

(e) Administration Division; and

(f) other Divisions that the Commission, with the appro-

val of the Minister, may deem necessary to create.

(2) The Commission shall have the power to appoint or

employ such technical, administrative and other personnel

as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the
Commission.

22. (1) There shall be established a Fund called the Sri
Lanka Inventors Fund (in this Act referred to as “the
Fund”) which shall be managed, controlled and operated
by the Commission in accordance with such directions as the
Minister may give from time to time.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund—

(a) any gifts or donations of money made to the
Commission by any person, or by the Government ;

{b) any grant received from the Government. under
section 23 ;

(c). any income from investments or any other moneys
received by the Commission ; and

(d) any moneys received by way of royalties.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund—

(a) all expenses incurred in the establishment, " main-
tenance and working of the Commission ;

(b) the salaries of officers and servants of the Com-

mission ; and

(c) such other payments as are approved by the ©

Commission as being necessary for the purpose of
carrying out the objects of the Commission.

23. The Government shall grant or give on loan to the
Commission out of the Consolidated Fund for the purpose of
carrying out the aims and objects of the Commission such
sums as may be voted by Parliament for the purpose.

24, (1) The Commission shall be exempt from any income
tax, wealth tax or other tax payable under the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979.

(2) All goods imported for the purpose of giving effect
-to the objects and purposes of the Commission under the
provisions of this Act, shall be exempt from the payment

Government
to the
Commission.

Exemption
of

Commission
and donors
from
certain
duties and
taxes.


Exemption
of inventors
from tax,

Financial
year.

«8 Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives

Act, No. 53 of 1979

of any custom duty, if the Minister in consultation with the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance approves the
importation of such goods.

(3) Any instrument containing any agreement between
the Commission and any other person providing for the
payment by such person to the Commission of any sum as @
donation shall be exempt from the payment of stamp duty.

(4) The amount of any donation made to the Commission
by any person in the year preceding any year of assessment
shall, for the purpose of computing his taxable income for

. that year of assessment, under the Inland Revenue Act,

No. 28 of 1979, be deducted from his assessable income, and
the making of such donation shall be deemed not to be a
taxable gift for the purpose of that Act.

(5) The provisions of -this section shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Inland
Reveue Act, No. 28 of 1979, and the Customs Ordinance.

25, (1) Where a patent has been granted to any citizen
of Sri Lanka in respect of any invention approved by the
Commission then, subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained, the income received by the holder of such patent
from royalties or otherwise in respect of such patent shall
not be liable to any income tax, wealth tax or other tax
payable under the Inland Reveue Act, No. 28 of 1979, for a
period of five years from the date of the grant of the patent,
and the holder of such patent shall be exempt from all
licences or permits required to be obtained under any
written law.

(2) The preceding provisions of this section shall apply
only to the holders of a patent—

(a) where the paid-up capital consequent to the use of
such patented invention does not exceed one
million rupees ; and

(b) where the manufacture in pursuance of such

patented invention is carried out by the inventor
himself as a home industry.

26. The financial year of the Commission shall be the
period of twelve months commencing on the first day of
January each year.


Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives So
Act, No. 53 of 1979

27. (1) The Auditor-General shall audit the accounts of
the Commission at such intervals not exceeding a period of
twelve months as the Commission may decide.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
Minister may, with the concurrence of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance, and in consultation with. the
Auditor-General, appoint a qualified auditor or auditors to

audit the accounts of the Commission. Where such appoint- -

ment has been made by the Minister, the Auditor-General
may, in writing, inform such auditor or auditors that he pro~-
poses to utilize his or their services for the performance

and discharge of the Auditor-General’s duties and functions -

in relation to the Commission and thereupon such auditor
or auditors shall act under the direction and control of the
Auditor-General.

(3) Every qualified auditor appointed under the pro-
visions of subsection (2) shall submit his report to the
Minister and also submit a copy thereof to the Auditor-
General. |

(4) The Auditor-General shall examine the accounts of
the Commission and ascertain the correctness of the balance
sheet and report to the Commission—

(a) whether or not he has obtained all the information
and explanations required by him; and

(b) whether in his opinion the balance sheet referred to
in the report is properly drawn up so as to exhibit
a true and correct view of the Commission’s affairs
according to the best of his information and ex-
planations given to him and as shown by the
books of the Commission.

(5) In this section “ qualified auditor” means—

(2) an individual who, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant issued by the Council.

of such Institute ; or

(0) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute. 7

Duties of
the Auditor-
General.


Power of
Minister to
give special
or general
Girections
to the

Commission.

Officers and
servants of
e
Commission
deemed to
be public
servants.

The
Commission
deemed to
be a
scheduled
institution
within the
meaning of

the Bribery
Act.

| 10 Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives

Act, No. 53 of 1979 |

28. The Minister may give special or general directions
in writing as to the performance of the duties and the exer-
cise of the powers of the Commission, and the Commission
shall give effect to such directions.

_ 29. All officers and servants of the Commission shall be
deemed to be public servants within the meaning and for
the purposes of the Penal Code.

30. The Commission shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
