PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 25 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 03rd of May, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 03, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2024

Short title

L. D.- O 29/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDUREACT, NO. 15 OF 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Code of CriminalProcedure (Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 2024.

2. Section 185 of the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactment) is hereby amended as follows: -

(1)by the renumbering of that section assubsection (1) of that section; and

(2)by the addition immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1), of the following new subsections: -

(2) At the time of passing the sentence, theMagistrate may, after considering all relevant factstake into cognizance the time spent by suchaccused in custody prior to the conviction of theoffence he is convicted of, and in such cases thetime so spent in custody shall be considered tobe part of his sentence:

Provided that, where the time spent by suchaccused in custody is not considered to be part ofhis sentence, the Magistrate shall record reasonstherefor:

Provided further, the time so spent in custodyby the accused prior to the conviction shall not

Amendment ofsection 185 ofAct, No. 15 of1979

[Certified on 03rd of May, 2024]

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 20242

be taken into consideration where a mandatoryminimum sentence is stipulated by law in respectthe offence the accused is charged with.

(3) For the purpose of this section, custodymeans the time spent in remand custody..

3. Section 203 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section; and

(2)by the addition immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1), of the following new subsections:-

(2) At the time of passing the sentence, theJudge may, after considering all relevant factstake into cognizance the time spent by suchaccused in custody prior to the conviction of theoffence he is convicted of, and in such cases thetime so spent in custody, shall be considered tobe part of his sentence:

Provided that, where the time spent by suchaccused in custody is not considered to be part ofhis sentence, the Judge shall record reasonstherefor:

Provided further, the time so spent in custodyby the accused prior to the conviction shall notbe taken into consideration where a mandatoryminimum sentence is stipulated by law in respectof the offence the accused is charged with.

Amendment ofsection 203 ofthe principalenactment

3Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2024

(3) For the purpose of this section, custodymeans the time spent in remand custody..

4. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 238 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 238A of that enactment: -

238A. (1) At the time of passing the sentence,the Judge may, after considering all relevantfacts take into cognizance the time spent bysuch accused in custody prior to the convictionof the offence he is convicted of, and in suchcases the time so spent in custody, shall beconsidered to be part of his sentence:

Provided that, where the time spent by suchaccused in custody is not considered to be partof his sentence, the Judge shall record reasonstherefor:

Provided further, the time so spent incustody by the accused prior to the convictionshall not be taken into consideration where amandatory minimum sentence is stipulated bylaw in respect of the offence the accused ischarged with.

(2) For the purpose of this section,custody means the time spent in remandcustody..

5. Section 323 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (5) thereof, by the substitution forthe words the time so spent, of the words the time spent.

Insertion of newsection 238A inthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 323 ofthe principalenactment

Passing thesentence

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 20244

6. Section 333 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (5) thereof, by the substitution forthe words received into prison under the sentence., of thefollowing:-

received into prison under the sentence:

Provided that, the Court of Appeal may, inappropriate cases, order that the time spent by anappellant in custody pending the determination of hisappeal and any time spent in custody prior to theconviction, such time not having been considered aspart of his sentence passed at the time of his convictionby the court of first instance, be considered as part ofhis sentence ordered at the conclusion of his appeal..

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Amendment ofsection 333 of theprincipalenactment

5Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.