PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

ELECTRICITY REFORM
ACT, No.28 OF 2002

[Certified on 11th December, 2002)
Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of December 13, 2002

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU. COLOMBO ]

Price : Rs. 62.00 Postage : Rs. 15.75


Dp

Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

|Certified on t ith December, 2002]
L.D.—O. 36/2002.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION OF THE GENERATION,
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPLY OF ELECTRICITY
IN Sri LANKA } TO PROVIDE FOR THE TAKING OVER, AND
DISCHARGE OF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE CEYLON ELECTRICITY
Board AND THE LANKA ELEctRicity COMPANY BY CERTAIN
PUBLIC COMPANIES ¥O BE INCORPORATED FOR THAT PURPOSE 2 ‘FO
REPEAL THE CEYLON ELEcTRICITY BoaRbD ACT AND THE
Evecraicrry ACT . AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL. THERETO.

WHEREAS a national policy on electricity had
been formulated with a view to enabling Sri Lanka
to meet the increasing demands for electricity in the
future :

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to give effect to
this policy by regulating the generation, transmission.
distribution and supply of clectricity in Sri Lanka, by providing
for the taking over and discharge of the functions of the Ceylon
Electricity Board and the Lanka Electricity Company, by
certain public companies to be incorporated for that purpose :
and by providing for certain other related matters :

NOW THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Parliament
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows :—

CHAPTER |

PRELIMINARY

3. This Act may be cited as the Electricity Reform Act,
No, 28 of 2002, and shall come into operation on such date as
the Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.
Different dates may be appointed in respect of diffcrent
provisions of this Act.

2—~H 016578-5.650 (2002/09)

Short title and
dates of operation.


Administration of
the Act.

Functions of the
Commission.

2 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

2. Without prejudice to the powers of the Minister under
Chapter VI, from and after the date of operation of this Act or
any of the provisions thereof, the administration of this Act
shall vest in the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
(hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”) constituted
under the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka Act.
No. 35 of 2002 and the Commission shall exercise. perform
and discharge all the powers, functions and duties as are
conferred on or assigned to it under this Act.

CHAPTER If]
FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION

3. The functions of the Commission shall be to act as
the economic, technical and safety regulator for the electrictly
industry in Sri Lanka and—

(a) toadvise the Government. on all matters concerning
the generation, transmission, distribution, supply and
use of electricity in Sri Lanka ;

(b) to exercise licensing, regulatory and inspection
functions, as the case may be, in respect of matters
provided for in this Act. licences, regulations.
standards of performance, codes of practice and other
requirements of, or made under this Act relating to
the generation, transmission, distribution, supply and
use of electricity in Sri Lanka ;

(c) to approve such technical and operational codes and
standards as are required from time to tme to be
developed by licensees :

(d) to regulate tariffs and other charges levied by
licensees and other electricity undertakings :

(e) after consultation with transmission and distribution
licensees, to publish a statement setting oul the rights
and obligations of consumers arising under seclions
22 to 28 of, and Schedules ! and 2 to this Act ;

a


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 3

(f) to collect and record information relating to the
generation, transmission, distribution, supply and use
of electricity in Sri Lanka .

(g) to set and enforce technical and other standards
relating to the safety, quality, continuity and
reliability of electricity supply services and metering
SETVICES }

(h) to promote the efficient use, and conservation, of
electricity ;

(i) to prepare, within three months of the coming into
operation of this Chapter and to revise, from time to
time thereafter, a regulatory manual containing a
code of good practice relating to the functions
assigned to the Commission by or under this Act ;

G) to pursuc any matter relating to the functions
conferred on or assigned to the Commission by or
under this Act within such period and in such manner
as may be specified in the regulatory manual :

(k) subject to the provisions of this Act, to consult to
the extent the Commission considers appropriate,
any person or group of persons who may be affected.
or are likely to be affected, by the decisions of the
Commission, and

(J) to undertake all incidental or ancillary measures that
it considers appropriate for the effective discharge
of its functions.

4, (1) The Commission shall discharge the functions
assigned to it by or under this Act in a manner which it
considers is best calculated—

(a) to protect the interests of consumers in relation to
the supply of electricity, by promoting efficiency,
economy and safety by persons engaged in, or in

Objectives.


4

(b)

(c)

(d)

(¢)

f)

(g)

Elecrricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

commercial activities connected with, the generation.
transmission. distribution supply and use of
electricity ;

to secure that. so far as iLis economical to mect them.
all reasonable demands for clectricity in Sri Lanka
are met :

to secure that licensees acting efficiently will be able
{o finance the carrying on of the activities authorized
or required by their licences :

to promote the efficient use of electricity supplied
to premises ;

to protect the public from dangers arising from the
generation, transmission, distribution, supply or use
of electricity :

to give effect to any guidance on environmental
objectives notified to the Commission by the Central
Environmental Authority or, where applicable. a
Provincial Council : and

to promote competition, where appropriate.

(hereinafter referred to as tie “objectives”).

(2) In this section, “the interests of consumers” includes
the interests of existing and future consumers with regard to---

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the prices charged and other terms of supply of
electricity ;

the availability and continuity of supply of
electricity ;

the quality of electricity supply services provided :
and

the exercise of any rights conferred under this Act
10 enter their premiscs.


Electricity Reform Act, Na, 28 of 2002 5

5. (1) The Minister shall have the power to formulate
general policy guidelines in respect of the electricity industry.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),
it shall be lawful for the Minister to forward such guidelines
to the Cabinet of Ministers for consideration on the following
matters :-—

(a) the requirements for electricity in Sri Lanka in order

to attain national targets for sustainable economic
growth including requirements in respect of—

(4) different geographical areas including. rural
arcas and

(ii) different socio-economic groups ¢

(b) fuel diversity and the preferred fuel for new
electricity generating capacity ;

(c) the priorities and objectives in meeting the needs set
oul in paragraph (a) ;

(d) the measures being taken by the Government with
respect to the above matters,

and upon such guidelines being issued, the Cominission shall
take such general policy guidelines into consideration when
discharging its functions.

6. (1) The Commission may appoint electrical inspectors
for the purposes of this Act.

(2) MW shall be the duty of an electrical inspector appointed
under subsection (1)—

(a) to inspect and test, electric lines and clectrical plant
belonging to persons authorized by a licence, or
exempted from the requirement of obtaining a
licence, to gencrate, transmit, distribute or supply
electricity ;

General Policy
Guideline te be
issued by the
Minister.

Electrical
Inspectors,


6

(b)

(c)

(d)

Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

to examine, the generation, transmission. distribution
or supply of electricity by such persons ;

lo inspect and test, if and when required by any
consumer, any such lines and plant on the consumer's
premises, for the purpose of ascertaining whether
any requirement imposed by this Act in respect of
those lines or plant or the supply of electricity
through or by them, has been complied with ; and

to carry out such other functions as may be imposed

on him or her by regulations or the Commission as
il so determines.

(3) Regulations may be made—

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

prescribing the manner. in which, and the times ut
which, any duties imposed on electrical inspectors
are to be performed :

requiring persons authorized by a licence. or
exempted from the requirement of obtaining a
licence, to generate, transmit, distribute or supply
electricity—
(i) to furnish efcetrical inspectors with records or
other information : and
(11) to allow such inspectors access to premises and
the use of electrical plant and other facilities ;

prescribing the amount of the fees (if any) which
are payable to such inspectors and the Persons by
whom they are payable ;

prescribing a procedure for the audit of the activities
of electrical inspectors :

relieving a licencee from its obligation to supply
electricity in circumstances the Commission may
prescribe ; and

setting out the procedure for the resolution of
disputes between an electrical tnspector and a
consumer or a licensec.


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 7

(4) Any fees received by the electrical inspectors under
this section shall be credited to the Fund of the Commission.

7. The provisions relating to public hearings in the Public
Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002 shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to, a public hearing
under this Act.

CHAPTER III

Part {

LICENSING

8. (1) A person shall not—
(a) generate electricity ;
(b) transmit clectricity ; or

(ce) distribute or supply electricity for the purpose of
giving a supply (o any premises or enabling a supply
to be given to any premises,

unless he is authorized to do so by a licence granted under
this Act or is exempted from such requirement under section 9.

(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection
(1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be
liable on conviction. after summary trial before a Magistrate
to a fine not less than one hundred thousand rupecs and not
excecding two hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment
of cither description for a term not less than six months and
not exceeding one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(3) No proceedings shall be instituted in respect of an
offence under this section except with the written sanction of
the Commission,

9, (1) The Commission may, by Order published in the
Gazette. exempt any person or category of persons trom the
requirement of obtaining a licence for generating or
distributing electricity, having regard to the manner in which
or the quantity of electricity likely to be gencrated or
distributed by such person or category of persons.

Public hearinys.

Prohibition on
unlicensed supply
&e. of electricity.

Exemptions


Applications for
licences.

Procedure prior to
grant of ficences.

Grant of licences.

8 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(2) Every such exemption shail be to such extent. and
subject to such conditions, and for such period. as may be
specified in such Order,

10. Every application for a licence to generate. transmit
or distribute, electricity or for an extension to any such licence
shall be made in writing to the Commission and shall be in
such form, and shall be accompanied by such information
and documents and such fee. as may be prescribed by
regulation.

11. (1) Upon receipt of an application under section 10)
and where the Commission intends to grant the licence or
extension applied for the Commission shall—

(@) publish a notice of its intention to do so in such
manner as the Commission considers appropriate for
bringing it to the attention of persons who are likely
lo be affected by the licence or extension : und

(b) send a copy of the notice to the Minister for his or
her information.

(2) Every notice under subsection (1) shatl—

(a) state that the Commission proposes to grant the
licence or extension to the persons, and for the
purposes, set out in the notice :

(db) state the reasons for proposing the grant of such
licence or extension : and

(c) specify the period (not being less than tweaty eight
days from the date of publication of the notice) within
which representations may be made to the
Commission with respect to the proposal.

12, (1) The Commission may—

(a) after considering any representations made to it in
response to the notice published under section ||;


(b)

(c}

Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 y

afler satisfying itself that the applicant has the
financial and technical capability for carrying out
the activities authorized by the licence or extension,

and

after nouilying the Minister.

(1)

granta licence authorizing any person —

(ct)

(b)

to generate electricity [rom an idenulied
generation plant : (a licence granted
under this sub-paragraph is hereinafter
referred to as a “generation licence”) ;

to transmit clectricity (and procure and
sell electricity in bulk) in the Authorized
Area specified in the licence : fadicence
granted under this sub-paragraph ts
hereinafter referred to as a “transmisston
licence”): or

to distribute and supply or distribute or
supply electricity for the purpose of
giving a supply to any premises or
enabling a supply to be so given in the
Authorized Area specified in the
licence : (a licence granted under this
sub-paragraph is hereinafter referred to
as a “distribution licence”) . or

(ii) extend. for the period specified in the

exiension, a gencration. transmission. or
distribution licence granted under this Act.

(2) Forthwith upon the grant of a licence or an extension

under this section, the Commission shall cause to be published
in the Gazette, a notification giving details of the licence or
extension granted, including the persons to whom, and the
purposes for which, it was granted, the term of such licence
or extension, as the case may be. and the conditions subject
to which it was granted.


10) Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(3) A person shall not be granted both a transmission
licence and—

(a) a generation licence : or

(b) a distribution licence.

(4) A person shall not be granted both a generation licence
and a distribution licence.

Form of Licence. 13. (1) Every generation, transmission or distribution
licence or extension thereof granted under this Act
shall—

(a) be in writing ;

(b) unless previously revoked or surrendered in
accordance with the terms of the licence or extension.
continue in force for the period specified in the
licence or extension ; and

(c) not be capable of being surrendered without the
consent of the Commission.

(2) As soon as practicable after granting a generation.
transmission or distribution licence or extension thereot the
Commission shall send a copy thereol—

(a) to the Minister for his or her information ; and

(b) to any licensee likely to be affected.

General 14. (1)A generation, transmission or distribution licence
conditions ot may include—
licences.

(a) such conditions (whether or not relating to the
activities authorized by the licence) as the
Commission considers necessary having regard to
the functions assigned to Ul by section 3 ;


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 il

(b) conditions requiring payment to the Commission
upon the grant of the licence, or periodic payments
during the term of the licence, of such amount or
amounts as may be determined by the Commission,
by or under the licence ;

(c) in addition to the provisions in sections 30 and 31 of
this Act, conditions with provision for the
conditions—

(i) to have effect or cease to have effect at such
times and in such circumstances as may be
specified in the licence ; or

(ji) to be modified in such manner as may be
specified in the licence at such times, and in
such circumstances, as may be so specified ;
and

(d) conditions relating to the prohibition of abuse of
monopoly position or other anti-competitive
behaviour,

(2) Conditions included in a generation, transmission or
distribution licence may include, requirements—

(a) compelling the licensee to adhere to any decision.
order, direction or determination given by the
Commission as to such matters as are specified in
the heence ;

(b) compelling the licensee to comply with all
requirements of the licence ;

(c) compelling the licensee to refer certain matters for
determination by the Commission ;

(d) compelling the licensee to refer for approval by the
Commission certain things to be done under the
licence or certain contracts or agreements made in
pursuance of the licence ;


Special conditions
of veneration
licences.

{e}

ff)

Electricity Reform Act, No, 28 of 2002

restricting the ownership by the licensee or
any of ils affiliates. of specified business interests :
and

compelling the licensee to enter into agrecniculs wilh
other persons.

(3) Any sum received by the Commission by virtue of any
condition of a licence shall be paid into the Fund of the
Commission,

13. Without prejudice to the generality of scetion [4. at
licence issued to a generation licensee shall include.
conditions —

(a)

(bh)

{¢)

(f)

prescribing how it shall discharge the functions
assigned to the licensee under this Act. in so Var as
such condition is not inconsistent with any provision
of this Act ;

requiring the licensee to sell electricity generated
by the licensee exclusively and only lo Lransmission
licnesee ;

requiring the licensee to adhere to all environmental
laws for the time being in force :

requiring the licensee to take all possible steps to
protect persons. plants and equipment from injury
and damage :

requiring the licensee to implement and maintain
such technical or operational codes in relation to the
generation system as the Commission considers
necessary or expedient : and

requiring it to develop and maintain electric lines.
cables, plants and fuel handling plants and associated
equipment.


16.

Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 13

Without prejudice to the generality of section 14. a

transmission licence issued to a licensee shall include.
conditions—

(a)

(b)

(ce)

(d)

(e)

(fp

(g)

(ft)

prescribing how the licensee shall discharge the
functions assigned to the licensee under this Act, in
so far as such condition is not inconsistent with any
provision of this Act :

requiring the licensee to forecast future demand, to
plan the development of the licensce’s transmission
system. and to procure the development of new
generation plant to meet reasonable forecast
demand :

requiring the licensce to purchase electricity and
other goods and services on the most cconomically
advantageous terms ¢

relating to the establishment of tariffs the licensee
may charge for the bulk sales of electricity and tariffs
for the use of the transmission system by generation
licensees and distributions licensees :

requiring the licensee to maintain separate accounts
in respect of diflerent parts of the licensee’s business
and prohibiting cross subsidy between those parts :

requiring the licensee to implement and maintain
such technical or operational codes in relation to
the transmission system (including a grid code)
as the Commission considers necessary or
expedient ;

requiring the licensee to develop and maintain
clectric lines or electrical plant or both ; and

requiring the licensee to develop and operate a
transparent generation dispatch model.

Special conditions
of transmission
ficences.


Spceiai condition
of distribution
ficcnces.

14 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

and may include, conditions allowing the transmission
licensec to sell electricity in bulk to certain consumers who
are connected to the transmission licensee's transmission
system and are identified in the transmission licence, subject
lo such further conditions as are included in that licence
relating to such bulk sates.

17. Without prejudice to the generality of section 14. a
distribution ficence issued to a licensee may include.
conditions—

{a) prescribing how the licensce shall discharge the
functions assigned to the licensee by or under this
Act in so far as such conditions are not inconsistent
with any provisions of this Act ;

(b) requiring the licensee to publish codes of practice in
relation to consumer issues containing such
provisions as the Commission considers necessary
for the protection of consumers, including provision
relating to— ,

(i) the payment of bills by consumers ;
(ii) the disconnection of supplies to consumers :

(iii) the provision of services to the etderly and
disabled ;

(iv) the efficient use of electricity by consumers :
(v) - the handling of consumer complaints : and

(vi) the monitoring of compliance by the licensee.
with maximum charges for the resale of
electricity set by the Commission ;

(c} requiring the licensee to implement and maintain
such technical or operational codes in relation to the
electricity distribution network as the Commission
considers necessary or expedient ; and


Electricity Reform Act, No, 28 of 2002 l

a

(d) requiring the licensee to develop and maintain
electric lines or electrical plant or both.

18. (1) A licence shall be capable of being assigned cither
in whole or in part if it includes a condition authorizing such
assignment.

(2) A licence shall not be capable of being assigned except
with the consent of the Commission.

(3) In deciding whether to give its consent under subsection
(2). the Commission shail apply the same criteria as it would
apply if it were deciding whether to grant a corresponding
licence or part of a corresponding licence ta the assignec.

(4) A consent under subsection (3) may be given subject
to the assignee agreeing to—

(a) such modification of the conditions of the licence or
the imposition of such further conditions as the

Commission considers necessary for the purpose of

protecting the interests of consumers ; and

(b) such incidental or consequential modification of

conditions as the Commission considers necessary.

(5) A licence may include conditions authorising
assignment subject to compliance by the assignee of certain
specified conditions.

(6) An assignment, or purported assignment, of a licence
shall be void—

(a) if the licence is not capable of assignment ;

(b) if the assigament, or purported assignment, is in
breach of a condition of the licence ; or

(c) if there has been, before the assignment or purported
assignment, a contravention of a condition subject
to which consent was given under subsection (2).

Assignment ol
hiceuces.


Revocation of
licences.

Apptication for
exemption.

Revocation and
withdrawal of
exemptions.

i6 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

19. (i} The Commisston may, affer considering any
representation made to il in response to a notice published
under subsection (2). and by Order published tm the gazeue.
revoke a generation, transmission or distribution licenee. in
accordance with the lerms as to revocation contained in such
licence.

(2) Before revoking any licence under subsection (1). the
Commisston shall by notice published in the Gazeue and by
such other means as it considers appropriate for bringing it lo
the attention of persons likely to be affected by the revocation,
state that it proposes to revoke the licence specified in the
notice, and the reasons for proposing to do so. and specily a
period within which representations may be made to tlagainst
such revocation.

20. (1) Every application for an exemption under
section 9 may be made, in writing to the Commission in such

‘form as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by

such information, documents and fees as may be presertbed
by regulation.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) and (2) of secuan | |
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply in relation to an appheauon
under subsection (1).

(3) The Commission shall consider any representation
made to it in response to a notice published by it in pursuance
of subsection (2). before granting an exemption under
section 9.

21. (1) The Commission may, after considering any
representation made to it in response to a notice published
under subsection (2), by Order published itn the Gazette

{a) revoke an exemption granted to a person or a
category of persons under section 9: or

(b) withdraw an exemption granted to a category of
persons from a person of that category,


Electricity Reform Act. No, 28 of 2002 17

in accordance with any provision of the Order by which the
exemption was granted or if it appears to the Commission
inappropriate that the exemption should continue.

(2) Before revoking or withdrawing an exemption under
subsection (1), the Commission shall by notice published in
such manner as the Commission considers appropriate to bring
it to the attention of the persons affected. state that it proposes
to revoke or withdraw the exemption specified in the notice.
and the reasons for doing so, and specify a period within which
representations may be made to the Commission against such
proposed revocation or withdrawal.

PART Ul
Powers AND DUTIES OF LICENSEES

22. The provisions of this Part shatl be in addition to.
and not in derogation of, the conditions of a generation,
ransmisston or distribution licence.

23. (E) A transmission licensee shall—

(a) develop and maintain an efficient, coordinated,
reliable und economical transmission system :

(b) procure and scll electricity in bulk to distribution
lieetisces. so as to ensure a secure, reliable and
economical supply of electricity to consumers ¢ and

tc) ensure that there is sufficient capacily from
generation plant to mect reasonable [forecast demand
for electricity.

(2) Sections 6. 24. 25.26,27.28.39.40.41.60 and 62. of
this Act and Schedules 1, 2 and 3 to this Act shall. anteatis
mutandis, apply to bulk sates of electricity by a transmission
licensee as they apply to the supply of electricity by a
distribution licensee.

Provisions of Uais
Part to be in
addition to
condivions

Duties of
transmission

licetsees.


Duties of
distribution
licensees.

18 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

24. (1) A distribution licensee shail on any request by
ihe owner or occupier of any premises within the Authorized
Arca of the licensee—

(a) connect, supply and maintain the supply of electricity
to those premises ; and

(b) so far as may be necessary for that purpose, provide
electric lines or electrical plant or both,

subject to the provisions of this Part, any regulations made
under this Part or section 60, and the Electricity Supply Code
(as set out in Schedule 2 to this Act.).

(2) A distribution licensce shall avoid any undue preference
or undue discrimination in the connection of any premises 10
any cicctricity distribution system operated by the licensce
or in the terms on which the licensee makes connections or
supplies electricity.

(3) The owner or occupier of any premises in the
Authorized Area of a distribution licensee which—

(a) are situated within fifty meters from any distribution
line of the licensee ; or

(b) could be connected to any such line by an electric
line supplied and laid by the owner or vecupier of
those premises.

may make a request for a supply under subsection (1) to such
distribution licensec.

(4) A supply of electricity to any premises shall be on ihe
basis of a standard tariff agreement and a distribution licensee
shall inform all consumers within the Authorized Area of the
distribution licence (whether existing consumers or those
persons requesting a supply) of the requirements set out in
this Part and the distribution licence, which have to be satislied
by a consumer in order to obtain a supply of electricity.


Electricity Reform Act. No, 28 of 2002 19

(5) Where any person requires such a supply of
electricity as is referred to in subsection (1). he or she shall
request a supply from and shall inform, the distribution
licensee of-—

(t) the premises at which the supply is required :

(2) the purposes for which electricity is to be used in
those premises ;

(c) the day (not being earlier than a reasonable time after
the distribution licensee is informed of a person’s
requirement} on which the supply is required to
commence ;

(d@) the maximum power which may be required at any
time ; and

(¢) the minimum period for which the supply is required
to be given, ,

and shall provide the distribution licensee with such other
information as may be prescribed. from Ume to lime, by
regulation.

(6) As soon as practicabic after receiving a request under
subsection (5). the distribution licensee shall give to the person

making the request a notice under subsection (7), if—

(a) such licensee has not previously given a supply of
electricity to those premises ; or

(b) the giving of the supply requires the provision of
electric lines or electrical plant or both ; or

(c) if there are other circumstances which make it
necessary for the-liccnsee to do so.

(7) A notice under this subsection shall—


20

{a}

(>)

(¢)

(cd)

Electricity Reform Act. No. 28 of 2002

state the extent to which the proposais specified in
the prospective consumer's request under subsection
(5) are acceptable 10 the distribution licensee and
specify any counter-proposads made by ite
distribution licensce :

specify the tart{? payable ;

specify any payment which that person may be
required to make under section 26 or 27 : and

specify any other terms and conditions whicit tat
person may be required Lo accept.

so however, that the counter-proposals. terias and conditions
proposed by the distribution licensee shall be these which tne

licensee is entiled to impose on that person in accordance
with this Act. regulations made under this Act and tie

_ conditions of the distribution licence.

(8) In this section—

{a}

(b)

{c)

Exemption from 25.
duly to connect
and supply.

any reference to giving & supply of electricity
includes a reference to continuing to give such a
supply :

any reference lo requiring a supply of electricity
includes a reference to requiring such a supply to
continue to be given ; and

any reference to the provision of an electric Hine or
an tlem of clecirical plant includes a reference to the
installation of a new fine or item or the modification
of an existing line or item.

Nothing in this Act shatl be deemed to require a
distribution licensee te connett and give a supply of clectricily
tO any premises under section 24 if and to the extent thie tue

connection and giving of the supply would result in the

tn


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 2)

distribution licensce being in breach of regulations under this
Part or seclion 60, or the Electricity Supply Code, (as set out
in Schedule 2 to this Act) and the licensee has taken all such
steps as are reasonable to prevent the circumstances which
may result in the breach from occurring and to prevent those
circumstances from having such effect.

26. (1) Where any electric line or electrical plant is
provided by the distribution licensee to a person requiring a
supply of electricity under section 24, the licensee may require
any expenses reasonably incurred in providing the line or plant
lo be defrayed by that person to such extent as is allowed by
the conditions of the distribution license.

(2} The Commission may direct a person requiring a supply
of electricity under section 24 from a distribution Hcensee to
pay to the licensee, in respect of any expenses reasonably
incurred in providing any electric line or electrical plant
used for the purpose of giving that supply. such amount as
nay be reasonable in all the circumstances taking into
accounl—

(a) the period of time between laying the distribution
line and making the connection :

(b) any payment any other person has previously
made to the licensee in respect of these expenses ;

and

(c) the extent to which the licensee has already recovered
the licensee's expenses in full.

(3) Directions given by the Commission under subsection
(2) may require the distribution Hicensee who has recovered
an amount in respect of expenses reasonably incurred in
providing any electric line or electrical plant. to apply any
amount so recovered or part thereof in making such payments
as may be appropriate towards reimbursing any person's
previously contributing to such expenses.

Power to recover
eapenditire,


Power to require
security.

22 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(4) Any reference in this section to any expenses
reasonably incurred in providing an clectric line or clectricil
plant includes a reference. to the capitalized value of any
expenses likely to be so incurred in maintaining the Ime or
plant, inso far as such expenses are nol recoverable by the
distribution licensee as part of the charges mace by the licensee
for the supply of electricity.

27. (1) Subject to the following provisions of this section.

_a distribution licensee may require by notice in writing any

person who requires a connection, supply or re-connection
of electricity under section 24 to provide reasonable security
for the payment of all money which may become due lo the
licensce—

(a) in respect of the supply : or

(b) where any electric line or electrical plant requires to
be provided for such supply, in respect of the
provision of the line or plant.

and if that person fails to provide such securily. the distribution
licensee may refuse to give the supply, or refuse fo provide
the line or plant, for so long as the failure continues.

(2) Where any person has not provided such securily as is
required under subsection (1), or the security provided by
such person has become insufficient—

(a) the distribution licensee may by notice require Ut
person, to provide. within seven days after the service
of the notice, reasonable security for the payment of
all moneies which may become due to the ficensee
in respect of the supply : and

(b) if that person fails to provide such security. the
licensee may refuse to make the connection ar
discontinue the supply. as the case may be. tor so
Jong as the failure continues.


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 af 2002

wt
‘oe

(3) Where any sian of money is provided to a distribution
licensee by way of security in pursuance of this section, the
licensee shall pay interest oa such sum of money, at such rate
us may from time to time be fixed by the licensee with the
approval of the Conifhission. for the period it remains tn the
hands of the licensee.

28. A distribution licensee may require any person who
requires a supply of electricity under section 24 to accept in
respect af the supply—

(a) any terms requiring that person to continue lo receive.
and pay for. the supply of electricity for a minimuin
period of ime and subject lo minimum consumption
requirements :

(b) amy restricuions which may be required to be imposed
for the purpose of enabling the licensee to comply
with regulations under this Part.or section 60 or the
Electricity Supply Code as sct out in Schedule 2 to
this Act and

(c) any-terms restricting any liability of the licensee for
any economic. consequential or other indirect loss
sustained by such person, however arising, which it
ts reasonable in all the circumstances for that person
1o be required lo accep.

29, (1) This section shall apply to—

(a) tariffs or charges levied by the transmission licensee
for the transmission and bulk sale of elecirictly
(hereinafter referred to as “transmission and bulk sale
tariffs") + and

(b) tariffs or charges levied by the distribution licensee
for the distribution and, supply or distribution or
supply of electricity (hereinafter referred to as
“distribution and supply tariffs”).

Additional ters

Tarilts


24 Electricity Reform Act, Ne. 28 of 2002

(2) Transmission and bulk sale tariffs and distribution and
supply tariffs as the case may be. shall, in accordance with
conditions specified in the relevant licence—

(a) be set by the relevant licenseé in accordance with a
cost reflective methodology approved by the
Commission ;

(hb) permit the relevant lecensec to recover all reasonable
costs incurred in the carrying oul of the acuvilics
authorized by its licence on an efficient busis :

(c) be approved by the Commission ¢ and

id) be published in such manner as may be required by
ihe Commission.

(3) Where a transmission ficence or a distribution liccuce
as the case may be, contains provision for transmission and
bulk sale tariffs or distribution and supply tariffs as the case
may be, to be subject to review. the Commission shall (unless
a procedure for the review of such tariffs is specified in the
relevant licence) prescribe a procedure for review which shall
include

(a) a timetable for the review of Lariffs by the
Commission ; and

(b) provision tor consumers and other interested parties
10 participate in the process for review.

(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act the
Commission may set tariffs and charges which require the
licensce to subsidize consumers if the Commission is satisticd
that there is provision for the licensee to be adequately
compensated by the Gavernment tor such subsidies.

(5) In this sectton. “relevant licensee” means a
iransmission licensee in respect of transmission and bulk sale
tariffs and a distribution licensee in respect of distribution
and supply tariffs.


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

I
"AV

30. Phe provisions contained in— Provisions of
Nchedule bo apnds

(ay Schedule | to this Act (other powers of licensees). to liceuces.
(b) Schedule 2 to this Act (the Electricity Supply Code; :

{c) Schedule 3 to this Act (use of electricity meters) :
and

(dj) Schedule 4 to this Act (preservation),

shall apply to. and in relation to, the respective licences and
hcensees referred lo in those Schedules.

PART IH
Mobtiricarion AND ENFORCEMENT OF LICENCES

31.01) Subject to the following provisions of this section. Modification ps
the Commission may modify the conditions of a generation, — agreement
transmission or distribution licence tf the licensee consents
to the modifications.

(2) Before making modifications under this section. the
Commission shalt —

(a) publish a aotice in such manner as the Conmmission
considers appropriate for bringing the proposed
mModiications to the atlention of persons likely to be
alfected by the proposed modifications;

(bi serve a copy of the notice on the licensee :

fc} send a copy of the notice to the Minister for his or
her information.

(3) The notice under subsection (2) shall —

{a} state that the Commission proposes to make the
modificaions specified in the notice. the effect of
the proposed modifications and the reasons for the
proposed modifications ; and


Modification
without
agreement,

26 Electricity Reform Act, No, 28 of 2002

(5) state the period (not fater than twenty eight days
commencing from the date of publication of the
notice) within which representations or objectians
may be made to the Commission regarding the
proposed modifications.

(4) The Commission shall consider any representations
and objections made to it in response to a notice published
under subsection (3) before making any modifications
proposed in the notice.

(5) As soon as practicable after making any modifications
under this section, the Commission shall send a copy of the
modifications to the licensee, and to the Minister [or his or
her information.

32. (1) Subject to the following provisions of UUs section,
the Commission may modify the conditions of u generiution,
transmission or distribution licence if the licensee does not
consent to the modifications,

(2) Before making any modifications under this secuon.
the commission shall investigate the following questions :-

(a) whether any matters which relate to the generation.
transmission (including the procurement and sale of
electricity in) bulk), distribution or supply of
electricity under a licence, operate. ar may be
expected to operate. against the public interest sand

(b) if so, whether those matters could be remedied or
prevented by modifying the conditions of the relevant
licence.

and thereafter, provide a written report of the investization to
the Minister, who shall consider the report and any information
given to him or her by the Commission in order to advise the
Commission whether or not to give effect to the proposed
modification.


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 27

(3) In its report to the Minister the Commission shall set
out the following :—

(a) the effeets adverse to the public interest which it
thinks the matters specified in the report have or may
be expected to have : and

(b) proposed modifications of the conditions of the
relevant licence by which. in its opinion. those effects
could be remedied or prevented,

(4) The Comission may al any time, by notice to the
Minister, revise the report provided under this section by
adding to, or excluding matters from, such report.

(5) To assist the Minister in the consideration of the report.
Commission shall give to ihe Minister —

(a) any information the Commission has relating to
matters within the scope of the investigation
conducted by it and which the Minister requires or
which the Commission thinks it would be appropriate
for the Minister to have . and

(b) any other assistance which the Commission is able
lo give in relation to matters within the scope of such
investigation and which is requested by the
Minister.

(6) As soon as practicable after preparing a report under
this section, the Commission shall -—

(a) serve a copy of the report on the relevant licensec:
and

(b) publish particulars of the report in such manner
as il considers appropriate for bringing them to
the attention of persons likely to be affected by
them.


28 Electricity Reform Act. No. 28 of 2002

(7) A licensee may within twenty days of service of a
copy of the report on the licensee. make ANY PePresenku has
lo the Minister, which the Minister shall take into
consideration in making his or her decision.

(8) Within thirty five days of receiving the report under
subsection (2), the Minister shall advise the Commission. in
writing, either to give effect to the proposed modifications.
or, as the case may require. not to give effect to the proposed
modifications. Where the Minister advises the Commission
to give effect to the proposed modifications. the Commission
shall make such modifications to the conditions of the relevant
licence as appear to the Commission to be nceessary for the
purpose of remedying or preventing the elfects adverse to the
public interest which have been identified in the report

(9) The Minister shall, when advising the Commission
under subsection (8), state his or her reasons for his or her
advice and shall have regard to the Objectives sel out im
section 4.

(10} The Commission shall send a copy of the Minister's
udvice to the licensee to whom it relates and publish the advice
in such manner, as it considers appropriate for bringing the
advice to the attention of persons likely to be affected by in.

_ AS soon as practicable after making modifications under this
section, the Commission shatl send acopy of the modifications
to the licensee and to the Minister.

(11) (a) A licensee shall have the right of appeal to uic
Court of Appeal against any modifications made under ilus
scclion.

(b) The Supreme Court Rules relating to appeals to the
Supreme Court from the Court of Appeal or other court or
tribunat (rule 28 of the Supreme Court Rules of 1990 or suei
provision of law as would correspond to such rule) shalt.
nutatis nugandis, apply to all matters connected’ with line
filing, hearing and disposal of an appeal preferred under this
section,


Electricity Reform Act. No. 28 of 2002 29

33. (1) Ufthe Commission is satisfied that a generation.
Iransmission or distribution licensee is contravening, or is
likely to contravene any condition of a licence. or any
staiulory requirement, 1 shall make an enforcement order
containing such provision as it may deem necessary lo secure
compliance with such condition or requirement, by the
licensec.

(2) An enforcement order—

(a) shall require the ficensee to whom it relates to do, or
desist from doing such things as are specified in the
order

(1) shall be tn force for such period as may be specified
in the order :

(c) may be revoked. or modified at any time by the
Commission, but in any event shall cease to have
effect at the end of the period specthied in the order.

34. (1) Before making an enforcement order under
section 33, the Commission shall -

(a) publish a notice in such manner as it thinks ts
appropriate for bringing the matter to the attention
of persons likely to be affected by the enforcement
order stating that the Commission is proposing to
make such order ;

(b) serve on the licensee a copy of the notice and a copy
or the proposed order.

(2) A notice referred to in subsection (1) shall set out —

(a) the retevant licence conditions or statutory
requirements with which the proposed order is
intended to secure compliance :

()) the acts or omissions which, im the opinion of die
Commission. constitute a contravention of that
condition or requirement :

Enforcenicn!

orders.

Procedure lor
thakine
enforcement
orders


30 Electricity Reform Act, Ne. 28 of 2002

{e} any other facets which in the opinion of the
Commission, justify the making of the proposed
order :

(d)__ the effects of the proposed order : and:

(e) the period. not being fess than twenty eight days from
the date of the notice, within which the licensee may
make representations or objections to the proposed
order.

(3) Before making an enforcement order under section
33, the Commission shall consider any representations and
objecuions made to it under subsection (2).

(4) The Commission shall not make an enforcement order
if i 4s satisfied that -—

(a) the licensee has agreed to take, and is taking. all such
steps as the Commission considers that the licensee
should take to secure compliance with the condition
or requirement in question : or

(b) that the objectives imposed on the Commission hy
section 4 precludes it from doing so ; or

(c) the contraventions or apprehended contraventions are
trivial.

(5) As soon as practicable after making an enforcement
order the Commission shall —

(a) serve a copy of the order 6n the licensee to whom
the order telates : and

(b) publish the. order in such manner as. it considers
appropriate for bringing it.to the attention of persons
likely to be alfected by it.

ra


Electricity Reform Act, No, 28 of 2002 3]

(6) Before revoking an enforcement order. the Commission

shall —

(a)

())

{c)

publish a notice in such manner as it thinks

appropriate for bringing the proposed order of

revocation to the attention of persons likely to be
affected by it :

serve a copy of the proposed order of revocation on
the licensee ; and

consider any representations and objections made
in response to the notice.

(7) Every notice published under subsection (6) shali —

(a}

(b)

state that the Commission proposes to revoke the
order specified in the notice and the effect of the
revocation ; and

specify a period being not later than twenty eight

days from the date of publication of the notice. within
which representations or objections to the proposcd
order of revocation may be made to the Commission.

(8) If, after considering any representations and objections
made in response to a notice published under subsection (6).
the Commission decides not (o revoke the enforcement order
to which the notice relates, it shall give notice of its decision
to the persons affected.

35. (1). It shall be the duty of a licensee to whom an
enforcement order relates -

(a)

(b)

to comply with such order ;

if the licensee decides to challenge the validity of the
enforcement order in any court, to provide security
for costs to the Commission, of such amount as the
Commission may consider reasonable to ensure that
such challenge is not frivolous or vexatious.

Effect of
enforcement
order.


Offences.

32 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(2) A duty is also owed by the licensee to any person who
may be affected by a contravention of the enforcement order
and any such person who sustains any loss or damage as a
result of such contravention may institute an action against
the licensee in a court of competent jurisdiction, for dimnages

' for such loss or damage.

(3) In proceedings brought against a licensee under
subsection (2) it shall be a defence for the licensee to
prove that the licensee took all reasonable steps and
exercised all due diligence to avoid contravening the
enforcement order.

36. (1) If, a licensee to whom an enforcement order
applies, fails to comply with such enforcement order in whole
or part. the licensee shall be guilty of an offence under this
Act, and shall be liable on conviction after summary wil
before a Magistrate, to a fine not cxeecding ten thousand
rupees and a further fine not exceeding five hundred rupees
for every day for which such contravention continues after
conviction.

(2) The Commission shall, in making an enforcement
order under this Part, be entitled to direct that compensation
be paid by the licensee to whom the enforcement order rchales
to any person affected by the contravention specified in such
order.

(3) The levies by way of fine and compensation.
which may be imposed under this section, shall be in
addition to and not in derogation of any other liability.
which the person guilty of noncompliance, may have
incurred.

(4) The Commission may apply to a court for an injunction
or other remedy to secure compliance with an enforcement
order by a licensee, notwithstanding the fact that it has
inslituled a prosecution against such licensee for failure to
comply with such enforcement order.


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 33

37. (1) Where the Commission is satisfied that a licensee
who is —

(a) subject to an cnforcement order made by the
Commission ; or

(6) subject to an insolvency event,

is not carrying on the activities that such licensee ts authorized
lo carry on under the licence properly and that the supply of
electricity to consumers is not being, or likely to be, given in
an efficient, secure and a safe manner, the Commission may,
after consultation with the Minister, by Order published in
the Gazette, vest the management atid control of the whole or
a part of the undertaking of the licensee in any other authority
or person specified in the Order and such authority or person
shall have all the powers necessary for carrying on such
undertaking.

(2) Any person or authority in whom the management
and control of an undertaking is vested under subsection (1).
shall not be held liable for conduct amounting to a fraudulent
preference under the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, on the
ground that it is continuing lo carry on the management and
control of the licensee’s undertaking.

(3) No order shall be made under this section without
giving the relevant licensee written notice of the proposed
order and affording the licensee a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.

(4) During such period as an order under this section is in
force -

(a) the licensee shall not be or continue to be (as the
case may be) voluntarily or compulsorily wound up
without the consent of the Commission :

()) no steps shall be taken by any person to enforce or
execute a judgment, or security over that licensce’s
property without ten days prior notice in writing to
the Commission ; and

Power ol
Commission to
vest MA CTCL
and control ol
undertaking al
licensee tH another
authority on
person.


34 Electricity Refornt Act, No. 28 of 2002

(c) The licensee shall not exercise any of its rights uader
the licence in relation to the undertaking or part
thereof,

(5) In this section, “insolvency event” means -

(a) the passing of a resolution for the winding up of a
licensee other than for the purposes of amalgamation
or reconstruction : or

(b) a licensee entering into a compromise with the
licensee’s creditors ¢ or

(c) the suspension, by the licensee, of payment of debts
or the inability of the licensee to pay the licensee's
debts or the declaration of the licensee as bankrupt
or insolvent ; or

(d) the filing of a petition for the winding up of the
licensees

The resolution of . 38. (1) The following disputes arising in connection with
disputes. the supply or use of electricity shall be referred, to the
Commission by any party to the dispute :—

(a) a dispute between a licensee and a tariff customer
arising under sections 24 to 29 of, or Schedules . 2
or 3 to this Act;

(b) any dispute (other than a dispute referred to in
paragraph (a) between a licensee and -
(i) atariff customer ;
(ii) another licensee : or
(ii) any other affected parly,

which the parties have not been able to resolve through any
dispute resolution procedure prescribed by the Commission,
despite the licensee using its best efforts to do so.


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 35

(2) On arcference under paragraph (a) of subsection (1).
ihe Comimisston shall mediate and resolve the dispute and on
a reference under paragraph (4) of subsection (1) the
Commission shall mediate and resolve the dispute unless it
decides that it is more appropriate for the dispute to be
determined either by the court or arbitration.

(3) The practice and procedure to be followed in-the
resolution of any such dispute shall be such as the Commission
shall set out by rules made under the Public Utilities
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002.

(4) Where any dispute arising under section 26 is to be
resolved by the Commission under this section,
the Commission may give directions as to the security
(if any) to be given pending the determination of the
dispute,

(5) A resolution by the Commission under this
section —

(a) may include such incidental. supplemental and
consequential provisions (including provisions
requiring either party to pay a sum tn respect
of the costs or expenses incurred by the
Commission) as the Commission considers
appropriate ; and

(b) shall be final and shall be enforceable. so far as it
includes such provisions as to costs or expenses
incurred by the Commission, in the District Court
of Colombo as if it were a decree entered by that
court for the payment of money.

(6) In including a provision as to costs and expenses in a
resolution under this section, the Commission shall have
regard to the conduct and means of the parties and any other
relevant circumstances.


36 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

CHAPTER IV
CONSUMER PROTECTION

Standard of 39. (f) Regulations may. be made under this Act

performance for prescribing the standards of performance to be attained by

eee distribution licensees in connection with the supply of
electricity, and the provision of electricity supply services. to
tariff customers.

(2) Ditferent standards may be prescribed in respect of
different distribution licensees, having regard to any special
circumstances or conditions in, or subject to which those
distribution licensees are required to supply electricity or
provide electricity supply services to tariff customers.

(3) Regulations referredo in this section shall. as far as
practicable, be made after consultation with distribution
licensees and bodies representative of persons tikety to he
affected by the regulations.

(4) Where any person suffers any loss or damage of a
prescribed description by reason of the tailure of a distribution
licensee to meet any standard prescribed by regulations made
under this section, the distribution licensee shall pay to such
person, compensation of such amount, or calculated in such
manner, as is specified in such regulations.

(3) The payment of compensation to any person. as
provided for in subsection (4). in respeet of a failure hy a
distribution licensee to meet a standard prescribed by
regulations made under this section shall be without prejudice
to any other remedy, which is available to such person in
respect of the act or omission constituting such failure.

(6) Any dispute arising from the enforcement of regulations
made under this section may be referred to the Commission,
by a distribution licensee or a tariff. customer or any other

~ affected party, and the Commission may delermine such
dispute in accordance with the provisions of secon 38


a

Electricity Refornt Act, No. 28 of 2002 37

40. (1) The Commission may. after consultation with
distribution licensees and with persons or bodies appearing
to the Commission to be representative of persons likely to
be affected, from time to time —

(a) determine such standards of overall performance in
connection with the quality of electricity supply and
electricity supply services and the promotion of the
effictent use of electricity by consumers as, in its
opinion, ought to be attained by such distribution
licensees + and

(/) arrange for the publication, in such form and in such
manner as it considers appropriate, of the standards
so determined.

(2) Different standards may be determined under this section
in respect of different distribution licensees, having regard to
any special circumstance or conditions in, or subject to, which
those distribution licensees are required to supply electricity.

44. (1) The Commission shall from time to time collect
information with respect to —

(a) the compensation paid by distribution licensees
under regulation made under section 39 (if any) :

(b) the levels of overall performance attained by such

licensces in connection with the provision of

electricity and electricity supply services ; and

(c) the levels of performance attained by such licensees
in connection with the promotion of the efficient use
of electricity by consumers.

(2) On or before such date in each year as may be specified
in a direction given by the Commission, each distribution
licensee shall furnish to the Commission such information as
it may require relating to the standards, including — .

(@} as respects cach standard prescribed by regulations
under section 39, the number of cases in which
compensation was paid arid the aggregate amount

or value of the compensation paid ; and

Standards of
evernl
performance and
efficient use of
electricity.

Information wath
respect 10 levels of
performance.


Provision of new
generation plant
and exlension of
existing plant.

38 Electricity Reforn Act, No. 28 of 2002

(b) as respects each standard determined under section
40, such information with respect to the level of
performance attained by the licensee as may be
required by the Commission.

(3) A distribution licensee who without reasonable excuse.
fails to do anything required of the licensee by subsection (2)
shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction alter
summary trial before a, Magistrate to a fine not exceeding
twenty five thousand rupees which shall be paid into the Fund
of the Commission.

(4) Subject to the provisions of section 64 the Commission
shall at least once in every year arrange for the publication. in

- such form and in such manner as it considers appropriate. of

such of the information collected by, or furnished to. It under
this section as may appear to tt expedient to give to customers
or poteatial customers of distribution licensees.

CHAPTER V
New GENERATION PLANT AND OVERHEAD LINES

42. (1) Subject to section 9, no person shall operate or
provide any new generation plant, or extend any existing
generation plant except as authorized by a transmission
licensee under this section.

(2) A transmission licensce shall, in accordance with the
conditions of the transmission licence and such guidelines
relating to procurement as may be prescribed by regulation.
and by notice published in the Gazette, call for tenders to
provide new generation plant or to extend existing generation
plant. as specified in the notice.

(3) A transmission licensee shall. with the consent of the
Commission, select a person to provide the new generation
plant cr to extend the existing generation plant. specified in
the notice published under subsection (2), [rom amongst the
persons who have submitted tenders in response to such notice.


Electricity Refornt Act, No. 28 of 2002 39
43. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) no
person shall ~—
(et) install,
(b) keep installed,

an electric line above or below the ground, except in
accordance with a consent granted by the Commission.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply —

(a) to an electric line or an underground cable
which has a nominal voltage upto and of. thirty
three kilovolts, or any other higher voltage as
may be deemed fit to be decided by the
Commission :

(b) inrelation to so much of an electric line as is, or will

be. within the premises in occupation or control of

the person responsible for its installation.
(3) A consent granted under this section —

(a) may include such conditions (including conditions
as to the ownership and operation of the linc) as
appear to the Commission to be appropriate ;

(b) may be varied or revoked by the Commission at any
time after the end of such period as may be specified
tn the consent ; and

(c} Subject to paragraph (4), shall continue in force for
such period as may be speeified in or determined by
or under the consent.

44. The Commission may direct that an electric linc be
designated as a “high voltage linc” for the purposes of this
Act.

Consent required
for overhead and
underground
glectric lines.

High vollage
ines.


40 Electricity Reform Act. No. 28 of 2002

CHAPTER V1
REORGANIZATION OF THE ELECTRICHSY INDUSTRY

Scheme for 45. (1) After the coming into operation of this Chapter

reorganization of and before a date to be specified for the purposes of this

vate section, by the Minister, by Order published in the Gazcule.
the Minister shall, in consultation with the Commission
persons representative of the electricity industry and
persons likely to be effected by the reorganization, prepare a
scheme for the reorganization of the electricity Industry in
Sri Lanka.

(2} The objects of the scheme prepared under subsection
(1) shall be to —

(a) ensure that the functions of the Ceylon Electricity
Board and the Lanka Electricity Company. relating
to the generation, transmission (and buik
procurement) distribution and supply. of clectricity
are clearly separated and are discharged by separate
companies incorporated for those purposes:

(b) enable each company so proposed to be Incorporitted
to discharge its functions with the maximum
independence, efficiency and economy. whilst
ensuring security of electricity supply to consumers,

(3) The scheme prepared under subsection (1) shall —

(a) identify the functions presently discharged by the
Ceylon Electricity Board and the Lanka Electircity
Company :

(b) notionally separate the functions of the Ceylon
Electricity Board and the Lanka Electricity Company
into the following categories, for the purpose of
enabling the allocation of those functions to the
companies proposed to be incorporated :—


(¢)

()

(¢}
*

Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 41

hydro electric generation and thermal
electricity generation :

transmission (and power procurement) :
distribuvion and supply :

any other activities not captured in sub-
paragraphs (1) to (iii) in such divisions as the
Minister may see fit, including -

(aa) the management of pension asscts :

and

(ab) ancillary services.

determine the functions, ifany, which shal] continue
to be discharged by the Ceylon Electricity Board and
the Lanka Electricity Company and the periods for
which they are to be so discharged +

allocate io the companies proposed to be
incorporated, such officers and servants of the
Ceylon Electricity Board and the Lanka Electricity
Company :

specity the companies proposed to be incorporated
and their functions, namely -

(i)

(11)

(it)
(iv)

one company to take over the functions of the
Ceylon Electricity Board relating to
hydroelectric generation and thermal
electricity generation :

one company to take over the functions of the
Ceylon Electricity Board relating to
transmission and bulk procurement of
eleciricily :

three or more distribution companies :

one or more companies to take over the other
functions of the Ceylon Electricity Board and
the Lanka Electricity Company ¢


tneorporation of
companies to take
over functions of
the Ceylon
Electricity Board
and the Lanka
Electricily
Company.

42 Electricity Reform Act, No, 28 of 2002

(f) contain such incidental and consequential provisions
as may be necessary for the implementation of the
scheme,

(4) The scheme shall contain provision requiring any one
or more of the companies proposed to be incorporated to enter
into agreements with, or to execute instruments in favour of,
other companies so proposed to be incorporated or other
specified persons, for the more effective discharge of their
functions.

(5) Any duty imposed on a company proposed io be
incorporated under the scheme shall be enforceable by or
against such company after it is incorporated in pursuance of
a direction under section 2 of the Conversion of Public
Corporation or Government owned Business Undertakings
into Public Companies Act, No, 23 of 1987.

(6) Alter the preparation of the scheme referred to in this
section the Minister shall, ‘notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in any other law. cause the details of the scheme to
be published in such manner as he or she considers appropriate
for bringing them to the attention of persons likely tu be
affected by the proposed reorganization.

46. (1) The Minister shall submit a copy of the scheme
prepared under section 45 to the Cabinet of Ministers for its
approval.

(2) Upon the approval by the cabinet of Ministers, of the
scheme and the incorporation of the companies proposed in
the scheme.. the Minister shall, in consultaion with the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, direct the
Registrar of Companies, under subsection (1) of section 2 of
the Conversion of Public Corporation or Government owned
Business Undertakings into Public Companies Act. No. 23 of
1987. to incorporate —

(@) one company to take over the functions of the Ceylon
Electricity Board relating to hydro electric generation
and thermal electricity generation ;

\


Electricity Reform Act, No: 28.o0f 2002 43

( by one company to take over the functions 6f the Ceylon

- Ekeetricity Board. relating to. transmission and: bulk ©

procurement of electricity + » patel: Pom haath
(c) three o or more distribution companies ;, hos —

(d) one or more companies to take over the other
functions of the Ceylon Electricity Board and Lanka
- Bleetricity Company, Lea itedic gerard?

as specified in the direction. A ‘company | incorpo i in
pursuance of such direction is hereinafler, referred 1 to, 3
“successor company” ‘and. the expression | ‘successor
companies” shall be construed accordingly. ‘Except ‘ as
otherwise provided in this Chapter, the provisions of the
Conversion of Public Corporation or Government owned
Business Undeitakings into Public’ Contipanies Act, No, 23 of
1987, shall apply to, and in relation to, every Successor
company.

(3) Orders relating to the incorporation of all the su suceosnor.
companies shall be. published under. subsection: (2)-9F nection
2 of the Conversion of Public. Corporation. or Government
owned Business Undertaings into Public © Companies Act,
No. 23 of. 1987 onthe. same date... :

(4) One or more sucesso? compat
and in so far as theif‘ memoranda and articles of asso¢iation
permit them’ to do so, take’ over such of the Farictions of the
Lanka Electricity Company as relate to their 6 on t functions.’

Example : : ie

A company incorporated to take over the functions of the Ceylon
_- Electricity Board: relating to thermal: generation.can: take: dver,: by:
_ agreement, the functions of the. Lanka Elecwicity » Conipany ® reining
to thermal generation.

- 47. (1) Officers and’ servants of the ne Coys tei
Board on the day preceding the relevant date shall be offered
eniployrient in any one of the ‘successor companies a oft ‘terms’
and cofiditions not less favoutable tian those enjoyed by! tii

_on the day preceding the relevant date.

Provision retating
ti


Successor
company to
establish
Provident Fund
and contributory
pension scheme,

44 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(2) (a) Officers and servants of the Lanka Iekectricity
Company on the day preceding the relevant date shall de

offered employment in any one of the successor companies

on terms and conditions not less favourable than those
enjoyed by them on the day preceding the relevant date. :
and

(b) The taking up of employment in a successor company
by an employee of the Lanka Electricity Company. shall. for
the purposes of the Termination of Employment of Workmen
(Special Provisions) Act. No.45 of 197] be deemed nol to be
a termination of the services of such employee by the Lanka
Electricity Company.

(3) An officer or servant referred to in subsection (1) or
subsection (2) who wishes to opt out of service in a successor
company may do so within thirty days from the date on which
he was notifted of the option by the successor company. ff an
officer or servant exercise his option not to accept the offer,
he shall be paid compensation under a Voluntary Retirement
Scheme to be prescribed in that behalf.

48. (1) Officers and servants of the Ceylon Electricity
Board who have exercised the option to accept the offer under

section 47 and are tn the service of any of the successor

companies as provided in thal section, shall continue to be
members of the Ceylon Electricity Board Provident Fund and
Pension Scheme, and shall be entitled to all the benetits
thercunder.

(2) The successor companies and the officers and
servants of the Ceylon Electrictly Board who have
become the employees of the successor companies on the
relevant date, shall make such contributions to the
Provident Fund and Pension Scheme as they are required
to make by rules or regulations of the Ceylon Electricity
Board Provident Fund and Pension Scheme, ais the Case
may be. ,


Electricity Reform Act. No, 28 of 2002 45

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 47. any
officer or servant of the Ceylon Electricity Board. who was
on the day preceeding the relevant date employed in the
Provident Fund branch or Pension Fund branch of the Board.
may within ten days from the relevant date opt to continue in
the service of the Ceylon Electricity Board, and shall for all
purposes be deemed to continue in the service of the Ceylon
Electricity Board.

49, The memorandum and articles of association of every
successor company shall, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in any other law, contain provision —

(a) for the appointment and removal of the directors of
such company, by the Minister. only on the
recommendation of the Monitoring and Advisory

Committee appointed under section 50 ;

(b) prohibiting a person from being a director of mure
than one successor company ;

{ce} requiring —

(i) the board of directors of the company to submit

for approval to the Minister, a statement of

corporate intent, at least three months prior to
the commencement of each financial year ;

(ii) the statement of corporate intent to specify —
(A) the commercial and other performance

objectives and levels of the company :
and

(B) the financial targets (including rates of

return) required to be achieved by the
company, during the next three financial
years 5

Mandatory
provisions in
memoranduar or it
successor
COHIPany


46
(d)
(e)
(f)
Monitoring and 50.
Advisory
Cornmittee.

of =

(ct)

())

Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(ii} the board of directors to incorporate any
amendments to the: statement of corporate
intent as suggested by the Minister on the
recommendation of the Monitoring and
Advisory Committee :

(iv) the Minister on approval of the statement of
corporate intent, to cause it to be published in
the Gazette, at least fourtcen days before the
commencement of the financtal year.to which
the statement relates :

requiring the board of directors of the company lo
take all long term and financial decisions in
compliance with the statement of corporate intent
in force ;

prohibiting the board of directors of the
company from amending the statement of
corporate intent, except with the approval of the
Minister ; and

prohibiting the board of directors of the company
from acting in a manner that would result in. the
breach by the company. of the conditions of any
licence granted or deemed to be granted to the
company under this Act.

(1) There shall be a monitoring and Advisory

Committee for the purposes of this Chapter.

(2) The Monitoring and Advisory Commitice shail consist

the Deputy Secretary nominated by the Secretary to
the Treasury :

an Additional Secretary to the Ministry of the

‘Ministry nominated by the secretary to the Ministry

of the Minister


(c)

(a)

Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 47

a representative each from —

(i) the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce nominated
by the Chamber ; and

(ii) the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Sri Lanka, nominated by that Institute :

(ii) the Institution of Engineers of Sri Lanka,
nominated by that Institution : and

(iv) the domestic consumer group nominated by
the Minister in charge of the subject of Trade +
and

two persons appointed by the Minister, from amongst
persons employed in the private sector who have
experience in business and management and who
do not have relevant interest.

(3) Regulations may be made in respect of —

(a)

(b)

the procedure for the conduct of business of
meetings of the Monitoring and Advisory

- Committee ;

+

the funding of the Committee.

(4) The functions of the Monitoring and Advisory
Committee shall be —

(a)

(b)

to make recommendations to the Minister, on the
appointment and removal of the directors of every
successor company ;

to review the statement of corporate intent submitted
lo the Minister by each such company, and
recommend to the Minister, amendments, if any, to
such statement ;


Restriction of sale
of shares of
successor
company.

48 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(c) to monitor the actual financial and operational
performance of each such company for cach financial
year (as reflected in the reports published by the
company for that year) against the targets specuied
by that company in its statement of corporate intent.
and make appropriate recommendations to the
Minister ;

(d) in the event of any such Company failing to
meet the objectives and targets specified in its
statement of corporate intent, lo advise the
Minister on the exercise of hts or her powers, us a
share holder, under the Companies Act. No. 17 of
1982 ;

(e) to cause to be published in the Gazetic. an
annual report setting out the reasons for any advise
and recommendations given by the Committee
to the Minister in the year to which the report
relates.

(5) the Committee shall discharge its functions under
subsection (4) in relation to a successor Company, only so
long as the Government owns at least fifty per centun of the
shares of that successor company.

51. The Secretary to the Treasury may, with the prior
approval of the Parliament dispose of any shares issued or
allotted to him or her in any successor company or of any
rights over such shares except that upto ten per centtimn of the
aggregate of the shares of all successor companies
incorporated under section 46. shall be distributed to the
employees of the successor company, in such manner as may
be prescribed by regulation.


Electricity Reform Act, No, 28 of 2002 49

52. (1) Where the relevant date 1s prior to the date of the
coming into operation of Chapters {1 and V1 of this Act, the
successor company shall be deemed to have been -

(a) granted a licence under the Electricity Act to carry
on the activities which it is authorized to carry on by
its memorandum and articles of association for the
period commencing on the relevant date and ending
on the date on which Chapters If and VI of this Act
are brought into operation : and

(b) granted a licence under this Act to carry on such
activitics for the period commencing on the date on
which Chapters I] and VI of this Act are brought
inlo operation and ending two years thereafter.

(2) Where the relevant date is after the date of coming into
operation of Chapters UH and VI of this Act. the successor
company shall be deemed to have been granted the licence
under this Act to carry on the activities it is authorized to
carry on by ils memorandum and articles of association, fora
period of two years from the relevant date.

53. The Public Enterprises Reform.Commission of Sri
Lanka shall not exercise any of the powers conferred on it by
section 5(1) (/), (g), and (4), of the Public Enterprises Reform

Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. { of 1996, in relation to a-

successor company.
CHAPTER VII

FINANCE

§4. (1) There shall be levied and recovered from every
licensee, an annual Jevy of such amount as may be determined
by the Commission by Order published in the Gazette:

(2) In determining the annual levy for any year, the
Commission shall have regard to the following : —
(a) the estimated expenditure of the Commission for that
year . and
(b) any unrecovered expenditure from the previous year.

Successor
company deemed
to have heen
granted relevant
licence lo carey oF
aCHVILIGS Lis
authorized to
curry on by as
mensorandani.

Application of
Act. No. | of 1996
(0 successor
compiles.

Annual levy.


General penalty.

50 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(3) The levy imposed under subsection (1) on a licensee
for any year shall be paid by the licensee to the Commission
before the thirtieth day of June that year.

(4) Where the licensee fails to pay the levy tinposed under
subsection (1) for any year before the thirtieth day of June
that year the levy shall be deemed to be in default and the
Chairman shall certify the amount of the levy due from the
licensee.

(5) Upon the production of a certificate issucd by the
Chairman under subscction (4), before the District Court
within whose jurisdiction the business of the licensee referred

to in the certificate is carried on, the court shail issue a writ of

execution to issue to the Fiscal authorizing the Fiscat to seize

and sell all or any of the property, movable or immovable. of

such licensee as may be necessary for the recovery ol the

amount specified in the certificate , and the provisions of

sections 226 to 297 of the Civil Procedure Code shail, mutasis
mutandis, apply to the execution of such writ and to such
scizure and sale.

(6) Where the Chairman issues a certificate under
subsection (4), he or she shall notify in writing to the licensee
specified in the certificate. that the amount specified in the

certificate is payable by the licensee but the non-receipt of

such notice shall not invalidate any proceedings instiluicd
under this section.

(7) Nothing in this section shall affect or be deemed to

affect the right of the Commission to recover in any other

manner, the amount of any levy in default.
CHAPTER VIII

OFFENCES AND REGULATIONS

55. (1) Every person who contravenes any provision of

this Act or any regulation or rule made under this Act or any
requirement imposed under any provision of this Act, or any
decision, direction , Order or determination of the
Commission, shal] be guilty of an offence under this Act and
shall, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act. be
liable on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate
to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees and in any case
where such offence is continued after conviction, to a further
fine not exceeding five hundred rupees for each day on which
such offence being continued after conviction.

=P


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 Sl

(2) Upon conviction of any person for an offence under
this Act. a Magistrate may, in addition to, or in tieu of,
imposing any punishment prescribed for the offence, make
an order directing that any installation or other apparatus
involved in the commission of the offence shall be dismantled
and removed before a date specified in the Order.

(3) An officer authorized in writing by the Commission
may institute proceedings in a Magistrate’s court for an offence
under this Act notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
any other law.

(4) No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be
instituted except with the written sanction of the Commission.

56. (1) Every person who takes, uses or extracts any
electricily—

(a) which is in the course of being transmitted or
distributed by a transmission or distribution licensec «
and

(b) otherwise than in pursuance of a contract made with
a distribution licensee or other electricity
undertaking.

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate in
addition to a penalty not less than ten thousand rupees and
not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees, to a fine ina sum
of money being the valuc of the loss or damage caused to the
licensee as a result of the act or default constituting such
offence and any sum recovered as such additional fine shall
be paid to the licensee on application made to Court by such
licensee.

(2) Any person who aids or abets the commission.of any
offence punishable under this section shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and shall be liable to the same

Extraction af
electricily ta be an

oflence.


Ithproper use of
electricity to be an
offence.

52 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

punishment as is provided for the principal offence. Where
two or more persons are convicted of having committed the
same offence whether as principal or abettor, the value of
such loss or damage may be apportioned among such persons
and the amount so apportioned shall be imposed on cach of
such persons as a fine.

(3) A certificate issued by the licensee shall be received as
proof of the value of such loss or damage in the absence of
evidence to the contrary. In the absence of any agreement a
licensee may charge for energy supplied to any consumer in
accordance with any method of charging provided lor in the
licence.

57. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Act, every person who—

(a) not being an authorized officer of a licensee.
connects or disconnects any clectric line through
which clectricily is or may be supplied by the
licensee to or from any meter, indicator or other
apparatus » or

(b) without the consent of a licensee lays. or causes 40
be laid. any clectric line or connects up any
electric tine, equipment, apparatus. or works. for
the purpose of establishing a connection with any
electric line, apparatus or works belonging to a
licensee,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be fiable
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, in
addition to a penalty not fess than ten thousand rupees and
not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees, toa fine ina sum
of money being the vatue of the loss or damage caused to the
licensee as a result of the act or default constituting such
offence and any sum recovered as such additional fine shail
be paid to the licensee on application made to Court by such
licensee.


Electricity Reform Act, No, 28 of 2002 53

(2) Any person who aids or abets the commission of any
offence punishable under this section shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and shall be liable to the same
punishment as is provided for the principal offence. Where
two or more persons are convicted of having committed the
same offence whether as principal or abettor, the value of
such loss or damage may be apportioned among such persons

and the amount so apportioned shal! be imposed on cach of

such persons as a line.

(3) A certificate issued by the licensce shall be received as

proof of the value of such loss or damage in the absence of

evidence to the contrary. In the absence of any agreement a
licensee may charge for energy supplied to any consumer in
accordance with any method of charging provided for in the
licence.

(4) In the case of such offence being continued after
conviction, there shall be imposed a further fine not exceeding
five hundred rupees for each day on which such offence being
continued after conviction.

(5) Every offence under section 56 or this section shall be
a cognizable offence within the meaning, and for the purposes
of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

58. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then —

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director and officer of that body corporate ;

(b) if that body of persons is a firm. every partner of

that firm,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence :

Provided however. that a director or officer of that body
corporate or partner of such firm shall not be deemed to be
guilty of such offence if he or she proves that such offence

Offences by
bodies of persons


Rules.

Regukahons.

Removal of
difficulties.

54 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

was committed without his or her knowledge or that he or
she used ail such diligence as was necessary lo prevent the
commission of such offence.

39. (1) The Commission, may make rules in respect of

all matters for which rules are required or authorized to be
made under this Act.

(2) All rules are made by the Commission shall be
published in the Gazette and shall conte into force on the date
of such publication or on such later date as may be specified
therein.

60. (1) The Minister may, on the recommendation olf the

Commission, make regulations under this Act in respect of

all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are required or authorized by this Act to
be made.

{2} Every regulation made under this section shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into force on the date
of such publication or on such later date as may be specified
therein.

(3) Every regulation made under this section shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette. be brougiit
before Parliament for approval. Any such regulation. which
is NOLSO approved within thirty days of it being brought before
Parliament, shall be deemed to he rescinded as [rom the date
ofits disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.

61. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the
provisions of this Act or the rules, regulations. or orders made
under this Act, the Minister may by Order published ia the

aad


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

wi)
"tt

Gazette. make such provision not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other law, as appears to him or
her to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.

(2) Every Order made under this section shall, as soon as
practicable after it is made, be laid before Parliament.

(a)

(1) Regulations may be made for the purpose of —

allowing and securing appropriate electrictty trading
arrangements between licensces ;

securing that supplies of electricity are regular and
efficient ;

protecting the public from dangers arising from the
gencralion, iransmission, distribution. supply or use
of electricity from any electric line or electrical
plant . and

without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (c).
eliminating or reducing the risks of personal injury.
or damage to property or interference with its usc,
arising from any of the activilies referred to i that
paragraph.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),
regulations may—

(a)

(b>)

{c)

prohibit the supply, transmission or distribution of

electricity except by means of a system approved by
the Commission :

make provision requiring notice to be given to the
Commission, in such cases as may be specified in
the regulations. of accidents and of failures in the
supply, transmission or distribution of electricity ;

make provision as to the keeping, by persons
authorized by a licence, or exempted from the
requirement to obtain a licence. to supply, transmit
or distribute electricity, of maps, plans and scclions
and as to their production for inspection or copying ;

Purposes lor
which regulations
may be mde,


56

(d)

(¢}

(f)

Register. 63.

Electricity Refornt Act, No. 28 of 2002

make provision for relieving persons authorized hy
a licence to supply electricity from any obligation
to supply in such cases as may be prescribed :

make provision requiring compliance with notices
given by the Commission specifying action to be
taken in relation to any elcctric iine or electrical plant.
or any electrical appliance. under the control of a
consumer, for the purpose of -

(i) preventing a breach of any regulation,

(ii) eliminating or reducing a risk of personal
injury or damage lo property or interference
with its use

provide for particular requirements of the regulations
to be deemed to have been complied with in the case
of any electric line or electrical plant complying with
specified standards or requirements : and

provide for the granting of exemptions from any

requirement of the regulations for such periods as

may be determined by or under the regulations.
CHAPTER IX

GENERAL

(1) The Commission shall maintain a register at its

office. in such form, as it may determine.

(2) The Commission shall cause to be entered in such
register—

(a)

(b)

particulars in relation to every licence and exemption
granted under this Act :

particulars relating to the modification of the
conditions of any such licence or the revocation of
any such licence :


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 3?

(c) every decision of the Commission, including every
order. direction or determination ;

(d) every enforcement order made under section 33:

(¢) the minutes of the proceedings at a public hearing
held under section 7 , and

(f) particulars relating to any other instrument or
document to which the Commission's seal has been
fixed.

(3) The contents of the register shall be available for
inspection by the public during such hours, and subject to the
payment of such fees. as may be prescribed by regulation.

64. (1) The Commission may, for the purposes of

discharging and performing its functions and duties under this
Act. by notice in writing, require any person to furnish to the
Commission or any person authorized by the Commission.
and within such period as may be specified in the notice, all
such returns and information as may be specified in such
nouce.

(2) It shall be the duty of every person who is required to
furnish any returns or information by a nolice under subsection
(1), to comply with the requirements of the notice within the
period specified in the notice, except where he or she is
prohibited from furnishing such returns or information by the
provisions of any law.

(3) No information furnished in compliance with the
requirements G1 a notice sent under this section shall be
published or disclosed by the Commission to any other person
except with the consent of the person furnishing such
information.

(4) The disclosure by the Commission of any information
referred to in subsection (3) without the consent of the person
furnishing such information—

Returns and
Information,


58

(a)

(b)

(c)

Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

to a court of law when required to do so by such
court ;

for the purposes of discharging any function assigned
to it by this Act : or

for the purposes of enabling compliance wilh a
condition of a licence granted under this Act,

shall be deemed not to be a contravention of the provisions of.
subsection (3).

Sinhala text to 65.
prevail in case of
inconsistency,

Repeals and 66.
transitional
provisions.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail,

CHAPTER X
REPEALS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

(1) The Electricity Act is repealed with effect

trom the date on which Chapter H of this Act comes into
operation.

(2) The Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969 is
_ repealed with effect from the relevant date.

(3) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Electrivity Act--

(a)

(b)

all licences issued under that Act and in force on the
day preceding the date on which Chapter UI of this
Act comes into operation, shall, in so far as such
licences authorize any one of following activities.
namely, the gencration, transmission. distribution oF
supply of electricity, continue in force after thal date :

all regulations made under section 60 of that Act
and in force on the day preceding the relevant daic.
shall in so far as such regulations are not inconsistent
with any provision of this Act continue in force afler
that date ; and


(c)

Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 59

the regulatory powers, duties and functions under
the Electricity Act conferred on or assigned to the
Energy Supply Committee and to the Energy
Regulator by and under the Energy Supply
(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 2 of 2002 shall, so
long as the last mentioned Act is in operation be
exercised, performed and discharged respectively. by
the said Committec and the Energy Regulator under
the corresponding provisions of this Act, in
consultation with the Commission.

(4) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Ceylon Electricity
Board Act, No. 17 of 1969—

(cr)

(b)

(c)

all regulations made under section 36 of that Act
and in force on the day preceding the date on which
Chapter TI of this Act comes into operation, shall, in
so far as such regulations are not tnconsistent with
any provision of this Act, continue in force after that
date ;

all tariffs fixed by the Board under section 52 of that
Act, for the supply of electricity by the Board. and
in force on the day preceding the retevant day shall
continue in force after the relevant day, until varied
or replaced by the respective successor companies
in accordance with the conditions of their respective
licences ; and

where in.respect of any matter or issue arising in or
concerning the electricity industry no provisions or
no effective provisions are made in this Act, such of
the provisions of the Ceylon Electricily
Board Act as are not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act shall apply in respect of such matter or
issuc,


60 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

CHAPTER XI
INTERPRETATION
Interpretation. 67. In this Act. unless the context otherwise requires-—

“authorized” means authorized by licence or exemption
under this Act :

“Authorized Area” in relation to a person authorized by a
licence to transmit or to distribute and supply,
electricity, means the area designated in the licence ;

“bulk sales” in relation to the sale of electricity, means the
sale of electricity in bulk by the transmission licensee
via ils transmission system to-

(i) distribution licensees : and

(ti) those consumers who are connected to the
transmission licensee's Wansmission system
and identified in the transmission licence +

“Ceyton Electricity Board” means the Ceylon Eleciricity
Board established by the Ceylon Electricity Board
Act, No. 17 of 1969 ;

“Connect” in relation to any premises, means connect toa
distribution line of the distribution licensee and the
expression “connection” shall be construed
accordingly ;

“consumer” means a consumer of electricity in Sri Lanka
and includes a prospective consumer :

“contravention”, in relation to any decision. direction,
determination, Jicence condition, requirement.
regulation, rule or order. includes any fatture to
comply with it ;


Electricity Reform Act, No, 28 of 2002 61

“distribute” in relation to electricity means distribute by
means of a system which consists (wholly or mainly)
of low voltage lines and electrical plant and is used
for conveying clectricily to any premises or lo any
other distribution system and the expressions
“distribution” and “distribution system” shall be
construed accordingly ;

“distribution licensee” means a person who has been
granted a distribution licence :

“distribution linc” in relation to a distribution licensce,
means any distribution line in the Authorized Arca
of the distribution licensee which is being used for
ihe purpose of giving a supply of electricity to any
premises ;

“dwelling” means a building or part of a building occupicd.
or (if not occupied) last occupied or intended to be
occupied, as a private dwelling :

“electric line” means any line whether underground or over
ground which is used for carrying electricity for any
purpose and includes, unless the context otherwise

requires

(a)

(b)

(c)}

any support for any such tine, including. but
not limited to, any structure, pole or other thing
in, on, by or from which any such line is or
may be supported, carried or suspended .

any apparatus connected to any such line for
the purpose of carrying electricity ; and

any wire. cable. tube, pipe or other similar
thing (including its casing, insulator or
coating) which surrounds or supports, or is
surrounded or supported by, or is installed in
close proximity lo, or is supported, carried or
suspended in association with, any such
line :


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 ol

“distribute” in relation to electricity means distribute by
means of asystem which consists (wholly or mainly}
of low voltage lines and electrical plant and 1s used
for conveying electricity to any premises or to any
other distribution system and the expressions
“distribution” and “distribution system” shall be
construed accordingly ;

“distribution licensee” means a person who has been
granted a distribution licence ;

“distribution Hine” in relation to a distribution licensee.
means any distribution line in the Authorized Arca
of the distribution licensee which is being used for
the purpose of giving a supply of electricity to any
premises ;

“dwelling” means a building or part of a building occupied.
or (if not occupied) last occupied or intended to be
occupied, as a private dwelling «

“electric line” means any line whether underground or over
ground which is used for carrying electricity for any
purpose and includes, unless the context otherwise
requires——

{a)

(b)

any support for any such line, including. but
not limited to, any structure, pole or other thing
in, on, by or from which any such fine is or
may be supported, carried or suspended «

any apparatus connected to any such line for
the purpose of carrying clectricity ; and

any wire. cable, tube. pipe or other similar
thing (including its casing. insulator or
coating} which surrounds or supports. or is
surrounded or supported by, or is installed in
close proximity lo, or is supported, carried or
suspended in association with, any such
line +


62 Electricity Reform Act, No, 28 of 2002

“electrical plant” means any plant. equipment. apparatus
or appliance used for, or for purposes connected with.
the generation, transmission, distribution or supply
of electricity, other than—

(a) an clectric line ;

(b) a meter used for ascertaining the quantity of
electricity supplied to any premises ; or

(c) an electrical appliance under the control of a
consumer ;

“Electricity Supply Code” means the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Act ;

electricity undertaking” means any person engaged in the
generation, transmission, distribution or supply of
electicily, including any holder of a licence under
this Act ;

“enforcement order’ means an enforcement order niade
by the Commission under section 33 ;

“exemption” means an exemption granted under
section 9 ;

“financial year” means the calender year ;

“generation licensee” means a person who has been granted
a generation licence ,

“generator” means a gencration licensee or a person exempt
from the requirement of obtaining a generation
licence ;

“high voltage lines” means an electric line of a nominal
voltage not less than 33 kilovolts or such other
voltage as the Commission may direct in accordance
with section 44 and the expression “low voltage line”
shall be construed accordingly :


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 63

“Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka” means the Institute
of Engineers, Sri Lanka, established by the Institution
of Engineers, Sri Lanka Act, No. 17 of 1968 ;

“Institute of Chartered Accountants” means the Institute
of Chartered Accountants established by the Institute
of Chartered Accountants Act, No. 23 of 1959.

“Lanka Electricity Company” means the Lanka Electricity
Company (Private) Limited registered under the
Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982;

“licence” means a licence granted under section 12 and
“licensee” or “licensees” shall be construed
accordingly ;

“line” means any wire, cable, pipe, conductor or other
similar thing (including its casing or coating) which

is designed or adapted for use in carrying electricity ;

“local authority " means a Municipal Council, Urban
Council or a Pradeshiya Sabha, and includes any
authority created and established by or under any
law to exercise, perform and discharge, powers,
duties and functions corresponding to, or similar to,
the powers, duties and functions exercised,
performed and discharged by any such Council or
Sabha :

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of
Power and Energy ;

“modifications” includes additions, alterations and
omissions ;


64 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

“necessary wayleave” means consent for the licensee to
install and keep installed the electric line on, under
or over the land and to have access to the land for
the purpose of inspecting, maintaining, adjusting,
repairing, altering, replacing or removing the electric
line ;

“notice” means notice in writing ;
“premises” includes any land, building or structure ;

“prescribed” means prescribed by rules or regulations made
under this Act ;

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council
established under Chapter XVIIA of the
Constitution ;

“public company” means a public company registered
under the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982:

“register” means the register maintained under
section 63 ;

“regulations” means regulations made by the Minister
under this Act ;

“relevant condition” in relation fo a licensee, means any
condition of its licence or any duty imposed on it by
or under this Act ;

“relevant date” means the date on which Orders relating
to successor companies are published in the Gazette
under section 46 ;

“relevent interest” means any financial or other interest
directly or indirectly, in any company or undertaking
carrying on any of the following activities —

(i) generation, transmission, distribution or
supply of electricity ;


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 65

(ii) manufacture, production, sale or supply of fuel
for the generation of electricity ;

(iii) import, manufacture, sale, lease,hire or other
supply of, or dealing in, machinery, plant,
equipment, apparatus or fittings for the
generation, transmission, distribution, supply
or use, of electricity ; or

{iv) the provision of legal, accountancy or banking
services to any company or undertaking
carrying on any of the activities referred to in
paragraphs (1), (ii), or (iii) ;

“relevant licencee” has the meaning provided in subsection
(5) of section 29 ;

“relevant undertaker " has the meaning provided in
paragraph 2 of Schedule | to this Act ;

“rules” means rules made by the Commission under this
Act ;

“sell electricity in bulk” has the same meaning as “bulk
sales ” ;

“supply” in relation to electricity, means supply of
electricity lo any premises (other than premises
occupied by a licensee for the purpose of carrying
on the activities which it is authorized by its licence
to carry on) but shall exclude bulk sales of
electricity ;

“tariff customer” means a person who requires a supply of
electricity from a distribution licensee in pursuance ©
of section 24 and is supplied by the distribution
licensee ;

“transmission licensee” means a person who has been
granted a transmission licence under this Act ; and


66 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

“transmit”, in relation to electricity, means the
‘transportation of electricity by means of a system,
which consists (wholly or mainly) of high voltage
lines and electrical plant and is used for conveying
electricity from a generating station to a sub-station,
from one generating station to another or from one
sub-station to another ; and the expressions
“transmission” and “transmission system” shal] be
construed accordingly ;

“Urban Development Authority” means the Urban
7 Development Authority established by the Urban
Development Authority Law, No 41 of 1978.

SCHEDULE I {Section 30]

!. (1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, licensee
may, for any purpose connected with the carrying on of the activities which
it is authorized by its licence to carry on, execute in its Authorized Area, any
of the following works :-

(a) installing under, over, in on, along or across any street—
{i} any electric tines or electrical plant : and

(ii) any structures for housing or covering any such fines or
plant,

and from time to time inspect, maintain, adjust, repair, alter, replace or
remove any such plant or lines ; and

(6) any works requisite for or incidental to the purposes of any works
referred to in subparagraph (a), including for the following
purposes—

(i) opening or breaking up any street or any sewers, drains
or tunnels within or under any street :

(ii) tunneling or boring under any street : and

(iii) removing or using all earth and materials in or under any
Street .

but nothing in this subparagraph shall empower a licensee to lay down
or place any electric line or electrical plant into, through or against any
building. or in any land not dedicated to the public use.


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 67

(2) Phe power conferred on a licensee under paragraph (1) to place on ot
over a street any structure for housing any tine or plant shall he
exercisable only with the consent of the local authority or other relevit
authority,

(3) Except in cases of emergency arising from faults in any elveiric lines
or electrical plant, a street which does not come within the authority of focal
authority or other relevent authority shall not be opened or broken up in the
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph (1) except with the consent o f
the Comiuisston.

(4) Nowwithstanding anything in paragraph (7), licensee may with the
consent of the Cotnmission construct lines, which are. temporary. and notin
compliance with the prescribed standards.

(5) The Commission shail not consider an application for its consent
under paragraph (3) unless the Heensee has served notice of the application
on any person whose consent would otherwise be required.

(6) A licensee shall do as Little damage as possible in the exercise of The
powers conferred by paragraph (1) and shall make compensation Jor any
damage done in the exercise of those powers.

(7) A licencee shall exercise the powers conferred by paragraph (1) in
such manner as will secure that nothing which it insialls or keeps installed
wader, over, in, on, along or across any street becomes a source. of danger to
the public and shall—

Gi) immediately cause the part broken up or opened to be fenced and
guarded :

tb) while such part remains broken up or open. cause alight sufficient
for warning passers by, to be set up at sunset and. maintained
Until suniise against or near such part, and

(c) with all reasonable speed fill in the ground and reinstate and make
good the soil or pavement or the sewer. drain or tunnel broken up
or opened, and shall keep it in good repair for three months and,
where any subsidence occurs. for any further period, not exceeding
six months, during which the subsidence continues.

(8) A licensee who fails to comply with the provisions of paragraph (7)
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate. to a fine not less than five thousand
rupees and not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees.

2. (1) A licensee may execute works in the exercise of the powers
conferred by item |, notwithstanding that they involve a lemporary or
permanent alteration of any of the following -—


68 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(a) any electric line or electrical plant under the control of another
licensee :

(b) any pipe, including any pipe used for the comvevance of gas. which
(whether or not itis ina street} which is under the contre! Oba sas
undertaker, a water undertaker, a sewerage vadertiaker ovat person
supplying water in the exercise of Slatutory powers ;

{c) any telecommunication apparatus used for the PUrpases ol 3
telecommunication system which is Operated by a person Hiceuced

under the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act. No. 25 of INO]:

{d) any telecommunication apparatus used for the purpose of a

telegraphic system which is opcraied by the General Manager of

the railway : or

(e) any telecommunication apparatus used forthe Purposes of a cuble
iclevision system to which the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation
Act, No. 6 of 1982 applies.

(2) Where a licensee is Proposing to execute warks in the exercise of tie
powers conferred by tem | which involve or are likely to involve any such
alteration as is referred to in subparagraphs (1) (a). (2). de) (a) ar cet the
succeeding provisions of this paragraph shall apply and a relerence in those
provisions to “relevant undertaker” shall be deemed to he a reference tan
undertaker referred to in subparagraphs (1a). (2). (¢), ¢d} ar (e).

(3) A member of the public may request the relevant licensee to carry oul
alterations in respect of any electric line or electrical plant notwithstanding
that such works may fall within sub-paragraph (1).

(4) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (5). a licensee shall. not dess
Ihan one month prior to the commencement of the works, give the relevant
undertaker a notice specifying the nature of the works proposed ta be executed
by the licensee, the alteration or likely alteration involved. and the time and
place at which the execution of the works will be commenced,

(5) The provisions of Paragraph (4) shall not apply in relation to uny
emergency works of which the licensee gives the relevant undertaker Da sre
as soon as practicable after commencing the execution of the works

(6) Where a notice has been given under Paragraph (4) by the Hcensce to
the refevant undertaker, the undertaker may, within the period of seven days
of the date of the notice. give the licensee a counter notice which miay state
either-

(4) that the underaker intends himselt or herself to make any allurabon
made necessary or expedient by the works Proposed to be
executed by the licensee : or

»


Electricity Reform Act. No. 28 of 2002 69

(6) that he or she requires the Heensee to make any such alteration
under the supervision, and fo the satistaction of, the undertaker.

(7) Where a counter notice given under paragraph (6) states that the
relevant undertaker intends himself or herself or to make any alteration :

(a) the undertaker shali have the right. instead of the licensee, to
execule any works for the purpose of making that alteration
and

t) any reasonable expenses incurred by the undertaker in or in
connection with the execution of those works and the amount of
any loss or damage sustained hy the undertaker im consequence
of the alteration shall be recoverable by the undertitker from
licensee.

(8) Where a counter nulice given under paragraph (6) stales that any
alteration is fo be made under the supervision, and to the satisfaction of, the
relevant underaker—

ta) the licensee shall not make the alteration except in compliance
with the requirements of the counter notice + and

(b) any reasonabte expenses incurred by the undertaker in or in
connection wilh the provision of that supervision and the amount
of any loss or damage sustained by the undertaker in consequence
of the alteration shall be recoverable by the undertaker from the
licensee in any court of competent jurisdiction.

(9) Where—
{@) no counter notice is given under paragraph (6) + or
& paragray

(b) the relevant undertaker, having given a counter notice under that
paragraph fails 10 make any alteration made necessary or expedient
by the works proposed to be executed by the licensee, within any
such period (being not less than forty eight hours) as the licensee
may by notice specify or, as the case: may be. unreasonably fails
to provide the required supervision.

the licensee may execute works for (he purpose of making the alteration
or. as the case may be, may execute such works without the supervision
of the undertaker ; but in either case the licensee shal! execute the works
to the satisfaction of the undertaker.

(10) Licensee or any of its agents who—

(a) executes any works without giving the notice required by
paragraph (4) . or


70 Electricity Reform Act. No. 28 of 2002

(6) unreasonably fails to comply with any reasonable reyuirgient
given by a relevant undertaker under this paragraph.

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shalt be fiable on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a fine not less than five thousand
rupees and not excecding twenty five thousand rupets.

3. (1) This item applies where—

(#) for any purpose connected with the carrying on of the activities
which a ficensee is authorized by its licence to Cary Oni. Ge 1s
necessiry or expedient tor a ticensee to mstail and keep mstatica
an electric tine on. under or over any land : and

(b) the owner or occupier of the land. having been given a notice bs
the licensee requiring him or her to give the necessary Wiyleave
within a period (not being less than Wwenly one days) Specified tn
the notice-

(i) has failed to give the wayleave before the end of that
period ; or

(i) has given the wayleave subject w terms aad conditions
which are not acceptable to the licensee

(2) This item also applies where—

(a) for any purpose connected with the currymy on of the aves
which the licensee is authorized by its licence to Carry on. Has
hecessary or expedient for a licvasee to keep an clectne line
installed on, under or over any land : and

(b) the owner or occupier of the fand has given notice to the licensee
tinder paragraph S(2) requiring it to remove the electri¢ line,

(3) Where paragraph (1) or (2) applies and the Commission is satistied
that— .

(a) the licensee has made all reasonable efforts to secure the grantel
a wayleave + and

(b) those efforts have been unsuccessful: and

(c) the acquisition of that wayieave is hecessary for the carrying ot
of the activities authorized by the licence of the licensee.

the Commission, shall, within six weeks of an application made by the
licensee, recommend to the Minister, the acquisition of the wayleave. Where
the Minister approves the proposed acquisition. by Order published in the
Gazette, the wayleave shall be deemed to be required for a public purpose
and may be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act. and trasferred to the
licensee,


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 7

(4) The Commission shall not recommenend the acquisition ofa wayleave
wider paragraph (3) un any case where—

{ai the tand is covered by an authorized dweling, or planning
permission has been granted uader the relevant iaws for the
construction of a dweiting on that land + and

fh) the line is to be mstalled on or over that fand.

(5) Befor making a secommendation under paragraph (3). the Commission
shall give—

(a) the occupier of the land + and

(2) where the occupier is not also the awner of the land. the owner.

an opportunily of being heard by a person appointed by the Commission.

(G) Where a wayleave is acquired under the Land Acquasthen Act, and
transferred lo a licensee. the wayleave—

(@) shall not be subject to the provisions of any enacuien requiring
the registration of interests in or. charges over. o¢ other obdigations
alfecting, land < but

(2). shall bind any person who is at any time the owner or occupice of
the tand.

4. 01) Where a wayleave is granted to a licensee under item 3—
(a#} the oceupier of the fand ; or

(2b) where the eceupier is not alse the owner of the dand, the owner ot
the lind.

may recover from the licensee reasonable compensation in respect of the
erani. iis may be determingd by the Commission.

(2) Where in the exercise ef any nght conferred by such a wayleiave
any damage is caused to jand ur to movables, any person interested un the
iand or the movables may recover from the licensee reasonable
compensation in respect of that damage . and where in consequence of dhe
exercise of such a right a person is disturbed in his or her enjoyment of any
jand or movables he or she may recover from the licetsee compensation in
respect of that disturbance of such amount as may be determined by the
Commission,

(3) The Commission may on its own motion or on the applicunon of a
person affected. condtict such inquiries as may be necessary lo determine
whether a Heensce is lable to pay any person any compedsauen under
paragraph (1) and (2),


72 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(4) Fhe Commission shatl communicate any decision under paragraph
(3) to the Hvensee and to any person who applied Jor or was awarded.
compensation,

(5) A person who 1s aggrieved by the decision of the Commission diate
compensation is payable under paragraph (1) or (2) or who ts aissatished
with the amount of compensation determined to be payable by tie
Conmnission, nay institute, ina court of competent jurisdiction, a achon
against the licensee from whom the compensation is claimed for recovers
of the compensation claimed by that person or the difference between the
amount of the compensation claimed by that person and the amount of dic
compensition determined to be payable to that person by the Comuitsston.

(6) An action by any person under paragraph (5) shall be jistituted withiat
Iw. inonths of the date on which—

(al that person receives a communication sent by the Conimisston
inder paragraph (4)

(#) the amount of compensation determined by the Comiisstan is
paid fo that person under paragraph (7) 5 on

{ce} the notice of the payment of that amount into the Court is grven.
or is exhibited for the first time under paragraph ¢7).

(7) A licensee who ts liable to pay lo the owner of sat fand ai aoant at
compensation under paragraph (i) or (2) shall pay that amount to tilat person
within such period as may be determined by the Commission. Where the
owner is unknown or where the ownership of that and is subject to dispute,
the licensee shall—

ta) pay that amount into the District Court having jurisdighoa over
the place where that land is situated. within such peried us may
be determined by the Commission to be drawn Trons that court hy
that person upon proof of tithe + aad

{b) give the occupier of that land written notice of the payincnt of
that amount into the court, within such peri
by the Comunis.
in some conspicuous position on that hand.

ad us is determined

sion or, if there is nO eecupter. exhibu that ughce

5, (1) This paragraph applies where at any time such a wiyleiave as is
Inentioned in item 3 (whether granted under that item or by agreement
between the parties }-—

(a) is determined by the expiration of a period specified in the
wayleave ;

(4) ts terminated by the owner or occupies of the Land to aecordanee
with a term contained in the wayleave . or


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 73

(ec) by reason of a change in the ownership or ogcupation of the Land
alter the granting of the wayleave. ceases to be binding on the
owner or occupier of the tand.

(2) The owner or occupier of the Jand may ina case falling within
aph (1 }--

ta) al any time alter or within three months before the end of the
period specified in the wayleave +

tb) at uny time alter the wayleave has been terminated by him or her
.or

(ce) atany time aller becoming the owner or occupier of the fund by
virtue of such a change in the ownership or occupation of the
land as is referred to in thut paragraph,

give to the licensee a notice requiring the licensee to remove the electric tine
frown the land : but the figensee shall not be obliged to comply with such a
Notice except in the circumstances and to the extent provided by the following
provisions of this paragraph.

(3) Where within the period of three months beginning from the date of
the nolice under paragraph (2) the licensee—

(a) dads to make an application for the grant of the necessary wayleave
under itum 3 :

(h) makes an application for the grant of the necessary wayleave under
item 3 and that application is refused by the Commission :

(c) fails to obtain an order authorizing (he compulsory purchase of
the tand under item 7 of this Schedule.

the licensee shall comply with the notice at the end of that period. or in the
sase Of subparagraph (2), at the end of the period of ane month beginning
from the date of the Commission’s decision or such longer period as the
Commission may specily,

(4) In this Schedule. “wayleave” in relation to a land means such interest
in the band as consists of a right of a Hicensec, (o install and keep installed. an
electric dine on, under or over, that land and to have access to that land for the
purpose of inspecting. maintaining, adjusting, repairing. altering, removing
of replacing such electric line.

6. (1) This item applies where any tree is or will be in such close proximity
toan electric fine or electrical plant which has been installed or 1s bea oF is
to be installed by a licensee as—

(a) to obstruct or interfere with the instalation. maintenance or
working of the line or plant. or


74 Electricity Reform Act. No, 28 of 2002

()) lo conslitule an unacceplable source of danger (whether to childien
or to other persois) :

and in this tem the “land” means the and on which Uke tree is growing,

(2) The licensee may give notice lo the occupier of the hand requiring
him or her 10 fell or lop the tree or cul hack its roots so as to prevent Crom
having the cftect mentioned in subparagraph (1) (a) or ()), subject to the
payment to him or her by the ficensee of the expenses reasonably incurred
by him or her in complying with the requirements of the notice.

(3) Where the occupier is not also the owner of the land. a copy of curs
hotice under paragraph (2) shall also be served on the owner

(4) If within iwenty one days from the giving of a notice under
paragraph (2)—

ta) the requirements of the aotice are nol complied with » uid

{b) neither the owner nor occupier of the hand gives a counter nudice
under paragraph (5),

the licensee may cause the tree to be felled vr lopped or ty roots to be cut
hack so as to prevent it from having the cflect meauoned in sub-paragraph
(1a) or ()).

(3) 1, within twenty one days from the giving of a notice under paragraph
(2), the owner or occupier of the land gives a counter notice to the ligensee
objecting to the requirements of the notice, the mater shall be referred to tie
Commission.

(6) On a reference to it under paragraph (5). the Commission may after
giving the parties an opportunity of being heard by a person appoiated by it.
may make such order as it thinks just, in the circumstances and any such
order—

(a) may allow the licensee (after giving such notice lo any person bs
whom a counter notice was given of the commencement of the
work as the order may direct) to cause the tree to be felled or
lopped or its roots to be cutback so as lo prevent it [rom having
the effect mentioned in subparagraph (1 Ka) or (4): and

(b) may determine any question as to what expenses (ay bare Lo
be paid to the licensee by the owner or occupier.

(7) Where the licensee acts te pursuance of paragraph (4) or an order
made under paragraph (6), the licensee shalt-— ;

ta) cause the tree to be felted or lopped or their roots to be cut back
in accordance with good arboricultural practice and so as to de as
little damage as possible to trees, fences. hedges and growing
crops : ; ;

4


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 75

(2) — cause the felled trees. lopped boughs or root cuttings Lo be removed
in accordance with the directions of the ewner or occupier : and

(c) make good any damage done to the lane,

(8) In this item, “tree” includes any shrub, and references to “felling”

. and “lupping” shall be construed accordingly.

7. (1) Where the Commission is satisfied that any timovable property is

required for the purposes of carrying on the activities which a licensee Is

3 authorized to carry on by its licence, or for the purposes of discharging any
function assigned to such licensee by this Act and that-—

ta) the Jicensee has made all reasonable efforts to negotiate the
acquisition of such property with the owner of the property
and

(f) those efforts have been unsuccessful.

the Commission may recommend to the Minister that the immovable property
be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and transferred to the
licensee.

12) Where the Minister. by Order published in the Gazette, approves the
proposed acquisition of the immovable property specified in the
recommendation of the Commission made under paragraph (1). such
immovable property shall be deemed to be required fora public purpose and
may accordingly be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and transferred
to the licensee.

(3) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immovable properly
under the Land Acquisition Act, for a licensee shall be payable by that
licensee.

(4) The Commission shail not recommend the acquisition of any
immovable properly under paragraph (1) such immovable property is being
' used by another licensee 10 whom it belongs for the purpose of an installation
necessary for carrying on of the activities which the licensee is
authorized by its licence to carry on or ts proposed to be used, within a
period of five years. by such other licensee for the purposes of such an

a insulation,

SCHEDULE 2 {Section 30]

1. cb) Subject to paragraph (2), a distribution licensee may recover trom
a tariff customer any charges duc to the licensee In respect of the supply of
electricity, or in respect of the provision of any electricity meter, clecirie line
or clectrical plant.


76 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(2) Tf a tari? customer quils any pretuises at which electricity has heen
supplied to him or her by a distribution liceasee, withoul giving at ieast wen
working days’ prior notice to the ticensee. he or she shall be liable to pay the
licensee, in respect of the supply of electricity tu the premises. all aecrucd
charges duc up to the earlier of —

(@) the second working day after he or she gives sttch notice te the
licensee provided that reasonable access to the premises bas been
granted :

(b) the next day on which the Tegister of any meter is ascertained -
and

(ec) the day from which any subsequent occupier of the Premises
tequires the supplier to Supply electricity to the premises,

(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) or a statement setting out those
provisions shall be endorsed upon every demand note lor electricity charves
payable to a distribution licensee by a tarilf customer,

(4) Ifa tariff customer quits any premises at which electricity has been
supplied to him or her by a distribution licensee. without paying all charges
due from him or her in respect of that supply. or the provision at any electricity
meter, electric line or electrical plant for the purposes of the supply. tie
licensee— .

(4) may refuse to furnish him or her with a supply of electricity at
any other premises until he or she pays the charges due : hut

(b) shall not be entitled to require payment of that charge (rou tlie
Next occupier of the premises.

(3) if a tari customer—

(er) has not, within the requisite periods. paid all charges due toa
distribution licensee in Tespect of the supply of electricity to any
premises, or the provision of any cleciricity meter, electric jane
or electrical plant for the purposes of that supply ; or

(b) has failed to comply with a notice from the licensee requiring
him or her to cease using any appliance which unduly or
improperly interferes with the supply of electricity by the licensee
to any other consumer,

the distribution licensee may, at the end of the requisite period cat olf the
supply to the premises. or to any other premises occupied by the customer.
by such means as the licensee thinks fit and recover any expenses incurred in
so doing from the customer.


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 77

(6) In paragraph (8) the “requisite period” means—

(a) in the case of premises which are uscd wholly or mainly for
domestic purposes. a period of not less than ten days aller cither
the making by the distribution licensee of a demand in writing
for the payment of the charges duc or a notice by the distribution
licensee requiring the tariff customer to cease Lo use the appliances
which interfere with electricity supplied to another customer : and

(b) in the case of any other premises. a period of ten days aller the
making of such a demand.

(7) A distribution licensee shall not exercise the powers conferred on the
licensee by paragraph (5), if there is a genuine dispute regarding the amount
of the charges due.

(8) In this item a reference to the provision of any electric fine or ttem of
electrical plant shall include a reference to the provision of such a tine or
item by the instatlation of a hew one or by the modification of an existing
one,

2 (1) Where a distribution licensee has cut off the supply of electricity
to any premises in consequence of any default by a tari[Feustomer, the licensee
shall be under an obligation to resume the supply of electricity within two
working days of the requirements of paragraph (2) being fulfilled.

(2) The requirements of this paragraph are that the customer in default—
1 puragray
(a) has made good the default «

(hb) has paid the reasonable expenses of disconnecting and
reconnecting the supply + and

(c) has giver such security as is mentioned in section 26 of this
Act.

(3) The obligation imposed by paragraph (1).on a distribution licensee
shall be a duty owed by the licensce to any person who may be affected by a
failure to comply with the obligation.

(4) Where at duty 1s owed by a licensee to any person by virtue of paragraph
(3), any breach of that duty which causes any loss or damage to thal person
shall be actionabic at the suit or instance of that person.

(5) In any proceedings brought against a distribution licensee in pursuance
of paragraph (4). it shall be a defence for the distribution licensee to prove
that the ticensee tuok all reasonable steps and exercised all duc diligence to
avoid failing to comply with the obligation imposed on the licensee by
paragraph (1).


78 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(6) Without prejudice to any right which any person nay have by virtue
of paragraph (4) to bring civil proceedings against a distribution licensee ue
respect of any faiture to comply with the obligation imposed on the fcensee
by paragraph (1), compliance with that obligation akiy be enforced by the
Comunission against the licensee by the institution of appropriate proceedings
ina court of civil jurisdiction,

3. (1) Where a supply of electricity to any premises has been cut off by
a distribution licensee no person other than such licensee shall restare such
supply.

(2) If any person acts in contravention of paragraph (1). he or she shall
he guilty of an offence under this Act and shail be Jiable on conviction alter
summary trial before a Magistrate toa fine not exceeding twenty live thousind
rupees and the distribution licensee may cut off the supply.

4. (1) [Fany person intentionally or negligently damages or causes to be
damaged—

(a) any electrical plant or electric line belonging to or operated by-
{i) a distribution ticensee ;
(ii} a generation licensee : or
(iii} a transmission licensee : or

(b) any part of any domestic electricity supply equipment belonging
to or operated by a distribution licensee that is situated on his or
her property,

he or she shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be able on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not less than five
thousand rupees and not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.

(2) In this item, “domestic electricity supply equipment” meludes ail
line and plant up to, and including, the meter situated in a consumer's property

(3) Where an offence has been committed under subparagraph (1 a), in
respect of the electric line or electrical plant of a distribution liceusee. the
distribution licensee may discontinue the supply of electricity to the person
so offending until the matter has been remedied.

(4) Where an offence has been committed under subparagraph (10), tn
respect of any domestic electricity supply equipment. the distribution
licensee—

(a) may discontinue the supply of electricry to the person so olfending
until the matter has been remedied : aad


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 79

(bh) may remove the meter in respect of which the offence was
committed.

(3) Where a distribution licensee removes a meter in the exercise of powers

under paragraph (4), the licensee shall keep it safely until the Commission
authorizes the ficensce (o destroy it or otherwise dispose of it.
§. (1) Subject to the provisions of item 8, any officer authorized by a
cistribution licensee may enter any premises to which a supply of elecinetty
is being given by the distribution licensee through the electric Hines and
electrical plant belonging to. or operated by. the distribution licensee Tor any
of the following purposes. namely -

la) inspecting any electric line or electrical plant belonging 10 oF
operated by the distribution licensee ;

(by ascertaining the register of any electricity meter and, in the case
ofa prepayment meter, removing any money or tokens belonging
10 or operated by the distribution licensee +

tc) removing, inspecting or reinstalling any electricity meter or
installing any substitute meter OF associated equipment.

(2) The powers conferred by subparagraph (1) (a) and (4) shall not he
exercised in respect of a premises if -

(a) the consumer has applied in writing to the distribution licensee
for the licensee to cease to supply electricity to the premises :
and

(b) the licensee has failed 10 do so within a reasonable ime.

6. (1) Where a distribution licensce is authorized by paragraph 413) or 4
(4) of this Schedule -

(@) Ww discontinue the supply of electricity to any premises : or

(b) to remove the electricity meter in respect ol which the offence
under that paragraph was committed,

any officer authorized by the distribution licensee may, subject to item 8,
enter the premises for the purpose of disconnecting the supply or removing
the meter or any associated electircal plant used for, or for purposes connected
wills, the distribution or supply of electricity.

(2) Where -

(a) a distribution Sicensee is authorized by any other provision of
this Act or of regulations made under it to cut off or discontinue
ihe supply of electricity ta any premises :


80 Electricity Reform Act. No. 28 of 2002

(b) & person occupying any premises supplicd with eleciricny by a
distribution licensee ceases to require such a supply ;

(©) @ person entering into occupation of any premises previousiy
supplied with electricity by a distribution licensee does aot require
such a supply ¢ or

{d) a person entering inte occupation of any pretises previously
supplied with clecticily through a meter belonging to or operated
by a distribution licensee does not hire or borrow that meter.

any officer authorized by the distribution licensee Mity. subject to Heme S,
enter the premises for the purpose of disconnecting the supply or removing
any clectrical plant, electric line or clectricity meter.

7. (1) Any officer authorized by a distriution ticensee, a generation
licensee or a transimission licensee. as the case inay De, May. subject to em
8, enler any premises for the purpose of —

(a) placing a Gew elvetric line or new electrical plant in place of, or
in addition to, any existing line or plant which has already been
lawfully placed +: or

(#) repairing or altering any such existing ling or plant,

{2) In the case of emergency arising from Caults in any electric line or
electrical plant. entry may be made under paragraph ¢1) without (he nonce
Tequired fo be given by item 8, but the notive shall then be given as carly as
possible.

8. (1) An electrical inspector or a licensee (or officer of a leensee:
authorized to enter upon any land or premises under this Act shail not demand
lv du so as of right untess —

(a) three days notice of the intended entry has been given by the
electrical inspector or the licensee or officer of the licensee stating
as Fully and accurately as possible rhe nature and extent of the
acts intended to be done :

(6) if required to do so, he of she. has produced evidence of his or her
authority :

(c) reasonable compensation is paid to the owner of the kund or
premises for any disturbance, disability or damage that may be
caused pursuant 1o the entry.

(2) Any notice referred to in subparagraph (1) ua) shall —

(a) where the land is occupied, be given to the occupier :


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 8]

(6) where the land is nol occupied, be given to the owner if his er her
name and address are known or can with reasonable diligence be
ascertained +

tc) where the land is not occupied and the name and address
of the owner vannot with reasonable diligence be
ascertained, be exhibited in some conspicuous position on the
land < and

(d) where the land is used or reserved for any public purpose, be
given Lo the officer or other person in charge of the execution of
that purpose.

(3) The electrical inspector or the licensee or person authorized by the
licensee in writing in that behalf shail be entitled 10 enter the land. for the
purpose of giving a notice referred to in subparagraph (1) (a).

(4) Where any person exercises any powers conferred by this item, the
licensee by whom he or she was authorized in writing shall make good any
damage done to the land as a result of such entry.

(5) Where in the exercise of any power conferred by or under this Act
any damage is caused to any land or to any movable property. any person
interested in the land or movable property may recover compensation in
respect of that damage from the ficensce on whose behalf the power is
exercised : and where in consequence of the exercise of such a power a person
is disturbed in his or her enjoyment of any land or movable property he or
she may recover from that licensee reasonable compensation in respect of
that disturbance as determined by the Commission.

Y. (1) IE in an attempt to exercise any of the powers of entry conferred
by this Schedule, the distribution licensee has made all reasonable efforts.
otherwise (han by the use of force, to obtain entry to the premises and those
efforts have been unsuccessful, it may apply, ex parte . to the Magistrate's
Court having jurisdiction over the place where the prennses are situated for
an order authorizing the ticensee or an officer authorized by the licensee to
enter the premises by force.

(2) An order granted under paragraph (1) shall specify the action, which
may be taken by the licensee. or an officer authorized by the licensee to
effect the entry by force and may stipulate the conditions to be observed by
Ihe ticensee or such officer after such entry.

(3) The licensee or an officer authorized by the licensee shall incur no
liability to any person in respect of the entry by force (v the premises provided
that he or she —

(a) lakes no action to effeet entry other than such action as is specified
in the order ;


§2 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(>) observes any condition stipulated by the order : and

to) does as hitthe damage as ts reasonably practicable in taking ibe
specified action and in observing any stipulated condition.

(4) No appeal shall lie from a decision of the Magistrate's Cour -
(4) to grant or nol fo gcunt an order under paragraph (1) + or

(>) regarding the terms of or the conditions stipulated in. any such
order

(5) Any costs tncurred by the licensee in obtaining and executias ci
order under paragraph (1) shail be recoverable as a civil debt from the owner
or the occupier of the premises lo which the order relates,

1Q. (1) Where in pursuance of any powers of entry conferred by this
Schedule, entry is made on any premises by an officer authorized by a
distribution ticensee —

(«) the officer shall ensure that the premises are tell no less secure by
reason of the entry : and

(6) — the distribution licensee shall imake good. or pay compensation
lor, any damage caused oy the officer. or by any person
accompanying hin or her in crtering (he premises, of in faking
any acuon authorized by this Schedule. or in aidiking the premuses
secure.

(2) Any olficer exercising powers of entry conterred by this Schedule
may be accumpanied hy such persons as may he necessary or expedient for
the purpose for which the entry is made or for the purposes of paragraph (1+.

(3) [any person intentionally resists or obstructs any afficer exercising
powers of entry conferred by this Schedule, he or she shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction after suniman ial
before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees.

I]. Any electrical plant. electne line or eleciricity meter owned by or tet
for hire or dent to a consumer.by a distribution Hiceosee and marked or
impressed with a sufficient mark or brand indicating the distribution ticcnsce
as Lhe owner—-

(a) shall be deemed oor to be landlord's fixtures, norwithstanding
that may be fixed or fastened to any part of the prentises in which
they may be situated ; and

{h) — shall not be subject to distress or be liable to be taken in execution
under process of any court or any proceedings in hankruptes
nst the person in whose possession they atay be.



Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 $3

SCHEDULE 3 {Section 30]

11) Where a consumer of clectricity supplied by a distribution licensee

isto be charged for the supply wholly or partly by reference to tie quantity

of electricity supplied. then, untess otherwise agreed between the consumer

and the distribution ticensee, the supply shall be given through, and the

quantity of electricity shall be ascertained by, an appropriate meter or meters,
us the case nity he.

(2) The metre shall be provided—
tay hy the distribution ficensee + or

(b) if agreed by the parties in the case of aameter used or intended to
hy used in connection with an exempt supply, by the consumer.

(30 The meter shal} be installed on the consumer's premises ina position
determined by the distribution licensee. unless in all the circumstances iL is
ore reasonable Lo place il outside those premises or in some other position,
For the purpose of this Act. the supply of energy by a licensee to a consumer
shall be deemed to commence, unless otherwise agreed helween them, at the
outgoing terminals of the meter or metering equipment used to measure the
supply to the consumer

(4) The distribution licensee may require the replacement of any meter
provided and installed in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3) where the
rephacenwnt --

Wi) is Necessary to secure compliance with the provisions of this
Schedule or any regukations made under the Act + or

(h) is otherwise reasonable in all the cvcunnstances.

and any meter so replaced shall he provided and installed inaccordance with
those paragraphs.

(5) I the consumer refuses or fails to take his or her supply of electricity
through an appropriate ‘meter provided and iustalled in accordance with
paragraphs (2) and (3), the supplier may refuse to give, or may discontinue.
the supply.

(6) For the purposes of this paragraph, a meter is an appropriate meter
for use in connection with any particular supply of electricity HW it is of a
pattem or construction, which, having regard to the terms on which the supply
is to be charged for is suitable for such use.

(7) Pending the determination under section 38 of-any dispute arising
ander this item, the Commission may give directions as w the provision or
instatiition of a meter and directions under this paragraph may apply either
in the case of meters of particular description or tn particular cases.


84 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(8) In this Schedule “exempt supply” means a supply of electricity to
any premises where—

(a) the premises ave not premises used wholly or mainly for dotuestic
purposes: or

(>) the supplier or the consumer is a person authorized by an
exemption to supply electricity to those premises.

2. (1) No meter shall be used for ascertaining the quantity of elcetricils
supplied by a distribution licensee to a consumer unless the meter—-

(4) is of an approved pattern or constriction and is installed in an
upproved manner . and

(b) subject to the provisions of paragraph (2). is certified under
iten 4,

and in this Schedule “approved” means approved by the Conunission in
accordance with regulation made under this Act

(2) The provisions of sub paragraph (1) (b) shall not apply to a meter
used in connection with an exempt supply if the distribution licensee and the
consulver have agreed in writing to dispense with the requirements of thit
paragraph.

(3) Regulations may provide

(a) for determining fees to be paid for approvals given by or under
the regulations:

(b} for revoking an approval so given to any purticular pattern or
construction of meter and requiring meters of that pattern os
construction which have been installed to be replaced with meters
of another approved pattern or construction within a preseribed
period :

(¢) for revoking an approval so given to any particular manner of
installation in that manner to be installed in another approved
manner within such period as is specified in the regulation,

and may make different provision for meters of different deseriptions ox for
meters used or intended to be used for different purposes.

3.44) Where a distribution licensee supplies clectricity through a meter
which is used for ascertaining the quantity of clecivicity sapplicd am

(a) the meter és not of an approved pattern or construction or is not
installed in an approved manner : or


Electricity Reform Act, Na, 28 of 2002 SS

()) except in the case of a meter referred to in subparagraph (2) 23
of tem [is not certified under item 4,

the distribution licensee shall be guilty ofan offence under this Act and shall
be liabie on conviction afler sammary trial before a Magistrate, to a fine nol
less than Fve thousand rupees and not exceeding Wwenty five thousand
rupees.

(2) Where any person ts guilty of an offence under this item due to the
act or default of some other person, that other person shall also be guilty of
the offence and that ether person may be charged wilh and convicled of the
offence by virtue of this paragraph whether or not proceedings are Giken
against the first mentioned person.

(3) In any proceedings in respect of an offence under this ten i shall be
a defence for the person charged to prove thar he or she took all
reasouuble sleps and exercised all duc diligence to avoid committing the
ottence.

i4) No proceedings shall be instituted in respect of an offence under this
item except by or on behal! of the Commission.

4. (1) The Commission tuay appotat any person to examine, test and
cerufy meters.

(2) No meter shall be certified in accordance with paragraph (1)
unless—

(a) the meter is of an approved pattern of construction «and

(#) the meter conforms to such standards Gncluding standards franied
by ceference lo margins of error) as may be preseribed by
regulation.

and references in this Schedule to “prescribed margins of error” shait he
construed accordingly.

(3) Regulations diay be made providing different provisions for meters
of different deseriptions or for meters used, or intended to be used, for different
Purposes and may ‘elude provision—

(at for the termination of certification in the case of meters which ao
longer conform to the prescribed standards : and

(>) for determining the Ives to be paid for examining, tesung and
certifying ineters, and the persons by whom they are payable ;
and

(c) as to Uhe procedure lo be followed in examining, lesting und
certifying mieters.


x6 Electricity Reform Act. No. 28 of 2002

. 1) Where a consumer of electricity supphed by a distribution Locnsee
is to oe charged for his or her supply wholly or partly by reference to aie
quantity of electricity supplied, the distribution licensee may, in the normal
course of business. estimate the amount of elce icity consumed by the
consumer and recover charges accordingly. so long as the estimated
consumption is confirmed by a meter reading within a reasonable period of
Lame-—

(2) In the event of -

(a) a meter (by which the quantity of electricity supplied to cn
consumer is ascertained) heing proved to register consumption
incorrectly :

(by the matfunction of any meter: or

(e} any person altering the register of any ieler used Jor measuring
the quantity of electricity supplied to any premises.

the distribution licensee shalt be entitled to estimate consumption and recover
charges accordingly.

(3) Where the consumption of electricity has been estimated by a
distribution licensee in accordance with paragraph (£) vr (2), the consumer
shall pay tor any electricity consumed in accordance with the estisie
prepared by the distribution licensee or otherwise determined in aecordance
with the provisions relating to dispute resolution,

6. (1) This item applies to meters used for ascertaining the quanta. ol
electricity supplied to any premises.

(2) The register of a meter to which this tem applies shall be admissible
in any proceeding in court as evidence of the quantity of electricily supplied
through it.

(3) Where electricity has been supplied for any period through such a
meter which 1s of and approved pattern or construction and is instatled in an
approved manner, the register of the meter shall be presumed to have been
registering during that period—

(a) — within the prescribed margins of crror : and

(b) inthe case of a tneter used in connection with an EXCMPL supply.
within any agreed margins of error.

(4) Where a meter to which this Hem applies is presumed to be registering
for any period—

(a) within the prescribed margin of error ; and


Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002 8?

(7) in the case of a meter used in connection with an exempt supply.
within any agreed margins of error.

the burden shall be on Wie consumer to prove that the meter was meorrectly
registering the quantity of electricity supplied through it during that period,

7. (1) A consumer of electricity supplied by a distribution Hicensee. shalt
at all Gimes, at his or her own expense, keep any meter hefonging to him or
her in proper order for correctly registering the quantity of eleetricily supplivd
to hun or her : and in default of his or her doing so, the supplier may
discontinue the supply of electricity through that meter.

(2) A distribution ficensee shall at all times. at ils own expense, keep any
meter lel for hire or lent by it (o any consumer in proper order for correcthy
registering the quantity of electricity supplied and. in the case of pre-payment
Ineters, for operating properly on receipt of the necessary payment.

(3) A distvibution licensee shalt have power to remove, inspect and re-
install any meter by which the quantity of electricity supplied by the licensee
lo 8 consumer 1s registered, and shall, while any such meter is removed. fir
a substitute meter on the premises : and the cost of removing, inspecting and
te-instathng the meter and of fixing a substitute meter shall be met by the
distribution licensce.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs (2) and (3) shall he without prejudice to
any remedy the distribution ficensee may bave against a consumer for failure
to ake proper care of the meter.

8S. (1) Ifany person intentionally or negligently—

(4) alters the register of any meter used for measu ring the quantity of
electricity supplied to any premises by a distribution licensee ¢ or

(4) prevents any such meter from duly registering dhe quantity of
electricity supplied through that meter,

he or she shail be guilly of an offence under this Act and shall be fiable on
conviction after summary trial before a Magustrate toa tine not less than five
thousand rupees and not exceeding twenty five thousand rupecs.

(2) Where any person is prosecuted for an offence under parargraph (1),
proof —

{a} that the meter was in his or her custody or under his or her control
>and

(b) of possession by him or bee of artificiat means for causing an
Uteration of the register of the meter ar, as the case may be, for
(he prevention of the meter trom duly registering,

shall be sufficient evidence that the alleration or Prevention was mntenvonally
caused by hin or her,


&8 Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002

(3) Where a consumer ts convicted of an offence under parageaph 1),
the distribution licensee may discontinue the supply of electricity to the
promses of the consaier and remove the meter in respect of whieh the
offence was commilled.

(4) Where a distribution licensee removes a meter under paragraph «33,
the licensee shill keep it in safe custody until the Commission authorizes the
licensee to destroy or otherwise dispose of it.

9. (EA consumer of electricity supplied by a distribution licensee whe
takes his or her supply through a pre-payment ineter shall be under a duly to
take all reasonable precautions for the safekeeping of any money or tokens
which are inserted into that meter,

(2) Except with the permission of the consumer, a pre-payment meter
shall nut be used to recover any sum owing to a distribution liceasey by a
consumer otherwise than in respect of the supply of electricity, the provision
of au electric line or electrical plant or the provision of the meter.

SCHEDULE 4 [Section 30]

|. A person authorized by a licence, or exempted trom the requirement
1o oblain a licence. to transmit, generate, distribute or supply electricity

(a) shall, in generating, transmitting. distributing or sapplying
electricity, have regard to the desirability of preserving neural
beauty. of conserving flora. fauna and geological or
physiographical features of special imerest and of protecting sites.
buildings and objects of architectural, historic or archacological
interest > and

(6) shall do what the person reasonably can to mitigate any effect
which such generation, transmission, distribution orsupply would
have on the natural beauty of the countryside or on any such flora,
truna, features, sites, buildings or objects.

2. Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (1), a person
authorized by a licence, or exempted from the Tequivement lo obtain a licence,
fo transmit, generate, distribute or supply electricity and the Commission
shall. in generating, transmitting, distributing or supplying electricity. or us
the case may be, in the discharge of the Commission's functions. avoid. so
far as reasonably practicable, causing injury to fisheries or to the stock of
fish in any waters.

3. (1) A generation licensee shall, in circumstances specited hy the
Commission, be entitled to construct. subject 10 conditions preseribed by the
Commission in consultation with the relevant water authority. waterways
and pipelines and to use water for its licensed actviics nd the refevant
water authority shait not unreasonably deny such right.

(2) For the purpose of this.item the “relevant water authority” means
such authority, as the Commission shatl Prescribe.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local). Rs. f. 80 Foreign),
payable (o the SuperiNTeNDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Buri:ac. No, 32. Traxsworks Houst..
Loves Roap, Colombo OF before [Sth December cach year in respect of the year following
