PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

EVIDENCE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No.33 OF 1998

[Certified on 12th June , 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part I of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 12, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 4.50 Postage : Rs. 2.50


Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1998

(Certified on 12th June, 1998]

L.D.—O. 41/96.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE EVIDENCE ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Evidence (Amendment)
Act, No. 33 of 1998.

2. The following section is hereby inserted immediately
after section 35, and shall have effect as section 35a of the
Evidence Ordinance (hereinafter referred to as “the principal
enactment’) :—

“Statements
contained in
records
compiled on
information
supplied by
third parties
having
personal
knowledge
of the
matters
contained in
such
statement,
when
relevant.

35a. A statement of a fact contained in a
tecord, compiled—

(a) by any person in the course of any trade,
business, or occupation in which he is
engaged or employed or for the purposes
of any paid or unpaid office held by such
person ; and

(b) from information supplied to such person
by any other person who had, or may
reasonably supposed to have had,
personal knowledge of the matters dealt
with in that information,

is a relevant fact :

Provided that such a statement shall not be
capable of corroborating the oral evidence of the
person who originally supplied the information
from which the record containing the statement
was compiled.”.

3. The following sections are hereby inserted after
section 41, and shall have effect as sections 414, 41B, and
41\c respectively of the principal enactment :—

2-—-D 047379—13,550(03/98)

Short title.

Insertion of
section 35a in
Chapter 14.

Insertion of
sections 41a, 415
and 41c in the
principal
enactment.


2 Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1998

“Relevancy
of judgments
&e.
recording
convictions,
in civil
proceedings.

41a. (1) Where in an action for defamation,
the question whether any person committed a
criminal offence is a fact in issue, a judgment of
any court in Sri Lanka recording a conviction of
that person for that criminal offence, being a
judgment against which no appeal has been
preferred within the appealable period or which
has been finally affirmed on appeal, shall be
relevant for the purpose of proving that such
person committed such offence, and shall be
conclusive proof of that fact.

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of
subsection (1), where in any civil proceedings,
the question whether any person, whether such
person is a party to such civil proceedings or not,
has been convicted of any offence by any court
or court martial in Sri Lanka, or has committed
the acts constituting an offence, is a fact in issue,
a judgment or order of such court or court martial
recording a conviction of such person for such
offence, being a judgment or order against which
no appeal has been preferred within the
appealable period, or which has been finally
affirmed in appeal, shall be relevant for the
purposes of proving that such person committed
such offence or committed the acts constituting
such offence.

(3) In this section-—

“Court Martial” ineans a Court-Martial
constituted under the Arny Act or the
Navy Act or the Air Force Act and the”
expression “conviction” when used in
relation to 4 Court Martial, ineans a
conviction by such Court Martial
confirmed in accordance with the
provisions of the law under which such
Court Martial was constitimed.


Evidence {Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1998 3

Relevancy of
judgment &c.
recording
findings of
adultery in
Civil
Proceedings.

41B. (1) Where in any civil proceedings, the
question whether any person, whether such person
is a party to such civil proceeding or not, has
committed adultery is a fact in issue, any
judgment, decree or order in any matrimonial
proceedings recording a finding that such person
has been found guilty of adultery, being a decree,
judgment or order from which there has been no
appeal within the appealable period or which has
been finally affirmed in appeal, shall be relevant
for the purpose of proving that such person
committed such adultery,

(2) In this section, “matrimonial proceedings”
means an action for divorce a vinculo matrimonii
OF separation a mensa et thoro or proceedings
had before a District Registrar pursuant to an
application made to such District Registrar under
section 33 of the Kandyan Marriage and Divorce
Act or proceedings had before a Quazi or Special
Quazi pursuant to an application for divorce made
under the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.

Hlustrations

(a) B injures C while driving A’s car in the
course of B's employment with A.

B is convicted for careless driving.

in an action for damages instituted by
C against A and B, B’s conviction is
relevant.

(b) A obtains a decree for divorce against B
on the ground of B’s adultery with C. C’s
wife sues C for divorce on the ground of
C’s adultery with B. The divorce decree
is relevant to prove B’s adultery with C.


Amendment of
section 42 of the
principal
enactment

Amendment of
section 43 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 44 of the
principal
enactment.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

4 Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1998

Relevancy of 41, (1) Where in any civil proceedings, the

Jedeinents question whether any person, whether such person
recording ‘8. @ party to such civil proceeding or not, is the
findings of — father of a child is a fact in issue, an order entered
patermtyin in any maintenance proceedings recording a
Civil finding that such person is the father of such child,
Proceedings.

being an order from which there has been no
appeal within the appealable period or which has
been finally affirmed in appeal, shall be relevant
for the purposes of proving that such person is
the father of such child.

(2) In this section, “maintenance proceedings”
mean proceedings had before a Magistrate
pursuant to an application made to such
Magistrate for an order under section 2 of the
Maintenance Ordinance or proceedings had
before a Quazi pursuant to a claim made to such
Quazi by, or on behalf of, a child, under the
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.’.

4. Section 42 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words and figures
“Section 41” wherever those words and figures occur in that
section or in the marginal note thereof, of the words and figures
“sections 41, 41a, 418 and 4Ic”.

§. Section 43 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words and figures
“sections 40, 41, and 42” wherever those words and figures
occur in that section or in the marginal note thereof, of the
words and figures “sections 40, 41, 41a, 41B, 41c and 42”.

6. Section 44 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words and figures
“sections 40, 41 or 42”, of the words and figures “sections
40, 41, 41a, 41B, 41c or 42.".

7. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).
payable to the SuPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, No. 32, Transworks House,
Lotus Roap, Cocompo Ol before {5th December each year in respect of the year following
