‘PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA.

SUPPRESSION OF UNLAWFUL ACTS OF
VIOLENCE AT AIRPORTS SERVING
INFERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION

ACT, No, 31 QE 1996

" [Certified on 12th November, 1996]

(Printed on the Order of Government)

Published as a Supplement to. Part I ‘of the Garette of the Democratic
- Socialist Benne of Sri Tanke of November 15, 1996

co

' PRINTED AT THE DEPAR1:eny OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

SS IAT sme ini ts
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE SORNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: 60 cents. Restaee: Rs, 2.00


Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence at
Airports Serving International Civil Aviation
Act, No. 31 of 1996

[Certified on 12th November, 1996]
L.D.—O. 41/89 a" |

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE PROTOCOL FOR THE SUPPRESSION
Or UNLAWFUL AcTS oF VIOLENCE aT AIRPORTS SERVING
INTERNATIONAL CiviL AVIATION, SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE
CONVENTION FOR THE SUPPRESSION OF UNLAWFUL : ACTS
AGAINST THE SAFETY OF CIVIL: AVIATION, SIGNED:AT Mont-
REAL ON SEPTEMBER 23, 1971 ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS a Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts

of Violence at Aivports Serving International Civil Aviation, .

supplementary to the Convention for the Suppresion of
Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation, signed
at Montreal on Twenty-third day of September, Nineteen
Hundret and Seventy-one, was signed at Montreal on the
twenty-fourth day of February, Nineteen Hundred and
Righty-£ight ;

AND WHEREAS the said Protocol for the Suppression of
Unlawful Acts of Violence at Airports Serving International
Civi! Aviation, supplementary to the Convention for the
suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety
of Civil Aviation signed at Montreal on September 23, 1971

(hereinafter referred to as “The Convention”) was acceded .

to, by the Government of Sri Lanka on the twenty-eighth
day of October, Nineteen Hundred and Eighty-Eight ;

AND WHEREAS legal provision has been made to give |

effect to the Convention in Sri Lanka and it is necessary
to make further legal provision te give effect to the provi-
sions of hte said Protocol in Sri Lanka. .

NOW THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Suppression of Unlawful
Acts of Violence at Airports Serving International Civil
Aviation Act, No. 31 of 1996 and shall come into operation
on such date as the Minister, by Order published in _ the
Gazette certifies 4s the date on which the Protocol on the
Suppression of Unlawful: Acts of Violence at Airports
Serving International Civil Aviation signed in Montreal on
the twenty-fourth day of February, Nineteen Hundred and
Eighty-Eight enters into force in respect of Sri Lanka.

Short title _
and’ date of
operation.


Minister to
certifv —
convention
countries.

Offences
a gains st tHe
sulety at.

civil aviation.

Jurisdiction *
of Meh
Court,

Evidence,

Amendment
of the
Extradition
Lew. No.8 of
1977.

Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence at
Airports Serving International Civil Aviation
Act, No. 31 of 1996 —

PARTI

2. The Minister may, from time to time, by Order
published in the Gazetie, certify the countries which are

parties to the Convention. A country in respect of which an

Order made under this section is in force, is hereinafter
referred to as “a convention country ”.

3. (1) Any person who, unlawfully anil intentionally,
using any device, substance or weapon—

(a) performs an act of violence against a person at an
airport serving international civil aviation, whether
in, or outside Sri Lanka, which causes is likely to
cause, serious injury or death; or

(b) destroys or seriously damages the facilities or an
airport serving international civil aviation, whether
in, or outside Sri Lanka, or an aircraft not in service
located thereon or disrupts the services of such
airport, i

being in each case an act which endangers or is likely to
endanger the safety at such airport, shall be guilty of an

offence under this Act and shall on conviction after trial on
indictment before the High Court, be liable to imprisonment
of either description for a term which may extend to fifteen

years or to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand
rupees, or to both such fine and imprisonment.

4. (1) The High Court of Sri Lanka is hereby vested with
juridiction to hear, try and determine any offence under
this Act

(2) The jurisdiction. vested in the High Court. by sub
section (1) shall be exercised by the High Court of Sr.
7zanka holden at Colombo.

5. In any prosecution for an offence under this Act, '
certificate under the hand of the Secretary to the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the subject of Foreign Affairs
to the effect that the airport described therein is an airpor
serving international civil aviation, shall be admissible ix
evidence without further proof and shall be ‘prima facie evi
dence of the matters stated therein.

PART II

6. The Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, is hereby amendec
in the Schedule to that Law, by the pipaectlon, immediately
before Part B thereof the following

, eather ieee


' Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence at ‘
aacP Ores Serving International Civil Aviation ©
Act, No. 31 of 1996

“40. (a) An act of violence by the use of any device,
- substance, or weapon, against a person at an

airport serving international civil aviation within.

the meaning of the Suppression of Unlawful Acts
of Violence at Airports Serving International
Civil Aviation Act, No. 31 cf 1996, which causes,
or is likely to cause serious injury or death, and

3

being an act which endangers or is likely to

endanger, safety of such airport.

(b) Destruction or serious damage to the facilities of
an airport serving international civil aviation
within the meaning of the Suppression — of
Unlawful Acts of Violence at Airports Serving

International Civil Aviation. Act, No. 31 of 1996

or aircraft not in service located thereon or the
disruption or services of such airport, and being
an act which endangers or is ae to endanger
safety of such airport. ”.

7. Where there is an extradition: arrangement m force,
between the Government of Sri Lanka and a convention
country, such arrangement shall be deemed, for the purposes
of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 to include provision

for extradition in respect of offences set out in the Schedule
to this Act. ,

8. Where there is no extradition arrangement In force,
between the Government of Sri Lanka and a convention
country, the Minister may, for the purposes of the Extradi-
tion Law, No. 8 of 1977, by Order published in the Gazette,
treat the Convention including the Protocol as an extradi-

tion arrangement made by the Government of Sri Lanka

with suck. convention country providing for extradition in
respect of the offences set out in the Schedule to this Act.

9. Where a request is made to the Government ef Sri
Lanka by or on behalf of the Government of a convention
country for the extradition of any person accused of

convicted of an offence specified in the Schedule to this Act
the Minister shall, on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka
forthwith notify the Government of the requesting State
of the measures which the Government of Sri Lanka has
taken, or proposes to take. for the proseeution or extradition
af that person for that offence.

Existing
extradition
arrangement —
deemed to
provide for
offences in

the
Schedule.

Minister may
treat conven-
tion as
exuadition
arrangement
between Sri
Lanka and
convention
country ia
respect of
offences is

the
Schedule.

Duty of
‘Minister to
notify request
‘ting State of
Measures
“yaken

against
persons for
whose extra-
dition request
is made.


Sinhala text
to prevail

in case of
inconsistency.

re

4 Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence at
Airports Serving International Civil Aviation
Act, No. 31 of 1996

%@. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tami! texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

SCHEDULE .- [Sections 7 and 3]
1. An act of violence committed unlawtully and intentionally,

. using any device, substance or weapon, against a person at an

airport serving international civil aviation, which causes, or is
likely to cause, serious injury or death and which endangers, or
is likely to endanger, the safety of such airport.

2. Destruction or serious damage to the facilities of an airport
serving international civil aviation or aircraft not in service locate
thereon or-disruption of services of such airport, unlawfully and
intentionally, and by the use of any device, subsiance or weapon
and which endangers, or is likely to endanger, safety at such

airport.
