PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

TAX APPEALS COMMISSIONACT, No. 23 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st March, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2011

1Tax Appeals Commission Act, No. 23 of 2011

2PL 005602 4,090 (03/2011)

Short title.

[Certified on 31st March, 2011]

L.D.O. 19/2011.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE CONSTITUTION OF A TAX APPEALS

COMMISSION; TO SPECIFY THE POWERS OF SUCH COMMISSION AND

THE PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED IN HEARING AND DISPOSING

OF SUCH APPEALS; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Tax AppealsCommission Act, No. 23 of 2011.

2.(1) There shall be established a Commission to becalled and known as the Tax Appeals Commission(hereinafter referred to as the Commission) which shallcharged with the responsibility of hearing all appeals inrespect of matters relating to imposition of any tax, levy orduty.

(2) The Commission shall comprise not more than threemembers who shall be appointed from amongst retired Judgesof the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal, persons whohave wide knowledge of, and have gained eminence in thefields of Taxation, Finance and Law, by the Minister towhom the subject of Finance is assigned. One of the membersshall be appointed as the Chairman of the Commission bythe Minister.

(3) Every member of the Commission shall hold officefor a term not exceeding three years, and shall be eligible forreappointment.

3.There shall be a Secretary to the Commission whoshall be appointed by the Minister in charge of the subjectof Finance.

4.(1) The Minister shall appoint a Panel of LegalAdvisors (hereinafter referred to as the Panel) comprising

Establishment ofthe Tax AppealsCommission andits composition.

Secretary to theCommission.

Panel of LegalAdvisors.

2Tax Appeals Commission Act, No. 23 of 2011

not more than ten persons, who have gained eminence in thefield of Law, for the purpose of assisting the Commission inthe exercise, performance and discharge of powers, dutiesand functions under this Act.

(2) Three or more members of the Panel shall be nominatedby the Minster to attend the hearings of the Commissionand assist in the progress of the appeal proceedings andinvestigations if any, before such Commission.

5.At the request of the Chairman, the Secretary to theCommission shall summon once a month a meeting of allthe members of the Commission and the Panel. The quorumfor such meeting shall be five members.

6.The members of the Commission and the Panel shallbe remunerated in such amount as shall be determined bythe Minister.

7.(1) A person who is aggrieved by the determinationof the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue given inrespect of any matter relating to imposition of any tax, levyor duty under the provisions of any of the enactmentsspecified in the Schedule to this Act, may appeal to theCommission in accordance with the provisions hereinafterset out:

Provided that, every person who wishes to appeal tothe Commission as provided for above, shall, at the timeof making the appeal, be required to pay into a specialaccount which shall be opened and operated by theCommission for such purpose, an amount as is equivalent totwenty-five per centum of the sum as assessed by theCommissioner-General as being payable by such person astax under any of the said enactments and which assessmentis the subject of the appeal, or a bank guarantee for theequivalent amount.

(2) A person to whom a right to appeal has accrued interms of the provisions of the enactments specified in theSchedule to this Act, shall notify the Commission within

Meetings ofMembers of theCommission andthe Panel.

Remuneration ofthe Members ofthe Commissionand the Panel.

Right to appealto theCommissionagainst thedecision givenunder any lawspecified in theSchedule.

3Tax Appeals Commission Act, No. 23 of 2011

thirty days of the determination being communicated to himunder the respective laws, of the fact that he intends to preferan appeal to the Commission against such determination.He shall state all relevant details of the determination insuch notification including the name and address of hisauthorized representative, if any.

(3) Where the aggrieved person has notified theCommission in accordance with the provisions of subsection(2) that he intends to prefer an appeal to the Commissionagainst such determination, the Commission shall forward acopy of such notification to the Commissioner-General andrequire him to transmit in writing, to the Commission andthe aggrieved party and his authorized representative, withinthirty days of receipt of the notification, his reasons for thedetermination against which such person seeks to appeal.

(4) The manner and form of submitting an appeal underthis Act and the fees if any, payable in respect thereof, andthe time within which a petition ought to be preferred, shallbe as prescribed.

8.The person aggrieved may, if he is not satisfied withthe reasons given by the Commissioner-General prefer anappeal therefrom, to the Commission, and the Commissionshall hear and determine such appeal in accordance withsuch rules as may be made in that behalf.

9.(1) Within thirty days of the receipt of an appeal, theSecretary to the Commission shall fix a date and time andplace for the hearing of the appeal, and shall give forty-twodays notice thereof, both to the appellant and to theCommissioner-General.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall on receipt of a noticeunder subsection (1), transmit to the Commission the extractsof the provisions of the applicable enactments specified inthe Schedule to this Act and the record of evidencemaintained under such enactments.

Procedure forpreferring anappeal.

The hearing ofthe appeal.

4Tax Appeals Commission Act, No. 23 of 2011

(3) Every appellant shall attend in person or by anauthorized representative, on the day fixed for the hearingof the appeal by the Commission:

Provided that, where an authorized representative of theappellant is present at the hearing of an appeal, theCommission may postpone the hearing for such time as itthinks necessary to enable the attendance in person, of theappellant.

(4) The Assessor who made the assessment appealedagainst or a person authorized by the Commissioner-Generalin that behalf, shall attend the hearing of the Commission atwhich such appeal is heard, in support of the determinationof the Commissioner-General.

(5) The onus of proving that the assessment as determinedby the Commissioner-General in terms of the respectiveenactments specified in the Schedule to the Act, is excessiveor erroneous, shall be on the appellant.

(6) All appeals shall be heard in camera.

(7) The Commission shall have power to summon to ahearing, the attendance of any person whom it considerscapable of giving evidence respecting the appeal and mayexamine him as a witness, either on oath or otherwise. Anyperson so attending may be allowed by the Commission tobe paid any reasonable expenses necessarily incurred byhim in so attending.

(8) Except with the consent of the Commission and onsuch terms as the Commission may determine, the appellantshall not at the hearing, be allowed to produce any documentwhich was not produced before the Commissioner-General,or to adduce the evidence of any witness whose evidencewas not led before the Commissioner-General, or adduceevidence of a witness whose evidence has already beenrecorded at the hearing before the Commissioner-General.

5Tax Appeals Commission Act, No. 23 of 2011

(9) At the hearing of the appeal the Commission may,admit or reject any evidence adduced whether oral ordocumentary, and the provisions of the Evidence Ordinancerelating to the admissibility of evidence shall not apply inrespect of such evidence.

(10) After hearing the evidence, the Commission shall onappeal either confirm, reduce, increase or annul, as the casemay be, the assessment as determined by the Commissioner-General or may remit the case to the Commissioner-Generalwith the decision of the Commission on such appeal. Wherea case is so remitted by the Commission, the Commissioner-General shall revise the assessment in order that it is inconformity with such amount as stated in the decision of theCommission. The decision of the Commission shall be notifiedto the appellant and the Commissioner-General in writing.

10.The Commission shall hear all appeals received byit and make its decision in respect thereof, within one hundredand eighty days from the date of the commencement of thehearing of the appeal:

Provided that, all appeals pending before the respectiveBoard or Boards of Review in terms of the provisions of therespective enactments specified in the Schedule to this Act,shall with effect from the date of coming into operation ofthe provision of this Act be deemed to stand transferred tothe Commission, and the Commission shall make itsdecision in respect thereof, within hundred and eighty daysfrom the date of such transfer notwithstanding anythingcontained in any other written law.

11. Where under subsection (10) of section 9 theCommission does not reduce or annul an assessment inrespect of which an appeal had been preferred in terms ofthis Act, the Commission may order the appellant to pay ascosts a sum not exceeding rupees five thousand, in additionto the assessed amount, which shall be added to the taxcharged by the assessment, and recovered therewith.

Determinationof appeals bythe Commission.

Costs to berecovered withassessment ifCommissiondoes not reduceor annul theassessment.

6Tax Appeals Commission Act, No. 23 of 2011

12.No suit or prosecution shall lie against any member,officer or servant of the Commission for any lawful act doneor omitted to be done in good faith under this Act or whichis done on the directions of the Commission.

13.The provisions of the enactments specified inColumn I of the Schedule to this Act, are hereby amended orrepealed in the sections or parts thereof as are specified inColumn II of the Schedule to the extent and in the manner asshall be specified in Column III of such Schedule.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

No suit orprosecution tolie.

Repeals.

7Tax Appeals Commission Act, No. 23 of 2011

AA

Names ofEnactment

Sections or parts

to be amended

ApplicableAmendment

1.Inland RevenueAct, No. 10 of2006

2.Value Added TaxAct, No. 14 of2002

3.Nation BuildingTax Act, No. 9 of2009

4.Economic ServiceCharge Act, No.13 of 2006

Sections 166,167,168, 169

Sections 35,35(1A), 36

Section 8

Section 11

The Inland RevenueAct is hereby amendedby the repeal ofsection 166, section167, section 168 andsection169.

The Value Added TaxAct is hereby amendedby the repeal ofsection 35, section35(1A) and section 36.

Section 8 of the NationBuilding Tax Act ishereby amended bythe omission therefromof the words andfigures Chapter XXIIIrelating to Appeals.

Section 11 of theEconomic ServiceCharge Act is herebyamended by theomission therefrom ofthe word Appeals.

SCHEDULE

Column IColumn IIColumn III

8Tax Appeals Commission Act, No. 23 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.