PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 10.75 Postage : Rs. 4.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of October 25, 2002

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th October, 2002]

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

RENT (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 26 OF 2002

1Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

2H 016468 9,550 (2002/08)

[Certified on 24th October, 2002]

L.D.O. 9/2001.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE RENT ACT, NO. 7 OF 1972

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Rent (Amendment) Act,No. 26 of 2002.

2.(1) Section 2 of the Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended in subsection (4) of that section by the insertionimmediately after paragraph (c) thereof, of the following newparagraph :

(cc) residential premises occupied or the possessionthereof taken by the landlord on or after January 1,1980, and let on or after that date ; .

(2) The amendment made to section 2 of the principalenactment by subsection (1) of this section shall be deemedfor all purposes to have come into force on January 1, 1980.

3.Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (1) of that section by the substitution for thewords the standard rent per annum, of the words unlesssuch expenditure is borne by the landlord and the tenant inequal share, the standard rent per annum.

4.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor, of the following subsection :

(1) For the purposes of this Act, any part of anypremises shall be deemed to have been let or sublet to anyperson if such person is in occupation of such premises orany part thereof in consideration of the payment of rentand the provisions of this Act shall not apply to such lettingor subletting unless the landlord has consented in writingto the letting or subletting of such premises..

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 2 of Act,No. 7 of 1972.

Short title.

2Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

5.Section 18A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words for residentialpurposes and constructed at least fifty years prior tothe date of the application ;, of the words forresidential or business purposes and constructed atleast forty years prior to the date of theapplication ;;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section

(a)by the substitution, in paragraph (a), for thewords residential units, of the wordsresidential or business units;

(b)by the repeal of paragraph (b) of thatsubsection, and the substitution therefor, ofthe following paragraph :

(b)(i)order the owner of suchbuilding to provide alternateaccommodation for the tenant,if any, of such building, in thesame vicinity during the periodof construction and until thebuilding is completed foroccupation or business, as thecase may be, or alternatively asum equivalent to two yearsrent in advance to the tenant toenable him to arrangealternate accommodation of atemporary nature until theowner completes theconstruction of the newbuilding for occupationor business as the case maybe ; or

Amendment ofsection 18A of theprincipalenactment.

3Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

(ii)order the owner of suchbuilding to pay to the tenantthereof, such compensation asthe Commissioner determinesto be reasonable, for the lossof possession by such tenant ;so however that the amountordered to be so paid shall inno case be less than ten yearsannual value of the premisescalculated as at the date of theapplication for demolition ortwenty per centum of themarket value of the premisesas determined by the ChiefValuer as at the date of theapplication for demolition orrupees one hundred and fiftythousand, whichever ishigher. . and

(3)in subsection (7) of that section by the substitutionfor the words residential units, of the wordsresidential or business units.

6.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the addition atthe end of that subsection of the following :

For the purposes of this subsection, sufficient space insuch land shall

(i)with reference to land situated within the limitsof the Colombo Municipal Council, mean aland of more than six perches in extent ; and

(ii)with reference to land situated in any otherarea, mean a land of more than eight perchesin extent..

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

4Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

7.Section 20A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution for all the words fromappurtenant land to the end of thatsubsection, of the words appurtenant landsituated within the limits of the ColomboMunicipal Council exceeding six perches inextent and in any other area exceeding eightperches in extent, to construct any buildingfor residential or business purposes on suchland or to make such extension to existingbuildings as are capable of being used forresidential or business purposes .; and

(b)by the repeal of the proviso to thatsubsection.

(2)in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of that section, bythe substitution for the words for residentialpurposes wherever they occur in that paragraph, ofthe words for residential or business purposes.and

(3)in subsection (5) of that section by the substitutionfor the words residential units, of the wordsresidential or business units.

8.(1) Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)in subsection (1) of that section

(i)by the repeal of paragraph (b) of thatsubsection and the substitution therefor, ofthe following paragraph :

(b)such premises are in the opinion ofthe court, reasonably required foroccupation as a residence for the

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 20A of theprincipalenactment.

5Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

landlord, or any member of thefamily of the landlord, or for thepurposes of the trade, business,profession, vocation or employmentof the landlord, and such landlord hasdeposited, prior to the institution ofsuch action or proceedings a sumequivalent to ten years rent or rupeesone hundred and fifty thousand,whichever is higher, with theCommissioner for National Housingand has caused notice of such actionor proceedings to be served on theCommissioner ; or ;

(ii)by the repeal of paragraph (bb) of thatsubsection ;

(iii)in paragraph (d) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words default of thetenant or any such person., of the wordsdefault of the tenant or any such person ;or ; and

(iv)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(d) of that subsection, of the followingparagraphs :

(e)structural alterations have been madeby the tenant to such premiseswithout prior authorization inwriting, of the landlord and therelevant local authority ; or

(f)the character of such premises hasbeen changed by the tenant partly orwholly from residential premises toone of business premises or viceversa without obtaining the priorauthorization in writing, of thelandlord ; or

6Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

(g)the premises are required for thepurpose of development and a sumequivalent to ten years annual valueof such premises calculated as at thedate of the institution of the actionor twenty per centum of the marketvalue of such premises as determinedby the Chief Valuer as at the date ofthe institution of action or rupees onehundred and fifty thousand,whichever is higher, has beendeposited by the landlord with theCommissioner for National Housingfor payment to the tenant ascompensation. ;

(b)by the repeal of subsection (1A) of that section andthe substitution therefor, of the following :

(1A) Where the landlord has served notice onthe Commissioner for National Housing of anyaction or proceedings for the ejectment of the tenantunder paragraph (b) of subsection (1), theCommissioner shall, in consultation with the GeneralManager of the National Housing DevelopmentAuthority forthwith arrange for alternateaccommodation to be provided to the tenant of suchpremises and upon such arrangement being madenotify the court of

(i)the availability of alternateaccommodation to the tenant of suchpremises ;

(ii)the sale-price of such alternateaccommodation ; and

7Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

(iii)the balance amount, after setting off thesum deposited by the landlord underparagraph (b) of subsection (1), of the sale-price the tenant would have to pay, withoutany interest thereon, in seven hundred andtwenty equal installments in order tobecome the absolute owner of suchalternate accommodation. ;

(c)in subsection (1B) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figure any premises referred toin paragraph (bb) of subsection (1) is or are institutedin any court,, of the words any premises, is or areinstituted in any court,;

(d)by the repeal of subsection (1C) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following :

(1C) Where a decree for the ejectment of thetenant of any premises is entered by any court onthe ground that such premises are reasonablyrequired for occupation as a residence for thelandlord or any member of the family of suchlandlord, or for the purposes of the trade, business,profession, vocation or employment of the landlord,and-

(a)where the Commissioner of NationalHousing has under subsection (1A) notifiedcourt that he is able to provide alternateaccommodation for such tenant ; or

(b)where the Commissioner of NationalHousing has failed to notify court of theavailability of alternate accommodationunder subsection (1A) for over a period of

8Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

one year from the date of decree of ejectmentand the court is satisfied on application madeby the landlord stating that

(i)the sum of money required to bedeposited by him with theCommissioner for National Housingunder paragraph (b) of subsection (1)has been deposited ;

(ii)the Commissioner for NationalHousing has faild to notify court ofthe availability of alternateaccommodation under subsection(1A) ; and

(iii)a period of one year has elapsed sincethe date on which the decree forejectment was entered and he isentitled to obtain a writ of execution,

the court shall forthwith issue a writ in execution ofthe decree to the Fiscal of the court requiring andauthorizing him to deliver vacant possession of thepremises to the landlord of such premises. ;

(e)in subsection (1D) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words a writ in execution of a decree for theejectment of the tenant of any premises referred toin paragraph (bb) of subsection (1) is issued by anycourt,, of the words a writ in execution of a decreefor the ejectment of the tenant of any premises isissued by any court,;

9Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

(f)in subsection (2) of that section

(i)in paragraph (d) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words default of thetenant or any such person., of the wordsdefault of the tenant or any such person ;or ; and

(ii)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(d) of that subsection, of the followingparagraphs :

(e)structural alterations have been madeby the tenant to such premiseswithout prior authorization inwriting, of the landlord and therelevant local authority ; or

(f)the character of such premises hasbeen changed by the tenant partly orwholly from residential premises toone of business premises or viceversa without obtaining the priorauthorization in writing, of thelandlord ; or

(g)the premises are required for thepurpose of development and a sumequivalent to ten years annual valueof such premises calculated as at thedate of the institution of the actionor twenty per centum of the marketvalue of such premises determined bythe Chief Valuer as at the date of theinstitution of action, or rupees onehundred and fifty thousand,whichever is higher, has beendeposited by the landlord with theCommissioner for National Housingfor payment to the tenant ascompensation.;

10Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

(g)in subsection (3) of that section

(i)by the repeal of paragraph (a) of thatsubsection and the substitution therefor, ofthe following :

(a)if the landlord has not given thetenant three months notice of thetermination of tenancy ; or; and

(ii)in paragraph (c) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words all arrears ofrent., of the words all arrears of rent andprovided such tendering of arrears being thefirst occasion.

(h)in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words make order that a writ for theejectment of, of the words make, on not more thanone occasion, order that a writ for the ejectment of;

(i)in subsection (6) of that section

(a) by the substitution for the words one yearsnotice in writing of the termination of thetenancy ;, of the words six months noticein writing of the termination of thetenancy.; and

(b)by the repeal of the proviso to thatsubsection ;

(j)in subsection (7) of that section by the substitutionfor the words premises on a date prior to thespecified date ;, of the words premises on a dateprior or subsequent to the specified date byinheritance or gift from a parent or spouse ; and

11Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

(k)by the repeal of subsections (8), (9), (10), (11), (12),(13), (14), (15) and (16) of that section and thesubstitution therefor, of the following subsection :

(8) For the purposes of the foregoingprovisions of this section, alternateaccommodation means any house, apartment,flat or dwelling unit which has a floor area of notless than four hundred square feet and which issituated within a radius of twenty kilometers ofthe premises in respect of which the action orproceeding is pending in Court..

(2) The amendment made to the principal enactment bysubsection (1) of this section shall mutatis mutandis apply todecrees entered prior to the date of commencement of thisAct, subject to

(a)the requirement that the landlord of such premisesshall deposit the required sum with theCommissioner of National Housing, within twomonths of the date of coming into operation of thisAct, ;

(b)the requirement that the Commissioner of NationalHousing shall, where decree has already beenentered, provide alternate accommodation to thetenant of such premises ; and

(c)the condition that the period of one year willcommence with effect from the date on which therequired amount is deposited with the Commissionerof National Housing.

9.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words premises on a date prior to thespecified date., of the words premises on a date prior orsubsequent to the specified date by inheritance or gift from aparent or spouse..

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment.

12Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

10.Section 36 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution of the following therefor :

(2)Any person who

(a)in the case of residential premises, is thesurviving spouse or child or parent orunmarried brother or sister of the deceasedtenant or brother or sister of the deceasedtenant if he was unmarried at the time ofdeath, and was a member of the householdof the deceased tenant during the whole ofthe period of six months immediatelypreceding his death, and

(b)in the case of business premises, is thesurviving spouse or child of the deceasedtenant, where such spouse or child carrieson in such premises the business carried onby the deceased tenant,

shall, subject to any order of the board as hereinafter provided,be deemed for the purposes of this Act to be the tenant of thepremises :

Provided however, no surviving spouse, child, parent,brother or sister as the case may be, shall be deemed to be thetenant of the premises of the deceased tenant under subsection(2), if such person

(i)was the owner of any such premises on the date ofthe death of the deceased tenant ; and

(ii)is not the surviving spouse, child, parent, brother orsister of the original tenant..

11.Section 42 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal of thefigure 22(15).

12.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment ofsection 42 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Amendment ofsection 36 of theprincipalenactment.

13Rent (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2002

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.