PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIG
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF . |
SRI LANKA

LAND SETTLEMENT
(AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 23 OF 1996

/

[Certified on 2%nd August, 1996]

Printed on the Order of Government

+o

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Danveratis
; Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 23, 1996

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

RD fe 4
aanciem ens SEO ie ted

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: 45 cents. ot Postage: Rs. 2.00



Land Settlement (Amendment)
Act, No. 23 of.1996 ~~ —_
[Certified on 22nd August, 1996]

“WL.D.—O, 30/95

wAn ACT TO AMEND THE LAND SErrLemMeEnt ORDINANCE, TO -

PROVIDE FOR REVISION OR CANCELLATION OF SETTLEMENT
ORDERS : AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO,

BE {t enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

I. This Act may be cited as the Land Settlement
(Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 1986.

2. The Land Settlement Ordinance (hereinafter referred
4o asx “the principal enactment”) is hereby amended by
the insertion, immediately atter subsection (7) of section §
‘thereef, of the following new subsection :—

“ (8) Where—

{4} a person makes a claim to any land specified
in a settlement notice or to a share of, or
interest in, any such land, at any time after
the expiration of the period of three monthg
specified in such notice and the further
period, if any, prescribed by the proviso to
subsection (1) of section 5, but prior to the
publication under section 8, of the Order
prescribed by subsection (5) of section 65,
embodying the settlement of the land speci-
fied in the settlement notice or any share of,
or interest in, such land; end

{b) the settlement officer is satisfied that _ the
claimant had reasonable grounds for failing
to make such claim within such period of
three months and such further period if any,

the settlement officer may, notwithstanding any-
thing in this Ordinance, entertain, and deal with
such claim as though it had been made within time,
and in such case, it shall be lawful for the scttle
ment officer for the purpose of dealing with such
claim to declare, after hearing the other claimants,
any declaration made by him under subsection (1)

or (4) of section 5 or any agreement entered into by
him under sul section (4) of section 5 to be null
and void.”.

*2——D 040577—7.380 (96/06)

RRord tthe, |

aAmendmend |
of peer ,

5 :
Charter 468.


zZ _Land Settlement (Amendment)
Act, No. 23 of 1996

ohecctod 3. The following new section fa inserted tmmediatek
5a in the after section 5 of the principal enactment, and aa bav-

principal effect as section 5a tnereot :—
enactment

“Power of da. Where a settlement officer whe hs=
bios maae a deciaration under subsection (1) c=
declate — (4) of section 5, or entered into an agree
Lge ment under subsection (4) of section 6, im
mull end respect of a land specified in a_ settlemex*
void. notice or to any share of, or interest in, am=
such land, has reasonable grounds to dewb"
the authenticity of any document, or th-
veracity of any evidence, produced befor
him at any inquiry preceding the making @
such declaration or the entering into of suci
agreement, he may, at any time prior to th:
publication under section 8, of the Orde<
prescribed by subsection (5) of section
mimmon every claimant to the land specifiec
in such settlement notice or to any share of
or interest in, such land to appear before
him and to produce the evidence upon whi
such claimant relies in proof of his claim and
shall make fresh inquiry into such claims 5
and after such inquiry it shall be lawful fox
the settlement officer for the purpose of
dealing with such claims, to declare tha
seclaration made by him under subsectioz
(1) or subsection (4) of section 5 or tht
Hgreement entered inte by him under cub
section (4) of section 5, as the case may be
to be null and void. ”.

Sinhala 4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinha

tet? in -aand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevai

case of
inconsistency
