Price : Rs. 29.75Postage : Rs. 9.00

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SECURITIES EXCHANGE OF SRI LANKA(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 18 OF 2003

[Certified on 29th April, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 02, 2003

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 20031

Amendment ofthe long title toAct, No. 36 of1987.

Short title.

[Certified on 29th April, 2003]

L. D. O. 3/2002.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

OF SRI LANKA ACT, NO. 36 OF 1987

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 18 of 2003.

2.The long title to the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987 (hereinafterreferred to as the principal enactment) as amended by Act,No. 26 of 1991, is hereby further amended by the substitutionfor the words TO GRANT LICENCES TO STOCKEXCHANGES, UNIT TRUST, STOCK BROKERS ANDSTOCK DEALERS WHO ENGAGE IN THE BUSINESS OFTRADING IN SECURITIES;, of the words TO GRANTLICENCES TO STOCK EXCHANGES, MANAGINGCOMPANIES IN RESPECT OF EACH UNIT TRUST, STOCKBROKERS AND STOCK DEALERS WHO ENGAGE IN THEBUSINESS OF TRADING IN SECURITIES; TO REGISTERMARKET INTERMEDIARIES;.

3.Section 12 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 26 of 1991 is hereby further amended in paragraph(c) thereof by the substitution for the words from the failureof a licensed stock broker or licensed stock dealer to meet ofthe words as a result of any licensed stock broker or licensedstock dealer being found incapable of meeting.

4.Section 13 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 26 of 1991 is hereby further amended as follows :

(1)by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (bb)of that section, of the following new paragraph :

(bbb)to grant a certificate of registration to anyperson to carry on business as a marketintermediary and to ensure the properconduct of such business ;;

2H 017163 5,650 (2002/11)

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 20032

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (c) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraph :

(c)to give general or specific directions to alicensed stock exchange or a licensed stockbroker or a licensed stock dealer or alicensed managing company or a trustee ofa unit trust or a registered marketintermediary, from time to time;;

(3)by the substitution in paragraph (d) of that sectionfor the words resulting from the failure of a licensedstock broker or a licensed stock dealer to meet ofthe words, arising as a result of any licensed stockbroker or licensed stock dealer being found incapableof meeting;

(4)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (f) ofthat section, of the following new paragraphs :

(g)to regulate the listing and issue of securitiesin a licensed stock exchange;

(gg)to direct a licensed stock exchange to rejectany application made to it for listing;;

(5)by the substitution in paragraph (h) of that section,for the words any given listed securities, of thewords any listed securities;

(6)by the repeal of paragraph (i) of that section, and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraph :

(i)to inquire and conduct investigations intoany activity of a licensed stock exchange,a licensed stock broker or licensed stockdealer, a licensed managing company or atrustee of a unit trust, a registered marketintermediary or any listed publiccompany;;

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 20033

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.

(7)by the repeal of paragraph (j) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraph :

(j)to publish findings of malfeasance by anylicensed stock broker or licensed stock dealeror a licensed managing company or a trusteeof a unit trust, or a registered marketintermediary or any listed public company;;

(8)by the repeal of paragraph (n) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragrahps :

(n)to regulate take-overs or mergers where suchtake-over or merger is between one or morelisted companies or where at least one of theparties involved in such take-over or mergeris a listed public company ;

(o)to conduct investigations into any allegedviolation or contravention of the provisionsof this Act or any rule or regulation madethereunder by any person ; and

(p)to do all such other acts as may be incidentalor conducive to, the attainment of the objectsof the Commission or the exercise of itspowers under this Act..

5.Section 14 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 26 of 1991, is hereby further amended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraph :

(a)carry out inspections of the activities oflicensed stock exchanges, licensed stockbrokers, licensed stock dealers, licensedmanaging companies or trustees of unit trustsor registered market intermediaries, in orderto determine whether they are operating inconformity with the provisions of this Act

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 20034

or any regulations or rules made thereunderand to charge the costs incurred in carryingout such inspections from the licensed stockexchange, licensed stock broker, licensedstock dealer, licensed managing company ortrustee of a unit trust or registered marketintermediary as the case may be, whoseactivities are being inspected ; ;

(2)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of that sectionfor the words licensed stock exchanges, stockbrokers, stock dealers and the managing companiesof licensed unit trust, of the words licensed stockexchanges, licensed stock brokers, licensed stockdealers, licensed managing companies of unit trustsand registered market intermediaries ; and

(3)by the substitution in paragraph (c), of that sectionfor the words the managing company of a licensedunit trust and the prescribed particulars.,respectively, of the words the licensed managingcompany of a unit trust and such particulars asmay from time to time be determined by theCommission ..

6.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 14 and shall have effect as sections14A and 14B of the principal enactment :

14A. (1) There shall be charged, levied andpaid a cess at such rates as may be specified bythe Minister by Order published in the Gazetteon every purchase and sale of securities recordedin a licensed stock exchange or notified to itunder its rules by both the purchaser and theseller. Different rates may be specified in respectof different classes of securities.

(2)The cess imposed under this sectionshall be in addition to any other tax or cess leviedunder any other written law.

Insertion of newsections 14A and14B in theprincipalenactment.Levy of cess.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 20035

14B. (1) There shall be established a fundcalled the Cess Fund to which shall be creditedthe proceeds of the cess imposed under section14A.

(2)There shall be paid out of the Cess Fundsuch sums as may be authorised by theCommission for the purpose of

(a)developing the securities market ;

(b)enhancing monies lying to the credit ofthe Compensation Fund establishedunder section 38 ; and

(c)exercising, performing and dischargingthe powers, duties and functions of theCommission for the purpose ofachieving its objects.

(3) The money lying to the credit of the CessFund may be invested by the Commission insuch manner as may be determined by theCommission. .

7.The heading appearing in Part III immediately beforesection 15 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed andthe following heading substituted therefor :

GRANT OF LICENCE TO A STOCK EXCHANGE, A STOCK BROKER

OR A STOCK DEALER AND THE REGISTRATION OF MARKETINTERMEDIARIES

8.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of all the words from shall make anapplication , to the end of that section, and the substitutionof the following therefor :

shall make an application to the Commission for thegrant of a licence as a stock exchange, stock broker ora stock dealer, as the case may be, in such form, togetherwith such documents and such fee as may be specifiedby the Commission from time to time in that behalf. .

Cess Fund.

Amendment ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofheading in Part IIIof the principalenactment.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 20036

9.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 19 and shall have effect as section19A of the principal enactment :

19A. (1) Any person who is carrying on orwho intends to carry on business as a marketintermediary shall register with the Commissionfor such purpose.

(2) An application for the purpose ofregistration under subsection (1) shall be madeto the Commission in such form, together withsuch documents and such fee as may beprescribed by the Commission from time to timein that behalf.

(3) On receipt of an application forregistration, the Commission having consideredthe particulars stated therein and where itappears necessary having given the applicantan opportunity of being heard, shall by writtennotice inform the applicant whether he is beingregistered as a market intermediary or not, andwhere he is registered as a market intermediary,issue him with a certificate of registration validfor a period of one year effective from the dateof issue of such certificate. Every person issuedwith a certificate of registration is referred toin this Act as a registered marketintermediary..

(4)No person shall be registered as amarket intermediary unless he complies with theterms and conditions set out in Part V of theSchedule hereto. .

10.Section 20 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act No. 26 of 1991 is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words within six months prior to the expiry,of the words six months prior to the expiry ;

Registrationof marketintermediaries.

Insertion of newsection 19A in theprincipalenactment.

Amendmentof section 20of theprincipalenactment.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 20037

Suspensionandcancellation ofregistration.

Insertion of newsection 21A in theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(2)A licensed stock broker, a licensed stockdealer or a registered market intermediary may threemonths prior to the expiry of the licence or theregistration as the case may be, make an applicationto the Commission in the prescribed form, togetherwith the prescribed fee for a renewal of his licenceor the registration as the case may be. ; and

(3)in subsection (3) of that section, by the repeal of allthe words from a renewal of a licence, to as thecase may be, and the substition of the followingtherefor :

a renewal of a licence or registration, theCommission shall satisfy itself that the licensed stockexchange, the licensed stock broker, the licensedstock dealer or the registered market intermediary,as the case may be,.

11.Section 21 of the the principal enactment as amendedby Act No. 26 of 1991 is hereby further amended insubsections (4) and (5) of that section by the substitution forthe words licensed stock broker or stock dealer , whereverthose words occur in those subsections, of the words licensedstock broker or licensed stock dealer .

12.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 21 and shall have effect as section21A of the principal enactment :

21A. (1) The Commission shall have thepower to suspend or cancel the certificate ofregistration granted to a market intermediaryunder section 19A of this Act.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 20038

(2) The provisions of section 21 of this Actshall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relationto, any suspension or cancellation as the casemay be, of a certificate of registration undersubsection (1). .

13.Section 22 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act No. 26 of 1991 is hereby repealed and the followingsection is substituted therefor :

22. (1) Any person aggrieved by thedecision of the Commission

(a)suspending or cancelling a licence undersection 18A ;

(b)refusing to grant a licence under section19 or a registration under section 19A ;

(c)refusing to grant a renewal of a licenceor registration as the case may be undersection 20; or

(d)cancelling or suspending a licence or aregistration as the case may be, undersections 21 or 21A ;

may appeal against such decision to the Courtof Appeal, within fourteen days from the dateon which the decision was communicated tosuch person.

(2)Until rules are made under Article 136of the Constitution pertaining to appeals underthis section, the rules made under that Articlepertaining to applications by way of revisionto the Court of Appeal shall apply to everyappeal made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3)The Court of Appeal may, on an appealmade to it under subsection (1), reverse, modifyor set-aside the decision made by theCommission or make such order as the interestsof justice may require..

Appeal tothe Court ofAppeal

Replacement ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 20039

14.Section 25 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act No 26 of 1991 is hereby further amended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(1)Where a licensed stock exchange, alicensed stock broker or a licensed stock dealer,as the case may be, proposes to alter any materialparticulars already furnished or undergoes orintends to undergo a change from the statespecified in the application for a licence or therenewal of a licence, as the case may be, as a stockexchange, stock broker or stock dealer, it shall bethe duty of such licensed stock exchange, licensedstock broker or licensed stock dealer, as the casemay be, to inform the Commission and obtain itsprior consent before such alteration or change iseffected. ; and

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section of the following new subsection :

(1A) Where a registered market intermediaryproposes to alter any particulars already furnishedor undergoes or intends to undergo a change fromthe state specified in the application forregistration or renewal of a registration as amarket intermediary, it shall be the duty of suchregistered market intermediary to forthwithinform the Commission of such alteration orchange. .

15.Section 28 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act No. 26 of 1991 is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1) in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the wordssharesorshare wherever those words appear in thatsubsection, of the words securities orsecurity respectively ;

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 200310

Insertion of newsection 28A in theprincipalenactment.

(b)by the repeal of paragraph (b) of thatsubsection ; and

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words stock broker or stock dealer shall ,of the words licensed stock broker, licensed stockdealer, the licensed managing company of a unit trustor a registered market intermediary shall.

16.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 28 and shall have effect as section28A of the principal enactment :

28A. Where shares in any public companyare allotted to any person prior to its listing in alicensed stock exchange, no shares or anysecurity convertible to shares in any suchcompany shall be listed on a licensed stockexchange within a period of one year from thedate of the last allotment, unless the writtenapproval of the Commission is obtained for thatpurpose prior to such listing. .

17.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 29 and shall have effect as section29A of the principal enactment :

29A. (1) No listed public company or anypublic company which has applied to obtain alisting in a licensed stock exchange, shall makeany issue of securities unless the issue has beenapproved by the Commission or any personauthorized in that behalf by the Commission.

Prohibitionagainst thelisting ofshares incertain cases.

Insertion of newsection 29A in theprincipalenactment.

Issue ofsecurities.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 200311

(2)For the purposes of this section, issueof securities means

(a)in relation to a public company whichhas applied to obtain a listing, anintroduction, an offer for subscription,an offer for sale or any placement ofsecurities on a licensed stock exchange ;

(b)in relation to a listed public company

(i)new issues or offer for sale ofsecurities to the public, whethersuch issues or offers for sale are byway of public issues or otherwiseor any placements of securities ;

(ii)rights issues of securities ;

(iii)bonus issues of securities;

(iv)schemes of arrangements, schemesof reconstruction, take overschemes, share option schemes andacquisition of assets by way ofissues of securities..

18.Section 31 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

19.The heading appearing in Part IIIA immediatelybefore section 31A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following heading substituted therefor :

GRANT OF A LICENCE TO OPERATE A UNIT TRUST

20.Section 31A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the renumbering of that section as section 31 ofthat enactment.

Replacement ofheading in PartIIIA of theprincipalenactment.

Renumbering ofsection 31A of theprincipalenactment.

Repeal of section31 of the principalenactment.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 200312

21.Section 31B of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

31A. (1) No licence shall be granted underthis Part for the operation of a unit trust,unless

(a)the trustee has been approved by theCommission ; and

(b)the managing company complies withthe terms and conditions set out in PartIV of the Schedule hereto.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions ofparagraph (a) of subsection (1), where thetrustee approved by the Commission is replacedby the appointment of a new trustee after theissue of a licence, such licence shall be deemedto be valid and continue in force until the newtrustee is approved by the Commission..

22.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 31A and shall have effect as section31B of the principal enactment :

31B. (1) The Commission shall withdrawthe approval of a trustee of a unit trust wherethe Commission is satisfied that the trustee ofthat unit trust

(a)has acted in breach of any provision ofthis Act or any rules or regulations madethereunder ;

(b)has ceased to be of good financialstanding ; or

(c)is guilty of malpractice or irregularityin the management of its affairs.

Requirementsto be compliedwith for thepurpose ofgranting alicence tooperate a unittrust.

Replacementof section 31B ofthe principalenactment.

Insertion ofnew section31B in theprincipalenactment.

Withdrawalof approval ofa trustee.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 200313

(2) Upon withdrawal of any approval undersubsection (1), the trustee shall be deemed tohave retired but such retirement shall not takeeffect until a new trustee duly approved by theCommission has been appointed. .

23. Section 31C of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words under section 31Athe Commission,, of the words under section 31, theCommission,.

24. Section 31D of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) ofthat section, and the substitution therefor of thefollowing subsections :

(1) The Commission shall cancel or suspendthe licence granted to a managing company inrespect of a particular unit trust, where theCommission is satisfied that

(a)the managing company of such unit trusthas acted in breach of any provision ofthis Act or any rules or regulations madethereunder ;

(b)the managing company of such unit trusthas ceased to be of good financialstanding ;

(c)the managing company of such unit trustis guilty of malpractice or irregularityin the management of its affairs ;

(d)the managing company of such unit trusthas been dismissed by the trustee of aunit trust ; or

(e)the approval granted to the trustee ofsuch unit trust has been withdrawn bythe Commission under section 31B anda new trustee has not been approved bythe Commission.

Amendment ofsection 31C of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 31D of theprincipalenactment.

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(Amendment), Act, No. 18 of 200314

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.