PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SUPPLEMENTARY ALLOWANCE OF
WORKERS
ACT, No. 65 OF 1979

{Certified on 9th November, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 16, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price: 65 cents om" Postage: 25 cents


Supplementary Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 65 of 1979

[Certified on 9th November, 1979]

L.D.—O. 55/79

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT OF A SUPPLEMENTARY
ALLOWANCE BY. EMPLOYERS. TO CERTAIN CATEGORIES OF
WORKERS. IN THE' PRIVATE SECTOR. AND- FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR. INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist —

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows.::—

1. This. Act may be cited as_ the Supplementary
Allowance of Workers Act, No. 65 of 1979; and shall be
deemed to have come into operation on the first: day: of
September, 1979 ‘(hereinafter referred to as the “ relevant
date”). :

2. (1) The Commissioner shall be the competent.

authority for the purposes of this Act.

(2) The competent authority may delegate to any officer
of' the Department of Labour any power, function or duty
conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such authority by
this Act,

3. (1) With effect from the relevant date, every employer,
in any trade, of a worker whose total earnings for the month
do not exceed one thousand five hundred rupees shall in
respect of each month, pay to every such worker employed
by him an allowance (in this Act referred to as the “ supple-
mentary allowance”) calculated on the following basis :—

(a) in the case of a worker remunerated at a monthly
rate, the allowance payable shall be a sum of fifty-
five rupees:

Provided, however, that in the case of a worker

who does not work for the requisite nu. nber of days

as prescribed by any written law or contract for

any reason other than the failure of the employer

to provide work for such worker, the allowance

payable to such worker shall be in proportion to

the number of days he has worked for the month,

so however that such allowance shall not exceed
fifty-five rupees ;

(b). im the case of a worker paid at a daily rate, the
allowance payable shall be a sum of two rupees and
fifty cents per day for each day he has worked

2—A 45487—18,700 (79/1)

Short
title and
date of
operation.

Competent
authority.

Payment of
supple-
mentary
allowance.


2 Supplementary Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 65 of 1979

during the month, so however that the total
allowance payable for that month shall not exceed
fifty-five rupees ; and

(c) in the case of a walle who} is employed on a piece-
rate basis, the allowance payable shall be a sum not
less than ten per centum of the wages due to him at
such piece-rate during the month, so however that
the allowance payable for that month shall not
exceed fifty-five rupees.

(2) Every employer of a worker whose total earnings for
the month exceed one thousand five hundred rupees but are
less than one thousand five hundred and fifty-five rupees,
shall, in respect of each month, pay to such worker as
allowance, an amount equivalent to the difference between
one thousand five hundred and fifty-five rupees, and the
amount drawn by such Worker as ainiad or BMWASES a af Hal
month. . gadha fei .

. (3). Every worker. who is entitled to.the-Supplementary
Allowance and is also entitled to a Cost of Living Allowance
determined in accordance with the Colombo Consumers’
Price Index or -to a special allowance payable under the
Wages Boards Ordinance shall, as long as this Act is in
force; not be entitled to any Cost..of Living Allowance in
excess of the amount determined in accordance with the
Cost of Living Index figure of 245.9 or to such special
allowance in excess of the amount paid for the month of
September, 1979, unless such Cost of Living Allowance or
such special allowance in respect of any month exceeds the
aggregate of the Cost of Living Allowance determined in
accordance with the aforesaid Cost of Living Index figure
or the special allowance paid for the said month of Septem-
ber and the supplementary allowance, in which case such
worker shall in respect of that month be entitled, in addition

to the supplementary allowance, to be paid the amount of
such excess.

(4) Where a worker who is entitled to the Supplementary
Allowance is also entitled to a Non-Recurring Cost of Living
Gratuity in accordance with, or on the basis of, the provi-
sions of any Collective Agreement or in terms of any Order
made by the Minister under section 10 (2) of the Industrial
Disputes Act or by reason of his employer voluntarily
agreeing to pay such gratuity, such worker shall, as long
as this Act is in force and notwithstanding anything to the


Supplementary Allowance of Workers 3
Act, No. 65 of 1979

contrary in such Agreement or Order, not be entitled to a
Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity in excess of the
following amounts :—

(a) where the Cost of Living Index is at a figure not
exceeding 245.9, the amount determined in accor-
dance with such figure ;

(b) where the Cost of Living Index is at a figure exceed-
ing 245.9 but not exceeding 273.4, the amount deter-
mined in accordance with the Cost of Living Index
figure of 245.9; and

(c) where the Cosi of Living Index is at a figure exceeding
273.4, the aggregate of—

(i) the amount determined in accordance with the
difference between such figure and the Cost
of Living Index figure of 273.4; and

(ii) the amount determined in accordance with the
Cost of Living Index figure of 245.9.

4, The provisions of this Act shall have force and effect
notwithstanding anything in any other written law or in any
Collective Agreement or other agreement or in any contract
of employment whether oral, written, expressed or implied ;
and accordingly in the event of any conflict or inconsistency
between such provisions and any such other law, Collective
Agreement or other agreement or contract, such provisions
shall to the extent of such inconsistency prevail over such

other law, Collective Agreement, other agreement or con-
tract.

5. Subject to the provisions of subsections (3) and (4)
cf section 3, every worker who has been employed by any
employer in any trade on the day immediately prior to the
relevant date shall, for so long as he continues to be a
worker of such employer, continue to be so employed on
such terms and conditions relating to salary, allowances or
other payments in money by whatsoever name or designa-
tion called (excluding the supplementary allowance payable
under this Act) as are not less favourable than those which
such worker had enjoyed on the day immediately prior to
the relevant date. _

6. (1) The employer of a worker in any trade shall
Maintain and keep in the premises in which that trade is
carried on, a register setting out—

(a) the name of each worker employed by him ;

notwith-
standing
anything in
any other
written
law, &e.

Special
provisions
regarding
continuation

of
employment.

Duty of
employer to
maintain
register.


4 Supplementary Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 65 of 1979

(b) the class of work performed by -each worker
‘employed by -him ; and

(c) the amount paid to each such worker in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.

(2) Every employer who maintains or has maintained a
register under subsection (1), shall preserve such register
for a period of six years commencing on the relevant date
and shall, when required to do so by the competent autho-
rity, ‘produce such register for inspection or furnish a true
copy of such register or permit such a copy to'be made.

Powers of 7. The competent authority shall have the power—
competent
authority. (a) to enter and inspect at all reasonable hours of the day

or night any place in which workers in any trade
are employed, for the purpose of examining any
register or of ascertaining whether the provisions
of this Act are being complied with; or

(b) if any such register is not available for examination
when he is inspecting such place, to require the
production of such register on a specified later date
for ‘examination at such place or at the office of
such authority ; or

(c) ‘to take copies of the whole or any part of any such
register ; or

(d) to interrogate any person whom he finds. in such
place and whom he has reasonable cause to believe

is an employer of workers employed in any trade
carried on ‘in such place ; or

(e) to direct, in writing, any employer of workers in any
‘trade.to furnish to him-on or before a specified
date—

(i) a return relating to all workers employed by
any such employer or any specified class or
description ‘of such workers and. containing
such other particulars.as he ‘may require. for
the purposes of this Act;

(ii) ‘such information or explanation as he may
require in respect of any particulars stated
in any return furnished by any. such emplo-
yer ; or

(iii) a true copy of the whole or any part of any
register maintained by any such employer.


Supplementary Allowance of Worker's a)
Act, No. 65 of 1979

8. Every person who—

(a) fails to comply with the provisions of section 6; or

(b) fails to furnish such means as are necessary for any
entry or inspection by the competent authority for
the exercise of his powers under section ‘7 ; or

(c) hinders or obstructs such authority in the exercise
of the powers conferred by that section ; or

(d) refuses to produce any register or furnish any infor-
mation which such authority requires him to
produce or furnish ; or

(e) makes or causes to be made in any register, any
statement which is false in any material particular,
or produces, or causes or knowingly allows to be
produced, any register containing a false statement
to-such ‘authority, knowing the same to be false ;
or

(f) furnishes any information to such authority -acting
under the powers conferred .by that section, know-
ing the same to.be false ;.or

(g) makes default in complying wih any directions given
by such authority under section 7, or who, when
called upon to furnish a return under that section,
knowingly, makes.or furnishes or -causes to be-made
or furnished, a -return containing any ‘false
:statement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.

9. The supplementary allowance payable to a .worker
under this Act shall be deemed for, all purposes of written
law, including—

(a) contributions to Employees’ Provident Fund and
pension ;

(b) annual holiday remuneration ;

(c) overtime remuneration ;

(d) maternity benefits payments ;. and

Offences and
penalties.

Payment
due under
this Act

to constitute
part of a
worker’s
wages.


6 Supplementary Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 65 of 1979

(e) bonuses and gratuities,
to constitute part of his wages, and accordingly every
employer of such worker shall pay such supplementary __
allowance within the period within which such employer is
required by any written iaw to pay the wages or salary of
such worker.

Failure to 16. (1) Any employer who fails to pay a sum required

Been to be paid to a worker of such employer under this Act

workers. or fails to comply with the provisions of section 5 or section
9 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on convic-
tion before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one thou-
sand rupees or to imprisonment of either description for
a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.

(2) Upon conviction by the Magistrate of an employer
for failure to pay any sum required to be paid to a worker
of such employer under this Act, the court shall, in addi-
tion to any other penalty which it may impose for such
offence, order such employer to pay such sum to such
worker within a period specified in the order, and if such
sum is not so paid, such sum shall be recovered and paid to
such worker on the order of the court, as if it were a fine
imposed by the court.

Recovery of 11. (1) Where an employer has been convicted for failure

sue Aue to pay any sum required to be paid to a worker of such

in certain employer under this Act, then, if a notice in the prescribed

phot form of intention so to do has been served on the employer
at any time before the date of commencement of the trial,
evidence may be given of any failure on the part of the
employer to pay any sum in accordance with the provisions
of this Act to that worker or any other worker or workers
at any time during the six years preceding the date on
which the complaint was made to court of the offence of
which the employer has been so convicted and, on proof of
the failure, the court may order the employer to pay such
sum as it may be found by the court to be due from him
to such worker or workers. Any sum ordered to be paid
under this subsection may be recovered in the same manner
as a fine.

(2) In this section “prescribed” means prescribed by >
regulation made under section 12.

Regulations. 12. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
matters for which regulations are authorized or required to
be made under this Act.


Supplementary Allowance of Workers 7
Act, No. 65 of 1979

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be

published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on

. the date of such publication or on such later date as may
be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from
the date of such disapproval but without prejudice to any-
thing previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.

_13. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

- “Collective Agreement” shall have the same meaning
as in the Industrial Disputes Act;

“Commissioner” means the person for the time being

holding the office of Commissioner of Labour and

includes any person ‘for the time being holding

.. office as a Deputy..Commissioner of Labour..or as

a Senior. Assistant Commissioner of Labour or as

as Assistant Commissioner of Labour or as a Labour
Officer ;

“earnings” shall have the same meaning as in the
Employees’ Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958 ;

“employer” means any person who on his own behalf
employs, or on whose behalf any other person
employs, any worker in any trade and includes any
person who on behalf of any other person employs
any worker in any trade;

“trade” includes any industry, business, undertak-
ing, occupation, profession or calling carried on,
performed or exercised by an employer or worker,
and any branch of, or any function or process in,
any trade, but does not include any industry, busi-
ness or undertaking which is carried on by any
corporation, board or other body which was or is
established by or under any written law other than
the Companies Ordinance, with funds or capital
wholly or partly provided by the Government by
way of grant, loan or otherwise ;

Interpreta-
tion.


Supplementary Allowance of Workers
Act, No. 65 of 1979

“wages” or “salary” shall mean the aggregate of—

(a) the contractual wage or salary of the worker
or the wage prescribed by the relevant Wages
Board for the trade to which the worker
belongs ;

(b) any amount payable to the worker under the
Interim Devaluation Allowance of Employees
Act, No. 40 of' 1968 ;

(c) any amount payable to the worker under the
Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers Law,
No. 1 of 1978 ;

(d) any amount payable to the worker under. the
Special Allowances of Workers Law, No. 17
of 1978;

(e) any amount payable to the worker under the
Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
(No. 2) Law, No. 18 of 1978 ; and

(f) any amount payable to the worker in accordance
with the provisions of or on the basis of any
Collective Agreement ;

“worker” mearis a person employed in any capacity by
any employer under a contract whether oral,
written, expressed or implied to perform any work
in any trade and includes a worker whose salary
or wages are regulated by any written law or
otherwise and a worker employed on a piece-rate
basis but does not include a domestic servant or
an employer’s personal chauffeur.
