PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON ~

Prevention of Social Disabilities Act,
No. 21 of 1957 a |

_ Date of Assent : April 13, 1957 oy J

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press, CryLton. To be
purchased at'the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMEO ©

"Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS ‘
. Bureat, Post OrriceE Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1 * ~

_ Price; 10 cents. Postage: 10 cents..


Prevention of Social Disabilities Act, 3
No. 21 of 1957

L. D.—O. 20/56.

An ACT TO PREVENT THE IMPOSITION OF SOCIAL
DISABILITIES ON ANY PERSONS .BY REASON OF
THEIR CASTE. :

[Date of Assent: April 13, 1957]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows :—

4. This Act may be cited as the Prevention of
Social Disabilities Act, No. 21 of 1957.

2. Any person who imposes any social disability
on any. other person by reason of such other
person’s caste shall be guilty of an offence and shall,
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,
be liable to imprisonment of either description for a
term not exceeding six months or to a fine not exceed-

_ Ing one hundred rupees. :

me

3. For the purpose of section 2, a person shall be
deemed to impose a social disability on any other
person—

(a) if he prevents or obstructs such other person
_ from or in—

(i) being admitted as a student to, or being
employed as a teacher in, any
educational institution,

(ii) entering, or purchasing any article at,
any shop, market or fair,

(iii) entering, or being served at, any public
hotel, resthouse, eating-house, |

restaurant or any other place where
articles of food or drink are sold to
the public,
(iv) obtaining any room for residence in a
ublic hotel, resthouse, or lodging-
ouse, .
(v) obtaining or using water from any
public well, spring, water-pipe or

any other source of supply of water

to the public,

J. N. R 9526-4,075 (1/67)

Short title.

Imposition of
social
disabilities

on persons by
reason of :
their caste to
be an offence.

Interpretation.


Prevention.of Social Disabilities Act,
No. 21 of 1957

(vi) entering, or obtaining the service pro-
vided at, a public hair-dressing
saloon or laundry,

(vii) entering any public cemetery and
attending or taking part in any
burial or cremation therein,
(villi) wearing any kind of clothes, head-
' covering or foot-covering at any
place to which the public have
access whether on payment or other-
wise, or at the place of such other
person’s employment, or in the
course of such other person’s trade,
business or employment,

(ix) being carried as a passenger in any
public vehicle or vessel,

(x) entering, or being present in, any place
to which the public have access
whether on payment or otherwise,
other than a temple, devale, kovila,
church, mosque or other place of any
religious worship, or

(xi) being engaged in any lawful employ-~-~
ment or activity, or

(6) if he prevents or obstructs such other person,
being the follower of any religion, from or
in entering, being present in, or worship-
ping at any place of worship to which
followers of that religion have access, or

(c) if he, being a public officer, does not perform
or exercise any duty or power which he is
legally bound to perform or exercise for the
benefit of such other person, or

(¢) if he, being the proprietor of, or a person
having control over, or a person employed
as a worker in, a place to which the public
have access whether on payment or other-
wise, subjects such other person to any

discrimination.

%
