PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 56 OF 1999

[Certified on December 31, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of December 31,1999

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price : Rs. 4.50Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet version)

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)Act, No. 56 of 19991

[Certified on December 31, 1999]

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT

L.D.O. 16/95.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as Industrial Disputes(Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 1999.

2.The following new Part is hereby inserted immediatelyafter Part V of the Industrial Disputes Act (hereinafter referredto as the Principal enactment) and shall have effect as PartVA of that Act :

Part VA

UNFAIR LABOUR PRACTICES

32ANo employer shall

(a)require a workman to join, orrefrain from joining, any trade union,or to withdraw from or to refrainfrom withdrawing from, hismembership of a trade union of whichhe is a member, as a condition of hisemployment ;

(b)dismiss a workman by reason only of hismembership of a trade union or of hisengaging in trade union activities ;

(c)give any inducement or promise to aworkman for the purpose of preventinghim from becoming, or continuing to be,a member, office bearer or representativeof a trade union ;

Short title.

Insertion of newpart V inChapter 131.

H-022545

Prohibitionof unfairlabourpracticesbyemployers.

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)Act, No. 56 of 19992

(d) prevent a workman from

(i)forming a trade union ; or

(ii)supporting a trade union byfinancial or other means ;

(e) interfere with the conduct of theactivities of a trade union ;

(f) dismiss, or otherwise take disciplinaryaction against, any workman or office-bearer of a trade union

(i)for any statement made by suchworkman or office-bearer in goodfaith before any tribunal or personin authority ; or

(ii)for any statement regarding actsor omissions of the employerrelating to the terms andconditions of employment, of themembers of such trade union madeby such workman or office-bearer,in pursuance of an industrialdispute for the purpose of securingredress or amelioration of workingconditions of such members ;

(g) refuse to bargain with a trade unionwhich has in its membership not lessthan forty per centum of theworkmen on whose behalf such tradeunion seeks to bargain.

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)Act, No. 56 of 19993

For the purpose of this paragraph theCommissioner of Labour or an officerauthorized by him in that behalf mayconduct a poll at any work place in orderto ascertain whether at least forty percentum of the workmen on whose behalfthe trade union seeks to bargain with theemployer, are members of such tradeunion..

3.Section 40 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the insertionimmediately after paragraph (S) of that subsection of thefollowing new paragraph :

(ss)being an employer, contravenes theprovisions of section 32A ;.

4.Section 43 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,for the words commits any offence under this Act shall, ofthe words commits any offence under this Act, other than anoffence under section (40) (1) (ss), shall ; and

(2) by the insertion, immidiately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following subsection :

(1A) Every person who commits an offence undersection 40 (1) (ss) shall be liable on conviction after summarytrail before a magistrate to a fine not exceeding twentythousand rupees..

5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala Text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Amendment ofsection 43 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 40 of theprincipalenactment.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign).Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15 th December each year in respect of the year following.