PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 14.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 18, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th of February, 2022]

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 2 OF 2022

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 20221

[Certified on 17th of February, 2022]

L.D.O. 2/2018

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDUREACT, NO. 15 OF 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Code of CriminalProcedure (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2022.

2.Section 195 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as theprincipalenactment) is hereby amended as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the followingparagraph:-

(c) inform the accused and the aggrieved partyof the date of the pre-trial conference to beheld under section 195A;;

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (ee) thereof.

3. The principal enactment is hereby amended by theinsertion immediately after section 195 thereof, of thefollowing new section which shall have effect as section195A of that enactment: -

A-1- PRE-TRIAL CONFERENCES

195A. (1) A pre-trial conference shall beheld-

(a) upon indictment being served on theaccused in terms of section 195, in thepresence of the accused; or

Short title

Amendment ofsection 195 ofAct, No. 15 of1979

Insertion of newsection 195A inthe principalenactment

Pre-trialconferencesto be held atthe HighCourt

2Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2022

(b) where the accused is not present due toany reason specified in paragraph (a)of subsection (1) of section 241, orwhere it is not possible to serve theindictment on the accused due to thereasons specified in paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 241, in theabsence of the accused.

(2) A pre-trial conference shall be held withthe participation of-

(a) the Attorney-General or an officerreferred to in section 193 with regardto proceedings instituted by theAttorney-General or the Director-General for the Prevention of Briberyand Corruption or an officer of theCommission to Investigate Allegationsof Bribery or Corruption authorized bysuch Commission or any otherAttorney-at-Law specially authorisedby such Commission with regard toproceedings instituted by suchDirector-General (hereinafter referredto as the prosecuting counsel) as thecase may be;

(b) counsel, if any, appearing on behalf ofthe accused;

(c) the aggrieved party or the counsel, ifany, appearing on behalf of theaggrieved party, on the application ofsuch aggrieved party or such counselto participate in the pre-trialconference;

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 20223

(d) the officer in charge for the time beingof the police station in which theinvestigation in respect of the offencehas been conducted or an officerrepresenting him; and

(e) an Attorney-at-Law or any other officerpermitted by the Presiding Judge, withthe consent of the parties to the case, toparticipate.

(3) A pre-trial conference shall be held forthe purposes of-

(a) ascertaining whether the prosecutionhas handed over to the accused, allmaterial, the accused is legally entitledto receive, and for the purpose ofmaking appropriate orders, by Court inthat regard;

(b) ascertaining whether the accusedintends to plead guilty to any one ormore of the charges in the indictment,or to a lesser offence;

(c) providing an opportunity to theaccused to give advance notice of hismitigatory or exculpatory defence andthat of an alibi as specified in section126A;

(d) inquiring, from the accused whether ornot he elects to be tried by a jury orfrom the prosecuting counsel or theaccused whether a special jury referredto in section 208 is required, if theindictment relates to an offence triableby a jury;

4Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2022

(e) ascertaining whether reports of expertwitnesses have been received by courtand served on the accused, and if notmaking appropriate orders in thatregard;

(f) recording admissions of the accused, ifany, including the admissions relatingto the reports of expert witnesses andthe content of such reports, havingregard to the provisions of section 420:

Provided however, no admissionssuggested by the prosecution shall berecorded, if the accused is notrepresented by an Attorney-at-Law;

(g) ascertaining whether pre-conditionshave been fulfilled to make certainitems of evidence admissible and formaking orders in that regard;

(h) ascertaining from prosecuting anddefence counsel, the approximateduration of time that the respectiveparties may require for presentation oftheir respective cases includingexamination of witnesses in order toconduct a trial as specified insection 263;

(i) ascertaining whether the presentationof the cases of the prosecution and thedefence, may require additionalfacilities which may not be ordinarilyavailable in court and for makingappropriate orders in that regard;

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 20225

(j) ascertaining the availability ofproductions, exhibits, any other realevidence, reports, books, records, or anyother material, which may be requiredby the prosecution and the defence atthe trial, and for making necessaryorders in that regard;

(k) ascertaining whether the evidence ofone or more witnesses is to be ledthrough contemporaneous audio-visual linkage, and if so, for makingappropriate orders and arrangements inthat regard;

(l) fixing a date as expeditiously aspossible for the commencement of atrial as specified in section 263;

(m) considering and making orders relatingto any other matter that may be requiredto be attended to, prior to thecommencement of the trial and that mayfacilitate the conduct of the trial; and

(n) taking any other decisions or steps asmay be necessary to ensure the conductof a lawful, fair and expeditious trial.

(4) A pre-trial conference shall be presidedover by the High Court Judge or the Recorder-Judge as specified in section 5C of theJudicature Act, No. 2 of 1978.

(5) Every endeavor shall be made toconclude a pre-trial conference asexpeditiously as possible:

6Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2022

Provided however, a pre-trial conferenceshall be concluded within a period notexceeding three months from the date on whichthe accused appeared before the court or wasrequired to appear before the court.

(6) A pre-trial conference relating to a trialat bar shall be held, only before the three judgesappointed to hear the relevant case.

(7) At the conclusion of a pre-trialconference the Presiding judge shall-

(a) read out and explain the decisions takenat the pre-trial conference and record thefact that the parties do understand thecontents of such decisions whichdecisions shall be signed by the Judge; and

(b) require the officer referred to inparagraph (d) of subsection (2) tosubmit a report on the availability ofthe witnesses.

(8) For the purpose of this section-

aggrieved party means, a person whohas suffered any injury, harm,impairment or disability whetherphysical, mental or emotional orany loss economical or otherwise,as a result of the commission ofan offence, and if the aggrievedparty is a child, the parent orguardian of such child and if suchaggrieved party be dead, includehis next of kin namely hissurviving spouse, children,parents, brothers, sisters or furtherdescendants;

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 20227

Amendment ofsection 208 ofthe principalenactment

child means, a person undereighteen years of age..

4.Section 208 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(1) (a) The prosecuting counsel or theaccused may apply to the High Court at the pre-trial conference for an order requiring a special juryto be summoned to try the case and the judgepresiding over the pre-trial conference shall recordsuch application;

(b) At the commencement of the trial, the trialJudge shall consider such application and wherehe considers that the application is just andreasonable make order accordingly.

5.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

8Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.