PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 14.00 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 20, 2009

[Certified on 20th March, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

THE SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF TEXTILEAND APPAREL ACT, NO. 12 OF 2009

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 20091

2 PL 0031304,200 (08/2008)

[Certified on 20th March, 2009]

L. D. O. 66/2006.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKAINSTITUTE OF TEXTILE AND APPAREL; TO PROVIDE FOR THE

DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY OF THE TEXTILE AND APPAREL

INDUSTRY; TO CONDUCT TRAINING PROGRAMMES AND WORKSHOPS IN

TEXTILE AND CLOTHING TECHNOLOGY, MANAGEMENT AND RELATED

AREAS FOR LOCAL AND FOREIGN STUDENTS; TO PROVIDE TECHNICAL

AND CONSULTANCY SERVICES TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES; TO PROVIDE

FOR THE REPEAL OF THE CLOTHING INDUSTRY TRAINING INSTITUTEACT, NO. 3 OF 1984 AND THE TEXTILE TRAINING AND SERVICESCENTRE ACT, NO. 4 OF 1984 AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Clothing Industry Training Institute Act,No. 3 of 1984, established the Clothing Industry TrainingInstitute to provide training and technical services to theClothing Industry:

AND WHEREAS the Textile Training and Services CentreAct, No. 4 of 1984 established the Textile Training andServices Centre to provide training, consultancy andtechnical services to the Textile Industry:

AND WHEREAS the bulk of the resources and equipmentutilized by the Clothing Industry Training Institute and theTextile Training and Services Centre are shared between thesaid Institutions and both Institutions are presently providingsimilar services to the textile and apparel industry:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to reduce theoperational cost of maintaining the aforesaid two Institutionsby merging the said Clothing Industry Training Institute andthe said Textile Training and Services Centre and therebycombining the services provided by these two institutionsin the Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and Apparel establishedherein:

Preamble.

2The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 2009

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Institute ofTextile and Apparel Act, No. 12 of 2009 and the provisionsof this Act other than this section, shall come into operationon such date (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date)as the Minister may appoint by Order published in theGazette. The provisions of this section shall come into effectin terms of paragraph (1) of Article 80 of the Constitution onthe date on which the certificate of the speaker is endorsed.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OFTEXTILE AND APPAREL

2.There shall be established an Institute called the SriLanka Institute of Textile and Apparel (hereinafter referred toas the Institute) which shall, by the name assigned to it bythis section, be a body corporate and have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in itscorporate name.

3.(1) The Institute shall have a Board of Governors(hereinafter referred to as the Board) consisting of

(a)the following ex-officio members, namely:

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Textile and ApparelIndustry or any other officer of such Ministrynominated by such Minister, who shall be theChairman of the Board ;

(ii)an officer from the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of EnterpriseDevelopment and Investment Promotion,nominated by such Minister;

Establishmentof the SriLankaInstitute ofTextile andApparel.

Constitutionof the BoardofGovernors.

Short titleand date ofoperation.

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 20093

(iii)an officer from the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Industries, nominatedby such Minister;

(iv)an officer from the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Higher Education,nominated by such Minister;

(v)an officer from the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance, nominatedby such Minister; and

(b)the following members to be appointed by theMinister (hereinafter referred to as the appointedmembers) :

(i)two persons from among those engaged in thetextile manufacturing industry and textileexporting industry;

(ii)three persons to represent the Joint ApparelAssociations Forum incorporated under theCompanies Act, No. 17 of 1982;

(iii)two persons to represent academic orprofessional institutions engaged inconducting academic courses or trainingrelating to textile or clothing technology.

(2) The Board shall be responsible for the administrationof the affairs of the Institute.

(3) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall haveeffect in relation to the term of office of the members of theBoard, the remuneration payable to the members, meetingsof the Board and the Seal of the Board.

4.The objects for which the Institute is established shallbe to

(a)conduct post graduate and degree programmes andto provide Diploma level education, training andconsultancy and technical services to those in thetextile and apparel industry;

Objects of theInstitute.

4The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 2009

(b)establish national standards in textile and clothingtechnology, management and other related areas andaward certificates in respect of the same;

(c)assist the Government in the formulation of anational policy on textile and apparel industry;

(d)link up with foreign institutions, industries andlaboratories and to provide accreditation andlaboratory services and conduct high level ofcourses maintaining high standards in respect ofthe same;

(e)form affiliations with local and foreign universitiesand institutions with a view of awarding degrees,post graduate degrees, diplomas and certificates inthe fields related to the textile and apparel industry;

(f)carry out research and promote productdevelopment in the textile and apparel industry incollaboration with State Institutions, local andforeign academic organizations, institutions andindustries;

(g)offer testing and other related technical consultancyservices in fields related to the textile and apparelindustry on a fee levying basis to local and foreigninstitutions and to local and foreign students;

(h)conduct market surveys, technical and economicfeasibility studies, project appraisals andvaluations on plant and machinery used in thetextile and apparel industry;

(i)maintain a data base containing informationrelating to the production, import and export andother technical information relating to the textileand apparel industry; and

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 20095

(j)issue conformity certificates to those engaged inthe textile and apparel industry on international,national and company compliance systemstandards.

5.In the administration of the affairs of the Institute, theBoard shall exercise, perform and discharge the followingpowers, duties and functions:

(a)conduct, assist, co-ordinate and encourage researchinto all aspects of the textile and apparel industry;

(b)enter into agreements with local and foreigninstitutions and laboratories for accreditationservices and to establish standards for testingservices;

(c)enter into agreements with local and foreignuniversities and other professional institutions, toprovide education and training in all aspectsrelating to the textile and apparel industry;

(d)import plants, machinery and equipment requiredfor the purposes of the Institute and receiveequipment, funds, personnel and any otherassistance needed for the efficient conduct of theaffairs of the Institute;

(e)sponsor and hold conferences, workshops andseminars within or outside Sri Lanka and publishjournals and magazines relating to the textile andapparel industry;

(f)acquire, establish, install and operate field trainingcentres and carry out pilot projects relating to thetextile and apparel industry;

(g)levy fees and charges for all services rendered bythe Institute;

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Institute.

6The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 2009

(h)make rules in respect of matters pertaining to theadministration of the affairs of the Institute as maybecome necessary;

(i)acquire in any manner whatsoever and hold, take orgive on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge, sell orotherwise dispose of, any movable or immovableproperty;

(j)delegate to any member of the Board, the Director-General, any Director or other employee of theInstitute any of its powers, duties or functions as theBoard may consider necessary;

(k)at any reasonable time enter into any land or premiseswith the consent of the owner, occupier or the personin charge of such land or premises, for the purposeof carrying out any investigations and of recordingdata, inspecting books and documents and takingcopies or extracts therefrom, which in the opinionof the Board are necessary for the attainment of theobjects of the Institute; and

(l)do all such other things which in the opinion of theBoard are necessary, conducive or incidental to theattainment of the objects of the Institute.

6.In the exercise, discharge and performance of itspowers, duties and functions, the Board shall comply withthe general policy of the Government in relation to the textileand apparel industry and with any general or specialdirections that may from time to time be issued by the Ministerin relation to implementation of such policy.

7.(1) The Board may delegate to the Chairman or anyother member of the Board or to the Director-General, aDirector or to any other employee of the Institute, any of itspowers, duties or functions.

Board toexercise,discharge andperform itspowers, dutiesand functions incompliance withthe generalpolicy of theGovernment.

Delegation.

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 20097

(2) Any person to whom any power, duty or function of theBoard have been delegated under subsection (1), shallexercise, discharge and perform such power, duty or functionso delegated, subject to the general or special directions ofthe Board.

PART II

APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL, DIRECTORS AND

THE STAFF OF THE INSTITUTE

8.(1) The Minister shall in consultation with the Board,appoint a Director-General of the Institute (in this Actreferred to as the Director-General) who shall be its chiefexecutive officer. The terms and conditions of employmentand the remuneration payable to the Director-General shallbe determined by the Minister in consultation with theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(2) The Director-General shall subject to the generaldirection and control of the Board, be charged with thedirection of the affairs of the Institute and shall further performand discharge such functions and duties as may be delegatedto him by the Board.

(3) The Board, shall appoint two persons as Directors ofthe Institute, each of whom shall be in charge of separatedivisions of the Institute.

(4) The Directors appointed under subsection (3) shallperform and discharge their duties and functions in relationto the divisions assigned to them, subject to the generalsupervision of the Director-General.

(5) The Minister or the Board, as the case may be, may forreasons assigned, remove from office the Director-Generalor any Director appointed under subsection (3), as the casemay be.

Director-General andDirectors of theInstitute.

8The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 2009

(6) The office of the Director-General or of any one of thetwo Directors shall become vacant upon the death, retirement,removal from office under subsection (5) or resignation byletter in that behalf addressed to the Minister or the Board, asthe case may be.

(7) Where any vacancy occurs in the office of the Director-General or any one of the Directors, the Minister or the Board,as the case may be, may appoint a member of the Board toperform and discharge the duties and functions of the officeof the Director-General or the Director, as the case may be,until an appointment is made under subsection (1) orsubsection (2), to fill such vacancy.

9.Subject to the provisions of this Act and of any rulesthat may be made thereunder, the Board may appoint suchofficers and employees as it may consider to be necessary, forthe efficient exercise, discharge and performance of itspowers, functions and duties, and further

(a)determine the salaries or other remuneration payableto the Directors, officers and other employees of theInstitute;

(b)exercise disciplinary control, including the removalof the Directors, officers and other employees of theInstitute; and

(c)determine the terms and conditions of service of theDirectors, officers and other employees of theInstitute.

10.(1) At the request of the Board any officer in thepublic service may with the consent of that officer and theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Institute for such period as may bedetermined by the Board, or with like consent be permanentlyappointed to such staff.

Staff of theInstitute.

Appointment ofpublic officersto the Staff ofthe Institute.

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 20099

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in respect of such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in respect of such officer.

(4) Where the Board employs any person who has agreedto serve the Government for a specified period, any period ofservice to the Institute by that person shall be regarded asservice to the Government for the purpose of discharging theobligations of such agreement.

(5) At the request of the Board, any member of the LocalGovernment Service or any officer or servant of a localauthority may, with the consent of such member, officer orservant and the Local Government Service Commission orthe local authority, as the case may be, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the institute for such period as maybe determined by the Board or with like consent, bepermanently appointed to such staff on such terms andconditions, including those relating to pension or providentfund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Institute and theLocal Government Service Commission or the local authority,as the case may be.

(6) At the request of the Board any officer or servant of apublic corporation may, with the consent of such officer orservant and the governing body of such public corporation,be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Institute for suchperiod as may be determined by the Board or with likeconsent be permanently appointed to such staff on such termsand conditions, including those relating to pension orprovident fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Boardand the governing body of such public corporation.

10The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 2009

(7) Where any person is temporarily appointed to the staffof the Institute under subsection (5) or (6) of this section,such person shall be subject to the same disciplinary controlas any other member of such staff.

PART III

FINANCE

11.(1) The Institute shall have its own Fund to whichshall be credited

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by Parliament for the purposes of theInstitute;

(b)the balance sum remaining from money received bythe Institute in the exercise, performance anddischarge and performance of its powers, functionsand duties under this Act, after crediting an amountto the Staff Development Fund established undersection 12;

(c)all such sums of money as may be received by theInstitute by way of grants, gifts or donations fromany source whatsoever, whether within or outsideSri Lanka; and

(d)all such sums of money as are transferred to the Fundunder paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 30of this Act.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund such sums of moneyrequired to defray all expenditure incurred by the Institute inthe exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, dutiesand functions under this Act.

12.(1) The Board may establish a Staff DevelopmentFund for the purpose of improving the skills and knowledgeof the staff of the Institute.

Fund of theInstitute.

StaffDevelopmentFund.

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 200911

(2) There shall be paid annually into the StaffDevelopment Fund, such percentage of the income receivedby the Institute, in the exercise, discharge and performanceof its powers, duties and functions under this Act, as shall bedetermined by the Board.

(3) The Board shall be responsible for the properadministration and maintenance of the Staff DevelopmentFund, and cause such Fund to be audited annually and theprovisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating to theaudit of accounts shall apply in respect of such audit.

13.The Institute may with the concurrence of theMinister and the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,borrow, by way of over-draft or otherwise or negotiate andobtain on credit terms, such sums of money as the Institutemay require for the efficient exercise, discharge andperformance of its powers, duties and functions under thisAct:

Provided that the aggregate of the amounts outstandingin respect of any amount borrowed by the Institute under thissection, shall not at any time exceed such sums as may bedetermined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

14.(1) The financial year of the Institute shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to bekept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Institute.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of shall apply to the audit ofaccounts of the Institute.

15.The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38of 1971 shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of thefinancial control and accounts of the Institute.

Borrowingpowers of theInstitute.

Financial yearand the audit ofaccounts of theInstitute.

Application ofPart II of theFinance Act, No.38 of 1971.

12The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 2009

16.The Board shall, at the end of each financial year,publish a report of its activities during that year and submitthe same to the Minister for his approval. On being approvedby the Minister, such report shall be laid before Parliament.

PART IV

GENERAL

17.(1) It shall be lawful for any officer or otheremployee of the Institute specifically authorized in writingin that behalf by the Board, at any reasonable time to enterany building or premises for the purpose of carrying out anyinspection, investigation or recording of any data for thepurpose of exercising, performing or discharging any of itspowers, duties or functions under this Act.

(2) For the purpose of carrying out any inspection,investigation or of recording any data under subsection (1),consent to enter the building or premises shall be obtainedfrom the owner or the occupier or the person in charge ofsuch building or the premises, as the case may be.

(3)Where the consent required to be obtained undersubsection (2) is being unfairly refused, the Board may obtainfrom the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the area in whichsuch building or premises, as the case may be, is situated, asearch warrant authorizing an officer named therein to entersuch building or the premises, as the case may be and tocarry out the required inspection, investigation or therecording of the data.

(4)Every person who obstructs any officer or employeeof the Institute in the discharge of his duty under this section,shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

18.(1) For the purpose of enabling the Institute toexercise, perform and discharge any of its powers, dutiesand functions under this Act, the Director-General, a Directoror any officer or employee authorized in writing in that behalf

Board to preparean annual reportof its activities.

Entry andinspection ofbuildings andpremises.

Power to requireinformation.

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 200913

by the Board, may by notice in writing, require any person tofurnish such information pertaining to any matter within hisknowledge relating to the textile and apparel industry andwhich is specified in the notice issued or to produce anydocument as shall be specified therein, within such periodas shall be specified in the notice.

(2) It shall be the duty of any person who is required bynotice to furnish any information or to produce any documentunder subsection (1), to comply with those requirementswithin the time specified in such notice, except where suchperson is precluded from divulging such information underthe provisions of any law or where such information is notwithin his knowledge or possession.

(3) Any information furnished or the contents of anydocument produced in compliance with a notice issued undersubsection (1), shall not be published or communicated bythe Board to any other person, except with the consent of theperson furnishing such information or producing suchdocument, as the case may be, or in the course of the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functionsunder this Act.

19.The Minister may from time to time issue such generalor special directions in writing to the Board relating to theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers, dutiesand functions and it shall be the duty of the Board to giveeffect to such directions.

20.(1) Where any immovable property is required tobe acquired for the Institute for any of its purposes and theMinister approves of the proposed acquisition, the purposefor which such immovable property is required shall bedeemed to be a public purpose within the meaning of theLand Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) and may accordinglybe acquired for the Institute under that Act, and theprovisions of that Act shall apply in respect of such acquisition.

Directions of theMinister.

Acquisition ofimmovableproperty underthe LandAcquisition Actfor the Institute.

14The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 2009

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immovableproperty for the Institute under subsection (1), shall be paidby the Institute.

21.(1) Where any immovable property of the State isrequired for any purpose of the Institute, such purpose shallbe deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or leaseof such property may be made under section 6 of the CrownLands Ordinance (Chapter 454) and accordingly theprovisions of that Ordinance shall apply to a special grant orlease of such property to the Institute.

(2) Where any movable property of the State is requiredfor any purpose of the Institute, the Minister may with theconcurrence of the Minister having control over suchproperty, by Order published in the Gazette, transfer to andvest in the Institute the possession and use of such movableproperty.

22.Any expense incurred by the Institute, a member ofthe Board, the Director-General, a Director or any officer oremployee of the Institute in any suit or prosecution broughtagainst the Institute or such person before any court, in respectof any act which is done by the Institute or such person underthis Act or on the direction of the Board, shall, if the courtholds that such act was done in good faith, be paid out of theFund of the Institute, and any cost paid to or recovered by theInstitute or by any person referred to in this section, shall becredited to the Fund of the Institute.

23.No writ shall be issued against a person or propertyof any member of the Board, the Director-General, a Directoror any officer or employee of the Institute, in any actionbrought against the Institute.

24.Every person who

(a)fails to furnish any information or produce anydocument, when required to do so under section 18of this Act ;

State propertyboth movableand immovableto be madeavailable to theInstitute.

Expensesincurred to bepaid out of theFund.

No writ to beissued against amember etc.

Offences.

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 200915

(b)knowingly makes any false statement in anyinformation furnished by him ; or

(c)acts in contravention of any provisions of this Actor any regulation or rule made thereunder,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and on convictionafter summary trail before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine notexceeding five hundred rupees or to imprisonment for aperiod not exceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

25.The Institute shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter27) and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

26.All members of the Board, the Director-General, theDirectors and all officers and employees of the Institute shallbe deemed to be public servants within the meaning and forthe purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

27.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Boardmay make rules in respect of all matters for which rules areauthorized or required to be made under this Act.

(2) Every rule made be the Board shall be approved bythe Minister and be published in the Gazette and shall comeinto operation on the date of its publication or on such laterdate as may be specified therein.

28.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Institutedeemed to bea scheduledinstitutionwithin themeaning ofthe BriberyAct.

Members,Director-General,Directors,officers andemployees ofthe Institutedeemed to bepublic servants.

Rules.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

16The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 2009

29.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

local authority means any Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyauthority created or established by or under anylaw to exercise, perform and discharge, powers,duties and functions corresponding to or similarto the powers, duties and functions exercised,performed and discharged by any such Council orSabha ;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished under Chapter XVIIA of theConstitution ; and

textile and apparel industry includes footwear andany other industries associated or connected withor related to, the textile and the apparel industry.

PART V

REPEALS AND SAVINGS

30.(1) The Clothing Industry Training Institute Act,No. 3 of 1984 and the Textile Training and Services CentreAct, No. 4 of 1984 are hereby repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Acts referred to insubsection (1)

(a)any monies remaining in the Fund established bysection 22 of the Clothing Industry Training InstituteAct, No. 3 of 1984 and in the Fund established bysection 23 of the Textile Training and Services CentreAct, No. 4 of 1984, on the day immediately precedingthe appointed date, shall with effect from theappointed date, stand transferred to the Fund ofthe Institute established under section 11 of thisAct ;

Interpretation.

Repeal of ActNo. 3 of1984 and ActNo. 4 of1984.

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 200917

(b)all debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurredand all contracts, deeds, bonds and agreementsentered into, and all matters and things required tobe done by, with or on behalf of the ClothingIndustry Training Institute or the Textile Trainingand Services Centre, on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date, shall with effect fromthe appointed date, be deemed to have beenincurred, executed, entered into or engaged to bedone by, with or on behalf of the Institute ;

(c)all officers and employees of the Clothing IndustryTraining Institute and the Textile Training andServices Centre who are in employment on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date, and whoare offered employment in the Institute, and who

(i)accept such offer of employment, shall on witheffect from the appointed date be employedin the Institute on such terms and conditionsas are not less favourable than the terms andconditions of employment that wereapplicable to them on the date of acceptanceof such offer ; or

(ii)do not accept such offer of employment, shallwith effect from the appointed date be entitledto the payment of such retirement benefits asmay be determined by the Minister, inconsultation with the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Labour ;

(d)all suits, prosecutions, appeals or other legalproceedings which have been instituted in any courtor tribunal by or against the Clothing IndustryTraining Institute or the Textile Training andServices Center, as the case may be, and pendingbefore such court or tribunal on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date, shall with effect fromthe appointed date be deemed to have beeninstituted by or against the Institute, and may becontinued accordingly ;

18The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 2009

(e)all decrees, orders and judgments entered or madeby a competent court or tribunal in favour of oragainst the Clothing Industry Training Institute orthe Textile Training and Services Centre, as the casemay be, and remaining unsatisfied on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date, shallwith effect from the appointed date be deemed tohave been made in favour of or against the Instituteand may be enforced accordingly ;

(f)all property both movable and immovable which isvested in or legally purchased or acquired by orleased to or placed at the disposal of or in any othermanner transferred to the Clothing Industry TrainingInstitute or the Textile Training and Services Centre,as the case may be, and is in their possession orcontrol on the day immediately preceding theappointed date, shall with effect from the appointeddate, vest in the Institute subject to the terms andconditions appertaining, attaching or applicablethereto, as at that date ; and

(g)every rule made by the Board of Governors of theClothing Industry Training Institute and the Boardof Governors of the Textile Training and ServicesCentre, and in force on the appointed date and whichare not inconsistent with the provisions of this Actor any regulations or rules made thereunder, shallwith effect from the appointed date be deemed to berules made under this Act and may accordingly beamended or rescinded by any rules made under thisAct.

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 200919

SCHEDULE[Section 3(3)]

PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD

1. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuingas a member of the Board, if he

(a)is or becomes a Member of Parliament, any Provincial Councilor of any local authority ;

(b)directly or indirectly holds or enjoys any right or benefitunder any contract made by or on behalf of the Institute ;

(c)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country,found or declared to be of unsound mind ;

(d)is a person who having been declared an insolvent or abankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any othercounty, is an undischarged insolvent or bankrupt ; or

(e)is a person who has been convicted of any offence by anycourt in Sri Lanka or any other country.

2. Every appointed member of the Board shall, unless he vacatesoffice earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office for a periodof three years from the date of his appointment and shall be eligible forreappointment.

3. Any appointed member of the Board may resign from his officeat any time by letter addressed in that behalf to the Minister and suchresignation shall take effect upon it being accepted by the Minister.

4. The Minister may if he considers it expedient to do so, removefrom office any appointed member of the Board, for reasons assigned.

5. In the event of the death, resignation or removal from office ofany appointed member, the Minister may, having regard to theprovisions of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 3, appointanother person to succeed such member. A person so appointed shallhold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the memberwhom he succeeds.

6. Where any appointed member of the Board is temporarily unableto perform the duties of his office due to ill health or absence from SriLanka or for any other reason, the Minister may, having regard to theprovisions of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 3, appointanother person to act in his place.

20The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 2009

7. No act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall be invalidatedby reason only of the existence of a vacancy among its members or anydefect in the appointment of a member thereof.

8. The members of the Board may be paid such remuneration outof the Fund of the Institute as may be determined by the Minister, withthe concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

9. (1) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board andin the absence of the Chairman, the members present at such meetingshall elect one of the members present to preside at such meeting.

(2) All questions for decision at any meetings of the Board shall bedecided by the vote of the majority of members, and in case of anequality of votes on any matter to be decided at a meeting of the Board,the member presiding at such meeting shall in addition to his vote,have a casting vote.

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be five members.

(4) Subject to the preceding provisions of this paragraph, the Boardmay make rules regulating the procedure to be followed at meetings ofthe Board and for the transaction of business at such meetings.

10. (1) The seal of the Institute shall be as determined by the Board.

(2) The seal of the Institute

(a)shall be in the custody of such person or persons as theBoard may from time to time determine ;

(b)may be altered in such manner as may be determined by theBoard ; and

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument or document except inthe presence of two members of the Board, both of whomshall sign the instrument or document in token of theirpresence.

(3) The Board shall cause to be maintained a Register of all theinstruments or documents to which the seal of the Institute has beenaffixed.

The Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and ApparelAct, No. 12 of 200921

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.