PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

Ath Session 1968-69

Co-operative Wholesale
Establishment (Amendment)
Act, No. 12 of 1969

Date of Assent: June 1. 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government

and published as a Supplement to Ceylon Government Gazette,
Part II of June 13, 1969

Printed at the DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PrinTING, CEYLON, To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs.

(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PuBLICATIONS BurEAU, P. O. Box 500, Coromso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills

issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.

30 (Local), Rs. 40


Co-operative Wholesale Establishment
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 1969

L. D.—O. 23/67.

An Act To AMEND THE CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE
ESTABLISHMENT ACT.

[Date of Assent: June 1, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Co-operative
Wholesale Establishment (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of
1969. ,

2. Section 2 of the Co-operative Wholesale Estab-
lishment Act (hereinafter referred to as the “‘ principal
Act’) is hereby amended, in sub-section (2) of that
section, by the substitution, for paragraph (c) thereof,
of the following new seem —

“(c) to carry on such other trade or business, includ- °

ing any agricultural or industrial under-
taking or the business of banking or shipping,
as may be approved by the Minister, with the
concurrence of the Minister of Finance.’’.

af

3. Section 3 of the principal Act is hereby amended
as follows : — :

(1) by the renumbering of that section as sub-section
(1) of that section; and

(2) by the insertion, immediately after sub-section
(1) of that section, of the following new sub-
section : —

‘* (2) The board may, with the concurrence
of the Minister, delegate any of its powers
or duties relating to general supervision and
administration to any director or officer of the
board. Such director or officer shall exercise
such powers or perform such duties subject

to the general or special directions of the
board.’’.

B 69343—5,750 (6/69)

Short title.

Amendment of
section 2 of
Chapter 126.

Amendment of
section 3 of
the principal
Act.


2 Co-operative Wholesale Establishment
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 1969

Tasentionyel ay 4 The following new section is hereby inserted.
in the principal immediately after section 11 of the principal Act and
ch,

shall have effect as section 11a of that Act: —

‘* Protection v i i .
fon araTIeyESE 11a. No suit, prosecution or other
of the board legal proceeding shall lie against any
jor acts done employee of the board in respect of any

act which is done or purported to be done

by him in good faith under this Act.’’.

dmendizyspt of 5. Section 16 of the principal Act is hereby
the principal amended by the repeal of sub-section (2) of that section,
aaa and the substitution therefor of the following new

sub-section : —

‘* (2) Of the amounts standing to the credit of
the General Reserve such proportion as may be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence
of the Minister of Finance, shall be invested in
securities of any description referred to in section
20 of the Trusts Ordinance or in any trade or
business which the Establishment may carry on
under this Act; and the moneys realized from the
sale of any such investment remaining after the._
making of any payment authorized by sub-section
(3) of this section shall be reinvested in securities
or in any such trade or business.’’.

Replacement 6. Section 19 of the principal Act is hereby
ot the pringipal repealed and the following new section substituted
Act. therefor : —
feel a 19. (1) The board shall have its
the board. accounts audited each year by the

Auditor-General. For the purpose of
assisting him in the audit of such
accounts, the Auditor-General may
employ the services of any qualified
auditor or auditors who shall act under
his direction and control.

(2) For the purpose of meeting the ,
expenses incurred by him in auditing the
accounts of the board, the Auditor-
General shall be paid from the funds of
the board such remuneration as the


Co-operative Wholesale Establishment 3
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 1969

Minister may determine with the con-
currence of the Minister of Finance. Any
remuneration received from the board by
the Auditor-General shall, after deduct-
ing any sums paid by him to any qualified
auditor employed by him for the purpose
of such audit, be credited to the Consoli-
dated Fund of Ceylon.

(3) For the purposes of this section the
expression ‘‘ qualified auditor ’? means—
(a) an individual who, being a member
of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Ceylon, possesses
a certificate to practise as an
Accountant issued by the Coun-

cil of that Institute; or

(b) a firm of Chartered Accountants
each of the partners of which,
being a member of that Insti-
tute, possesses a certificate to
practise as an Accountant
issued by the Council of that
Institute.’.

a iv Section 20 of the. principal Act is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the substitu-
tion, for the expression ‘‘The auditor shall’’,
of the expression ‘‘ The Auditor-General
shall ’’;

(2) in sub-section (2) of that section, by the substitu-
tion, for the expression ‘‘ the auditor shall ’’,
of the expression ‘‘ the Auditor-General
shall ’’; and

(3) by the substitution, for the marginal note to
that section, of the following new marginal
note : —

“The Auditor-General’s report.’’.
8. Section 21 of the principal Act is hereby
amended as follows :—

~ (1) by the substitution, for the expression ‘‘ the
auditor’s report ’’, of the expression ‘‘ the
Auditor-General’s report ’’; and

Amendment of
section 20 of
the principal
Act.

Amendment of
section 21 of
the principal
Act.


4 Co-operative Wholesale Establishment
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 1969

(2) in the marginal note to that section, by the
substitution, for the expression ‘‘ with

auditor’s report’, of the expression “‘ with
Auditor-General’s report ’’. t
TeSemene 9. Section 24 of the principal Act is hereby
the principal repealed and the following new section substituted
Act. therefor : —
~ Application 24. The net annual profits of the
ene board shall be applied to the following
profits. purposes : —

(a) firstly, for the payment to the
Consolidated Fund of such sum
as may be determined annually
by the Minister acting with the
concurrence of the Minister of
Finance;

(6) secondly, for such other purposes
including the payment of a
bonus to the members of the
staff of the board as may be
determined by the board, with
the approval of the Minister;
and —

(c) the balance of such annual profits
for payment to the General
Reserve. ’’.

Amendment of 10. Section 32 of the principal Act is hereby
section 32 of amended in sub-section (2) of that section, as
@ principal

Act, follows : —

(a) by the substitution, for the expression ‘‘ building
‘is to be acquired’’, of the expression
‘* building has been acquired ’’; and

(b) by the substitution, for the expression ‘“‘ the
board shall, before an order relating to that
land or building is made under section 38 of
that Act, pay”, of the expression ‘‘ the
board shall pay ”’.
