PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

OFFICE FOR REPARATIONS

ACT, No. 34 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 22nd of October, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 22, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

Short title.

[Certified on 22nd of October, 2018]

L.D.O. 12/2018

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FORREPARATIONS; TO IDENTIFY AGGRIEVED PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR

REPARATIONS, AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROVISION OF INDIVIDUAL

AND COLLECTIVE REPARATIONS TO SUCH PERSONS; TO REPEAL THEREHABILITATION OF PERSONS, PROPERTIES AND INDUSTRIESAUTHORITY ACT, NO. 29 OF 1987 AND TO PROVIDE FOR ALL MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Constitution of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka recognizes the inherent dignity andequal and inalienable human rights of all Sri Lankans andthe States obligation to respect, secure and advance theserights:

AND WHEREAS a comprehensive reparations schemeanchored in the rights of all Sri Lankans to an effective remedywill contribute to the promotion of reconciliation for thewellbeing, and security of all Sri Lankans including futuregenerations:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Office for ReparationsAct, No. 34 of 2018.

2.The objectives of this Act shall be

(a)to formulate and recommend to the Cabinet ofMinisters, Policies on Reparations to grantindividual and collective reparations to aggrievedpersons;

(b)to facilitate and implement such Policies onreparations as approved by the Cabinet of Ministers,

Preamble.

Objectives of thisAct.

2Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

by the Office for Reparations, including specializedpolicies on public education, memorialization andon children, youths, women and victims of sexualviolence and persons with disabilities;

(c)to establish links to ensure the compatibility of theOffice for Reparations with other mechanisms aimedat reconciliation; and

(d)to monitor and evaluate the progress of delivery ofreparations to eligible aggrieved persons.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FOR REPARATIONS

3.(1) There shall be established an office which shall becalled the Office for Reparations.

(2) The Office for Reparations shall be a body corporatehaving perpetual succession and a common seal and may sueand be sued in its corporate name.

4.(1) The Office for Reparations shall consist of fivemembers appointed by the President on the recommendationof the Constitutional Council.

(2) The Constitutional Council shall recommend threenames out of the members of the Office for Reparations to beappointed as the Chairperson of the Office for Reparations.

(3) One of the members recommended under subsection(2) shall be appointed by the President as the Chairperson ofthe Office for Reparations.

(4) In making recommendations for the appointment ofmembers to the Office for Reparations, the ConstitutionalCouncil shall have due regard to

(a)ensure that the composition of the Office forReparations reflects the pluralistic nature of SriLankan society including gender; and

Establishment ofthe Office forReparations.

Constitution ofthe Office forReparations.

3Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

(b)ensure that the members of the Office for Reparationsshall be persons of integrity and possess experienceand qualifications relevant to the carrying out of thefunctions of the Office for Reparations.

5.(1) The President shall, within a period of fourteendays of receiving the recommendations under section 4,appoint such persons as members and, a person asChairperson out of the names recommended under section4(2) for the Office for Reparations.

(2) In the event of the President failing to make thenecessary appointments within such period of fourteen days

(a)the persons recommended to be appointed asmembers of the Office for Reparations shall be deemedto have been appointed as the members of the Officefor Reparations; and

(b)the person whose name appears first in the list ofnames recommended to be appointed as theChairperson, shall be deemed to have been appointedas the Chairperson of the Office for Reparations,

with effect from the date of expiry of such period of fourteendays.

6.Every member of the Office for Reparations shall,unless such member vacates office earlier by death, resignationor removal, hold office for a term of three years from the dateof such members appointment and shall, unless such memberhas been removed, be eligible for reappointment.

7.(1) The office of a member of the Office for Reparationsshall become vacant

(a)upon the death of such member;

(b)upon such member resigning such office by writingaddressed to the President;

Appointment ofChairperson andmembers of theOffice forReparations.

Terms of officeof members.

Removal ofmembers.

4Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

(c)upon such member being removed from office onany ground specified in subsection (2); or

(d)on the expiration of such members term of office.

(2) A member of the Office for Reparations may be removedfrom office by the President, if such person

(a)is adjudged an insolvent by a court of competentjurisdiction;

(b)is found to have a conflict of interest, which in theopinion of the President, formed on therecommendation of the Prime Minister made uponconsultation with the Speaker and the Leader of theOpposition, conflicts with his duties as a member ofthe Office for Reparations;

(c)is unfit to continue in office by reason of illness orother infirmity of mind or body;

(d)is declared to be of unsound mind by a court ofcompetent jurisdiction;

(e)is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude;or

(f)absents himself from three consecutive meetingswithout previously obtaining leave from the Officefor Reparations.

(3) The Chairperson may resign from the office ofChairperson by letter addressed to the President.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2), theterm of office of the Chairperson shall be such members periodof membership of the Office for Reparations.

(5) (a) If the Chairperson becomes temporarily unable toperform the duties of his office, by reason of illness or other

5Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

infirmity or due to absence from Sri Lanka or any other suchreason, the President may appoint subject to the provisionsof section 4 (1), any other member of the Office for Reparationsto act as the Chairperson.

(b) If a member of the Office for Reparations becomestemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, by reasonof illness or other infirmity or due to absence from Sri Lanka orany other such reason, the President may subject to theprovisions of section 4(1), appoint any other qualifiedperson to temporarily act in place of such member duringsuch period.

(6) No act or proceeding of the Office for Reparations shallbe deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of anyvacancy among its members, or defect in the appointment ofany member thereof.

8.(1) The Chairperson of the Office for Reparations shallpreside at all meetings of the Office for Reparations. In theabsence of the Chairperson of any meeting of the Office forReparations, the members of the Office for Reparations presentat such meeting shall elect one of the members of the Officefor Reparations to preside at such meeting.

(2) The Chairperson or the member presiding at any suchmeeting of the Office for Reparations shall, in addition to hisown vote, have a casting vote.

(3) The quorum for meetings of the Office for Reparationsshall be three members.

(4) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Officefor Reparations may make rules, to regulate the procedure inregard to the conduct of its meetings, and the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings.

Meetings of theOffice forReparations.

6Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

9.The Office for Reparations shall, within a period ofthree months of the commencement of the functions of theOffice for Reparations, appoint a member from amongstthemselves or any other officer of the Office for Reparationsas the Information Officer of the Office for Reparations interms of section 23 of the Right to Information Act, No. 12 of2016 and the Chairperson of the Office for Reparations shallbe the Designated Officer for purposes of the said Act.

10.(1) The headquarters of the Office for Reparationsshall be situated in Colombo.

(2) The Office for Reparations may, from time to time,establish such number of regional, temporary or mobile offices,divisions and units including an outreach unit as may benecessary, for the purpose of achieving its objectives and toensure that reparations are accessible to aggrieved persons.

PART II

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE OFFICE FOR REPARATIONS

11.(1) The Office for Reparations shall have the followingpowers and functions:

(a)to receive recommendations with regard toreparations to be made to aggrieved persons fromthe Office on Missing Persons established underthe Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions) Act, No.14 of 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the OMP) orsuch other relevant bodies or institutions;

(b)to receive applications for reparations from aggrievedpersons or representatives of such aggrieved personsand to verify the authenticity of such applications,for the purpose of assessing the eligibility forreparations;

Headquartersand RegionalOffices.

Powers andfunctions of theOffice forReparations.

Informationofficer anddesignatedofficer.

7Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

(c)to identify the aggrieved persons who are eligiblefor reparations as well as their level of need;

(d)to identify and collate information relating to previousor on-going reparation programmes carried out bythe State, including any expenditure on similarreparation programmes through a centralizeddatabase;

(e)to make rules with regard to ensure the effectivefunctioning of the Office for Reparations, includingbut not limited to

(i)the manner in which recommendations andclaims shall be received;

(ii)the manner in such recommendations andclaims shall be processed and verified; and

(iii)the administration of the Office forReparations;

( f )to make rules and issue guidelines from time totime which shall include gender and child responsivepolicies, to be followed by the staff of the Office forReparations relating to the exercise and performanceof its powers and functions;

(g)to formulate and recommend to the Cabinet ofMinisters, Policies on Reparations and guidelineswith regard to the grant of individual and collectivereparations, including

(i)the criteria for eligibility for aggrieved personsto obtain reparations, including criteria relatingto the nature and severity of grievances forwhich reparations will be available;

8Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

(ii)the form, and where appropriate, the quantumof reparations that will be provided to eligibleaggrieved persons;

(iii)the criteria of eligibility of aggrieved personsto financial compensation;

(iv)the criteria of eligibility of aggrieved personsto urgent reparations;

(v)a list of bodies which may assist in theprovision or delivery of different forms ofreparations to aggrieved persons;

(vi)recommendations on reparations which maybe provided directly by other Stateinstitutions;

(vii)the criteria on which verified applications forreparations shall be prioritized;

(h)to implement such Policies on Reparations andguidelines as may be approved by the Cabinet ofMinisters and grant individual and collectivereparations as envisaged by such approved Policieson Reparations and guidelines;

(i)to provide training including gender responsivenessto the staff of the Office for Reparations;

( j )to provide support, including administrativesupport, travel reimbursements and psychosocialsupport, where necessary, for the aggrieved personswho appear before the Office for Reparations;

(k)to provide protection, with the assistance of lawenforcement authorities, if there is a positive

9Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

assessment of threat to the physical integrity ofaggrieved persons;

(l)to provide information and advice to aggrievedpersons on their rights, the procedures involved inreceiving reparations, truth-seeking mechanisms andother mechanisms through which they might receiveredress or remedies;

(m)to consider and implement the claims made prior tothe date of commencement of this Act to theRehabilitation of Persons, Properties and IndustriesAuthority established under section 2 of the repealedAct, subject to the availability of resources allocatedtherefor;

(n)to implement such programmes of the Rehabilitationof Persons, Properties and Industries Authorityestablished under section 2 of the repealed Actapproved by the Cabinet of Ministers prior to thedate of commencement of this Act, until such time assuch programmes may be discontinued;

(o)to facilitate the provision of other forms of assistanceprovided by other person or body of persons,including restitution, rehabilitation, administrationand other assistance, and welfare services includinghealth services, psycho-social support, educationaland vocational training programmes, to the aggrievedpersons;

(p)to appoint and exercise disciplinary control over ordismiss officers, employees and servants;

(q)to gather information necessary for the Office forReparations to achieve its objectives including

10Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

requesting reports, records, documents orinformation from governmental authorities or anyother sources;

(r)to establish in addition to any unit or divisionspecifically mentioned in this Act, such committees,divisions and units as are required for the effectiveadministration and functioning of the Office forReparations;

(s)to enter into such contracts as may be necessary forthe exercise of the powers and the achieving of theobjectives of the Office for Reparations;

(t)to request and receive assistance necessary for theachieving of its objectives, from any State,governmental, provincial or local authority or agency,or any officer thereof, or from any other person orbody of persons;

(u)to create, manage and maintain a database which willinclude all particulars concerning recommendationsmade with regard to reparations to be granted toaggrieved persons. Such database shall also includedetails of reparations previously granted by any otherState authority or agency;

(v)to periodically inform aggrieved persons orrepresentatives of such aggrieved persons of thestatus of the applications made for reparations, andto respond in a timely manner to queries related tothe progress of such applications;

(w)to manage funds that will be used to providereparations to eligible aggrieved persons throughthe Office for Reparations and which will be used inoperationalizing this Office; and

11Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

(x)to do all such other things as are necessary for theexercise and discharge of its powers and functionsor to achieve its objectives.

12.(1) In formulating Policies on Reparations, and issuingguidelines, the Office for Reparations shall

(a)consult through appropriate methods, aggrievedpersons, organizations representing aggrievedpersons and any other authority, person or body ofpersons;

(b)ensure the availability at all times of Advisors withrelevant expertise to advise the Office for Reparationswith regard to gender responsiveness, and thespecific needs of aggrieved persons who are women,children and persons with disabilities;

(c)be guided by the principles of non-discrimination,victim-centrality and fairness, and with dueconsideration to the special needs of women, childrenand persons with disabilities;

(d)have due regard to all relevant factors, including

(i)the seriousness of the violation of theaggrieved persons rights;

(ii)the impact, including continuing physical,psychological and economic impact, of suchviolation on the aggrieved persons;

(iii)the need to provide special measures forvulnerable aggrieved persons includingwomen, children, and persons with disabilities;

Formulation ofPolicies onReparations.

12Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

(iv)the need to account for reparations alreadyreceived by the aggrieved persons with regardto the violation of the right in question;

(v)in the case of the award of monetaryreparations, factors to be considered, includingavailability of resources, and in deciding themanner of payments including between lumpsum payments and staggered payments, thebest interests of the aggrieved persons;

(vi)the appropriateness of non-monetaryreparations;

(vii)in granting individual reparations which aremonetary, the need to restrict such reparationsto aggrieved persons who have the mostserious grievance;

(viii)the need to prioritize the grant of monetaryreparations considering the severity of theviolation of the aggrieved persons rights, theindigence of the aggrieved persons and theavailability of resources;

(ix)the need to formulate a scheme of distributionwhere multiple relatives make claims withregard to a deceased or a missing person;

(e)in the case of collective reparations, have regard tothe need to ensure

(i)non-discrimination, facilitation of reconciliationand sensitivity to the experiences of allaggrieved persons;

13Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

(ii)that the design of such reparations should beinformed by consultations with relevantaggrieved persons, organizations representingsuch aggrieved persons and any otherauthority, person or body of persons.

(2) For the avoidance of doubt, it is specifically providedthat the receipt of reparations shall not preclude aggrievedpersons from pursuing any remedy available in law to suchpersons, against any person who may have violated the rightsof such persons.

(3) Aggrieved persons shall be informed of their ability toappear before any other appropriate authority, person or bodyof persons, by the Offices outreach unit of the Office forReparations.

(4) The Office for Reparations shall coordinate with theOMP and other relevant institutions, in obtaining informationwith regard to aggrieved persons who have appeared beforesuch institutions, regardless of whether such persons havesubmitted applications to the Office for Reparations.

13.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, except in the exercise and performance of itspowers and functions under this Act, every member, officerand servant, appointed to the Office for Reparations shallpreserve and aid in preserving confidentiality with regard tomatters communicated to them in confidence, except to theextent that the requirement of confidentiality is waived by theperson providing such information.

(2) The Office for Reparations shall take all necessary stepsincluding technical safeguards to ensure the security of all itsdatabases and data.

Confidentiality.

14Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

PART III

SECRETARIAT

14.(1) The Office for Reparations shall have a Secretariatwhich shall be charged with the responsibility for theadministration of the affairs of the Office for Reparations.

(2) The Office for Reparations shall appoint a DirectorGeneral, who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Officefor Reparations.

(3) There may be appointed, by the Office for Reparations,such other officers and servants as may be necessary to assistthe Office for Reparations in the exercise and performance ofits powers and functions.

15.(1) At the request of the Office for Reparations, anyofficer in the public service may with the consent of thatofficer and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Public Administration, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Office for Reparations for suchperiod as may be determined by the Office for Reparations orwith like consent, be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Office for Reparations, theprovisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatismutandis apply to and in relation to him.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Office for Reparations, theprovisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatismutandis apply to and in relation to him.

Secretariat.

Appointment ofpublic officers tothe staff of theOffice forReparations.

15Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

PART IV

FINANCE AND REPORTING

16.(1) The Office for Reparations shall have its ownfund. There shall be credited to the fund of the Office forReparations

(a)all such balances as on the date of thecommencement of this Act that are lying to the creditof the Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties andIndustries Authority, with regard to claims made tothe Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties andIndustries Authority, in terms of the Rehabilitationof Persons, Properties and Industries Authority Act,No. 29 of 1987;

(b)all such sums as may be voted by Parliament fromtime to time for the purposes of this Act;

(c)all such sums as may be received by the Office forReparations by way of donations, grants or gifts,whether local or foreign:

Provided that, all foreign funds shall be channelledthrough the External Resources Department.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums asmay be required to defray any expenditure incurred in theadministration and implementation of this Act and all suchsums as are required to be paid out of the Fund by or underany provision of this Act.

17.The salaries of the members of the Office forReparations shall be determined by Parliament, and becharged on the Consolidated Fund, and shall not bediminished during their terms of office.

Fund of theOffice forReparations.

Salaries ofmembers of theOffice forReparations.

16Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

18.(1) The financial year of the Office for Reparationsshall be the calendar year.

(2) The Office for Reparations shall cause proper accountsto be kept of its income and expenditure, and assets andliabilities.

(3) The accounts of the Office for Reparations shall beaudited by the Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

19.The Office for Reparations shall submit annualreports, including its audited accounts, to Parliament, andshall also cause such reports to be made public within a periodof one month of such reports being submitted to Parliament.

PART V

GENERAL

20.(1) If any person

(a) wrongfully resists or obstructs any personauthorized under this Act in the exercise ofthe powers conferred on him; or

(b) wrongfully hinders or obstructs the Office forReparations in the exercise and theperformance of its powers and functions; or

(c) willfully provides false information to theOffice for Reparations; or

(d) discloses any confidential information incontravention of the provisions of this Act,

such person shall be guilty of the offence of contempt againstthe authority of the Office for Reparations.

Financial year.

Reporting.

Offences.

17Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

(2) Where the Office for Reparations has reasonablegrounds to believe that a person has committed the offenceof contempt against the authority of the Office forReparations, the Office for Reparations shall report suchmatter to the Court of Appeal. Every offence of contemptcommitted against the authority of the Office for Reparationsshall be punishable by the Court of Appeal as if it was anoffence of contempt committed against the Court of Appeal.

21.(1) Except as provided in section 25 of this Act, nocriminal proceedings shall be instituted or maintained againstany member, officer or servant appointed to the Office forReparations in respect of any act done in good faith orpurported to be done or committed to be done in good faithby such person under this Act.

(2) Any order, decision, act or omission of the Office forReparations or any member, officer or servant appointed tothe Office for Reparations thereof may be questioned inproceedings under Article 126 or 140 of the Constitution.

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), no civilproceedings shall be instituted or maintained against anymember, officer or servant appointed to the Office forReparations in respect of any act done in good faith orpurported to be done or omitted to be done in good faith bysuch person under this Act.

(4) Any expenses incurred by such member, officer orservant appointed to Office for Reparations as referred to insubsections (1), (2) or (3) in any civil or criminal proceedinginstituted against such person in any court in respect of anyact done or purported to be done or omitted to be done byhim under this Act, shall, if the court holds that such act wasdone or omitted to be done in good faith, be paid out of thefund, unless such expense is recovered by such person insuch proceedings.

Protection fromAction.

18Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

22.(1) The Office for Reparations may make rules formatters which rules are required to be made.

(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be placed beforeParliament and published in the Gazette within a reasonableperiod not exceeding three months.

(3) The Policies on Reparations and guidelines approvedby the Cabinet of Ministers shall be placed before Parliamentand published in the Gazette within a reasonable period notexceeding three months.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, Policieson Reparations and guidelines authorizing disbursement offunds shall be placed before Parliament for approval andpublished in the Gazette within a reasonable period notexceeding three months, and any disbursement in terms ofsuch Policies on Reparations and guidelines shall only beeffected after such approval.

23.(1) The members of the Office for Reparations (forthe limited purpose of their functions under this Act) and theofficers and servants shall be deemed to be public servantsfor the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19), the BriberyAct (Chapter 26) and the Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 14).

(2) The Office for Reparations shall be deemed to be ascheduled institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act(Chapter 26), and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

24.(1) The Office for Reparations may delegate to theChief Executive Officer, or any other member or officerthereof, any of its powers and functions.

(2) The Chief Executive Officer, member or officer towhom any of the powers or functions of the Office forReparations has been delegated shall exercise and performsuch powers and functions subject to the general or specificdirections of the Office for Reparations.

Rules.

Members &c.deemed to bepublic servants.

Delegation ofPowers.

19Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

25.The entertaining of any application from, or the grantof reparations to, any aggrieved persons or representatives ofsuch aggrieved persons shall not result in the civil or criminalliability of any other person.

26.(1) The Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties andIndustries Authority Act, No. 29 of 1987 is hereby repealed(in this Act referred to as the repealed Act).

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act

(a) all movable and immovable properties includingfiles, records, documentation, computers, datastorage devices of the Rehabilitation of Persons,Properties and Industries Authority establishedunder section 2 of the repealed Act, subsistingon the date of commencement of this Act, shall,with effect from the date of commencement ofthis Act vest in the Office for Reparationsestablished under section 3 of this Act;

(b) all contracts and agreements entered into by orwith the Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties andIndustries Authority established under section 2of the repealed Act, subsisting on the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall, with effectfrom the date of commencement of this Act, bedeemed to be contracts and agreements enteredinto by or with the Office for Reparationsestablished under section 3 of this Act;

(c)(i) all officers or servants of the Rehabilitationof Persons, Properties and IndustriesAuthority established under section 2 of therepealed Act who are offered employmentin the Office for Reparations establishedunder section 3 of this Act and who expressa desire to accept such employment, shallbecome members of the staff of the Office

No civil orcriminal liabilityof any otherperson.

Repeals, savingsand transitionalProvisions.

20Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

for Reparations and shall be employed onterms not less favourable than their terms ofemployment in the Rehabilitation of Persons,Properties and Industries Authority;

(ii) where any officer or servant of theRehabilitation of Persons, Properties andIndustries Authority established undersection 2 of the repealed Act, expresses adesire

(aa) not to accept employment in theOffice for Reparations; or

(bb) to accept employment in the Officefor Reparations, but in view of thenature of the services performed byhim in his employment in theRehabilitation of Persons, Propertiesand Industries Authority, he cannotbe accommodated in the staff of theOffice for Reparations,

be paid compensation in terms of a voluntaryretirement scheme approved by the Cabinetof Ministers;

(iii) until such time as an appropriate decision ismade by the relevant authority with regardto the cadres and salaries of the Office forReparations, the approvals made andprevailing in respect of the cadres and salariesof the Rehabilitation of Persons, Propertiesand Industries Authority on the dayimmediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act shall be deemedto be an approval of the cadres and salariesof the Office for Reparations;

21Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

(d) all actions and proceedings instituted by or againstthe Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties andIndustries Authority established under section 2of the repealed Act, and pending on the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall, with effect fromthe date of commencement of this Act, be deemedto be actions and proceedings as the case may be,instituted by or against the Office for Reparationsestablished under section 3 of this Act and mayaccordingly be continued and completed;

(e) all judgments and orders made in favour or againstthe Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties andIndustries Authority established under section 2of the repealed Act, and remaining unsatisfied onthe day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall, with effect fromthe date of commencement of this Act, be deemedto be judgements and orders made in favour oragainst the Office for Reparations establishedunder section 3 of this Act and be enforcedaccordingly;

(f) all the claims made to and all the programmescommenced by the Rehabilitation of Persons,Properties and Industries Authority establishedunder section 2 of the repealed Act, on the dayimmediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall, be deemed onand after the date of commencement of this Act tobe the claims made to and all the programmescommenced by the Office of Reparationsestablished under section 3 of this Act; and

(g) all interests, rights, assets, obligations, debts andliabilities of the Rehabilitation of Persons,Properties and Industries Authority establishedunder section 2 of the repealed Act, on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement

22Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

of this Act, shall be on and after the date ofcommencement of this Act to be interests, rights,assets, obligations, debts and liabilities of theOffice for Reparations established under section 3of this Act.

27.Unless the context otherwise requires, in this Act

aggrieved persons mean

(a) persons who have suffered damage as aresult of loss of life or damage to theirperson or property,

(i) in the course of, consequent to, or inconnection with the armed conflictwhich took place in the Northern andEastern Provinces or its aftermath;or

(ii) due to political unrest or civildisturbances; or

(iii) such damage being in the natureof prolong and grave damagesuffered by individuals, groups orcommunities of people of Sri Lanka;or

(iv) due to an enforced disappearanceas defined in the InternationalConvention for the Protectionof all Persons from EnforcedDisappearance Act, No. 5 of 2018;

(b) relatives of a deceased person or, a personmissing in the circumstances referred to inparagraph (a);

Interpretation.

23Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

collective reparations mean, such measures asare intended to recognize the right to aneffective remedy and benefits to thecommunities or groups of aggrieved personsand shall include

(a) means of remembrance of deceasedpersons, including memorials;

(b) development of infrastructure;

(c) educational programmes, training, andskills development programmes;

(d) community development programmesor services; and

(e) other appropriate programmes asidentified by the Office of Reparationsin consultation with affectedcommunities;

individual reparations mean, such measures asare intended to recognize the right to aneffective remedy and benefits for an individualaggrieved person and shall include -

(a) any monetary payment or materialbenefit provided to an aggrievedperson;

(b) micro-finance and concessionary loans;

(c) educational programmes, training, andskills development programmes;

(d) administrative assistance, and welfareservices including psycho-socialsupport provided to an aggrievedperson;

24Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

(e) measures of restitution, including theprovision of land and housing; and

(f) other appropriate measures identified bythe Office for Reparations;

relatives, in relation to a deceased person or amissing person include the followingpersons:

(i) spouse;

(ii) children;

(iii) parents ;

(iv) brothers or sisters;

(v) parents-in-law, brothers/sisters-in-law,sons/daughters-in-law;

(vi) grandchildren and grandparents;

reparations include, individual and collectivereparations.

28.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

25Office for Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.