PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Sth Session 1969-70

Muslim Marriage and Divorce
(Amendment) Act,
No. 32 of 1969

Date of Ascent: December 8, 168

Pinte o he Odor of Goverment
ond pubs a          Gran GpennntGuetn
~     ‘part of December 12,



Afvalin Marriage ond Dieoree (Amendment)
“het, No. $2 of 1050
1. D0. yee
‘Ax Act To asp sme Mostine Masazaox axD
‘Devanee Act

[Date of Astent: Deoumber 9, 1969)

[BE it enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advi and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatires of Ceylon in this present
Parliament acsombled, and by the authority of the
same, a follows:

4. This Act may be cited as the Muslim Marriage
and Divoroe (Amendment) Act, No. 82 of 1909.

2, Section 9 of the Muslim Marriage and Divoroe
‘Act, hereinafter refered to as the “principal Act,
is bereby amended in sub-section (1) thereof, by the
substitution, forthe words “other suffcient caus,”
of the words "other suficiont cause, or is dead of
Inu resigned or retired from office”.

8 Section 15 of the principal Act, as amendod by
‘Act No. 1 of 1965, ie hereby further amended as
follows:

(1) ineub-section (f)therot, by the substitution, for
the words "in any epeclal eircumstances and

€) in eibrtion 9, href, by th ebttaton,
{oe he words Htegitre General,
‘rede Saat Sere Conminion

4. Sectinn 83. of the principal Act ig. hereby:
Jehrated and dhe fotowag” now section eid

erat       88, The powors conferred on a District
BER" Roghtrar tinder scetion 02 in relation to
Remi thy'retifcation of erroaeans particulars
Tse _—felating toa marriage or divores, may be

Goel ow exenciaed by the Registrar-Genera,

Sg

ives


2 Muslin Morragsgnd Divere (Amendment
ae Set ef ae      .

Section, 40 of ‘the principal Act is bensby
ynended by the substitation, for all che words from

‘ny of the books or repisters” to the end of that
section, of, the words "any such books oF Tepiter,
oF the aonduct of any oft        Z

6. (1) Section 61 of the principal Act is horeby
sguended bythe ‘substitation, forthe expression
ection $2, or section G7", of the expression
* getion 92

(2) The provision of sub-section (0) of this section
stl be dete ta bave ome into fect onthe seventh
day of July, 1083.

17. Section, 67, of the principal Act ig her
repealed and the” following’ Setion  subetitute
therefor —

67, Where it appears to the Judicial
Service Commision, on the application
ff any party to, any pereon interested
fn, any prceedings institated or to be
Inittuted under this Act before Quasi,
thes fe nod impartial inguiy cannot
brad before sch Quaci, or where a
Guan ieelf kes am aplicetion in
Shabbat dhe aid Cami, he

vpiseion ma order that such prose
fog be oatitted before and beara by &

ist Quast appointed in that behalf by
the Commision under setion 4 and, it
2h event of any such one Eelam,
fny proceedings taken before the frst
tmondloned Quasi in rexpetof the rater
bik sth aplication late sal be
ono eet."

8,0) The nw tin nt nt pric
‘nd of toy el We eae i ve eo
tien trent af 08 od ew
fey any ede mado under the epaedbecon
by ie Jade" Conlon betwen” te
Horeid day and te tof commeteenet of
Aaland olin tote ents

J thin sein,“ Jodi) Sevig Commie
sn" “ihe Sadia Sere “Commtanon
Ferd Ton aan Bf th Cain (Co)
Sedan ‘Gouely 6.



Muslin Marriage ond Divorce (Amendment) 3
“het, No. 98 of 1969

8. Section 89 of the principal Act is hereby sewtaciat
amended in sub-section @ thereof, bythe sabtittion, aaa
for the words “" Registrar-General.", of the words ka"
Pstiorny- General"

