PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

WIDOWERS AND ORPHANS PENSION

(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 9 OF 2010

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th August, 2010]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 20, 2010

1Widowers and Orphans Pension

(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010

[Certified on 17th August, 2010]

L.D.O. 60/2006

AN ACT TO AMEND THE WIDOWERS AND ORPHANS PENSION

ACT, NO. 24 OF 1983

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may by cited as the Widowers and OrphansPension (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010.

2.The Widowers and Orphans Pension Act, No. 24of 1983 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment)is hereby amended by the insertion immediately after section9 of that enactment, of the following new sections :

9A. (1) Where any officer who is subject todeductions under this Act dies before reachingher age of retirement due to any act whichconstitutes an offence under the EmergencyRegulations for the time being in force or dueto any natural disaster, the widower and thechildren of such officer shall notwithstandingany other provisions of this Act be entitled

(a)from the date of such death, to receivea pension calculated in accordancewith the provisions of this Act, basedon the salary such officer was drawingat the time of her death, till the dateon which had she lived, such officerwould have reached her age ofretirement ; and

(b)from and after the date on which shewould have reached her age ofretirement, to receive a pensioncalculated in accordance with theprovision of this Act based on therevised salary, with all theincrements to which, had she lived,

2PL 005040 -4,140 (07/2010)

Short title.

Insertion of newsections 9A and9B in Act, No.24 of 1983.

Payment ofpension topublicofficers &c.,who die dueto any actwhichconstitutesan offenceunderEmergencyRegulations&c,.

Widowers and Orphans Pension

(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 20102

such officer would have beenentitled to receive till she reached herage of retirement.

(2) In calculating the pension for the purposeof subsection (1), the age of retirement shall bedetermined by the Director-General of Pensions,taking into consideration the circumstances ofthe death of the officer concerned, her periodof service, and any other material particularsas applicable to each individual case.

(3) Where any person who is a female andwho holds a temporary or casual post in thepublic service dies while in service due to anyact which constitutes an offence under theEmergency Regulations or due to any naturaldisaster before being made permanent in herpost, such person shall notwithstanding anyother provisions of this Ordinance be deemedto be an officer to whom the provisons ofsection 9 of this Act applies as from the date ofher death, and the widower and children of suchperson shall notwithstanding any otherprovisions of this Act, be entitled

(a) from the date of such death, to receive a

pension calculated in accordance withthe provisons of this Act, based on thepayment such person was drawing at thetime of her death, till the date on whichhad she lived, she would have reachedfifty-five years of age ; and

(b) from and after the date on which she

would have reached fifty-five years ofage, to receive a pension with all theincrements to which, had she lived, shewould have been entitled to receive tillshe reached fifty-five years of age.

3Widowers and Orphans Pension

(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010

(4) Any person to whom the provisions ofsubsection (3) applies shall be deemed to be acontributor under the Act, as from the date shejoined the public service.

(5) Notwithstanding any other provisionsof this Act, for the purpose of granting a pensionunder this section the officers referred to insubsection (1) of this section and the personsreferred to in subsection (3) of this section shallbe deemed to be constributors as from the datethey joined the public service and shall bedeemed to have paid the contributions due tothe Fund in full, as at the date of their death.

(6) For the purpose of this section

emergency regulation means any

regulation made by the Presidentunder section 5 of the PublicSecurity Ordinance (Chapter 40) ;

natural disaster shall have the same

meaning as in Sri Lanka DisasterManagement Act, No. 13 of 2005.

9B. Notwithstanding the provisions ofsection 9, a widower of any officer

(a)who is specified in the Schedule GQof the Minutes on Pensions ; and

(b)who is entitled to a pension on thecompletion of five -years of service,

shall be entitled, on the demise of such officer,to receive a pension computed on the basis ofthe salary drawn by such officer on herretirement, in accordance with the provisions

Payment ofpension towidowers ofofficersspecified inScheduleGQ ofMinutes onPensions.

Widowers and Orphans Pension

(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 20104

of this Act. The amount of such contributionsshall be made to the Consolidated Fund withinterest, for the total period of service andunless and until such contributions are paidwith interest, the payment of pension underthis section shall not commence..

3.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in its proviso by the substitution for the words anunmarried female orphan of the words female orphan.

4.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section substitutedtherefor :

18. (1) The widower of a contributor shallin his re-marriage receive as pension after thedate of such subsequent marriage

(a)half the amount of the pension whichhe was receiving at the time of suchsubsequent marriage ; or

(b)where he was entitled to receive apension but was not in actual receiptof the same, half the amount he was toreceive in his capacity as a widowerprior to such subsequent marriage.

(2) The children of the first marriage of thewidower shall receive the remaining portionof the pension received by the widower, afterpayment to the widower is made in terms ofparagraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1).

(3) Where the spouse of such subsequentmarriage is a contributor under this Act, andwhere such widower becomes entitled to

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

Provisionsin case ofwidowerremarrying.

5Widowers and Orphans Pension

(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010

receive a pension upon the death of such spousein respect of the contributions made to thePension Scheme by such spouse, the paymentof such amount as he was receiving as pensionin terms of paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection(1) shall be terminated with effect from the dateof death of such spouse of such subsequentmarriage :

Provided that, where the payment of thepension is terminated as provided above, thechildren of the first marriage of the widowershall, as from the date of death of the spouse oftheir fathers subsequent marriage, be entitledto receive the share they were receiving in termsof subsection (2) and the amount which theirfather was receiving in terms of subsection (1),prior to such termination :

Provided further that, in the event of thedissolution of such subsequent marriage, thewidower shall be entitled to receive as pensionthe half share he received in terms of subsection(1) and the entitlement of the children undersubsection (2) remains unchanged..

5.Section 25 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words any pensionunder this Act of the following :

any pension under this Act :

Provided however that in the case of a contributor whohas been retired prematurely due to abolition of post andwho has ceased to make contributions as required by theAct, such contributor may, if she contracts a marriage beforereaching the age of fifty-five years, be entitled to receive apension calculated in accordance with the provisions of thisAct, after paying the entirety of the contributions due, withinterest thereon.

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment.

Widowers and Orphans Pension

(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 20106

6.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 26 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 26A of that enactment :

26A. A public officer, who being acontributor to the Pension Scheme and wholeaves the public service prior to reaching hercompulsory age of retirement, havingcompleted ten or more years of service but notbeing eligible to receive a pension, shall notbe eligible to a refund of the entirety or part ofthe contributions made by her to the PensionScheme. However the widower and orphans ofsuch public officer shall, upon her death,become entitled to receive a pension on thecontributions made by her, calculated inaccordance with the provisions of this Act..

7.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 31 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 31A of that enactment :

31A.(1) The Minister may makeregulations in respect of all matters requiredby this Act to be prescribed or in respect ofwhich regulations are authorized to be madeunder this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Ministershall be published in the Gazette and shall comeinto operation on the date of such publicationor on such later date as may be specified therein.

(3) Every regulation shall, as soon asconvenient after publication in the Gazette bebrought before Parliament for approval. Anyregulation which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date of

Insertion of newsection 26A inthe principalenactment.

Specialprovisionsapplicable tomarriedpublicofficers whoarecontributorsand wholeave thepublicservicewithoutpension.

Insertion of newsection 31A inthe principalenactment.

Regulations.

7Widowers and Orphans Pension

(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010

such disapproval but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which anyregulation made by the Minister is deemed tobe rescinded shall be published in theGazette..

8.(1) The Provisions of subsection (1) of section 9Ashall mutatis mutandis apply to the widower and children ofany public officer who had been a contributor to the PensionScheme and had died before the date of the coming inoperation of this Act, under the circumatances specified inthe aforesaid subsection.

(2) The provisions of subsection (3) of section 9A shallmutatis mutandis apply to the widower and children of anyperson who is a female and had held a temporary or casualpost in the public service and died while in service, beforethe date of the coming in operation of this Act, under thecircumstances specified in the aforesaid subsection (3).

(3) Any person to whom the provisions of subsection (2)of this section applies, shall be deemed to be a contributorunder the principal enactment.

(4) For the purpose of granting of pension undersubsections (1) and (2) of this section, the officers referred toin subsection (1) and the persons referred to in subsection(2) of this section shall be deemed to have paid allcontributions due to the Pension Scheme from them, in full,as at the date of death of each such person.

9.Any widower or any child or children as the case maybe, of any officer or person referred to in section 8 of this Actshall, on or before the date, to be appointed by the Ministerby Order published in the Gazette, forward their claims tothe Director-General of pensions in such form as may beprescribed by the Director-General.

Application ofthe provisions ofSection 9A of theprincipalenactment topersons who haddied before thedate ofoperation of thisAct.

Claims to bemade to theDirector-General.

Widowers and Orphans Pension

(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 20108

10.The provisions of section 4, 5 and 6 of this Act shallbe deemed to have come into effect as from the date of cominginto operation of the principal enactment.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Retrospectiveeffect.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

9Widowers and Orphans Pension

(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2010

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.