PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SRI LANKA STATE PLANTATIONS
CORPORATION (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 49 OF 1979

[Certified on 27th July, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 03, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
seer
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price: 45 cents Postage: 25 cents


Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation
(Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 1979

[Certified on 27th July, 1979]
L.:D.—O. 99/78.

An ACT TO AMEND THE CEYLON STATE PLANTATIONS
Corporation Act, No 4 or 1958.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:— ,

. 1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka State
Plantations Corporation (Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 1979.

2. The long title. to the Ceylon State Plantations
Corporation Act, (hereinafter referred to as the “ principal
enactment ”’) is hereby repealed and the following long title.
substituted therefor :—

“An Act to provide for the establishment of a

_ Corporation for the purpose of setting up and carrying on

agricultural undertakings; to specify such agricultural

undertakings ; to regulate the powers and duties of such

Corporation ; and to make provision for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto.”

3. In the principal enactment and in any other written
law, or in any notice, communication, form or other
document issued, made, required or authorized by or under
the principal enactment or any other written law, there shall
be substituted for the words “Ceylon State Plantations
Corporation”, the words “Sri Lanka State Plantations
Corporation.”. -

4. Section 3 of the principal enactment i is hereby SIREDWCE
as follows :—

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and the
_ substitution therefor, of the following new
subsection :—

‘(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2),
there shall be seven members of the Corporation
_.who shall be appointed by the Minister.. Such
_ members shall be appointed from among persons
"possessing a knowledge of planting, management,
accountancy or labour relations, or who have
expertise in industrial, financial and commercial
matters. One of such members shall be an officer of
the General Treasury, who shall hereafter in this
‘Act be referred to as the “official member ”.’ ;. and

A 4209513 ,200 (79/06)

Short title.

Replacement
of long title
to Act No. 4
of 1958.

Ceylon State
Plantations ~
Corporation
to be known
as the Sri
Lanka State
Plantations
Corporation.

Amendment
of section 3
of the
principal
enactment,


Amendment
of

section 4 of

the principal
enactment.

Replacement
of section 5
of the
principal
enactment.

2 Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation
(Amendment) Act, No, 49 of 1979

(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following new sub-
section :—~

“(2) If a member of the Corporation is
temporarily unable to function as such member,
the Minister may,—

(a) where the member is not the official member,

appoint any person to act as a member of the
Corporation ; and

(6b) where the member who is so unable to function
is the official member, appoint any other offi-
cer of the General Treaesury, to act as a mem-

ber of the Corporation. ”.

5. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
in subsections (1) and (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “an official member” appearing in those
subsections, of the words “ the official member ”. |

6. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the following new section substituted therefor :—

« Objects of 5. The objects of the Corporation shall be—
Corporation.

(a) to manage agricultural and estate
lands .vested in, transferred or
alienated to the Corporation by the
Government or any other person or
acquired by the Corporation, and to
promote optimum productivity on
such lands ;

(b) to co-ordinate ind manage e agricultural
crops by rehabilitating existing crops
_or diversifying crops on such lands ;

(c) to raise livestock on such lands ;

(d) to process ‘and sell agricultural
produce ; ,

(e) to establish, maintain and operate
plant, equipment and machinery for
agricultural purposes on such lands;

ra


STi Lanka State Plantations Corporation Bs)
(Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 1979

(f) to manage, administer and supervise
business undertakings vested in,
transferred or alienated to the
Corporation by the Government or
any other person, or acquired by the
Corporation ;

(g) to perform functions connected with

secretarial work, accounting and

_ audit in relation to the business of
the Corporation ;

(h) to provide a comprehensive manage-
ment service in respect of its planta-
tion business ; :

(i) to carry out all such measures as are
deemed necessary in: the interest of
the proper management of such
lands ; and

(j) to carry out any other business
incidental to the operation and
management of the Corporation. ”.

7. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the proviso to that subsection, of the following
new proviso :—

“Provided that no immovable property of the
Corporation shall be given on hire, leased, sold or
otherwise disposed of, without the prior approval
in writing of the Minister.” ; and

(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, and
the substitution therefor, of the following new
subsection :—

“ (2) The Corporation shall have the power— |
(a) to engage in any agricultural, industrial
or commercial enterprise connected
with or incidental to any of the objects
of the Corporation ;

(b) to establish, maintain and provide welfare
and other recreational facilities, houses,
hostels and other recreational facilities,

~ houses, hostels and other like accommo-
dation, for the persons employed by or
serving the Corporation ;

Amendment

of

section 6 of

the principal
enactment.


Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation
(Amendment) Act, No. 49 of .1979

(c) to enter into and perform, either directly or
indirectly, through any member, officer,
servant or agent of the Corporation all such
contracts. or agreements as may be necessary

- for the exercise of the powers and the carry-
ing out of the objects of the Corporation ;

(d) to do anything necessary for the purpose of
advancing the skill of persons employed by
the Corporation, or the efficiency of the
equipment of the Corporation, or the manner
in which that equipment is operated, includ-
ing the provision by the Corporation, and the
assistance of the provision by others, of
facilities for training persons required to
carry out the work of the Corporation ; and

(e) to do anything necessary for, or conducive or
incidental to, the carrying out of the objects
of the Corporation.”.
