PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
2nd Session 1957-58

Ceylon State Plantations Corporation
Act, No. 4 of 1958

Date of Assent: February, 20, 1958

Printed on the Orders of Government

|

|

|

Printed at the GoverNmMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PuBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500. Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 25 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


a Ceylon Staté Plantations Corporation 3
ms Act, No. 4 of 1958

“yp, D.—O. 60/57.
at
;. AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A COR-
“it PORATION TO RAISE, DEVELOP, MAINTAIN AND
‘;° MANAGE APPROVED PLANTATIONS ON LANDS THAT
“MAY BE ALIENATED TO THE CORPORATION AND
3 TO UNDERTAKE THE MANAGEMENT OF ANY PLANTED
ist CROWN LAND; TO REGULATE THE POWERS AND
its DUTIES OF SUCH CORPORATION; TO AUTHORIZE THE
GRANT OUT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FUND OF CEYLON
TO SUCH CORPORATION OF AMOUNTS REQUIRED RY
WAY OF SUCH CAPITAL OR SUCH ADDITIONAL CAPITAL
OF THE CORPORATION AS MAY BE DETERMINED BY THE
House or REPRESENTATIVES; AND TO MAKE PROVI-
SION FOR MATTERS CONNECTED WITH OR INCIDENTAL
TO THE AFORESAID MATTERS.

[Date of Assent: February 20, 1958]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this pre-
sent Parliament assembled, and by the authority of:
the same, as follows: —

14. This Act may be cited as the Ceylon State Short title.
Plantations Corporation Act, No. 4 of 1958.

2. (1) There shall be established a corporation Establishment
which shall be known as the Ceylon State Plantations of the Feylon
Corporation (hereafter in this Act referred to as the tions Corpora.
Corporation) and which shall consist of the persons 2
who are from time: to time appointed under section 3

as the members thereof.

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be esta-
blished on the date with. effect from which its first
Members are appointed under section 3.

(3) The Corporation shall have perpetual succession
and a common seal, and may sue and be sued in the
ame assigned to is by sub-section (1).
. 3. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), Members
there shall be six members of the Corporation who ott
Shall be appointed by the Minister. Of such members —,
‘One shall be an officer of the General Treasury and
“another shall be an officer of the Department of Agri-
‘culture, and each of those two members is hereafter in
this Act referred to as an official member.
1—— J. N- R 20408—-3,025 (12/57)


4 Ceylon State-Plantations Gorporation
Act, No. 4 of 1958

(2) If a member of the Corporation is temporarily
unable to function as such member, the Minister
may ,—

(a) where that member is not an official member,
appoint any person to act as a member of
the Corporation, and

(b) where the member who is so unable to func-
tion is an official member, appoint any
other officer of the Government Jepart-
ment in which that member is serving to
act as a member of the Corporation. ’

(3) Every. member of the Corporation shall, unless
he vacates the office of member of the Corporation
earlier, hold such office for a period of three years
commencing on the date of his appointment:

Provided that—

(a) a person who is appointed as a member of the
Corporation in place of a member: who has
vacated the office of member of the Cor-
poration before the end of his term of office
shall, unless the member so appointed
vacates the office of member of the Cor-
poration earlier, hold such office during
the unexpired part of such term, and

(b) a person appointed to act as a member of the
Corporation during the absence of a mem-
ber of the Corporation who is temporarily
unable to function as such member shall,
unless he vacates the office of member of
the Corporation earlier, hold such office
during such absence.

(4) A member of the Corporation may resign the
office of such member by letter addressed to the
Minister. :

(5) The Minister may, without assigning any
reason, terminate the appointment of any person as
.a member of the Corporation. |

(6) A member of the Corporation shall be deemed
to vacate the office of such member if he resigns such
office or if his appointment as such member is termi-
nated by the Minister.

(7) All or any of the members of the Corporation
may be paid such remuneration as may be determined
by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister
of Finance. 5


Ceylon State Plantations Vurpuruwn z
Act, No. 4 of 1958

yg, (1) The Minister shall appoint as the Chairman Chairman
of the orpereion one of the members of the Cor- of Oe

the : poration.
‘poration other than an official member.

oy (2) If the Chairman of the Corporation is tempo-
Sarily unable to function as such Chairman, the Min-
ister May appoint any member of the Corporation,
‘ther than an official member, to act as the Chairman
‘of the Corporation. .

-. (3) The Chairman of the Corporation shall, unless
he vacates the office of Chairman earlier, hold such
‘office during the term for which he is a member of the
‘Corporation :

* Provided that a person appointed to act as the
‘Chairman of the Corporation during the absence of
the Chairman of the Corporation who is temporarily
ynable to function as such Chairman shall, unless he
‘vacates the office of Chairman earlier, hold such office
during such absence.

(4) The Chairman of the Corporation may resion
the office of Chairman by letter addressed to the
‘Minister.
| (5) The Minister may, without assigning any
reason, terminate the appointment of any member of
the Corporation as the Chairman of the Corporation.

(6) The Chairman of, the Corporation shall be
deemed to vacate the office of Chairman if he resigns
such office or if his appointment as such Chairman is
terminated by the Minister or if he ceases to be a
member of the Corporation.

5. The objects of the Corporation shall be— Objects of the
Corporation.

(az) to raise, develop, imaintain and manage
plantations approved by the Minister on
such lands as may be alienated to the
Corporation, and:

(b) to undertake the management of any planted
Crown land.

:- 6. (1) The Corporation Mall have the power to Powers of tue
acquire and hold and to takeion hire or lease any mov- a
able or immovable property: and to give on hire or

.lease or to sell or otherwise dispose of any of its

’ properties :

i Provided that no immovable property of the Cor-
poration shall be sold without the prior approval in
writing of the Minister.


Capita! of the
Corporation.

Profits of the
Corporation.

Grant of
Crown land to
be planted by,:
and assign-
ment of the ;
management
of planted
Crown land to,

the Corporation.

|
{
|

Seal of the
Corporation.

6 Ceylon State Plantations Corporation =

Act, No. 4 of 1958 ;

_ (2) The Corporation shall have the power— ® ;
(a) to engage in any agricultural, industrial k
commercial enterprise connected with 9
incidental to any of the objects of th
Corporation, and a
(b) to do any thing necessary for, or conducive 0}
incidental to, the carrying out of th
objects of the Corporation. *

7. (1) The initial capital of the Corporation shall
be determined by resolution of the House of Repre.
sentatives, and the amount of such capital shall be
paid to the Corporation out of the Consolidated Iund
of Ceylon. )

(2) The capital of the Corporation may be increased
from time to time by such amount as may be determined
by resolution of the House of Representatives, and
that amount shall be paid to the Corporation out of
the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

8. The Corporation shall pay to a general or
special reserve of the Corporation such amount out of
the profits of the Corporation in each year as may be
determined by the Corporation with the approval of
the Minister and shall pay the balance of such profits
to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury to be credited
to the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

9. (1) An absolute grant of any Crown land that
is required by the Corporation for the purpose of
raising, developing, maintaining and managing 4
plantation approved by the Minister may, with the
approval of the Government, be granted to the Corpo-
ration under the Crown Lands Ordinance, No. 8 of
1947.

(2) The Minister for the time being in charge of the
subject of Crown lands may assign to the Corporation
the management of any planted Crown land.

_ 10. (1) The seal of the Corporation may be altered
in such manner as may be determined by the

Corporation.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any lnstrument or document except in the presence
of two members of the Corporation both of whom shall

sign the instrument or document in token ot their
presence.


ean’

Aes Ceylon State Plantations Corporation 7
ae Act, No. 4 of 1958

shd4. (1) The Corporation may: employ, on such
¢erms and conditions as may be determined by the
‘Corporation, such persons as the Corporation considers
necessary for performing the work of the Corporation.
wi (2) At the request of the Corporation, any officer
of the public service may, with. the consent of that
oficer and of the Secretary to the Treasury, be tempo-
‘arily appointed to the staff of the Corporation for
‘such period as may be determined by the Corporation
‘with like consent or be permanently appointed to such
stall. The provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3) of
‘section 26 of the Government Sponsored Corporations
‘Act, No. 19 of 1955, shall, mutatzs mutandis, apply
‘yn relation to any officer in the public service who is
temporarily or permanently appointed to the staff of
‘the Corporation. -

in. (3) Where the Corporation employs any person who
has entered into a contract with the Government by
twhich he has agreed to serve the Government for a
specified period, any period of service to the Corpo-
ration by that person shall be regarded as service to
the Government for the purpose of discharging the
obligations of such contract. ; a" ee

9:42. The Corporation may establish and regulate a
‘pension scheme or provident fund for the payment
of pensions, gratuities or retiring. allowances to
employees of the Corporation and a widows’ and
orphans’ pension fund or scheme for providing
‘pensions to the widows and orphans of deceased
employees of the Corporation, and may require con-
tributions to be made to any such scheme or fund by
‘employees of the Corporation and may deduct such
contributions from the salaries or wages: of such
employees and may make contributions to any such
scheme or fund from the revenues of the Corporation.

. 13. The accounts of the Corporation eee be kept
in such manner as may be approved by the! Minister
with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance.

¢ 14. (1) The accounts of the Corporation shall be
‘audited annually by an auditor (hereinafter referred
to as the auditor) appointed by the Minister on the
advice of the Auditor-General. The auditor so
ppointed shall be an auditor who is registered under
t é Companies Ordinance, No. 51 of 1938. The

Employees of
the Corporation.

Pension
scheme, &c.
for employees
of the
Corporation.

Accounts,

Audit.


Annual
report.

8 Ceylon State Plantations Corporation

Act, No..4 of 1958

auditor shall receive such remuneration from the fund,
of the Corporation as the Minister may determine wit}
the concurrence of the Minister of Finance. ay

(2) The Auditor-General shall have power— =~
(a2) to direct the manner in which th
Corporation’s accounts shall be audited by

the auditor and to give the audito
instructions in regard to any matter re.

lating to the performance of his function;

as the auditor, and YY

(b) to conduct a supplementary or test audit o|
the Corporation’s accounts by such persoy
or persons as the Auditor-General may
authorise in that behalf, and, for the pur.
pose of such audit, to require information
or additional information to be furnished
to any person or persons so authorised, on
such matters, by such person or persons,
and in such form, as the Auditor-General
may, by general or special order, direct.

(3) The auditor shall examine the accounts of the
Corporation and submit to the Auditor-General a
report stating—

(a) whether he has or has not obtained all the
information and explanations required by
him, and ;

(b) whether the balance sheet and accounts
referred to in the report are properly drawn
up so as to exhibit a true and fair view of
the affairs of the Corporation. i oy

(4) The Auditor-General shall have the right te
comment upon, or supplement, the auditor’s report in
such manner as the Auditor-General may think fit.

| (5) The Auditor-General shall transmit the audi-
tor’s report together with the Auditor-General’s
comments upon, or his supplement to, such report t
the Chairman of the Corporation. 4

15. The Chairman of the Corporation shall cause
a report of the Corporation’s work and finances during
each completed year to be prepared and submitted tk
the members of the Corporation for approval. Suck
report as approved by such members with or without
amendments shall be the report of the Corporation fo!
the year to which such report relates. |


a F
“Mtee ot

a Ceylon State Plantations Corporation — 9
Ae Act, No. 4 of 1958

vai 46. (1) The Chairman of the Corporation shall, on Desamente fo,
“Seceipt of the auditor’s report in respect of any year, {, page repre
“gause a copy of each of the following documents snd to be
‘relating to that year to be transmitted to the the Senate and
Minister : — the ouse 0

: presentatives.
~ gas (a) Report of the Corporation.
fe (b) A copy of the auditor’s report together with

ols the Auditor-General’s comments (if any)

KO! upon, and his supplement (if any) to, such
; report. .
“,, (¢) Profit and Loss Account.
: ar (2) Balance Sheet.

f (2) The Minister shall lay copies of the documents

transmitted to him under sub-section (1) before the

Senate and the House of Representatives not later than

the thirtieth day of September in the year following

the year to which such report and accounts relate.

47. Subject to the provisions of section 18, the Exercise of
members of the Corporation shall have the general ie Seaton
control of the affairs of the Corporation and may
exercise the powers of the Corporation:

Provided that the members of the Corporation may
by resolution passed at a meeting of such members
delegate to any member or employee of the Corpora-
tion the exercise of any of the powers of the
Corporation.

‘48. The Minister may, after consulting the Directions of
members of the Corporation, issue to them from time ‘* “™***"
to time general or special directions in regard to the
exercise of the powers and the performance of the

- duties of the Corporation, and such directions shall
' be carried out by them.

19. (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Proceedings of
_ section, the members of the Corporation may regulate SEAS PEROratIGee
| the procedure for the transaction of the business of
the Corporation.

' (2) Every question for determination by the
‘Members of the Corporation shall be determined by
Tesolution passed at a meeting of such members.

“ (3) Three members of the Corporation shall
Constitute a quorum for any meeting of such members.


Acquisition
of land under
the Land
Acquisition
Act for the
Corporation.

Regulations.

Interpretation.

10 Ceylon State Plantations Corporation
Act, No: 4 of 1958

r

(4) The Chairman of the Corporation shall, if,
present, preside at any meeting of the members of the:
Corporation, and, in his absence, the members present

at such meeting may elect one of them to preside at
such meeting. v

(5) No proceedings of any meeting of the members
of the Corporation shall be invalidated by reason of
any vacancy in the membership of the Corporation or
any defect in the appointment of any member of the.
Corporation.

20. Where any land, other than Crown land, is
required to be acquired for any of the purposes of the
Corporation and the Minister, by Order published in
the Gazette, approves of the proposed acquisition, the
land proposed to be acquired shall, for the purpose
of the application of the Land Acquisition Act, No. 9.
of 1950, be deemed to be required for a public purpose:
and may be acquired under that Act and transferred:
to the Corporation. i

24. (1) The Minister may make regulations to give!
effect to the principles and provisions of this Act.

(2) No regulation made by the Minister shall have:
effect until it is approved by the Senate and the House
of Representatives and notification of such approval
is published in the Gazette.

22. In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires— ,
:  ** Chairman of the Corporation ’’ includes ; an

acting Chairman of the Corporation, and

‘* member of the Corporation ”’ includes an acting
member of the Corporation.
