PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 11, 2005

[Certified on 7th February, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OFSRI LANKA (CONSEQUENTIALPROVISIONS) ACT, No. 1 OF 2005

National Development Bank of Sri Lanka(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 20051

Short title.

2 H 022722 5,650 (08/2004)

[Certified on 7th February, 2005]

L. D. O. 47/2003.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISIONS CONSEQUENTIAL TO THE REGISTRATION OF

THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SRI LANKA AS A PUBLICCOMPANY; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the National DevelopmentBank of Sri Lanka (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of2005.

2.The National Development Bank of Sri Lanka Act,No. 2 of 1979 shall as from such date as may be specified bythe Minister by Order published in the Gzette (hereinafterreferred to as the specified date), be repealed. Such dateshall be a date which is not later than six months from thedate of the Certification of this Bill as an Act of Parliament bythe Speaker under Article 79 of the Constitution.

3.(1) The Minister may, at any time after the cominginto operation of this Act, forward to the Registrar ofCompanies a Memorandum and Articles of Association dulyapproved by the Monetary Board together with a direction tosuch Registrar requiring him to register the NationalDevelopment Bank of Sri Lanka as a public company underthe Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, in such name as isspecified by the Minister in such direction.

(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in theCompanies Act, No. 17 of 1982, the Registrar of Companiesshall, on receipt of a direction under subsection (1)

(a) issue a Certificate of Incorporation under subsection(1) of section 15 of the aforesaid Act, in such nameas is specified in the direction under subsection (1) ;and

Repeal of Act No.2 of 1979.

Registration ofthe NationalDevelopmentBank of Sri Lankaas a publiccompany.

2National Development Bank of Sri Lanka(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 2005

(b) publish an Order in the Gazette declaring that fromthe specified date a public company is incorporatedin the name specified in the direction undersubsection (1), (hereinafter referred to as thecompany) to take over and carry on the business ofthe National Development Bank of Sri Lanka as agoing concern.

4.With effect from the specified date, the business ofthe National Development Bank of Sri Lanka established bysection 2 of the National Development Bank Act, No. 2 of1979, shall vest absolutely in the company referred to in theOrder published under subsection (2) of section 3.

5.Upon the repeal of the National Development Bankof Sri Lanka Act, No. 2 of 1979, as provided for in section 2 ofthis Act

(a)the share capital of the National Development Bankof Sri Lanka as on the day immediately precedingthe specified date shall be deemed to be the sharecapital of the company as at the specified date ;

(b)all shareholders of the National Development Bankof Sri Lanka on the day immediately preceding thespecified date shall be deemed to be the shareholdersof the company as at the specified date and the sharesheld by such shareholders in the company shall beidentical in number to that held by them in the Bankon the day immediately preceding the specified dateand all share certificates issued by the Bank shall beread and construed as if such share certificates wereshare certificates issued by the company;

(c)all officers and servants of the NationalDevelopment Bank of Sri Lanka holding office onthe day immediately preceding the specified dateshall be deemed to be employees of the companywith effect from the specified date and such officersand servants shall continue to hold office on termsand conditions not less favourable than the termsand conditions enjoyed by them under the Bank,immediately preceding the specified date ;

Business ofNationalDevelopmentBank of Sri Lankato vest incompany.

Transitionalprovisions.

National Development Bank of Sri Lanka(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 20053

(d)all contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, guarantees,powers of attorney, grants of legal representationand other instruments of whatever nature of theNational Development Bank of Sri Lanka, subsistingor having effect on the day immediately precedingthe specified date and to which the Bank is a partyor which are in favour of the Bank shall be deemedwith effect from the specified date to be contracts,deeds, bonds, agreements, guarantees, powers ofattorney, grants of legal representation and otherinstruments of whatever nature entered into by orgranted in favour of, as the case may be, by thecompany;

(e)all reserves maintained by the NationalDevelopment Bank of Sri Lanka for purposes of theBanking Act or otherwise, on the day immediatelypreceding the specified date shall be deemed witheffect from the specified date, to be reserves of thecompany;

(f)all actions and proceedings of whatever natureinstituted by or against the National DevelopmentBank of Sri Lanka and pending on the dayimmediately preceding the specified date shall bedeemed as from the specified date, to be actions andproceedings instituted by or against the companyand may be continued accordingly;

(g)the National Development Bank of Sri LankaProvident Fund, the National Development Bank ofSri Lanka Pension Fund and the NationalDevelopment Bank Employee Share Option Schemeestablished by the Bank and existing on the dayimmediately preceding the specified date and shallbe deemed as from the specified date, to be theProvident Fund, Pension Fund and Share OptionScheme respectively, established by the company;

4National Development Bank of Sri Lanka(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 2005

(h)all tax credits, refunds, losses, concessions, relief,benefits and liabilities of the National DevelopmentBank of Sri Lanka subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the specified date shall be deemed as fromthe specified date, to be tax credits, refunds, losses,concessions, reliefs, benefits and liabilities of thecompany;

(i)all judgments, decrees or orders entered in favourof, or against the National Development Bank of SriLanka by any Court in any action or preceding shallwith effect from the specified date be deemed to bea judgment, decree or order entered in favour of, oragainst the company.

6.Notwithstanding the repeal of the NationalDevelopment Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 2 of 1979 by section2 of this Act, the provisions of subsections (2), (3), (4), (5) and(6) of section 30 of the National Development Bank of SriLanka Act, No. 2 of 1979 shall from and after the specifieddate, continue to be operative and of full force and avail inlaw as if such section had never been repealed, until theloans so guaranteed by the Government of Sri Lanka in termsof such section are repaid in full and no further. Every loanguaranteed as aforesaid prior to the specified date andsubsisting on the day immediately preceding the specifieddate, shall as from the specified date continue to subsist as ifthe loans so guaranteed were loans raised by the company.

7.With effect from the specified date every reference tothe National Development Bank of Sri Lanka in any Act,regulation, notification, contract, instrument, record, sharecertificate, document, deed, bond, agreement, guarantee,power of attorney, grant of legal representation and otherinstruments of whatever nature whatsoever, shall be deemedto be a reference to the company whenever it is appropriateor necessary to give effect to the provisions of this Act andthe name of the company specified in the direction undersubsection (1) of section 3, shall, whenever it is necessary orappropriate so to do, be substituted in place of the name ofthe Bank.

Limitedapplicability ofsection 30 of theNationalDevelopmentBank of Sri LankaAct, No 2 of 1979.

Consequentialamendments towritten laws &c,.

National Development Bank of Sri Lanka(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 20055

8.(1) The Monetary Board may make rules as it deemsnecessary to assist the company to conform within a specifiedperiod (hereinafter referred to as compliance period) withthe requirements of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 and theMonetary Law Act, (Chapter 422) that apply in relation to alicensed commercial bank to which requirements the companyas a licensed specialized bank, was not subject to :

Provided that during the compliance period, the provisionsof the Banking Act and the Monetary Law Act which containthe aforesaid requirements shall not apply to the company tothe extent necessary to give effect to such rules.

(2)Every rule made by the Monetary Board shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

9.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of facilitating the vesting of the business of the Bankin the company in accordance with the provisions of section 3.

(2)Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of such publication or onsuch later date as may be specified in the regulation.

(3)Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall assoon as convenient be placed before Parliament for approval.Any regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed tobe rescinded as from the date of such disapproval, but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4)Notice of the date on which the regulation isdisapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

10.In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Monetary Boardto make rules.

Regulations.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

6National Development Bank of Sri Lanka(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 2005

11.For purposes of this Act, unless the context otherwiserequires

company means the company referred to in the Orderpublished under paragraph (b) of subsection (2) ofsection 3 ;

business includes

(a) the business carried on by the NationalDevelopment Bank of Sri Lanka as alicensed specialised bank, as at thespecified date;

(b) all property immovable and movable ofthe National Development Bank of SriLanka as at the specified date (includingcash balances, reserve funds, investmentsand deposits);

(c) all liabilities, including deposits andcontingent liabilities, of the NationalDevelopment Bank of Sri Lanka as at thespecified date;

(d) all rights, powers, privileges, authorities,obligations, duties and interests arising inor out of the said business, such propertyand such liabilities as at the specified dateincluding the license issued to the NationalDevelopment Bank of Sri Lanka by theMonetary Board under subsection (3) ofsection 76A of the Banking Act;

(e) all books, accounts and documents relatingor appertaining to the NationalDevelopment Bank of Sri Lanka or to anyproperty of the Bank at the specified date;

Banking Act means the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988as amended from time to time;

National Development Bank of Sri Lanka means theNational Development Bank established by theNational Development Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No.2 of 1979.

Interpretation.

National Development Bank of Sri Lanka(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 1 of 20057

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNM ENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.