PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FAUNA AND FLORA PROTECTION(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 22 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th April, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 40.00Postage : Rs. 17.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 24, 2009

1Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

2PL 0032074,200 (09/2008)

Short title.

[Certified on 20th April, 2009]

L.D.O. 6/2003.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FAUNA AND FLORAPROTECTION ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Fauna and FloraProtection (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 2009.

2.The Long Title to the Fauna and Flora ProtectionOrdinance (Chapter 469) (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactment) is hereby repealed and the followinglong title is substituted therefor :

AN ORDINANCE TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION

OF THE FAUNA AND FLORA OF SRI LANKA AND THEIR HABITATS ; FOR

THE PREVENTION OF COMMERCIAL AND OTHER MISUSE OF SUCH FAUNA

AND FLORA AND THEIR HABITATS, FOR THE CONSERVATION OF THE

BIODIVERSITY OF SRI LANKA ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

3.Section 2 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal ofparagraph (e) and the substitution therefor of thefollowing :

(e) Marine National Park.

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words shall be a sanctuary of the wordsshall be a Sanctuary or a Managed ElephantReserve.

Amendment ofthe Long Titleof Chapter 469.

Amendment ofsection 2 of theprincipalenactment.

2Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)of that subsection of the following subsection:

(2A) An Order made under subsection (1) andsubsection (2) of this section, shall have no effectunless it has been approved by Parliament and thenotification of such approval is published in theGazette..

(4)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words sanctuary of the words Sanctuaryor a Managed Elephant Reserve.

(5)in subsection (4) of that section

(a)by the re-numbering of subsection (4) assubsection (4) (a) ;

(b)by the re-numbering of paragraphs (a) to (d)of subsection (4) as paragraphs (i) to (iv) ;

(c)by the repeal of the re-numbered paragraph(i), and substitution therefor of the followingparagraph :

(i)the limits of any National Reserve orSanctuary may be altered or varied ;

(d)by the addition immediately after there-numbered paragraphs, of the following :

(b)an Order made by the Minister underthis subsection shall have no effectunless it has been approved byParliament and the notification ofsuch approval is published in theGazette.

3Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

(6)by the repeal of subsection (5) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following:

(5) In the case of any change of boundaries orthe disestablishment of a National Reserve orSanctuary or Managed Elephant Reserve, a studyshall be conducted and such study shall includean investigation of the ecological consequencesof the proposed change.

(6) the Minister may make regulations relatingto any Managed Elephant Reserve or anySanctuary..

4.Section 2A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following is substituted therefor :

2A. (1) A Management Plan may be preparedby a Management Planning Committeeappointed by the Director-General for everyNational Reserve, based on such guidelines asmay be prescribed.

(2) The Minister may by Order specify anyNation Reserve, Sanctuary or any ManagedElephant Reserve for which a ManagementPlan is required, taking into consideration theprevailing circumstances.

(3) The Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister shall endorse the Management Planas being prepared in accordance with theprovisions of the Ordinance.

(4) (a) A Management Plan may be amendedor altered subject to the approval of the Director-General.

(b) The implementation of all ManagementPlans shall be monitored according to anapproved plan, made by the Director-Generaland be subject to an evaluation within fiveyears of the date of adoption of suchManagement Plan.

Repeal andreplacement ofsection 2A of theprincipalenactment.ManagementPlans forNationalReserves andSanctuaries.

4Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Assessmentof Impacts ofactivitieswithinNationalReserves andSanctuaries.

(c) Where a new Management Plan has to beprepared, it shall be prepared in accordancewith the provisions of this section and beendorsed prior to the lapsing of the five yearsmentioned in paragraph (b).

2B. (1) The Director-General may, priorto carrying out and giving effect to anyactivity under a Management Plan, requirean assessment of the impact of such activityon the fauna and flora and their habitat tobe made.

(2) The report on the assessment of theimpacts of such activity shall included, butshall not be limited to

(a)a statement of the existing oranticipated impact upon the faunaand flora, including an account ofthe species and habitats affected andextent to which they are or may bethreatened ;

(b)a statement of the existing oranticipated social and economicimpact of such activity ;

(c)a statement of where rare,endangered or endemic species areor may be affected ;

(d)a list of alternative actions,including inaction which might betaken to remove or lessen anyadverse impact ; and

(e)any recommendation for subsequentaction.

(3) The Minister may from time to timeissue guidelines for the purposes of theimplementation section.

5Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Services andfacilitieswithinNationalReserves orSanctuaries.

Nature Trails.

2C. (1) The Director-General may providevisitor services and facilities in NationalReserves and Sanctuaries. The Director-General shall however ensure that the provisionof such services and facilities do not damagethe ecosystem concerned. Such services andfacilities shall be provided according to theManagement Plan, where applicable.

(2) The Director-General shall administer,control and manage the facilities and serviceswhich are to be provided within any NationalReserve or Sanctuary.

2D. (1) The Director-General may providefor roads and tracks within a National Reserveor a Sanctuary on State land to be nature trailsfor the use of any person who desires to travelon foot or otherwise as permitted, to study orobserve the fauna and flora therein :

Provided that the State shall not be liablefor any injury or damage sustained or incurredby any person using such trail.

(2) No person shall use any such nature trialunless he has obtained a permit issued by theDirector-General upon the payment of theprescribed fee.

(3) Regulations may be made specifying themanner in which any person may use suchnature trial.

(4) The Director-General, giving effect tothe provisions of this section, shall considerthe advice and recommendations of theAdvisory Committee established under thisOrdinance..

6Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofSection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

5.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)in paragraph (b), by the insertion of the wordsor any Marine National Park immediatelyafter the words National Park;

(b)in paragraph (c) by that section, by theinsertion of the words Marine National Parkimmediately after the words Strict NaturalReserve;

(c)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that sectionand the substitution therefor of the followingnew subsection :

(3) (a) Nothing in the precedingprovisions of this section shall be deemed orconstrued to prohibit or restrict the exerciseby any person of any right acquired by him,whether by law or custom or usage, ortraditional practice, in or over any landsituated within the limits of any NationalPark, Nature Reserve, Marine National Park,Jungle Corridor, or in or over any State landin any Sanctuary, being a right which was soacquired by such person prior to the date ofthe establishment of such National Park,Nature Reserve, Marine National Park, JungleCorridor or Sanctuary.

(b) For the purpose of this subsection, theMinister shall prescribe the customs, usagesand traditional practices which may beexercised in or over any land situated withinthe limits of any National Park, NatureReserve, Marine National Park, JungleCorridor or in or over any state land in anysanctuary..

7Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofSection 3A of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofSection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

6.Section 3A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section ;

(2)by the insertion immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) of the following :

(2) No person shall commence or cause to becommenced any expansion to any tourist hotelssituated within a one mile radius of the outerboundary of a National Reserve.

(3) The owner or occupier of any building orany other similar construction situated within onemile radius outside the boundary of any NationalReserve shall when required to do so by anyauthorized officer, submit for the inspection of suchofficer, the plans of such building, or suchconstruction and the plans of the land on whichsuch building or construction stands.

(4) Any person who fails to comply with theprovisions of this section shall be guilty of anoffence.

For the purpose of this section, relevantauthority means the Director-General of WildlifeConservation or any wildlife officer duly authorizedby the Director-General in that behalf..

7.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (3)of that section of the following subsections :

(4) Any person who enters and remains withinany National Park with out obtaining a permitissued under subsection (1) or contravenes anycondition in the permit, shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act.

8Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Insertion of newsection 5B in theprincipalenactment.

Causingnuisance ordisturbancewithin aNationalReserve &c.

Amendment ofSection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

(5) Any person who having been issued a permitunder subsection (1), uses such permit for anypurpose other than the purpose for which it hasbeen issued, shall be guilty of an offence underthis Act.

(6) Any person who on detection by a wildlifeofficer not below the rank of a Wildlife Ranger,admits liability for any of the offences undersubsection (4) or subsection (5) may make apayment of such sum as may be prescribed in respectof the offence for which he has admitted liability inplace of being prosecuted for the commission ofsuch offence. The payment made shall be creditedto the Wildlife Preservation Fund..

8.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 5A of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 5B of that enactment :

5B. Where it appears to the prescribed officerthat the person who has been grantedpermission to enter or remain in a NationalPark, Nature Reserve or Marine National Parkor any Sanctuary which is on State land is apotential threat or a nuisance or is found to becausing a nuisance or disturbance therein, suchperson may be refused entry or ordered to leaveor be removed from such National Park, NatureReserve, Marine National Park, or Sanctuaryforthwith..

9.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words commencing from No person shalland ending with Buffer Zone of the words Noperson shall, in a National Reserve-;

9Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

(2)in paragraph (k) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words tourist hotel. of thewords tourist hotel ; or ;

(3)by the addition at the end of paragraph (k) of thatsection of the following paragraphs :

(l)construct or use any canal except under theauthority of a permit issued for the purposeby a prescribed officer ; or

(m)introduce any poison, waste material, garbageor any other material which is likely to pollutethe water on any land, or in stream, river orwater course flowing through any NationalReserve ; or

(n)carry on any activity which may pollutewaters or cause an adverse impact on theexistence of the fauna and flora therein or theecosystem thereof ; or

(o)dive or use a boat except under the authorityof a permit issued by the prescribed officeron payment of the prescribed fee..

(4)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe subsection therefor of the following:

(2) (a) Unless authorized by the Director-General or a prescribed officer, no person shallintroduce any animal or plant into any NationalReserve or Sanctuary which is on State Land ortether, liberate or release any animal therein ;

(b) Any Wildlife Officer authorized in that behalfmay dispose of such animal or plant in a suitablemanner as he deems fit.;

10Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofSection 6A of theprincipalenactment.

(5)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following newsubsection:

(3) No person shall lead or allow any domesticanimal to stray in any National Reserve..

(6)by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following :

(4) Any person who acts in contravention ofthe provisions of subsection (1) of this section shallbe guilty of an offence and shall on conviction beliable to a fine not less than twenty thousand rupeesand not more than one hundred thousand rupees orto imprisonment of either description for a term notless than two years and not more than five years orto both such fine and imprisonment, and for anysubsequent conviction for the same offence shallbe liable to a fine not less than forty thousandrupees and not more than two hundred thousandrupees or to an imprisonment of either descriptionfor a term not less than five years and not more thanten years, or to both such fine and imprisonment..

10.Section 6A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section:

(a)by the renumbering of that subsection as (1)(a) of that section;

(b)in the renumbered subsection, by thesubstitution for the words within a NationalReserve of the words within a NationalReserve other than a Strict Natural Reserve;

11Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

(c)by the addition immediately after paragraph(a), of the following:

(b) in the case of a permit issued inrespect of fishing, the prescribed officermay, taking into consideration any adverseimpact on the fauna and flora and theirhabitats caused by such fishing, limit thenumber of permits so issued.;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section

(a) by the renumbering of subsection (2) assubsection (2) (a) ;

(b)in the renumbered subsection (2) (a) by thesubstitution for the words from any NationalReserve of the words from any NationalReserve (other than a strict Natural Reserve);

(c)by the addition immediately after therenumbered subsection (2) (a) of the followingnew paragraph (b) and (c):

(b) The Director-General may issue apermit to remove any object ofarchaeological, pre-historical, historical orother scientific interest only upon theproduction of a Certificate from theCompetent Authority certifying that suchobject is of archaeological, per-historical,historical or other scientific interest and maybe removed by the person named in theCertificate.

(c) For the purpose of this section theCompetent Authority shall be

(i)the Director-General of the Departmentof Archaeology ; or

12Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofSection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

(ii)the Director of National Museums..

11.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of that section bythe repeal of sub-paragraphs (vi) and (vii) thereof,and the substitution therefor of the followingsub-paragraphs:

(vi)erect or cause to so be erected any buildingwhether permanent or temporary or occupyany building so erected unless such person isthe holder of a permit issued in that behalf bythe prescribed officer ; or

(vii)construct or cause to be constructed or useany road or path so constructed by him ; or

(viii)dispose or cause the dispose of any garbagetherein ;or

(ix)engage in the filling of or cause the filling ofany land ; or

(x)discharge or cause the discharge of waste.;and

(2)by the addition immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection:

(2) The Minister may for the purpose of thissection, make regulations restricting the carryingout of any specified activity or activities in anySanctuary or in any prescribed Sanctuary where hedeems such restriction is necessary or essentialtaking into consideration the prevailingcircumstances..

13Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

12.Section 8A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

13.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in paragraph (d) of that section by the substitutionfor the words provisions of Part II or Part III of thewords provisions of Part II, Part III or Part IV .

(2)by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (f) ofthat section, of the following paragraph:

(g)declaring that all or any of the provisions ofthis Part shall apply to any specified plantspecies in any specified area..

14.Section 9A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:

9A. (1) Subject to the provisions of section3A, no person or organization, whether privateor State shall within a distance of one mile ofthe boundary of any National Reserve declaredby Order made under section 2, carry out anydevelopment activity of any descriptionwhatsoever without obtaining the prior writtenapproval of the Director-General.

(2) Upon receipt of an application for apermit to carry out a development activity ortrade or business within the area specifiedin subsection (1), the Director-Generalmay require the applicant to furnish anInitial Environmental Examination Reportor an Environmental Impact Assessment Report,as the case may be, relating to suchdevelopment activity or trade or business. It

Repeal ofsection 8A of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 9A of theprincipalenactment.Restrictionondevelopmentactivitywithin onemile of aNationalReserve.

14Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

shall be the duty of the applicant to complywith such requirement. Every InitialEnvironmental Examination Report or anEnvironmental Impact Assessment Report shallcontain such particulars as may be prescribed.

(3) The Director-General shall, on receipt ofan Environmental Impact Assessment Reportor an Initial Environmental ExaminationReport, as the case may be, furnished to him byan applicant in compliance with anyrequirement imposed on such applicant undersubsection (2)

(a)submit a copy of such assessment orexamination, as the case may be, to theCommittee appointed by the Director-General in that behalf, for its comments,if any ; and

(b)by notice published in the Gazette, notifythe place and time at which suchassessment or examination, as the casemay be, will be available for inspectionby the public and invite the public tomake comments, if any, thereon.

(4) The Committee shall within sixty daysof an Environmental Impact Assessment or anInitial Environmental Examination, as the casemay be, being submitted to it under subsection(3), make its comments, if any, thereon, to theDirector-General.

(5) Any member of the public may withinthirty days from the date on which a noticeunder subsection (3) relating to suchassessment or examination, as the case may be,is published in the Gazette make his comments,if any, thereon, to the Director-General.

15Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

Repeal ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.

Generalamendment toPart II of theprincipalenactment.

(6) In deciding whether to issue a permitunder subsection (2) authorizing a person tocarry out a development activity or trade orbusiness within the area specified in subsection(1), the Director-General shall have regard toany comments made under subsections (4) and(5) on the environment impact assessment orexamination, as the case may be, if any, relatingto such activity, trade or business.

(7) the Director-General shall, within sixtydays of the receipt by him of any commentsmade under subsections (4) and (5), make thedecision referred to in subsection (6)..

15.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in paragraph (c) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words any provision of Part II or Part III ofthe words any provision of Part II, Part III or Part IV.

(2)in paragraph (d) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words not less than ten thousand rupeesand not more than twenty thousand rupees of thewords not less than fifteen thousand rupees andnot more than fifty thousand rupees..

16.Part II of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the omission of the word buffalo wherever it appears inthat Part.

17.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the substitution therefor of the following :

12. Save as is hereinafter provided, noperson shall in any area out side a NationalReserve or Sanctuary hunt, shoot, kill, injureor take any elephant,.

18.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

Protectionof elephantsin areas outside NationalReserves andSanctuaries.

16Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Replacement ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Property inelephant,killed ortaken underPart II.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

19.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section is substitutedtherefor:

17. (1) Any elephant killed or taken by anyperson in the exercise of any right conferredby or under section 13 shall be the property ofthat person unless otherwise provided for inthe licence.

(2) Where the elephant killed or taken undersection 13 is not the property of any person,the Director-General shall dispose of suchelephant in such manner as is appropriate inthe circumstances..

20.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section.

21.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section.

(2)in the renumbered subsection (1)

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (a) thereof,for the words pursues any elephant; or ofthe words pursues any elephant or uses anyelectric wire to kill, injure or take anyelephant or uses any device of any descriptionto harm any elephant; or;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (b) thereof,for the words shall on conviction be liableto a fine not less than one hundred thousandrupees and not more than two hundred and

17Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Repealing ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 22A ofthe principalenactment.

fifty thousand rupees of the words shall onconviction be liable to a fine not less thanone hundred and fifty thousand rupees andnot more than five hundred thousandrupees.;

(3)by the addition immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) of the following new subsection:

(2) any offence committed under the Actinvolving an elephant shall be a non-bailableoffence and the provisions of the Bail Act, No. 30of 1997 and the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979 shall apply in respect of suchoffence..

22.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

23.Section 22A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the renumbering of subsection (9) of that sectionas subsection (13) thereof;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (8) ofthat section of the following new subsections:

(9) In the event of a pregnancy of a registeredshe elephant, the owner or the person having thecustody of such she elephant shall inform theDirector-General of such pregnancy together withdetails of the sire.

(10) It shall be the duty of the owner or the personhaving custody of a registered she elephant toinform the Director-General or any authorized officerof the fact of any birth, miscarriage or still birth ofelephants within seven days of the date of theoccurrence of any of the said events.

18Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

(11) Where any registered elephant dies, theowner or the person having custody of such elephantshall report such death to the Director-General,before the remains are destroyed.

(12) Any elephant which has not been registeredunder this section shall be presumed to be takenor removed from the wild without lawful authorityor approval and such elephants shall be deemed tobe public property. The provisions of the OffencesAgainst Public Property Act, No. 12 of 1982 shallaccordingly apply in respect of such elephants..

24.Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of that section bythe substitution for the words successor in title.of the words successor in title; or.

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (c) ofthe following new paragraph:

(d)he has registered and licensed the elephantin terms of section 22a of the Ordinance..

25.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words tusk or tush where ever they appearof the words tusk or tush or any part of a tuskor tush.

(2)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words a tusk or tush of the words a tusk ortush or any part of a tusk or tush.

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (4) ofthat section of the following subsection:

(4A) (a) A tusk or tush or any part of a tusk ortush which is not registered under the Act, shall be

19Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

presumed to have been taken from the wildwithout lawful authority. Such tusk or tush orpart of a tusk or tush shall be presumed to be publicproperty. The provisions of the OffencesAgainst Public Property Act, No. 12 of 1982 shallaccordingly apply in respect of such tusk ortush or part of such tusk or tush, as the casemay be.

(b) Where a tusk or tush or part of a tusk or tushis deemed to be public property, it shall be handedover to the custody of the Director-General ofWildlife Conservation.

(c) The Minister may by Order published inthe Gazette, specify the date from which theprovisions of this subsection shall come intooperation..

26.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the omission therefrom of the definition of theexpression buffalo.

(2)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionelephant and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:

elephant means a wild elephant and includes atusker and for the purposes of section 22A,includes a tame or domestic elephant ortusker;

(3)by the repeal of the definition of the expressiontusk and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:

tusk means the tusk of a tusker;

20Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

27.Section 30 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) of section 30.

(2)in the renumbered subsection (1) by the repeal ofparagraph (d) of that section and the substitutiontherefor of the following paragraph:

(d)has in his possession or under his control anysuch mammal or reptile killed, dead or takenor any article made out of any part of suchmammal or reptile killed, dead or taken orthe meat or flesh of any such mammal orreptile killed, dead or taken or the meat orflesh of any such mammal or reptile killed,dead or taken or the eggs of any suchreptile; or.

(3)in paragraph (e) thereof, by the substitution for thewords reptile killed or taken of the words reptilekilled, dead or taken.

(4)by the repeal of paragraph (f) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraph:

(f)exposes for sale, any such mammal or reptileor any part of such mammal or reptile, or theeggs of any such reptile; or.

(5)by the addition of the following new paragraphimmediately after paragraph (g) of that section:

(h)transports any protected mammal or reptilenot included in Schedule I or any part of suchmammal or reptile including the nest or eggsof any such reptile..

Amendment ofsection 30 of theprincipalenactment.

21Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 31 of theprincipalenactment.

(6)by the substitution for the words not lessthan ten thousand rupees and not exceedingthirty thousand rupees, of the words, notless than twenty thousand rupees and notexceeding fifty thousand rupees; and

(7)by the insertion immediately after therenumbered subsection (1) of that section, ofthe following new subsections:

(2) Any person who commits any actprohibited under this section, against anymammal or reptile specified in Schedule II ofthis Ordinance, shall be guilty of an offenceand shall on conviction be liable to a fine notles than thirty thousand rupees and not morethan one hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a termnot less than two years and not exceedingfive years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

(3) The Minister may by regulation addto, rescind, vary, or amend the mattersspecified in Schedule II..

28.Section 31 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)thereof.

(2)in the renumbered subsection (1), by thesubstitution in paragraph (d) thereof for the wordsany bird killed or taken wherever those wordsappear in that paragraph, of the words any birdkilled, dead or taken;

(3)in paragraph (e) thereof by the substitution for thewords of any bird, of the words of any bird or theeggs of any bird;.

22Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 31A ofthe principalenactment.

(4)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (e), ofthe following paragraph:

(f)transports any bird, any part of a bird or eggsof any bird;;

(5)by the substitution for all the words commencingfrom shall be guilty of an offence to fine andimprisonment, appearing immediately afterparagraph (f), of the following words:

shall be guilty of an offence and shall onconviction be liable to a fine not les than tenthousand rupees and not exceeding twentythousand rupees, or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not less than two years andnot exceeding five years or to both such fine andimprisonment..

(6)by the insertion immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) of that section, of the following newsubsections:

(2) Any person who commits an act prohibitedunder this section against any bird specified inSchedule IV of this Ordinance, shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to a finenot less than twenty thousand rupees and not morethan forty thousand rupees or to imprisonment ofeither description for a term not less than two yearsand not exceeding five years or to both such fineand imprisonment.

(3) The Minister may by regulation add to,rescind, vary, or amend the matters specified inSchedule IV..

29.Section 31A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in paragraph (a) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures included in Schedules V

23Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 31B ofthe principalenactment.

and VI respectively; or of the words and figuresnot included in Schedule V but included inSchedule VI; or;

(2)in paragraph (d) of that section by the substitutionfor the words fish, killed or taken of the wordsfish killed, dead or taken;

(3)in paragraph (e) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words any such amphibian or fish of thewords any part or any part of the life cycle of ofany such amphibian or any part or eggs fish;

(4)in paragraph (f) of that section by the substitutionfor the words any other purpose, of the wordsany other purpose; or;

(5)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (f) ofthe following paragraph:

(g)transports any such amphibian or fish or anypart of such amphibian or fish or the eggs ofany amphibian or fish..

30.Section 31B of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (d) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingparagraph:

(d)has in his possession or under his control,any such invertebrate killed, dead or taken orany part or the eggs, spawn or larva of suchinvertebrate;;

(2)in paragraph (f) of that section by the substitutionfor the words any other purpose. of the wordsany other purpose; or;

24Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 34 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 35 of theprincipalenactment.

(3)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (f), ofthe following:

(g)transport any such invertebrate or any part ofsuch invertebrate or the eggs, spawn, larva, ornest of any such invertebrate;

(4)by the substitution for all the words commencingform shall be guilty to the end of that section ofthe following:

shall be guilty of an offence and shall onconviction be liable to a fine not less than twentyfive thousand rupees and not exceeding one hundredthousand rupees or imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not less than two years andnot more than five years or to both such fine andimprisonment..

31.Section 34 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figuresSchedule I, II, III and IV of the words and figures ScheduleI, III, V, VI and VII.

32.Section 35 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following subsection:

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), theexpression, Competent Authority means

(a)the Director of National Museums;

(b)the Director of National Zoological Gardens;and

(c)an officer of the Department of WildlifeConservation who has a period of service ofnot less than ten years in that Department..

25Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 39 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 41 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 42 ofthe principalenactment.

33.Section 39 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words liable to a finenot less than five thousand rupees and not more than tenthousand rupees of the words liable to a fine not less thanfifty thousand rupees and not more than one hundredthousand rupees.

34.Section 41 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the substitution for the words who exports ofthe words who exports or re-exports.

(2)by the substitution for the words any part of anymammal of the words any part, any secretion orbody fluid of any mammal.

(3)in the marginal note of that section, by thesubstitution for the word export of the wordsexport or re-export.

35.Section 42 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) thereof;

(2)by the insertion immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1), of the following new subsection:

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisionsof subsection (1) of this section shall be guilty ofan offence and on conviction be liable to a fine notless than ten thousand rupees and not more thantwenty thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not less than two years andnot exceeding five years or to both such fine andimprisonment..

26Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 45 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 46 of theprincipalenactment.

36.Section 45 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b) ofthat section, of the following new paragraphs:

(c)prescribing the procedure for the inspection,prior to the export of any specified plantreferred to in this section and prescribing theofficer who shall be empowered to carry outsuch inspection;

(d)prescribing the procedure for sealing of anyspecified plant after it has been inspected andprescribing the officer who shall beempowered to carry out such sealing;

(e)prescribing the documents to be furnishedby the exporter of any such specified plantand the proof of the manner by which or thecircumstances under which such exporterobtained possession of such plant;

(f)prohibiting or regulating the importationinto Sri Lanka of any specified plant or partthereof;.

(2)by the renumbering of paragraph (d) of that sectionas paragraph (g) thereof.

37.Section 46 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (a) thereof;

(2)by the renumbering of paragraphs (b) and (c) asparagraphs (a) and (b) respectively;

(3)by the substitution for the words be liable to afine not less than three thousand rupees and not

27Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Insertion of newsection 46A inthe principalenactment.

Certificateof proof.

Amendment ofsection 48 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 49 of theprincipalenactment.

more than ten thousand rupees of the words liableto a fine not less than five thousand rupees and notmore than twenty thousand rupees.

38.The following new section is inserted immediatelyafter section 46 of the principal enactment and shall haveeffect as section 46A of that enactment:

46A. A Certificate signed by the CompetentAuthority certifying that any plant or partthereof forwarded to the Competent Authorityfor examination and report to the effect thatsuch plant or part thereof is a plant or a partincluded in Schedule VIII, shall be admissiblein evidence and shall be prima facie evidenceof the matters stated therein.

In this section Competent Authority shallmean

(a)the Director of the National BotanicalGardens; and

(b)the Conservator-General of theDepartment of Forests..

39.Section 48 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the definition of the expressionplant.

40.Section 49 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:

(2)A licence issued under subsection (1) shall

(a)prohibit the carrying on or exercising of the tradeor business relating to animals and if it is so carriedon or exercised within a radius of ten miles from theboundary of any National Reserve;

28Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

(b)be subject to the prescribed conditions and if nofee is prescribed for the issue of such licence, beissued free of charge..

41.Section 50 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words Not less than five thousand rupees and notmore than ten thousand rupees of the words not less thanten thousand rupees and not more than thirty thousandrupees.

42.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 52A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 52B of that enactment :

52B. No person shall use any food, scent,colour or any substance or device for thepurpose of inducing or attracting any animalinto his property for the purpose of capture orany other purpose..

43.Section 53C of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section as follows:

(1)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of that section,for the word surgeon. of the words surgeon; or.

(2)by the addition immediately after paragraph (b)thereof of the following:

(c)a veterinary surgeon of the Department ofWildlife Conservation.

44.Section 54 of the principal enactment, is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words serve or authorize the serving of the wordserve or offer or authorize the serving or offering of.

Amendment ofsection 50 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 52B ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 53C ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 54 of theprincipalenactment.

No food orsubstance tobe used forinducing anyanimal.

29Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

45.Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal ofthe words from should be authorized to the endof that subsection and the substitution therefor ofthe following:

should be authorized

(a)for the protection, preservation orpropagation of the fauna and flora of SriLanka; or

(b)for the scientific management or scientificstudy or investigation of the fauna and floraof Sri Lanka; or

(c)for the rehabilitation and conservation ofspecies which are threatened or likely tobecome endangered.;

(2)by the renumbering of subsection (2) of that sectionas subsection (3) thereof.

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection:

(2) Any authorization made under subsection(1), shall specify the conditions subject to whichsuch authorized acts shall be carried out and shallcontain procedures for the monitoring of such acts..

46.Section 55A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figurecommencing from section 11 to the end of that section, ofthe word and figure section 11..

Amendment ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 55A ofthe principalenactment.

30Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

47.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 55A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as sections 55B, 55C and 55D of thatenactment:

55B. (1) The Director-General or any officerauthorized in that behalf by the Director-General may after an inquiry seize andconfiscate any timber felled in any NationalReserve or any state land in a Sanctuary.

(2) The Director-General may order the saleof the timber confiscated under this section bypublic auction and credit the proceeds of suchsale to the Wildlife Preservation Fund.

55C. It shall be lawful for an officer of theDepartment of Wildlife Conservation to enterand search any timber depot or any place ofany description where he has reasonablegrounds to believe that any timber felled withinany National Reserve or Sanctuary is beingkept or stored.

55D. (1) Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in the Forest Ordinance it shall belawful for any wildlife officer of the Departmentof Wildlife Conservation

(a)to seize timber if found after dueinvestigation to have been felled withinany National Reserve or any State landwithin a Sanctuary; and

(b)to transport timber to the nearestwildlife station, police station or to anycourt, any timber seized and confiscatedin terms of this Ordinance under theauthority of written permit issued inthat behalf by an officer not below therank of an Assistant Director of WildlifeConservation in the region.

Seizure oftimber felledwithin aNationalReserve orSanctuary.

Transportationof timberseized interms ofsections 55Band 55C.

Insertion ofsections 55B, 55Cand 55D in theprincipalenactment.

Powers ofDirector-General toconfiscatetimber felledin a NationalReserve orSanctuary.

31Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

(2) The Minister may make regulations forthe issue of permits for the purpose ofsubsection (1)..

48.Section 57 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words not less than one thousand rupees and notexceeding two thousand rupees of the words not less thanfive thousand rupees and not exceeding ten thousand rupees.

49.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 57 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 57A of that enactment:

57A. Where the Director-General or anywildlife officer is empowered under thisOrdinance

(a)to grant any permission or approval; or

(b)to make any registration; or

(c)to issue any licence or permit; or

(d)to supply any service, product orcommodity; or

(e)to give any information, advice oropinion,

in relation to any matter under this Ordinance,the Director-General or such authorized officermay make, demand, levy or recover suchspecified charges or fees, as the case may be inrespect of any matters referred to in paragraphs(a) to (e)..

50.Section 58 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words fine not lessthan two thousand rupees and not more than five thousandrupees of the words fine not less than fifteen thousandrupees and not more than thirty thousand rupees.

Amendment ofsection 57 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 57A inthe principalenactment.

Power torecovercharges andfees.

Amendment ofsection 58 of theprincipalenactment.

32Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

51.Section 58A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words within a NatureReserve or Sanctuary, he shall be liable to be punished witha fine not less than one hundred thousand rupees and notmore than two hundred thousand rupees of the words withina National Reserve or Sanctuary he shall be liable to bepunished with a fine not less than two hundred and fiftythousand rupees and not more than five hundred thousandrupees..

52.Section 60 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (3) of that section

(a)in paragraph (a) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words to any police officer of thewords to any wildlife officer, police officer;

(b)in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words such police officer of thewords such wildlife officer, police officer;

(c)in paragraph (c) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words such police officer of thewords such wildlife officer, police officer;

(2)in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words to any police officer of the wordsto any wildlife officer, police officer.

53.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 60 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 60A, 60B, 60C, 60D and 60E ofthat enactment:

60A. In any prosecution under the Act, foran offence alleged to have been committed withrespect to any plant or part thereof or animal,

Amendmentof section 60of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion ofnew sections60A, 60B,60C, 60D and60E in theprincipalenactment.Certificatein respect ofinability toproduce.

Amendmentof section58A of theprincipalenactment.

33Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

animal carcass or part thereof which is of suchnature that it is difficult to move or transport, aCertificate issued by a

(a)a wildlife officer not below the rankof a wildlife ranger; or

(b)a police officer not below the rank ofan Assistant Superintendent of Police,

stating the facts as to why the plant or animalcarcass cannot be produced, shall be admissiblein evidence and shall be prima facie evidenceof such facts stated therein until the contrary isproved.

60B. No suit or prosecution shall lie againstany wildlife officer for anything lawfully doneor omitted to be done by him in good faithunder this Act:

Provided that where it is evident thatany wildlife officer is guilty of mala fide inrelation to the discharge of any function underthis Act, a prosecution may lie against suchofficer.

60C. In any proceedings under the Act, if aquestion arises as to whether any plant or partthereof or any animal or carcass or any partthereof is the property of the State, such propertyshall be presumed to be the property of theState until the contrary is proved.

60D. In any proceedings under this Act, ifa question arises as to whether any area of land isState Land, a Certificate issued under the hand ofthe Director-General stating that such area ofland is State land shall be admissible in

Indemnityfor acts donein good faith.

Presumptionof ownershipof plants andanimals.

Director-Generalscertificate tobe primafacieevidence.

34Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

evidence and shall be prima facie evidence ofthe fact stated therein that such land is Stateland:

Provided that such Certificate shall beissued based on a Certificate issued in respectof such land under the hand of the Surveyor-General.

60E. Proceedings may be instituted by anyperson in any court of law for an order to remedyor restrain any contravention of any provisionof this Act whether or not any right of suchperson has been infringed by or as aconsequence of, such contravention:

Provided that such person has given not lessthan sixty days notice to the Director-Generalof his intention to institute such proceedings..

54.Section 64 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(1) Except as hereinbefore expressly provided inregard to the disposal of any elephant or of the carcassof any elephant or the tusks or tushes of any elephant,on the conviction of any person for an offence underthis Ordinance, any animal, plant or part of such animalor part which is the property of the State under thisOrdinance and any gun, vehicle, boat, artificial light,snare, net, trap or any other instrument, contrivance,appliance or thing used in or for the commission ofany offence, shall by reason of that conviction, inaddition to any other punishment specified for suchoffence, be forfeited to the State:

Provided however, where the owner of such gun,vehicle, boat, artificial light, snare, net , trap or otherinstrument, contrivance, appliance or thing used in orfor the commission of any offence is a third party, noforfeiture shall be made if such owner proves to the

Amendment ofsection 64 of theprincipalenactment.

PublicLitigation.

35Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Repeal andreplacement ofsection 65 of theprincipalenactment.

satisfaction of the court that he had used all duediligence to prevent the use of such gun, vehicle, boat,artificial light, snare, net, trap or other instrument,contrivance, appliance or thing used in or for thecommission of any offence..

55.Section 65 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following is substituted therefor:

65. (1) There shall be established a fundcalled the Wildlife Preservation Fund(hereinafter referred to as the fund) by theDirector-General in such manner as is providedfor in this Ordinance, in consultation with theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Wildlife Conservation.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund

(a)all sums of money received in respectof licences and permits issued underthis Ordinance or any regulation madethereunder;

(b)fees and any charges collected underthis Ordinance or any regulation madethereunder;

(c)all sums of money recovered aspenalties under this Ordinance;

(d)all sums of money received asdonations for wildlife conservation;and

(e)any income from the management ofany national reserve, sanctuary orother area declared under theOrdinance.

(3) No money shall be paid out of the fundexcept as specified by regulations made underthe Ordinance.

WildlifePreservationFund.

36Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

(4) The financial year of the Fund shall bethe calendar year..

56.Section 66 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1) (a) in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal ofparagraph (bb)thereof and the substitutiontherefor of the following:

(bb)enter and search without warrant anyhut, house, wadi, any shop, hotel,restaurant, rest house or eating houseand question any person found in suchhut, house, wadi, any shop, hotel,restaurant, rest house or eating house;

(b) in paragraph (d) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words of his offence; of thewords of his offence. Any person arrested underthis paragraph shall be produced before themagistrate within twenty four hours excludingthe time required for travel;.

(2)in paragraph (c) of subsection (3) of that section, bythe substitution for the words or obstructs, orresists, of the words or obstructs, or assaults,threatens or resists,.

(3)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words not less than five thousand rupeesand not more than ten thousand rupees of the wordsnot less than twenty thousand rupees and not morethan one hundred thousand rupees.

(4)by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:

(4) For the purpose of this section

(a)animal means any mammal, bird, reptile,amphibian, fish or invertebrates, but does

Amendment ofsection 66 of theprincipalenactment.

37Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 66A ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 66B ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 66C ofthe principalenactment.

not include any domestic animal asdefined in section 11;

(b)wildlife officer means the Director-General or the Directors, Deputy Directors,Assistant Directors, Wildlife Rangers,Range Assistant or Wildlife Guards of theDepartment of Wildlife Conservationunless otherwise any other meaning isspecified under this Ordinance..

57.Section 66A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of all the words from any officer tothe end of paragraph (b) of that section and the substitutiontherefor of the following:

Any officer appointed for the purposes of this Ordinanceunder section 68

(a)who is guilty of prevarication in any Judicial trialfor an offence under this Ordinance; or

(b)who willfully neglects or fails to perform any dutyunder this Ordinance or neglects or fails to reportany offence under this Ordinance; or

(c)who aids and abets in the commission of anyoffence under this Ordinance,.

58.Section 66B of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words not less thanfive hundred rupees and not more than one thousand rupees.of the words not less than one thousand rupees and notmore than two thousand rupees..

59.Section 66C of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows:

(1)by the substitution for the words an officer of theDepartment of Wildlife Conservation of the wordsany wildlife officer.

38Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 67B ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 67 of theprincipalenactment.

(2)In paragraph (d) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words nearest police station orDivisional Secretariat. of the words nearest policestation, Divisional Secretariat or in Court..

60.Section 66D of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words the Director-General or any officer of theDepartment of Wildlife Conservation of the words anywildlife officer.

61.Section 67 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words along-side a Strict Natural Reserve,National Park or Nature Reserve, Jungle Corridor,Refuge, Marine Reserve, Buffer Zone or Sanctuaryof the words along-side a National Reserve orSanctuary.

(2)by the addition, immediately after subsection (2)of that section, of the following subsection:

(3) For the purpose of preventing thecommission of any offence under the Ordinance, itshall be lawful for the Director-General to causebarriers to be placed on any road outside theboundaries of any National Reserve or Sanctuarysuspected of being used for the commission of anyoffence and to stop and search any vehicle..

62.Section 67B of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)thereof and the substitution therefor of the following:

(3) Notwithstanding anything in subsection (1) of thissection an offence under sections 6, 7, 8, 20 and 30(2) of theOrdinance shall be non bailable offences..

Amendment ofsection 66D ofthe principalenactment.

39Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 67D ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 67F ofthe principalenactment.Ejectmentfrom CrownLand.

Amendment ofsection 68 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion ofsections 68A and68B in theprincipalenactment.Plans andprogrammesfor WildlifeConservation.

63.Section 67D of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words Chapter XII ofthe Criminal Procedure Code of the words Chapter XI ofthe Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979.

64.Section 67F of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

67F. (1) any person who is in unlawful andunauthorized possession of any State land towhich, the provisions of this Ordinance areapplicable shall be liable to an ejectment andthe provisions of State Lands (Recovery ofPossession) Act, No. 7 of 1979 shall mutatismutandis apply, of every such ejectment.

(2) Any reference in the said Act to aCompetent Authority shall be considered as areference to the Wildlife Ranger of the area inwhich such State land is situated.

(3) Any proceedings instituted under thesaid Act for the recovery of possession of Stateland shall be concluded within one year fromthe date of commencement of suchproceedings..

65.Section 68 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution in paragraph (a) of subsection(1) of that section for the words to act as Director, or asDeputy Director of the words to act as Director-General oras Director or Deputy Director.

66.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 68 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 68A and 68B of that enactment:

68A. (1) The Director-General inconsultation with the Minister shall developplans and programmes for the conservation of

40Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

wildlife, their habitats and the biologicaldiversity in line with appropriate national andinternational standards and criteria.

(2) The Department of Wildlife Conservationshall include the expenditure estimated for theimplementation of the plans and programmesdeveloped in terms of subsection (1) in itsestimates for such financial year.

68B. The Director-General shall whereverspecified in this Ordinance and in generalwhere necessary, frame guidelines for theimplementation of the provisions of theOrdinance and to carry out the powers,functions and duties under the Ordinance..

67.Section 71 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section as follows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (e) of that subsectionand the substitution therefor of the following:

(e)the manner in which meetings of the AdvisoryCommittee shall be conducted, the procedureto be followed in the transaction of businessat such meetings and the manner in whichthe recommendations of the Committee areto be made;.

(2)by the insertion of new paragraph (f) immediatelyafter paragraph (e) of that subsection:

(f)all matters necessary for the regulation ofaccess to the genetic resources from faunaand flora indigenous to Sri Lanka and therevenue generated from such geneticresources..

Guidelines tobe framed bythe Director-General.

Amendment ofsection 71 of theprincipalenactment.

41Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 72 of theprincipalenactment.

68.Section 72 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately before the definitionof the expression Buffer Zone of the followingdefinitions:

Advisory Committee means the WildlifeConservation Advisory Committee establishedunder section 70(1) of this Ordinance;

Authorized Officer means any Wildlife Officerappointed by the Director-General for thepurposes of this Act.;

(2)by the insertion, immediately after the definitionof the expression cultivated land, of the followingdefinition:

development activity means any activity whichhas an impact on the physical nature of the landor the natural biological phenomenon of faunaand flora of such land.;

(3)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionDirector and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:

Director-General means the person appointedto be or to act as the Director-General, WildlifeConservation, for the purposes of this Ordinance,and includes the Director and the DeputyDirector, Wildlife Conservation, appointed forsuch purposes;;

(4)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression District Director of the followingdefinitions:

explosive has the same meaning assigned to itin the Explosives Act, No. 21 of 1956;

42Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Fund means the Wildlife Preservation Fundestablished under section 65 of thisOrdinance;;

(5)by the insertion immediately after the definitiongun of the following definition:

habitat includes the physical environment, thebiomass and all living organisms;;

(6)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression Honorary District Director of thefollowing definition:

invertebrate means any animal without a spinalcolumn;;

(7)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionJungle Corridor and the substitution therefor ofthe following new definition:

Jungle Corridor means the land deemed to beallocated for the purposes of facilitating the freemovement of elephants from one reserve toanother and declared as a Jungle Corridor forelephants constituted by Order made undersection 2(1);;

(8)by the insertion, immediately after the definitionof the expression local authority of the followingnew definition:

Marine National Park means an area of seatogether with an adjoining coastal beltconsisting primarily of marine natural resourcessuch as coral reefs, sea grass, beds or any otherecosystem where study and observation of suchnatural resources may be permitted and declaredas a Marine National Park constituted by Ordermade under subsection (1) of section 2;;

43Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

(9)by the repeal of the definition Marine Reserve;

(10)by the insertion, immediately after the definitionof the expression offence, of the following newdefinition:

plant means any member of the plant kingdomincluding a tree or any part thereof, dead oralive and any propagatory plant material andany extraction of such plant;;

(11)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression prescribed, of the followingdefinitions:

prescribed officer means any wildlife officerunless otherwise defined in this Ordinance;

Sanctuary means lands deemed to be dedicatedfor the purposes of human activity, but whereactivities specified in section 7 of the Ordinanceand strictly prohibited other than in accordancewith the regulations made thereunder and hasbeen declared as a Sanctuary under section 2(2)of the Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance;

Strict Natural Reserve means an area of 1 (land)and deemed to be dedicated to species ofanimals and plants to thrive on with the leastdisturbance for the purposes of ensuring thesurvival of threatened species in their naturalhabitat facilitating appropriate scientificresearch and declared as a Strict Natural Reserveconstituted under section 2(1) of the Fauna andFlora Protection Ordinance;

wildlife officer means the Director-General of theDepartment of Wildlife Conservation or anyDirector, Deputy Director or Assistant Director

44Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Replacement ofSchedules I, II,III,IV, IVA andV of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

or Wildlife Ranger or Range Assistant orWildlife Guard in the Department of WildlifeConservation, unless any provision in theOrdinance specifically mentions otherwise;;

(12)by the repeal of the definition Refuge;

(13)in the definition of the expression wildlife, bythe substitution for the words animals which oweof the words animals including different stages oftheir life cycle which owe.

69.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

70. Schedules I, II, III,IV, IVA and V of the principalenactment are hereby repealed on the following Schedulessubstitution therefor :

45Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

SCHEDULE I(Section 30)

List of Mammals and Reptiles that are not protected

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Class : Mammalia (Mammals)

Family : Suidae

Sus scrofa- Wild boar (E), Wal ura (S), Pandi or Kattupandi (T)

Family : Leporidae

Lepus nigricollis- Black-naped hare (E), Hawa (S), Mussal orMuyal (T)

Family : Hystricidae

Hystrix indica- Indian crested porcupine (E), Ittewa orPanduru ittewa (S), Mullam pandi or Mulluppandi (T)Family : Muridae

Rattus rattus- Common house rat (E), Geyi miya (S), Elli-sund-elli (T)Rattus norvegicus- Brown rat (E), Dumburu miya (S), Elli-sund-elli (T)Mus musculus- Indian house mice (E), Kos-etamiya (S), Elli-sund-elli (T)

Family : Cercopithecidae

Macaca sinica- Toque Monkey or Red Monkey (E), Rilawa(S), Kurungu (T)Semnopithecus entellus- Grey langur (E), Eli Vandura or RendaVandura, Konde Vandura (S), Mundi (T)

Class : Reptilia (Reptiles)Family : Elapidae

Naja naja- Cobra (E), Naya (S), Naham, Nalla pambu (T)Bungarus caeruleus- Common Krait (E), Thel Karawala (S),Pudayan pambu (T)Bungarus ceylonicus- Sri Lanka Krait (E), Mudhu Karawala (S),Pudayan pambu (T)

46Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Family : Viperidae

Daboia russelli- Russells Viper (E), Tith polonga (S), Virian,Virian Pambu, Suratti pambu (T)Echis carinata- Saw-scaled Viper (E), Weli polonga (S),Virian, Virian pambu, Suratti pambu (T)

SCHEDULE II(Section 30)

Mammals and Reptiles that are Strictly Protected

Class : Mammalia (Mammals)

Family : Lorisidae

Loris tardigradus- Slender loris (E), Una hapuluwa (S),Tevngu (T)

Family : Felidae

Felis chaus- Junglecat(E),Kola diviya(S),Kartupoonay(T)Panthera pardus- Leopard (E), Diviya (S), Siruththay (T)Prionailurus rubiginosus - Rusty-spotted cat (E), Wal balala (S)Prionailurus viverrinus- Fishing cat (E), Hadun diviya (S)

Family : Mustelidae

Lutra lutra- Eurasian otter (E), Diya balla (S), Neer nai (T)

Family : Ursidae

Melursus ursinus- Sloth bear (E), Walaha (S), Karadee (T)

Family : Sciuridae

Petaurista philippensis- Grey flying squirrel (E), Maha hambawa (S)Petinomys fuscocapillus - Small flying squirrel (E), Kuda hambawa (S)

Family : Manidae

Manis crassicaudata- Indian pangolin (E), Kaballewa/ Eya (S),Alangu (T)

Family : Cervidae

Cervus unicolor- Sambar (E), Gona (S), Kadoo marn (T)Muntiacus muntjak- Barking deer/ Ribfaced deer (E), Olumuwa (S), Kart ardu (T)

47Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Family : Balaenopteridae

Ballaenoptera musculus - Blue whale (E), Thalmaha (S),Thimingila (T)Ballaenoptera physalus- Fin whale (E), Thalmaha (S),Thimingila (T)Megaptera novaengliae- Humpback whale (E), Thalmaha (S),Thimingila (T)

Family : Physeteridae

Physeter macrocephalus - Sperm whale (E), Thalmaha (S)Kogia breviceps- Pygmy sperm whale (E), Thalmaha (S)Kogia simus- Dwarf sperm whale (E), Thalmaha (S)

Family : Delphinidae

Delphinus delphis- Common dolphin (E), Mulla (S)Pomigra (T)

Family : Dugongidae

Dugong dugon- Dugong/ Sea cow/Sea pig (E), MuhuduUra (S), Kadaipudru (T)

Class : Reptilia (Reptiles)

Family : Crocodylidae

Crocodylus palustris- Mugger/Marsh crocodile (E), HelaKimbula/Ela Kimbula (S), Kulathimuthalei (T)Crocodylus porosus- Saltwater/Estuarine crocodile (E), GetaKimbula (S), Semmukku muthalei (T)

Family : Bataguridae

Melanochelys trijuga- Parkers black turtle (E), Parkerge galibba (S), Kal amai (T)

Family : Trionychidae

Lissemys punctata- Flapshell turtle (E), Kiri ibba (S), Palamai (T)

Family : Testudinidae

Geochelone elegans- Indian star tortoise (E), Tharaka ibba/Mevara ibba (S), Kata amai (T)

48Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Family : Cheloniidae

Caretta caretta- Loggerhead sea turtle (E), OlugediKesbawa/ Kannadi Kesbawa (S, Perunthalaiamai (T)Chelonia mydas- Green turtle (E), Gal Kasbawa/ MasKasbawa/ Vali Kesbawa (S), Pal amai (T)Eretmochelys imbricata- Hawksbill sea turtle (E), Pothu Kasbawa/Leli Kesbawa (S), Nana amai (T)Lepidochelys olivacea- Oliver Ridley sea turtle (E), Battu Kesbawa/Mada Kesbawa (S), Pul amai (T)

Family : Dermochelyidae

Dermochelys coriacea- Letherback sea turtle (E), Dara Kesbawa/Thun Dara Kesbawa (S), Dhoni amai (T)

Family : Agamidae

Ceratophora spp- Horned lizards (E), ang Katussa (S)Cophotis ceylanica- Pygmy lizard (E), Kandukara Kurukasbawa (S)

SCHEDULE III(Section 31)

List of Birds that are not Protected

Class : Aves (Birds )Family Corvidae

Corvus macrorhynchos- Black crow (E), Kakka, Kaputa (S), Kaka,Kakam (T)Corvus splendens- House crow (E), Kakka, Kolmba Kakka (S),Oor-Kakka (T)

Family : Passeridae

Lonchura punctulata- Spotted munia, Scaly breasted Muniya (E),Wee kurulla/Laya Kayuru Wee kurulla (S),Nellu-Kuruvi (T)Lonchura striata- White-backed munia (E), Wee kurulla/Nithaba sudu wee kurulla (S), Nellu-Kuruvi (T)Family : Psittacidae

Psittacula krameri- Rose-ringed parakeet (E), Mala girawa,Rana girawa (S), Payithankili (T)

49Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

SCHEDULE IV(Section 31)

Birds that are Strictly Protected

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Class : Aves (Birds)

Family : Pelecanidae

Pelecanus philippensis- Spot-billed pelican (E), Pestuduwa/Tit hotapestuduwa (S), Kulai-kida (T)

Family : Phalacrocoracidae

Phalacrocorax carbo- Great cormorant/Southern cormorant (E),Maha diyakawa (S), Nir-Kakam (T)

Family : Ciconiidae

Ephippiorhynchusasiaticus- Black-necked strok (E), Ali Manawa (S),Periya narai (T)Leptoptilos javanicus- Lesser adjutant (E), Hin Bahurumanawa (S), Meva kokku (T)

Family : Acciptridae

Aviceda jerdoni- Jerdons Baza (E), Dumburu saratukussa,Jerdon sarpakussa (S), Parundu (T)Hieraaetus kienerii- Rufous-bellied Eagle (E), Rathodararajaliya (S), Kalugu (T)Spizaetus nipalensis- Mountain hawk eagle (E), Konda rajaliya,Hel Kondakussa (S), Periya kondarasali (T)

Family : Falconidae

falco peregrinus- Shaheen falcon (E), Kurullu goya (S),Valluru (T)Falco tinnunculus- Common kestrel (E), Kurullu goya (S),Valluru (T)

Family : Phasianidae

Francolinus pictus- Painted francolin (E), Tith vatu kukula (S),Kauthari (T)Francolinuspondicerianus- Grey francolin/Indian grey partridge (E),Alu vatu kukula (S), Kauthari (T)Perdicula asiatica- Jungle bush-quail (E), Wana Panduruvatuwa/Panduru vatuwa (S), Kadai (T)

50Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Family : Rallidae

Fulica atra- Common coot/Black coot (E), Kalukithala(S)Gallirallus striatus- Slaty-breasted banded rail (E), Laya nilrelua/Layalu pati reluwa (S), Kanankoli (T)Porzana fusca- Ruddy-breasted crake (E), Laya Rathu vilkeraliya (S), Kanan koli (T)

Family : Charadriidae

Vanellus malabaricus- Yellow-wattled Lapwing (E), Kaha yatimalkirala (S), al katti (T)

Family : Rostratulidae

Rostratula benghalensis - Great painted snipe (E), Ulu keswatuwa/Raja ulu keswatuwa (S), Ullan kuruvi (T)

Family : Glareolidae

Burhinus recurvirostris- Great thick knee/Great stone plover (E),Maha golu kirala (S), Musal kinandi (T)

Family : Tytonidae

Phodilus badius- Oriental bay owl (E), Mukalan bassa/Peradigu guru bassa (S), Andai (T)Tyto alba- Barn owl (E), Atu bakamouna/Atuwesbassa (S), Chavu kuruvi (T)

Family : Apodidae

Tachymarptis melba- Alpine swift/White bellied swift(E),Wehi lihiniya (S), Tam padi (T)Hirundapus giganteus- Brown-backed needle-tail (E), Wehilihiniya/pita bora katu peda thurithaya (S)Tampadi (T)

Family : Alcedinidae

Alcedo meninting- Blue eared kingfisher (E) Malpilihuduwa/Nil kan pilihuduwa (S), Min kutti (T)

Family : Coraciidae

Eurystomus orientalis- Dollar-bird/Broad billed Roller (E),Dumkawa (S), Pulluporukki (T)

51Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Family : Picidae

Celeus brachyurus- Roufous woodpecker (E), Dumburu Kerala/Borath koda kerala (S), ThachchanKuruvi (T)Chrysocolaptes festivus- White-naped woodpecker (E), Maha pankerala/Kahapita maha kerala (S) Thachchankuruvi (T)Picus xanthopygaeus- Streak-throated woodpecker (E),Keralla (S), Thachchan kuruvi (T)

Family : Hirundinidae

Hirundo tahitica- Hill swallow (E), Wehi lihiniya (S), TamPadi (T)

Family : Laniidae

Lanius schach- Long-tailed shrike/Rufous rumpedshrike (E), Dik panda sabaritta (S), Katupuluni/Pey kuruvi (T)

Family : Columbidae

Columba livia- Blue rock pigeon (E), Gal Paraviya/Poduparaviya (S), Mada pura/Malai pura (T)Streptopelia decaocto- Eurasian collared dove (E), Malakobbeyiya (S), Kali pura/Sambal pura (T)Treron phoenicoptera- Yellow-footed green pigeon (E), Seepadubata goya (S), Pachchai pura (T)Columba torringtoni- Sri Lanka wood pigeon (E), Maila goya/SriLanka mayla paraviya (S), KaruppuPura (T)

Family : Muscicapidae

Saxicola caprata- Pied bushchat (E), Gomara sitibichcha (S)Turdus merula- Eurasian blackbird (E), Kalu kurulla/Eurasian kalu bimsariya (S), KariKuruvi (T)Zoothera dauma- Scaly thrush (E), Wal avichchiya/Kayuruthirasikaya (S)

Family : Passeridae

Lonchura kelaarti- Black-throated munia (E), Wee kurulla/Gela kalu wee kurulla (S), Nellu kuruvi (T)Lonchura malabarica- White-throated silver-bill (E), Weekurulla (S), Nellu kuruvi (T)

52Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Family : Cuculidae

Hierococcyx varius- Common hawk-couckoo (E), Koha (S),Kuyil/Kusil (T)Phaenicophaeusleshenaulti- Sirkeer malkoha (E), Pathan ati kukulla (S)Phaenicophaeuspyrrhocephalus- Sri Lanka Red faced malkoha (E), Watharatu malkoha (S)

Family : Phasianidae

Galloperdix bicalcarata - Sri Lanka spur- fowl (E), Habankukkula (S), Sina Kattu koli (T)

Family : Strigidae

Glaucidiumcastanonotum- Sri Lanka chestnut-backed owlet (E),Punchi bassa/Sri Lanka pitathabala upabassa (S), Sinna andai (T)

Family : Bucerotidae

Ocyceros gingalensis- Sri Lanka grey hornbill (E), Alukadetta (S), Irattai chondu kuruvi (T)

Family : Megalaimidae

Megalaima flavifrons- Sri Lanka yellow-fronted barbet (E),Mukalan kottoruwa/Sri Lanka rathmuhunath kottoruwa (S), Kukkururan (T)

Family : Psittacidae

Loriculus beryllinus- Sri Lanka hanging parrot/Lorikeet(E),Gira maliththa (S), Kannai kili (T)Psittacula calthropae- Sri Lanka Layards parakeet (E), Alugirawa (S), Kili (T)

Family : Centropodidae

Gracula ptilogenys- Sri Lanka green-billed coucal (E), Bata attikukkula (S), Chemakem (T)

Family : Sturnidae

Gracula ptilogenys- Sri Lanka myna/Sri Lanka Grackle (E),Sela lihiniya/Mal kawadiya (S), Malainakanam patchi (T)

53Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Sturnus albofrontatus- Sri Lanka white-faced starling/Whiteheaded srarling (E), Sri Lanka watha suduSharikawa (S)

Family : Corvidae

Urocissa ornate- Sri Lanka blue magpie (E), Kehi bella (S)

Family : Pycnonotidae

Pycnonotus penicillatus - Sri Lanka Yellow eared bulbul (E), Peethakan kondaya/Galaguduwa/Sri Lanka Kahakan Kondaya (S)

Family : Sylviidae

Bradypterus palliseri- Sri Lanka bush warbler/PallisersWarbler (E)Garrulax cinereifrons- Ashy-headed babbler/Sri Lanka Ashy-headed laughing thrust (E), AluDemalichaha (S), Velaikara Kuruvi (T)Pellorneumfuscocapillum- Brown-capped babbler (E), Mudun borademalichcha (S), Velaikara kuruvi (T)Turdoides rufescens- Sri Lanka orange-billed babbler/RufousBabbler (E), Rathu demalichcha (S),Velaikara kuruvi (T)

Family : Muscicapidae

Eumyias sordida- Sri Lanka dull-blue flycatcher/dusky blueflycatcher (E), Nil masimara (S)Myophonus blighi- Sri Lanka whistling thrust (E), Sri LankaUruwan thirasikaya/ Arangaya (S)Zoothera spiloptera- Sri Lanka spotted-winged thrust (E), Walavichchiya/Gomara avichchiya/sri Lankatipiya thirasikaya (S)

Family : Nectariniidae

Dicaeum vincens- Sri Lanka leggs flowerpecker/Whitethroated Flower pecker (E)

Family : Zosteropidae

Zosterops ceylonensis- Sri Lanka White-eye (E), Mal kurulla/SriLanka sithasiya (S), Pu kuruvi (T)

54Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

SCHEDULE V(Section 31A)

List of Amphibians that are not Protected

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Class : Amphibia (Frogs)

Family : Bufonidae

Bufo melanostictus- Common house toad (E), Geyi gemba (S)

Family : Microhylidae

Kaloula taprobanica- Common bull frog (E), Visituru ratumadiya (S)Microhyla ornate- Ornate narrow mouth frog (E), Visithurumuwapatu madiya (S)Uperodon systoma- Balloon frog (E), Balun madiya (S)

Family : Ranidae

Euphlyctis cyanophlyctis - Skipper frog (E), Utpatana madiya (S)Euphlyctis hexadactylus - Six toe green frog (E), Sayangili palamadiya (S)Hoplobatrachus crassus - Jerdons bull frog (E), Jerdonge halamadiya (S)Limnonectes limnocharis - Common paddy field frog (E), Velmadiya (S)Rana temporalis- Common wood frog (E), Badi madiya (S)Hoplobatrachustigerinus- Indian bull frog (E), Hala madiya (S)

55Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

SCHEDULE VI(Section 31A)

List of Fish that are Protected

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Family : Scorpaenidae

Pterois radiate- Clear-fin Lion fish/Lion fish (E)

Family : Pomacanthidae

Centropyge bispinosus- Dusky Angelfish/Two spined angel fish (E)Pygoplites diacanthus- Regal Angel fish (E)

Family : Labridae

Coris aygula- Clown Coris/Twin spot coris (E)Labroides bicolor- Bicolor Cleaner Wrasse (E)

Family : Chaetodontidae

Chaetodon semion- Dotted Butterfly Fish (E)

Family : Ephippidae

platax pinnatus- Batfish, Dusky batfish, Redfaced batfish (E)

Order : Cypriniformes

Family : Cyprinidae

Labeo porcellus- Orange fin labeo (E)Labeo fisheri- Mountain labeo/Green labeo (E),Gadeya (S)Puntius asoka- Asoka barb (E), Asoka pethiya (S)Puntius martenstyni- Martenstyns barb (E), Martenstynpethiya (S)Puntius Sri lankensis- Blotched filamented barb (E), Dankudapethiya (S)Rasbora wilpita- Wilpita rasbora (E), Wilpita rasbora (S)Danio pathirana- Barred danio (E), Pathirana salaya (S)(Devario pathirana)puntius handula- Bandula barb (E), Bandula pethiya (S)

Family : Cobitidae

Lepidocephalichthysjonklaasi- Jonklaass Loach (E), Jonklaas Ehirava (S)

56Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family : Channidae

Channa orientalis- Smooth-breasted snakehead/Walkingsnakehead (E), Kola Kanaya (S)

Family : Gobiidae

Schismatogobiusderaniyagalai- Red neck goby (E)Sicyopterus halei- Red-tailed goby (E)

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Sicyopus jonklaasi- Lipstick goby (E)Stiphodon martenstyni- Martenstyns goby (E), Martenstynigeweligouwa (S)

Family : Mastacembelidae

Macrognathus aral- One-stripe spiny eel/Lesser spiny eel (E),Bata kola theliya (S)

Family : Synbranchidae

Ophisternon bengalense - Bengal eel/Swamp eel (E), Potta aandha (S)Ophistermon desilvai- Desilvas blind eel (E), Potta aandha (S)

SCHEDULE VII(Section 31B)

List of Invertibrates that are protected

(Spp-All species belong to the Genera)

Order : Lepidoptera

All species- Butterflies/Moths (E), Samanalayo/Salabayo (S)

Order : Hymenoptera

Aneuretus simioni- Sri Lanka relict ant/Primitive ant (E)

Order : Odonate

All species- Dragonflies (E), Kura/ Bathkura (S)

57Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Class : Crustacea

Ceylonthelphusa callista -Ceylonthelphusa divaCeylonthelphusa durrelliCeylonthelphusa kotagamaCeylonthelphusa nataCeylonthelphusa orthosCeylonthelphusa sanguineaCeylonthelphusa savitriaeCeylonthelphusa kakoota

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Mahatha helayaMahatha loraMahatha lacunaMahatha reginaOziothelphusa intutaOziothelphusa KodagodaPerbrinckia cracensPerbrinckia enodisPerbrinckia fidoPerbrinckia morayensisPerbrinckia punctataPerbrinckia quadratusPerbrinckia rasaePerbrinckia scitula

Order : Cladocera

Ghardaglaia ambiguaStenocypris fernandoniChrissa ceylonicaChrissa halyiCentrocypris viridis

Order : Podocopa

Darwinula lundi

Order : Decapoda

caridina singhalensiscaridina pristisCaridina fernandoniCaridina zeylanicaCaridina costaiMacrobrachium srilankenseCeylonthelphyusa sorrorCeylonthelphusa inflatissimaOziothelphusa minneriyansis

58Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family : Diogenidae

Dardanus magistos- Red Hermit crab/Hairy crab (E)

Family : Hymenoceridae

Hymenocera elegans- Painted Shrimp/Orchid Shrimps/Paddleshrimp (E)

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Family : Enoplometopodidae

Enoplometopus spp.- Lobster (E)

Phylum : Ceolenterata

Order : Ceriantharia

Cerianthus spp.- Sand anemone (E)

Class : AnthozoaOrder : Scleractinia

Family : Pocilloporidae

Pocillopora spp.Stylophora spp.Seriatopora spp.- Birdsnest coral (E)

Family : Acroporidae

Acropora spp.- Table coral (E)Montipora spp.- Velvet coral (E)Astreopora spp.

Family : Agriciidae

Pavona spp.Leptoseris spp.Pachyseris speciosa

Family : Siderastreidae

Conscinaraea spp.

Family : Fungiidae- Mushroom Coral (E)

Cycloseri spp.Fungia spp.Herpolitha limax- Tongue coral (E)Polyphyllila talpina- Slipper coral/Sea mole coral (E)Sandalolitha robustaZoopilus echinatusDiaseris fragilisDiaseris distorta

59Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family : Faviidae

Favia spp.Favites spp.- Pineapple coral/Honeycomb coral (E)Montastrea spp.Cyphastrea chalcidicum

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Cyphastrea serailiaOulophyllia crispaPlatygyra spp.- Brain coral (E)Leptoria phrygia- Brain coral (E)Diploastrea helioporaEchinopora lamellosaClesiastrea versiporaGoniastrea spp.

Family : Merulinidae

Hydnophora spp.- Horn Coral (E)Merulina spp.- Cabbage Coral (E)

Family : Mussidae

Symphyllia spp.Labophyllia spp.Labophyllia hemprichiiAcanthastrea spp.

Family : Pectiniidae

Echinophyllia spp.Pectinia spp.- Carnation coral (E)Mycedium elelphantotus

Family : Euphyllidae

Euphyllia spp.Plerogyra sinuosa spp.- Bubble corals/Bladder coral (E)Physogyra spp.- Bubble coral (E)Catalaphyllia jardinei- Comb Anemone/Elegant coral (E)

Family : Dendrophylliidae

Tubastrea spp.- Coral polyper/Sun coral (E)Dendrophyllia micrantha-Dendrophyllia peltataTurbinaria spp.- Turban coral/Cup coral (E)Heteropsammia cochleaBalanophyllia spp.

60Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family : Poritidae

Porites spp.- Pore coral (E)Goniopora stokesi- Ball coral (E)Goniopora fruticosaGoniopora astreata

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Class : Hydrozoa

Family : Milleporidae

Millepora spp.- Fire corals (E)

Family : Stylasteriidae

Distichopra violacea- Scarlet Corals (E)Stylaster spp.- Lace coral (E)

Order : Antipathria

All species- Black coral (E)

Order : Ceriatharia

All species- Tube Anemones, Burrowing Anemones (E)

Order : Alcyonacea

All species- Soft corals (E)

Family : Ellisellidae

All species- Sea whips (E)

Order : Gorgonacea

All species- sea Fans (E)

Phylum : Annelida

Family : Sabellidae

Sabellestarte spp.- Fan Worms/Tube Worms (E)

Family : Serpulidae

Spirobranchus spp.- Feather/Christmas tree worms (E)

Phylum : Mollusca

Bulimus inconspicuaPaludomus chilinoidesPaludomus transchauricus nasuts

61Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Paludomus bicinctusPaludomus decussatesPaludomus nigricansPaludomus regalisPaludomus sulcatusPaludomus loricatusThysanota elegansEuplecta binoyaensisEuplecta collettiEuplecta gardeneriEuplecta isabellinaEuplecta prestoniRatnadvipia karuRavana politissimaMacrochlamys neapsMacrochlamys woodianaGlesula veruinaCorilla beddomeaeJaponia vescaLeptopomoides poecilusTortulosa decoraTortulosa marginataPaludomus neritoidesPaludomus solidusPaludomus palustrisTibia insulaeCharonia tritonis- Tritons Trumpet (E)Strombus listeri- Listers Conch (E)Lambis lambis- Common spider Conch (E)Lambis chiragra- Chiragra spider Conch (E)Cypraea tigris- Tiger Cowire (E)Cypraea talpa- Mole Cowire (E)Cypraea mappa- Map Corwire (E)Cypraea argus- Eyed Cowire (E)Cypraecassis rufa- Bull Mouth Helmet (E)Cassis cornutus- Horned Helmet (E)Chicoreus palmarosae- Rose Frond Murex, Palmrose murex/RoseBranch murex (E)

Order : Nudibranchia

Hexabranchus spp.- Spanish Dancer Sea Slugs (E)

Class : Bivalvia

Tridachna spp.- Tridachna Giant Clams/Giant Clam (E)

62Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameCommon Names(English-E, Sinhala-S, Tamil - T)

Class : Cephalopoda

Sub Class : Nautiloidea

Nautilus spp.- Nautilus (E)

Sub Class : Coleoidea

Family : Argonautidae

Argonauta spp.- Paper Nautilus/Argonaut (E)

Phylum : Echinodermata

Class : Echinoidea

Family : Echinometridae

Heterocentrotusmammillatus- Slate pencil Urchin, Red slate pencilUrchin (E)

Class : Holothuroidea

Family : Cucumariidae

Pseudocolochirus spp.- Royal Sea Cucumber (E)

63Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

SCHEDULE VIII(Section 42)

List of Plants that are protected

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

Bryophytes

Family: SphagnaceasSphagnum ceylonicumSphagnummoss (E)

Ferns and Fern allies

Family: EquisetaceaeEquisetum debile

Family: IsoetaceaeIsoetes coromandelina

Family: LycopodiaceaeHuperzia hamiltoniiHuperzia phlegmariaMaha-hedaya (s)Huperzia pinifoliaHuperzia ceylanicaHuperzia phyllanthaHuperzia pulchemimaHuperzia serrataHuperzia squarrosaKuda-hedeya (S)Huperzia subulifoliaHuperzia vemicosaLycopodiella carolinianaLycopodium japonicumLycopodium wightianum

Family: PsilotaceaPsilotum udum

Family: SelaginellaceaSelaginella calostachyaSelaginella cochleataSelaginella praetermissaSelaginella wightii

64Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family: PterodaceaActiniopteris radiataCheilanthes thwaitesiiIdiopteris hookerianaPellaea boiviniPellaea falcataPteris argyraeaPteris confusaPteris GongalensisPteris praetermissaPteris reptans

Family: AspleniaceaAsplenium disjunctumAsplenium longipesAsplenium nitidumAsplenium obscurumAsplenium pellucidum

Family: Cyatheaceae (all species)Cyathea HookeriCyathea sinuataTree Fern (E) Miman Gas (S)Cyathea crinitaTree Fern (E) Miman Gas (S)Cyathea gigantesTree Fern (E) Miman Gas (S)Cyathea walkerarTree Fern (E) Miman Gas (S)

Family: DennstaedtiaceaeMicrolepia majusculaLindsaea repens var. pectinata

Family: DryopteridaceaePolystichum anomalumPteridrys zeylanicaTectaria thwaitesii

Family: WoodsiaceaeDeparia PloyrhizosDeparia zeylanicaDiplazium cognatumDiplazium paradoxum

Family: GrammitidaceaeChrysogrammitis glandulosaCtenopteris repandulaCtenoperis thwaitiesiiGrammitis walliiScleroglossum sulcatumXiphopteris cornigera

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

65Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family: HymenophyllaceaeCrepidomanes bilabiatumCrepidomanes intramarginaleCrepidomanes kurziiDidymoglossum exiguumDidymoglossum walliiGonocormus saxifragoidesMicrogonium motleyiMicrotrichomanes nitidulumPleuromanes pallidum

Family: LomariopsidaceaeBolbitis appendiculataTeratophyllum aculeatum

Family: MarattiaceaeMarattia fraxinea

Family: OphiogiossaceaeBotrychium daucifoliumBotrychium lanuginosumHelminthostachys zeylanicaKemkok-varalla (S)Ophioglossum costatumOphioglossum gramineumOphioglossum nudicauleOphioglossum pendulumPati-beru(S)Ophioglossum petiolatumOphioglossum reticulatum

Family: ThelypteridaceaeAmauroplta hakgalensisAmpelopteris proliferaChristella meeboldiiChristella subpubescensChristella zeylanicePronephrium gardneriSphaerostephanos subtruncatusThelypteris confluensTrigonospora angustifronsTrigonospora calcarataTrigonospora ciliataTrigonospora glandulosaTrigonospora obtursilobaTrigonospora zeylanica

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

66Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

Family: OsmundaceaeOsmunda collina

Family: PolypodiaceaeBelvisia mucronataLeptochilus decurrensMicrosorum insignePleopeltis lanceolataGymnosperms

Family: Cycadaceae (all species)Cycas nathorstiiMadu(S)Cycas zeylanicaMahaMadu(S)

AngiospermsFamily: AcanthaceaeAndrographis macrobotrysBarleria nitidaBarleria nutansBarleria vestitaBarleria lanceataGymnostachyum hirsutumGymnostachyum thwaitesiiStrobilanthes caudataNelu(S)Strobilanthes gardnerianaNelu(S)Strobilanthes nigrescensNelu(S)Strobilanthes nockiiNelu(S)Strobilanthes punctataNelu(S)Strobilanthes rhytispermaNelu(S)Strobilanthes stenodonNelu(S)Strobilanthes thwaitesiiNelu(S)Strobilanthes zeylanicaNelu(S)Strobilanthes arnottianaNelu(S)Strobilanthes deflexaNelu(S)Strobilanthes hypericoidesNelu(S)Strobilanthes pentandraNelu(S)Strobilanthes rhamnifoliaNelu(S)

Family: AmaranthaceaeAchyranthes bidentataAchyranthes diandraCentrostachys aquaticaCyathula ceylanica

67Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family: AnacardiaceaeSemecarpus mooniiBadulla(S)Semecarpus obovataBadulla(S)Semecarpus parvifoliaBadulla(S)Semecarpus pseudo-emarginataBadulla(S)

Family: AncistrocladaceaeAncistrocladus hamatusGona wel(S)

Family: AnnonaceaeAlphonsea hortensisAlphonsea zeylanicaAnaxagorea luzonensisArtabotrys hexapetalusGoniothalamus thomsoniiGoniothalamus gardneriMiliusa zeylanicaOrophea polycarpaPhoenicanthus coriaceaKeku(S)Polyalthia mooniiPolyalthia persicaefoliaUvaria cordataXylopia nigricansHeen-kenda(S)

Family: AnthericaceaeChlorophytum heynei

Family: Apiaceae (Umbelliferae)Heracleum ceylanicumPeucedanum ceylanicumSanicula elata

Family: ApocynaceaeAnodendron rhinosporumCleghornia acuminataPetchea ceylanicaKukul-kaduru,Wal-kaduru,Wasa-kaduru(S)Rauvolfia serpentinaEkaweriya,RatEkaweriya,Nakuli(S)Vallaris solanaceaWrightia flavido-rosea

See-vindai(T)

Chivanampelpodi,Covannaamilpori (T)

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

68Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

Family: AponogetonaceaeAponogeton jacobseniiKekatiya (S)Aponogeton rigidifoliusKekatiya,Kokati (S)

Family : ApostasiaceaeApostasia wallichii

Family: AraceaeArisaema constrictumCryptocoryne albaAthu-udyan (S)Cryptocoryne bogneriAthu-udyan (S)Cryptocoryne thwaitesiiAthu-udyan (S)Cryptocoryne walkeriAthu-udyan (S)Lagenandra bogneriWana-ketala (S)Lagenandra jacobseniiketala (S)Lagenandra koenigiiketala (S)Lagenandra lancifoliaAnoda (S)Lagenandra praetermissaVethala (S)Lagenandra thwaitesiiketala (S)Lagenandra erosaketala (S)Rhaphidophora decursivaDhada-kehel (S)Wel kohila (S)Rhaphidophora pertusaNil-walla,Nil-wella (S)Typhonium flagelliformePanu-ala (S)Pothos remotiflorus

Family: AraliaceaePolyscias acuminata

Family: Arecaceae (Palmae)Areca concinnaLen-teri(S)Loxococcus rupicolaDotalu (S)Oncosperma fasciculatumKatu-kitul (S)Calamus delicatulusNara wel (S)Calamus digitatusKukulu wel (S)Calamus ovoideusSudu wewal,Tambutu wel,Thudarena (S)Calaums pachystemonusKukulu wel(S)Calaums radiatusKukulu wel (S)Calaums rivalisEla wel, ElaCalamus zeylanicusKaha wewal (S)Tambutu wel(S)Nypa fruticansGin-pol(S)

69Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family: AsclepiadaceaeBidaria cuspidataBrachystelma lankanaPathan-Ala(S)Caralluma adscendensCaralluma umbellataCeropegia candelabrumWel-mottu(S)Ceropegia elegansCeropegia parvifloraCeropegia taprobanicaCeropegia thwaitesiiCosmostigma racemosumCynanchum alatumDischidia nummulariaGymnema rotundatumHeterostemma tanjorenseHoya ovalifoliaHoya paucifloraHeen-aramessa (S)Marsdenia tenacissimaMuruwa-dul,Muruwa (S)Oxystelma esculentumUsepale(S)Toxocarpus kleiniiTylophora fasciculataTylophora multifloraTylophora paucifloraTylophora zeylanica

Family: Asteraceae (Compositae)Anaphalis fruticosaAnaphalis pelliculataAnaphalis thwaitesiiBlepharispermum petiolareBlumea angustifoliaBlumea auritaBlumea barbataBlumea crinitaBlumea lanceolariaGlossogyne bidensGynura hispidaGynura zeylanicaNotonia grandifloraNotonia walkeriSenecio gardneriSphaeranthus amaranthoidesVernonia ancepsVernonia pectiniformisVernonia thwaitesii

Mankalli(T)

Kulappalai (T)

Chiva-chararntai (T)

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

70Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family: BalanophoraceaeBalanophora fungosa

Family: BalsaminaceaeImpatiens acaulisImpatiens appendiculataImpatiens arnottiiImpatiens ciliifoliaImpatiens cornigeraImpatiens cuspidataImpatiens elongataImpatiens grandisImpatiens janthinaImpatiens leptopodaImpatiens leucanthaImpatiens linearisImpatiens macrophyllaGas-Kudalu (S)Impatiens oppositifoliaImpatiens repensGal-demata (S)Impatiens subcordataImpatiens taprobanicaImpatiens thwaitesiiImpatiens truncataImpatiens walkeri

Family: BegoniaceaeBegonia dipetalaBegonia subpeltataBegonia teneraBim-hakambala (S)

Family: BoraginaceaeCordia subcordataHeliortropium supinumRotula aquatica

Family: BurmanniaceaeBurmannia championiiThismia gardneriana

Family: CampanulaceaeCampanula canescensCampanula fulgens

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

71Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family: CapparaceaeCadaba fruticosaVili(T)Capparis divaricataWellangiriya (S)Capparis floribundaCapparis mooniRudanti (S)Capparis teneraWellangiriya (S)Cleome chelidoniiWal-aba (S)

Family: CaryophyllaceaeCerastium fontanumStellaria pauciflora

Family: CelastraceaeCassine congylosCelastrus paniculatusDuhundu (S)Euonymus thwaitesiiGlyptopetalum zeylanicumKokoona zeylanicaKokoon (S)Maytenus fruticosa

Family: Clusiaceae (Guttiferae)Calophyllum calabeGuru-kina,Hinkina (S)Calophyllum bracteatumWalu-kina (S)Calophyllum cordato-oblongumKalu-kina (S)Calophyllum cuneifoliumKina (S)Calophyllum mooniiDomba-kina (S)Calophyllum thwaitesiiBatu-kina (S)Calophyllum tomentosumTelkina (S)Calophyllum trapezifoliumKina (S)Calophyllum walkeriKina (S)Calophyllum zeylanicumKina (S)Garcinia hermoniiGarcinia terpnophyllaKokatiya (S)Garcinia thwaitesiiGarcinia zeylanicaMesua stylosa

Family: CombretaceaeLuminitzera littorea

Family: CommelinaceaeCyanotis obtusa

Family: ConnaraceaeEllipanthus unifoliatus

Torikei (T)

Ponogu (T)

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

72Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family: ConvolvulaceaeArgyreia choisyanaArgyreia hancorniaefoliaArgyreia pomacea

Argyreia splindensBonamia semidigynaBu-wasa-thel-kola (S)Ipomoea copticaIpomoea jucundaIpomoea staphylinaIpomoea wightii

Family: CornaceaeMastixia congylosMastixia montanaMastixia nimalii

Family: CucurbitaceaeMukia leiospermaKedrostis foetidissima

Family: CyperaceaeBaeothryon subcapitatumCarex breviscapaCarex taprobanensisCyperus articulatusCyperus cephalotesEleocharis confervoidesEleocharis lankanaFimbristylis monticolaFimbristylis zeylanicaHypolytrum longirostreMapania immersaMapania zeylanicaMariscus compactusPycreus stramineusRhynchospora gracillimaScirpodendron ghaeriHin-keyiya (S)Scleria pilosa BoeckelerTricostularia undulata

Family: DilleniaceaeAcrotrema dissectumAcrotrema lyratumBinberu (S)Acrotrema thwaitesiiSchumacheria alnifolia

Unamkodhy (T)

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

73Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family: DioscoreaceaeDioscorea koyamaeGonala, kahata-gonala, kirigonala (S).Dioscorea trimeniiDahaiya-ala(S)Trichopus zeylanicus

Family: DipterocarpaceaeBalanocarpus brevipetiolarisDunmala (S)Balanocarpus kitulgallensisDipterocarpus glandulosusDorana (S)Dipterocarpus insignisDoona congestifloraTiniya (S)Doona gardneriRatu-dun(S)KoongilliMaram (T)

Doona macrophyllaMaha-beraliya,Honda_beraliya,Kana-beraliya (S)Doona nervosaKotikan (S)

Doona oblongaDoona ovalifoliaPini-beraliya (S)Doona trapezifoliaYakhalu-dun (S)Doona venulosaBeraliya (S)Doona zeylanicaDun (S)Hopea cordifoliaUva-mendora,Mendora (S)Hopea discolorPeely-dun,Rata-dun (S)Hopea modestaPini-beraliya (S)Shorea dyeriYakhalu-dun (S)Shorea hulaniddaHulan-idda (S)Shorea lissophyllaMalmora (S)Shorea oblongifoliaShorea pallescensRatu-dun (S)Shorea stipularisNawadun,Nawada, Hulan (S)Stemonoporus spp.All speciesbelonging tostemonoporus genusSunaptea scabriusculaVatica affinis

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

Koongili (T)

74Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Vatica lewisianaVatica obscuraTumpalai(T)

Vatica paludosa

Family: EbenaceaeDiospyros acuminataDiospyros acutaDiospyros albifloraDiospyros atrataDiospyros attenuataKadumberiya (S)Diospyros chaetocarpaKalumediriya (S)Diospyros crumenataDiospyros ebenoidesKaluhabaraliya (S) Irumpalai(T)Diospyros hirsutaDiospyros koenigiiDiospyros melanoxylonKadumberiya (S)Diospyros montanaKatukanni,Mulkarunkali,Va-kkana (T)Diospyros mooniiKaluwella,Kadumberiya (S)Diospyros nummulariifoliaDiospyros oblongifoliaDiospyros oppositifoliaDiospyros pemadasai JayasuriyaDiospyros quaesitaKalumederiya (S)Diospyros rheophyticaDiospyros thwaitesiiDiospyros trichophyllaDiospyros walkeriKadumberiya,Kaluwelle (S)

Family : ElaeocarpaceaeElaeocarpus montanusGal-Veralu (S)Elaeocarpus zeylanicus

Family : EricaceaeRhododendron arboreumzeylanicummaha rath mal (S)

Family : EriocaulaceaeEriocaulon collinumKokmota (S)Eriocaulon fluviatileKokmota (S)Eriocaulon longicuspeKokmota (S)Eriocaulon philippo-coburgiKokmota (S)Eriocaulon walkeriKokmota (S)

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

75Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family : Euphorbiaceae (see Phyllanthaceae and Putranjivaceae)Chaetocarpus pubescensChrozophora plicataCleidion nitidumCleidion spiciflorumOkuru (S)Croton mooniiDalechampia indicaEuphorbia cristataTrigonostemon diplopetalus

Family : Fabaceae (Leguminosae)Acacia ferrugineaAdenanthera bicolorAlbizia amaraBauhinia scandensCassia italicaCassia sennaCaesalpinia cristaDiya-vavul-etiya (S)Caesalpinia digynaWekiri-mul (S)Caesalpinia hymenocarpaCrotalaria berteroanaCrotalaria linifoliaCrotalaria montanaCrotalaria mysorensisCrotalaria triquetraCrotalaria wightianaCrotalaria willdenowianaCrudia zeylanicaCynometra iripaDesmodium gangeticumDesmodium jucundumDesmodium zonatumDioclea javanicaDunbaria ferrugineaEleiotis monophyllosGalactia striataIndigofera constrictaIndigofera glabraIndigofera parvifloraIndigofera trifoliataIndigofera wightiiMucuna giganteaMucuna monospermaPericopsis moonianaRhynchosia acutissimaRhynchosia densiflora

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

76Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Rhynchosia nummulariaRhynchosia suaveolensSesbania sericeaSmithia confertaSophora violaceaSophora zeylanicaStrongylodon siderospermusTephrosia senticosaTephrosia spinosa

Family : FlacourtiaceaeChlorocarpa pentaschista AlstonMukulla,Patma -Gomma (S)

Family : GentianaceaeCrawfurdia championiiExacum axillareExacum petiolareExacum sessileExacum trinerviumExacum trinerviumBinara (S)Exacum walkeriSudu-binara (S)

Family : GeraniaceaeGeranium nepalense

Family : GesneriaceaeAeschynanthus ceylanicaChirita angustaChirita mooniiChirita walkeriChirita zeylanicaDidymocarpus floccosusDidymocarpus zeylanicusEpithema carnosum

Family : GoodeniaceaeScaevola plumieriHintakkada (S)

Family : HaloragidaceaeLaurembergia zeylanica

Family : HippocrateaceaeLoeseneriella arnottiana

Attuchankular (T)

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

77Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Loeseneriella macranthaDiyakirindiwel (S)Salacia oblongaSalacia reticulataKotala-himbutu,Himbutu wel (S)Salacia diandraSalacia chinensisHeen-himbutu (S)

Family : HyacinthaceaeDipcadi montanumDipcadi rupicola

Family : HydrocharitaceaeNechamandra alternifolia

Family : IcacinaceaePyrenacantha volubilis

Family : Lamiaceae (Labiatae)Anisochilus paniculatusColeus elongatusColeus inflatusColeus kanneliyensisLeucas longifoliaPlectranthus capillipesPlectranthus glabratusScutellaria robusta

Family : LauraceaeActinodaphne albifronsCassytha capillarisCinnamomum capparu-corondeKappuru -kurundu (S)Cinnamomum citriodorumPangiri -kurundu (S)Cinnamomum litseaefoliumKudu -kurundu (S)Cryptocarya membranacesGal mora (S)Litsea ligustrinaLitsea nemoralis

Family : LemnaceaeLemna gibba

Family : LentibulariaceaeUtricularia scandens

Chundan (T)

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

78Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family : LoranthaceaeBarathranthus mabaeoidesBarathranthus nodiflourusPilila (S)Dendrophthoe ligulataDendrophthoe lonchiphyllusDendrophthoe suborbicularisHelixanthera ensifoliaHelixanthera hookerianaMacrosolen albicaulisMacrosolen barlowiiScurrula cordifoliaTaxillus sclerophyllusTolypanthus gardneri

Family : MalvaceaeAbutilon pannosumCullenia ceylanicaCullenia rosayroanaDicellostyles axillarisJulostylis angustifoliaKirella (S)Pavonia procumbensThespesia lampasWalkapu (S)

Family : MelastomataceaeMedinilla cuneataMedinilla maculataMemecylon ellipticumMemecylon gracillimumMemecylon grandeDedi- kaha (S),Dodan -wenna (S)Memecylon leucanthemumMemecylon macrocarpumMemecylon orbiculareMemecylon ovoideumMemecylon phyllanthifoliumMemecylon revolutumMemecylon rotundatumSonerila cordifoliaSonerila firmaSonerila gardneriSonerila lanceolataSonerila pilosulaSonerila robustaSonerila tomentellaSonerila wightiana

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

Kavarachu (T)

79Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family : MenispermaceaeCoscinium fenestratumWeni-wel,Venivelgata,Pangwela (S)

Family : MenyanthaceaeNymphoides aurantiacaRenu - Olu (S)

Family : MonimiaceaeHortonia angustifoliaHortonia floribundaWawiya (S)Hortonia ovalifolia

Family : MoraceaeBroussonetia zeylanicaAlandus (S)Dorstenia indicaFicus costataFicus trimeniiKiripela (S)Maclura cochinchinensis

Family : MusaceaeMusa acuminataUnel,Gal kehel (S)Musa balbisianaEti kehel (S)

Family : MyristicaceaeMyristica ceylanicaMalaboda (S)Myristica dactyloidesMalaboda (S)

Family : MyrtaceaeEugenia amoenaEugenia cotinifoliaEugenia fulvaEugenia glabraEugenia mabaeoidesEugenia rivulorumEugenia rotundataEugenia rufo-fulvaEugenia terpnophyllaSyzygium assimileDamba (S)Syzygium cordifoliumWal-jambu (S)Syzygium cylindricumSyzygium fergusoniWal-karabus (S)Syzygium firmumWal-jambu (S)Syzygium garneriDamba (S)

Palmanikam (T)

Nir-nawal (T)

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

80Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Syzygium hemisphericumSyzygium lanceolatumSyzygium lewisiiSyzygium micranthumSyzygium oliganthumSyzygium operculatumdomba (S)Syzygium revolutumSyzygium sclerophyllumSyzygium spathulatumSyzygium turbinatumSyzygium umbrosumVali-damba,Hin-damba (S)Naval(T)

Family: NepanthaceaeNepenthes distillatoriaPitcherBandura wel (S)Plant (E)

Family : OleaceaeJasminum bignoniaceumOlea paniculata

Family : OrchidaceaeAll species belonging toOrchidaceae familyUdawediya (S)

Family : OrobanchaceaeAeginetia pedunculataLegocia aurantiacaChristisonia thwaitesii

Family : PhyllanthaceaeAntidesma thwaitesianumKarawela-kebella (S)Bridelia stipularisCleistanthus accuminatusMadara (S)Cleistanthus collinusGlochidion nemoralePhyllanthus cinereusPhyllanthus hakgalensisPhyllanthus heyneanusPhyllanthus rotundifoliusPhyllanthus zeylanicusSauropus assimilisSauropus retroversus

Family : PodostemaceaeFarmeria metzgerioides

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

81Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Polypleurum stylosumPolypleurum elongatumZeylanidium lichenoidesZeylanidium olivaceumZeylandidium subulatum

Family : PolygalaceaePolygala leptalea

Family : Portulacaceae]Portulaca wightiana

Family : ProteaceaeHelicia ceylanica

Family : PutranjivaceaeDrypetes lanceolataGal-weera (S)Putranjiva zeylanicaPelan (S)

Family : RhizophoraceaeCeriops decandra

Family : RosaceaeAlchemilla indicaSanguisorba indicum

Family : RubiaceaeByrsophyllum ellipticumCanthium macrocarpumCeriscoides turgidaDichilanthe zeylanicaDiplospora erythrosporaHedyotis evaniaHedyotis gardneriHedyotis inamoenaHedyotis quinquinerviaHedyotis rhinophyllaHedyotis srilankensisLasianthus rhizophyllusLasianthus thwaitesiiNargedia macrocarpaNeurocalyx gardneriOphiorrhiza PallidaPsychotria glanduliferaPsychotria longipetiolataPsychotria plurivenia

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

82Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

Psychotria stenophyllaSaprosma glomeratumSaprosma scabridumScyphiphora hydrophyllaceaScyphostachys pedunculatus

Family : RutaceaeAtalantia racemosaGlycosmis cyanocarpaNaringi crenulataWal-beli (S)Zanthoxylum caudatum

Family : SantalaceaeSantalum albumSudu-handun (S)

Family : SapindaceaeCardiospermum canescensDimocarpus gardneriLepisanthes simplocifolia

Family SapotaceaeMadhuca clavata JayasuriyaRitigala-Mi (S)Madhuca mooniiPalaquium canaliculatumElakirihembiliya (S)Palaquium thwaitesiiRatatiya (S)

Family : ScrophulariaceaeAdenosma subrepensLindernia viscosaVerbascum chinense

Family : SonneratiaceaeSonneratia apetala

Family : StemonaceaeStemona curtisii

Family : SterculiaceaeEriolaena hookerianaPentapetes phoeniceaBandu-vada (S)Pterygota thwaitesiiGalnawa,Etaritiva (S)Sterculia zeylanica

Sandanam (T)

Kavala,Kavili,Tondi (T)

83Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family : StylidiaceaeStylidium uliginosum

Family : SurianaceaeSuriana maritima

Family : SymphoremaceaeSymphorema involucratumKonda-Tekkali (T)

Family : SymplocaceaeSymplocos diversifoliaSymplocos elegansSymplocos kurgensis

Family : TaccaceaeTacca LeontopetaloidesGarandi-kidaram (S)

Family : TheaceaeGordonia speciosaMiriheeriya (S)

Family : ThymelaeaceaePhaleria capitata

Family : TiliaceaeCorchorus trilocularisTriumfetta glabra

Family : TriuridaceaeHyalisma janthinaSciaphila tenellaSciaphila secundiflora

Family : UrticaceaeElastostema acuminatumElastostema walkeraeLecanthus peduncularis

Family : VahliaceaeVahlia dichotoma

Family : ValerianaceaeValeriana moonii

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

84Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Family : VerbenaceaePremna divaricataPremna purpurascensPremna thwaitesiiMulla (S)Priva cordifoliaEnkami,Obeera (T)Svensonia hyderobadensisCurroo-

Family : ViolaceaeHybanthus ramosissimus

Family : ViscaceaeGinalloa spathulifoliaKorthalsella japonicaNotothixos floccosusViscum ramosissimumViscum monoicum

Family : ZingiberaceaeAlpinia faxAlpinia rufescensAmomum acuminatumAmomum benthamianumAmomum graminifoliumAmomum hypoleucumAmomum trichostachyumCurcuma albifloraHaran-kaha (S)..

Scientific NameEnglishSinhalaTamilNameNameName

poovanrooneer (T)

45Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)Act, No.22 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.