PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGEACT, No. 13 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st March, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 16.75Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 31, 2006

1Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

Short title.

2PL 00106611,150 (03/2006)

[Certified on 31st March, 2006]

L.D.O. 11/2006.

AN ACT TO IMPOSE AN ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE ON THE RELEVANT

TURNOVER OF ANY PERSON OR PARTNERSHIP IN RESPECT OF EVERY

QUARTER OF EVERY YEAR OF ASSESSMENT COMMENCING ON OR AFTERAPRIL 1, 2006 ; TO AMEND PART I OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF2004 ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Economic Service ChargeAct, No. 13 of 2006.

PART I

IMPOSITION OF AN ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE

2.(1) An Economic Service Charge (hereinafter referredto as the service charge) shall, subject to the provisions ofthis Act, be charged from every person and every partnershipfor every quarter of every year of assessment commencing onor after April, I, 2006 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as arelevant quarter) in respect of every part of the relevantturnover of such person or partnership for that relevantquarter, at the appropriate rate specified in the Schedule tothis Act:

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theservice charge shall not be charged from any person orpartnership for any relevant quarter, in circumstances whereinthe relevant turnover of such person or partnership for thatrelevant quarter does not exceed rupees ten million:

Provided that the service charge chargeable from anyperson or partnership for any relevant quarter shall in no caseexceed rupees fifteen million.

Imposition of anEconomicService Charge.

2Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

(3)In this section

(a)relevant turnover in relation to any person orpartnership and to any relevant quarter means theaggregate turnover for that relevant quarter of everytrade, business, profession or vocation carried on orexercised by such person or partnership, as the casemay be, in Sri Lanka whether directly or through anagent or more than one agent :

Provided that the relevant turnover for anyrelevant quarter shall not include the turnover forthat relevant quarter of any trade, business professionor vocation, the commercial operations of whichcommenced, whether by such person or partnershipor any other person or partnership, on a date whichfalls within the period of thirty six monthsimmediately preceding the first day of that relevantquarter.

For the purposes of the proviso the expressiontrade or business in relation to any person orpartnership shall not include any trade or businesswhich deals in the wholesale or retail of any goodsnot manufactured or produced by such person orpartnership.

(b)turnover in relation to any trade, business,profession or vocation and to any relevant quartermeans the total amount receivable, whether actuallyreceived or not, from every transaction entered intoin that relevant quarter in the course of such trade,business, profession or vocation carried on orexercised by such person or partnership, -

(a)after deducting therefrom

(i)any sum included in such total amountbeing a sum which represents the valueadded tax in respect of that transaction,provided that the person or partnership

3Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

who or which carries on or exercisessuch trade, business, profession orvocation is at the time of suchtransaction registered under section 10of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of2002;

(ii)any sum included in such total amountbeing the proceeds from the disposal ofany capital asset; and

(iii)the amount of any bad debt incurred bythat trade, business, profession orvocation during that relevant quarter,being an amount which had beenincluded in the relevant turnover of suchtrade, business, profession or vocationof that or any previous relevant quarter;and

(b)after adding thereto, any sum received duringthat relevant quarter on account of any baddebt written off or allowed in any previousquarter :

Provided that

(a)in the case of a bank, the receipts of such bankby way of, or on account of , interest, discounts,dividend, exchange, service charges,commissions, brokerage or any other incomederived by the bank in the course of itsbusiness shall be deemed to form part of theturnover of such bank; and

(b)in the case of a person carrying on insurancebusiness, insurance premia received, orreceivable, in respect of

4Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

(i)life insurance; and

(ii)insurance against damages ordestruction by strike, riot, civilcommotion, or acts of terrorism and paidinto the Consolidated Fund,

shall be deemed not to form part of the turnoverof such person.

3.(1) The amount of any service charge paid by anyperson for any relevant quarter shall be deducted from theincome tax if any, payable by that person for the year ofassessment of which that relevant quarter is a quarter(hereinafter referred to as the first mentioned year ofassessment).

(2) The amount of any service charge paid by anypartnership for any relevant quarter shall be apportionedamong the partners of such partnership in the ratio in whichsuch partners share the profits or losses of such partnershipfor the year of assessment of which that relevant quarter is aquarter. The amount of the service charge so apportioned toany partner, shall be deducted from the income tax, if anypayable by such partner for the year of assessment of whichthat relevant quarter is a quarter (hereinafter referred to as thefirst mentioned year of assessment).

(3) The balance, if any, of such service charge paid by anyperson, after its deduction in accordance with subsection (1)shall be deducted from the income tax payable by such personfor the year of assessment immediately succeeding the firstmentioned year of assessment (hereinafter referred to as thefirst succeeding year of assessment).

(4) The balance, if any, of any service charge apportionedto any partner in accordance with subsection (2), after itsdeduction in accordance with subsection (2), shall bededucted from the income tax payable by such partner for

Service charge tobe deductedfrom relevantincome tax.

5Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

the year of assessment immediately succeeding the first-mentioned year of assessment (hereinafter referred to as thefirst succeeding year of assessment).

(5) The residue, if any, of the balance referred to insubsection (3) or subsection (4), as the case may be, after itsdeduction in accordance with subsection (3) or subsection(4) as the case may be, shall be deducted from the income taxpayable by such person or such partner of such partnership,as the case may be, for the year of assessment immediatelysucceeding the first succeeding year of assessment (hereinafterreferred to as the second succeeding year of assessment).

(6) In no circumstances shall

(a)the aggregate deduction of the amount of the servicecharge paid by any person or paid by any partnershipand apportioned to any partner, as the case may be,from the income tax payable by such person or suchpartner of such partnership, as the case may be,exceed the amount of such service charge,

(b)the remaining portion, if any of the residue referredto in subsection(5) after its deduction in accordancewith subsection (5), be deducted from any incometax payable for any year of assessment succeedingthe second succeeding year of assessment.

4.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law,the remaining portion of the service charge referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of subsection (6) of section 3, shall not berefunded.

5.Every person and every partnership chargeable orlikely to be chargeable with the service charge for anyrelevant quarter shall, by communication in writingaddressed to the Commissioner General, give notice of suchchargeability or likely chargeability, before the fifteenth dayof the last month of that relevant quarter. Such communication

Remainingportion of theservice chargenot to berefunded

Notice ofchargeability

6Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

shall disclose the income tax file number or the personalidentification number as the case may be, assigned by theCommissioner-General, to such person or partnership.

6.The service charge which any person or partnership ischargeable with for any relevant quarter shall,notwithstanding that no assessment has been made on suchperson or partnership by an Assessor, be paid to theCommissioner-General on or before the twentieth day of themonth immediately succeeding the end of that relevantquarter.

7.Every person and partnership chargeable with theservice charge for any relevant quarter shall, whether or notrequired by an Assessor in that behalf, furnish to an Assessor,on or before the twentieth day of the month immediatelysucceeding the end of that relevant quarter, a return in suchform and containing such particulars as may be specified bythe Commissioner General, of his or its, as the case may berelevant turnover. The return shall also show the basis of thecalculation of the service charge and other details, if anyspecified by the Commissioner General under this section.

8.Every person and partnership chargeable with theservice charge shall maintain a record of the transactions ofevery trade, business, profession or vocation carried on orexercised by such person or partnership, in such manner aswould facilitate the reconciliation of the return of relevantturnover furnished by such person or partnership undersection 7 of this Act, with such record.

9.Where in the opinion of an Assessor, any person orpartnership who or which being chargeable with the servicecharge for any relevant quarter -

(a)has not paid the service charge: or

(b)has paid an amount less than the proper amountwhich such person or such partnership ought to havepaid as service charge for such relevant quarter,

Date on whichservice charge isto be paid.

Furnishing ofreturns.

Maintenance ofrecords.

Assessor to makeassessment incertain cases.

7Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

such Assessor may, assess the amount of the service chargewhich, in his opinion, ought to have been paid by such personor partnership as the service charge for that relevant quarterand shall by notice in writing require such person orpartnership to forthwith pay

(i)the amount of the service charge so assessed for thatrelevant quarter, if that person or that partnershiphas not paid any service charge for that relevantquarter; or

(ii)the difference between the amount of the servicecharge so assessed and the amount of the servicecharge actually paid by such person or partnershipfor that relevant quarter, if such person has paidany amount as service charge for that relevantquarter.

10.(1) Where any service charge or any part of suchservice charge for any relevant quarter is not paid on or beforethe date specified in section 6 for the payment of such servicecharge, such instatement or part thereof shall be deemed tobe in default.

(2) Where the service charge or part thereof which is indefault is payable, -

(a)by an individual;

(b)by a partnership;

(c)by a company or body of persons,.

then such individual, every partner of such partnership orevery director or other principal officer of such company orbody of persons as the case may be, shall be deemed to be adefaulter for the purposes of this Act.

Service chargenot paid deemedto be in default

8Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

11.The provisions of Chapter XXIII, XXIV, XXV, XXVI,XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX and XXXI of the Inland RevenueAct, relating respectively to Appeals, Finality of Assessmentsand Penalty for Incorrect Returns, Tax in Default and SumsAdded thereto, Recovery of Tax, Miscellaneous Matters,Repayment, Penalties and Offences, Administration andGeneral matters shall mutatis mutandis, apply respectivelyto Appeals, Finality of Assessments and Penalty for IncorrectReturns, Service Charge in Default and Sums Added Thereto,Recovery of Service Charge, Miscellaneous Matters,Repayment, Penalties and Offences, Administration andGeneral matters under this Act.

12.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed orin respect of which regulations are required or authorized tobe made under this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality ofthe powers conferred by subjection (1), the Minister maymake regulations-

(a)specifying the guidelines relating to theascertainment of turnover for the purposes ofsection 2 in relation to any case to which the provisoto the definition of the expression turnover inthat section does not apply; and

(b)specifying the instances as to whether or not thenon-chargeability referred to in subsection (2) ofsection 2, in the circumstances referred to in thatsubsection shall apply.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication, or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

Certainprovisions of theInland RevenueAct to apply

Regulations

9Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

(4) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, beplaced before Parliament for approval. Every regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

13.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

agent, allowance for depreciation and Assessor shallhave the respective meanings assigned to them inthe Inland Revenue Act;

BOI enterprise in relation to any relevant quarter meansany enterprise in relation to which the exemption ofits profits and income from income tax, in terms ofany agreement entered into by the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka with such enterprise undersection 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri LankaLaw, No. 4 of 1978, subsists during the whole or anypart of that relevant quarter ;

body of persons, business, capital asset,Commissioner General, and company shall havethe respective meanings assigned to them in theInland Revenue Act ;

distributor in relation to any manufacturer or producerof any goods in Sri Lanka means any person orpartnership appointed by such manufacturer orproducer for the sale in the wholesale market, ofsuch goods, at such price as may be determined bysuch manufacturer or producer, from time totime ;

Interpretation.

10Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

Inland Revenue Act means the Inland RevenueAct, No.10 of 2006 or any successor theretoproviding for the taxation of income ;

partnership, proceeds and profits or income shallhave the respective meanings assigned to them inthe Inland Revenue Act ;

person includes a company or a body of persons, butdoes not include

(a)any registered society, within the meaning ofthe Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of1972:

(b)any non-resident person carrying on businessas an owner or charterer of an aircraft or ship:

quarter in relation to any year of assessment means theperiod of three months commencing on the first dayrespectively of April, July, October or January ofthat year of assessment ; and

statutory income, taxable income, trade and yearsof assessment shall have the respective meaningsassigned to them in the Inland Revenue Act.

PART II

AMENDMENT OF PART I OF THE FINANCEACT, NO. 11 OF 2004

14.Part I of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 2004 is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) of section 2 thereof, by thesubstitution for the words on or after April 1, 2004(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the relevantyear of assessment) of the words on or after April1, 2004 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as therelevant year of assessment) and ending on March31, 2006,;

Amendment ofPart I of Act, No.11 of 2004.

11Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 7 thereof,(inserted by Act, No. 7 of 2005) by the substitutionfor the words and figures item (2) of the words andfigures item (3).

15.It is hereby declared for the avoidance of doubts,that the provisions of Part I of the Finance Act No. 11 of 2004shall not apply to the levy of the Economic Service Chargefrom any person or partnership in respect of any relevant yearof assessment commencing on or after April 1, 2006.

16.Where there is any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

SCHEDULE(Section 2)

Part of the LiableRate of the ServiceTurnoverCharge Applicableto that Part

1. Such part of the relevant turnoveras consists of the turnover fromany trade, business, profession orvocation the profits and incomefrom which are exempt fromincome tax.

2. Such part of the relevant turnoveras consists of the turnover fromany trade, business, profession orvocation of any enterprise whichhas entered into an agreementunder the Board of Investment ofSri Lanka Law, NO. 4 of 1978.

(i) being the relevant turnoverduring the period for whichthe profits and income of suchenterprise are exempt fromincome tax under suchagreement.

(ii) being the relevant turnoverduring the period for whichthe profits and income of such

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Part I of theFinance ActNo.11 of 2004not to apply

0.25 percentum

0.50 percentum

0.25 percentum

12Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

enterprise are taxable at the rateequal to a rate specified in theFifth Schedule to the InlandRevenue Act

3. Such part of the relevant turnoveras consists of the turnover fromany trade, business, profession orvocation the profits and incomefrom which are chargeable withincome tax at any rate specifiedin the Fifth Schedule to theInland Revenue Act other than initem 28 of that schedule

4. Such part of the relevant turnoveras consists of the turnover fromany trade, business, profession orvocation the profits and incomefrom which are chargeable withincome tax at any rate other thanany rate specified in the FifthSchedule to the Inland RevenueAct.

5. Such part of the relevant turnoveras consists of the turnover fromany trade or business which dealsin the wholesale (other than as adistributor) or retail of such goods,not manufactured or produced bythe dealer.

6. Such part of the relevant turnoveras consists of the turnover fromthe primary conversion of anyproduce of any tea, rubber orcoconut plantation other than anysuch conversion which produces anyalcoholic beverage.

7. Such part of the relevant turnoveras consists of the turnover from anytrade, or business of a distributor

8. Such part of the relevant turnoveras consists of the turnover from anytrade or business of carrying on anyactivity referred to in item 28 of theFifth Schedule to the InlandRevenue Act.

0.5 percentum

1.0 percentum

0.5 percentum

0.5 percentum

0.1 percentum

1.00 percentum

13Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.