PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 25.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 28, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 25th of October, 2022]

POWERS OF ATTORNEY (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 28 OF 2022

1Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

L.D.-O. 35/2016

AN ACT TO AMEND THE POWERS OF ATTORNEY ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 122)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Powers of Attorney(Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 2022.

2. Section 2 of the Powers of Attorney Ordinance(Chapter 122) (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended

(1)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionpower of attorney and the substitution thereforof the following definition: -

power of attorney means any written poweror authority other than that given to anattorney at law for the purpose of appearingas an attorney at law on behalf of suchperson, given by one person to another, torepresent him, to perform any work, do anyact, or carry on any trade or business, and -

(a)if it is executed in Sri Lanka, executedbefore two witnesses and attested bya notary public; or

(b)if it is executed outside Sri Lanka,executed before two witnesses and anAmbassador, or a High Commissioner,or a Diplomatic Officer or a ConsularOfficer within the meaning of theConsular Functions Act, No. 4 of 1981or a person who is authorized to attestsuch power of attorney according tothe law of that country;

Short title

Amendment ofsection 2 ofChapter 122

[Certified on 25th of October, 2022]

2Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

(2)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionRegistrar General and the substitution thereforof the following definition: -

Registrar General includes the RegistrarGeneral of Title, a Senior Deputy RegistrarGeneral, a Deputy Registrar General, anAssistant Registrar General and any personwho for the time being is lawfully dischargingthe duties of the Registrar General, theRegistrar General of Title, the Senior DeputyRegistrar General, the Deputy RegistrarGeneral or the Assistant Registrar General..

3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor:-

3. (1) (a) Every power of attorneyexecuted in Sri Lanka or any other countryshall be registered with the Registrar General.

(b) Every power of attorney holder(hereinafter referred to as the attorney) shallsubmit his power of attorney for registration, ifit is executed in Sri Lanka within one monthand if it is executed outside Sri Lanka withinthree months, from the date of execution of thepower of attorney together with

(i) a copy thereof certified by a notarypublic to be a true copy; and

(ii) an affidavit made as specified inSchedule I hereto.

Replacement ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment

Registrationof Power ofAttorney

3Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

(2) The Registrar General shall, upon beingsatisfied as to the correctness of the power ofattorney referred to in subsection (1), registerthe power of attorney and file such certifiedcopy and shall endorse upon such certifiedcopy and the original power of attorney, theregistration number and the date thereof,together with a reference to the volume andfolio wherein such registration is recorded andshall return the original power of attorney tothe person producing the same.

(3) Such registration shall be recorded in abook maintained by the Registrar Generalwhich is to be kept in the form specified in theSchedule II hereto..

4. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 3 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D, of thatenactment: -

3A. (1) A power of attorney granted to beused for the purpose of a transaction whichfalls within the scope of section 2 of thePrevention of Frauds Ordinance (Chapter 70)shall be executed subject to the provisionsspecified in subsection (2) or (3), as the casemay be.

(2) If a power of attorney specified insubsection (1) is executed in Sri Lanka, it shall -

Insertion of newsections 3A, 3B,3C and 3D, in theprincipalenactment

Power ofAttorneygranted to beused for thepurpose of atransactionfalling withinthe scope ofsection 2 ofthePrevention ofFraudsOrdinance tocomply withcertainrequirements

4Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

(a)be duly attested by a notary publicin accordance with the NotariesOrdinance (Chapter 107) and thePrevention of Frauds Ordinance;

(b)contain a description of the land orland parcel as the case may be, withmetes and bounds, and the extent,in the case of a land or land parcel;

(c)contain a description of thecondominium parcel with otherelements by which it can beidentified, and a description of thewhole land where the condominiumparcel cannot be identified in thecase of a condominium property;

(d)contain a reference to the volumeand the folio in which the land orland parcel or condominium parcel,relating to the transaction isregistered in the case of a land orland parcel or condominium parcelwith prior registration;

(e)bear the left or right thumbimpression of the grantor and whereboth thumbs of the grantor aremissing, the impression of any otherfinger from either the left or the righthand of the grantor, in addition tohis signature and where both hishands are missing, he shall place histoe impression, in the presence ofthe notary public and the witnesses;and

5Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

(f)be accompanied with a copy of thebio page of the passport, NationalIdentity Card or driving license ofthe grantor and attorney of suchpower of attorney certified by thenotary public.

(3) If a power of attorney specified insubsection (1) is executed outside Sri Lanka, itshall -

(a)be duly executed before a personauthorized under section 2 of thisAct;

(b)contain a description of the land orland parcel as the case may be withmetes and bounds and the extent inthe case of a land or land parcel;

(c)contain a description of thecondominium parcel with otherelements by which it can beidentified, and a description of thewhole land where the condominiumparcel cannot be identified in thecase of a condominium property;

(d)contain a reference to the volumeand folio in which the land or landparcel or condominium parcelrelating to the transaction, isregistered, in the case of a land orland parcel or condominium parcelwith prior registration; and

6Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

(e)be accompanied with a copy of thebio page of the passport of thegrantor signed by such grantor anda copy of the bio page of thepassport, National Identity Card ordriving license of the attorney ofsuch power of attorney certified bya notary public.

3B. (1) Every notary public who attests adeed or instrument in terms of the NotariesOrdinance in respect of a transaction referredto in section 3A of this Act, shall

(a)examine the relevant volumes andfolios in the Registrar Generalsdepartment;

(b)be satisfied that the power ofattorney has not been revoked orcancelled and shall state such factin his attestation; and

(c)retain the copies of the NationalIdentity Card or the driving licenseor the bio page of the passport, asthe case may be, of the grantor andthe attorney, and a copy of the powerof attorney.

(2) For the avoidance of doubt, it is declaredthat it shall be sufficient for the notary publicwho attests such deed or instrument to examinethe relevant volumes and the folios in theRegistrar Generals department in order todetermine whether such power of attorney hasbeen revoked or cancelled.

Notary toverifywhether thepower ofattorney hasbeen revokedor cancelledand to retaincopies ofcertaindocuments

7Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

3C. A power of attorney other than a powerof attorney executed by a State institution shallbe valid, only for a period of five years fromthe date of execution, unless the period ofvalidity of such power of attorney is specifiedin such power of attorney or until such powerof attorney is revoked or cancelled inaccordance with the provisions of section 4.

3D. A person other than a State institutionshall not execute an irrevocable power ofattorney..

5. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor: -

4. (1) Where the grantor of any power ofattorney wishes to revoke or cancel a power ofattorney or where the attorney of any power ofattorney does not wish to act under such powerof attorney, such grantor or attorney as the casemay be, shall

(a) notify the other party of suchintention;

(b) execute a notarially executeddocument declaring his intention ofrevoking or cancelling the power ofattorney or expressing his intentionnot to act under that power ofattorney, as the case may be; and

(c) submit such document referred toin paragraph (b) to the RegistrarGeneral, to register the same in therelevant volume and folio with crossreference to the volume and folio inwhich such power of attorney wasregistered.

Period ofvalidation ofa power ofattorney

Irrevocablepower ofattorney

Replacement ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactmentProcedureofcancellationorrevocationof a powerof attorney

8Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

(2) (a) If the grantor of any power of attorneyrequires to revoke or cancel his power ofattorney with immediate effect, until suchdocument referred to in paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) is executed and tendered to theRegistrar General, the grantor or his attorneyat law may notify his intention of revocationor cancellation to the Registrar General, by anotice in duplicate in the form specified inSchedule III:

Provided however, such notice shall be validonly for a period of three months from the dateof the notice.

(b) Upon the receipt of such a notice referredto in paragraph (a), the Registrar General, shallmake an endorsement of the intention of suchrevocation or cancellation in the relevantvolumes and the folios..

6. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words prescribed in theSchedule. of the words prescribed in Schedule II. .

7. The Schedule of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following Schedules are substitutedtherefor: -

[Section 3(1)]

SCHEDULE I

I (holder of National IdentityCard No. ...),of No. ..being a. do hereby sincerely, solemnly andtruly declare and affirm/swear and state as follows:-

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment

Replacement ofSchedule in theprincipalenactment

9Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

The foregoing affidavit havingbeen read over and explained tothe above named and havingunderstood the contents thereofsigned and affirmed/sworn to at.. on this ..day of .

(1)I am the deponent/affirmant above named.

(2)I declare/ affirm that (holder ofNational Identity Card No. .) ofNo. ..has executed a power of attorneybearing No. dated attestedby ..Notary Public, appointing me ashis/her attorney for the purpose mentioned therein.

(3)That the said power of attorney is genuine and still inforce and I believe that the grantor is alive. ..attorney

Before me

Justice of the Peace/Commissioner for Oaths

[sections 3(3) and 5]

SCHEDULE II

Serial No:

Date of Registration:

Name and address of the grantor:

Name and address of the attorney:

Date of power of attorney:

By whom the power of attorneyis produced for the registration:

Volume and Folio where thepower of attorney is registered:

Date and number of notariallyexecuted document of revocationor cancellation:

By whom notarially executeddocument of revocation orcancellation given:

Volume and Folio where notariallyexecuted document of revocation orcancellation is registered:

10Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

[section 4(2)]

SCHEDULE III

Registrar General,Registrar Generals Department,

Take notice under the Powers of Attorney Ordinance that I,. (name of the grantor) of..(address) intend to present to youfor the registration within three months from the date of thisnotice, an instrument cancelling the power of attorney registeredin the under the Day Book No. Volume . Folio.. of the register of the power ofattorney.

At . on this day of

Signature of the grantor or attorneyat law of the grantor

signed in the presence of -

1.Signature :-Full name :-NIC :-Address :-

2.Signature :-Full name :-NIC :-Address :-.

8.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in theprincipal enactment and in the provisions of this Act -

(a) every power of attorney executed prior to the date ofcommencement of this Act which has not beenregistered under the provisions of section 3 of theprincipal enactment and which has not been revokedor cancelled on or prior to the date of commencementof this Act, shall, within a period of six months fromthe date of commencement of this Act, be submittedfor registration to the Registrar General;

TransitionalProvisions

11Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

(b) every power of attorney executed prior to the date ofcommencement of this Act which has been registeredunder the provisions of section 3 of the principalenactment and has not been revoked or cancelled onor prior to the date of commencement of this Act,shall, continue to be valid and effectual until revokedor cancelled under section 4 of this Act;

(c) every power of attorney executed prior to the date ofcommencement of this Act which has been submittedfor registration to the Registrar General, and pendingregistration under the provisions of section 3 of theprincipal enactment on the date of commencementof this Act, shall be registered by the RegistrarGeneral.

(2) Every power of attorney referred to in paragraph (a) ofsubsection (1) which is not submitted for registration withinthe period specified in that paragraph shall be deemed to benull and void, with effect from the date of expiration of thatperiod.

9.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in thecase ofinconsistency

12Powers of Attorney (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.