PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL AUDIT ACT, No. 19 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th of July, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 48.00Postage : Rs. 105.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 20, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Short title anddate ofoperation.

[Certified on 17th of July, 2018]

L.D.O. 3/2015

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THEAUDIT SERVICE COMMISSION; THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF

THE NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE AND THE SRI LANKA STATE AUDITSERVICE; TO SPECIFY THE ROLE OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL OVER

PUBLIC FINANCE AND TO MAKE PROVISION FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the National Audit Act,No. 19 of 2018.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operationon such date as the President may appoint by Order publishedin the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

2.The provisions enshrined in Articles 153, 153A, 153B,153C, 153D, 153E, 153F, 153G, 153H and 154 of theConstitution, the provisions of this Act and any other writtenlaw, as may be applicable, shall apply to audits of auditeeentities and matters connected therewith.

PART I

SCOPE OF AUDITS CARRIED OUT BY THE AUDITOR-GENERAL

3.(1) The Auditor-General shall

(a)audit all income recevied to the ConsolidatedFund and all expenditure from theConsolidated Fund;

(b)ascertain whether the moneys shown in theaccounts of auditee entities as having been

Applicable lawpertaining toaudits.

Scope of auditin relation toauditee entities.

2National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Public to notifyAuditor General.

Applicableauditingstandards.

disbursed were legally available for andapplicable to, the services or purposes towhich they have been applied for or chargedwith;

(c)determine whether the expenditure conformsto the authority which governs it; and

(d)in each audit, examine income, expenditure,transactions and events.

(2) The scope of an audit carried out by the Auditor-General includes examining the accounts, finances, financialposition and prudent management of public finance andproperties of auditee entities.

(3) The Auditor General shall be responsible to Parliamentin carrying out the provisions of this Act.

4.Subject to the provisions of section 3, theAuditor-General may examine any matter relating to anauditee entity brought to his notice by any member of thepublic in writing along with substantial proof of the mattersasserted, and report thereon to Parliament.

5.(1) The Sri Lanka Auditing Standards determinedby the Auditing Standards Committee established under theSri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act, No.15of 1995 shall be applicable to audits undertaken by theNational Audit Office established under section 29.

(2) Where there are no auditing standards specified in theSri Lanka Auditing Standards for performance audits,environmental audits, technical audits and any other specialaudits, the Audit Service Commission may, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, specify the provisions of theInternational Standards of the Supreme Audit Institutionsdetermined by the International Organization of SupremeAudit Institutions which shall apply to such audits, withnecessary amendments to suit local requirements.

3National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Duties andfunctions of theAuditor-General.

PART II

POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL

6.(1) The Auditor-General or any person authorized byhim in carrying out an audit shall

(a)inspect accounts of any auditee entity includingtreasuries and initial or subsidiary accounts of suchauditee entities;

(b)require that any accounts, books, papers and otherdocuments which deal with or form the basis of oris otherwise relevant to the transactions to whichhis duties extend, shall be sent to such place as hemay appoint for his inspection;

(c)question or make such observations as he mayconsider necessary, from the Chief AccountingOfficer of the auditee entity and call for suchinformation as he may require for the preparationof any account or report;

(d)ensure that the set of financial statements presentedfor audit by the auditee entity

(i)is in accordance with the applicable financialreporting standards;

(ii)have been designed to present a true and fairview of the affairs of the auditee entity for theyear under review;

(iii) is consistent with the preceding year; and

(iv) includes any recommendations made by theAuditor-General in the previous year.

4National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Powers of theAuditor-Generalin carrying outan audit.

(2) The Auditor-General shall assist the Committee onPublic Accounts and the Committee on Public Enterprisesto carry out their functions more efficiently and effectively.The Auditor-General shall assist all other Committees ofParliament when such assistance is required.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) ofsection 3, the Minister in charge of any public corporation,business or other undertaking vested in the Governmentunder any written law and companies registered or deemedto be registered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 inwhich the Government or a public corporation or a localauthority holds fifty per centum or more of the shares of thatcompany directly or indirectly may, with the concurrence ofthe Minister assigned the subject of Finance and inconsultation with the Auditor-General, appoint a qualifiedauditor or auditors to audit the accounts of such auditeeentity. Where such appointment has been made by theMinister, the Auditor-General may, in writing, inform suchauditor or auditors that he proposes to utilise his or theirservices for the performance and discharge of the Auditor-Generals duties and functions in relation to such auditeeentity and thereupon such auditor or auditors shall act underthe direction and control of the Auditor-General.

7.(1) In addition to the powers and functions conferredon the Auditor-General under Article 154 (5) of theConstitution, the Auditor-General or any person authorizedby him may exercise the following powers in respect of anaudit of an auditee entity

(a)access or call for any written or electronic recordsor other information relating to the activities of anauditee entity;

(b)call any person whom the Auditor-General hasreasonable grounds to believe to be in possession

5National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

of information and documents, as he may considernecessary to carry on the functions under this Act,to obtain written or oral statements and require theproduction of any document, from any person, whomay be either in - service or otherwise;

(c)examine and make copies of or take extracts fromany written or electronic records and search forinformation whether or not in the custody of theauditee entity;

(d)after obtaining permission from the relevantMagistrates Court, examine and audit any account,transaction or activity of a financial institution, ofany person, where the Auditor-General has reasonto believe that money belonging to an auditee entityhas been fraudulently, irregularly or wrongfullypaid into such persons account;

(e)require any officer of financial institution toproduce any document or provide any informationrelating to an account, transaction, dealing oractivity of person referred to in paragraph (d) andto take copies of any document so produced, ifnecessary;

(f)obtain the views from the governing body of eachauditee entity, on the results of the audit carriedout by such officer;

(g)pay rewards and incentives out of the Audit Fund;and

(h)do all other matters connected or incidental theretoto achieve the purposes of this Act.

6National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Powers, dutiesand functions tobe solely carriedout by theAuditor-General.

(2) Any information relating to national security of SriLanka the disclosure of which is prejudicial, shall be auditedpersonally by the Auditor-General with the concurrence ofthe Minister assigned the subject of Defence.

(3) Every person shall comply with the provisions of thissection, and such compliance shall not be considered as aviolation of any written law pertaining to secrecy,confidentiality or non-disclosure.

(4) Where any person is called, by the Auditor-General orany person authorized by him, for the purposes of paragraph(b) of subsection (1) and such person is unable to appear inperson due to unavoidable circumstances, he may nominatewith the consent of the Auditor-General a person conversanton the subject to appear before the Auditor-General or anyother person authorized by him, on that behalf.

(5) In the performance and discharge of the duties andfunctions, the Auditor-General or any officer authorized byhim shall not be subject to interference or influence by anyperson or authority.

8.The Auditor-General shall himself exercise, performand discharge the following powers, duties and functions

(a)the appointment of a qualified auditor or aninstitution having technical, professional orscientific expertise under Article 154 (4) of theConstitution;

(b)reporting to Parliament on the performance anddischarge of his duties and functions under Article154 (6) of the Constitution;

(c)administering the Audit Fund.

7National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

9.(1) The members of the Audit Service Commission,any person appointed to any office under this Act or anyother person assisting any such person for the purpose ofcarrying out the provisions under this Act or a qualifiedauditor engaged by the Auditor-General for such purpose,except in the performance of his duties under this Act, shallnot disclose any information received by him in theperformance of his duties under this Act, and shall

(a)not be compelled by any person to disclose anyinformation except on a request of Parliament or byan Order of court or subject to paragraph (b) to giveeffect to the provisions of any written law;

(b)not disclose any information under any lawrequiring the disclosure of information without priorconsent given in writing of the relevant person orinstitution providing such information and untilthe report or statement prepared by the Auditor-General relating to such information has beenpresented in Parliament, as may be required; and

(c)not enter upon the duties of his office until he makesand subscribes an oath of secrecy as set out in theSchedule hereto. The members of the Audit ServiceCommission shall subscribe an oath of secrecybefore the Speaker of Parliament, while all otherpersons specified herein shall subscribe the saidoath before the Auditor-General.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1) of thissection, any such member or person or qualified auditorwho communicates any such matter to any person or suffersor permits any unauthorized person to have access to anybooks, papers or other records relating to any such matter,commits an offence.

Non-disclosureof information.

8National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Auditor-Generalto submit aReport toParliamentannually.

Summary Reportand AnnualDetailedManagementAudit Report.

Content of theAuditor-Generals Reportpertaining tocorporations andcompanies.

PART III

SUBMISSION OF REPORTS AND STATEMENTS BY THEAUDITOR-GENERAL

10.(1) The Auditor-General shall, after the closure ofeach financial year submit a report to Parliament, within thetime limits specified under written law, on the results of theaudits carried out by him during the year. The Auditor-General shall include in such report any observationexpressed by any auditee entity in regard to his findings.

(2) The submission of the report to Parliament in respectof a particular year shall be completed by the Auditor-Generalwithin the time limits specified under written law.

(3) The report under subsection (1) may be made availableby the Auditor-General through the official website of theNational Audit Office, after such report has been submittedto Parliament.

11.(1) The Auditor-General shall issue a SummaryReport within five months after the closure of each financialyear to an auditee entity in respect of any financial statementor any account submitted by such entity, other than an entityreferred to in section (12).

(2) The Auditor-General shall present an Annual DetailedManagement Audit Report to the governing body of eachauditee entity within the five months after the end of eachfinancial year with a copy each to the Minister to whom therespective auditee entity is assigned and the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance.

12.The Auditor-General shall, within three months ofthe receipt of the approved annual financial statement andother relevant documents and information of a publiccorporation or a company in which the Government or apublic corporation holds fifty per centum or more of theshares, present a report to the Chairman of the governing

9National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

body of such public corporation or company for publicationin its annual report, and such report shall state

(a)whether the relevant information and explanationshave been obtained reasonably, which in theopinion of the Auditor-General were necessary forthe purpose of the audit;

(b)whether the financial statements have been preparedin accordance with the Sri Lanka AccountingStandards as may be determined by the AuditingStandards Committee, or Sri Lanka Public SectorAccounting Standards, as the case may be, so as togive a true and fair view of the financial position ofthe entity and the financial performance and thecash flows thereof;

(c)whether the consolidated financial statements havebeen prepared in accordance with the Sri LankaAccounting Standards as may be determined bythe Auditing Standards Committee or Sri LankaPublic Sector Accounting Standards, as the casemay be, so as to give a true and fair view of thefinancial position of the entity and its financialperformance and the cash flows of such entity andof its subsidiaries and associates as may beapplicable;

(d)whether any member of the governing body of suchentity has any direct or indirect interest in anycontract entered into by such entity, and if so, thenature of such members interest and the Auditor-Generals own views and comments thereon;

(e)the reasons for expressing a qualified, disclaimer,adverse or similar audit opinion on the annualfinancial statements examined by the Auditor-General;

10National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Special Reports.

Submissions ofthe financialstatements of theGovernment tothe Auditor-General.

TriennialReports.

(f)whether the auditee entity has or has not compliedwith any applicable written law or other general orspecial directions issued by the governing body ofthe auditee entity;

(g)whether the auditee entity has performed accordingto its powers, functions and duties;

(h)whether the resources of the auditee entity had beenprocured and utilized economically, efficiently andeffectively within the time frames and in compliancewith the applicable laws; and

(i)any other matter the Auditor-General considersnecessary to achieve the purposes of the Act.

13.The Auditor-General shall report to Parliament onany audit carried out during any financial year and maymake such report publicly available through the officialwebsite of the National Audit Office and shall not publishthe report if he has or intends to provide any report,information, document, book, record or computer generatedtranscript obtained in the course of the audit to the lawenforcement authorities.

14.The Auditor-General shall table in Parliament theStatus Report of every auditee entity, within nine monthsafter the end of each period of three financial years. TheReport shall include the major deficiencies identified,recommendations made by him and preventive measurestaken by the auditee entity and the position thereon as at thesubmission of the report to the Parliament.

15.(1) The Secretary to the Treasury shall submit thefinancial statements of the Government to the Auditor-General not later than three months after the close of eachfinancial year of the Government.

(2) The annual report of the Ministry of Finance alongwith the audited financial statements of the Government

11National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Annual financialstatements ofaudited entities.

and the Auditor-Generals opinion thereon shall be tabledin Parliament by the Minister assigned the subject of Financebefore 31st May of the following financial year.

(3) For the purposes of this section

(a)financial statement of the Government shallinclude

(i)the statement of financial performance duringthe financial year, a statement of financialposition showing the assets and liabilities ofthe Government and a cash flow statementfor the financial year, accounting policiesapplied and notes thereto, together with aperformance report for such year;

(ii)any other documents which the Auditor-General may require to express his opinionon the said financial statement; and

(iii)a statement listing of the auditee entitiesconsidered in the said financial statement.

(b)Government means the Government Institutionsfor which funds are being allocated by the annualAppropriation Act. The President may declare byOrder published in the Gazette any other institutionwhich may be considered as the Government forthe purpose of this section;

(c)Performance report shall include the objectivesachieved, future goals, key performance indicatorsand progress in the use of resources.

16.(1) Every auditee entity shall maintain proper booksand records of all its income, expenditure, assets andliabilities, to enable annual and periodic financial statementsto be prepared in respect of such entity.

12National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Audit fees.

Annual report ofa publiccorporation orcompany.

(2) Annual financial statements including the annualappropriation account, the revenue account and the accountsrelating to Advance Account Activities in respect of eachMinistry, Department, and any other specified institutionand Commission and the annual financial statements inrespect of every other auditee entity, shall be submitted bythe Chief Accounting Officer to the Auditor-General alongwith the annual performance reports, within such period asmay be provided by rules.

17.Every public corporation or company in which theGovernment or a public corporation or a local authorityholds fifty per centum or more of the shares of that company,shall include in its annual report

(a)the report presented by the Auditor-General undersection 12 to the Chairman of the governing bodyof such entity;

(b)the performance report for the relevant year;

(c)annual audited financial statements of the entityfor the relevant year; and

(d)a future projection report, based on sustainabledevelopment, which may include details ofactivities to safeguard the environment and mitigateany negative impact on the environment and wherenecessary include environment and disaster impactassessment analysis.

18.(1) The Auditor-General shall charge a fee forconducting an audit from the following auditee entities:

(a)public corporations and statutory Funds or Boards;

(b)businesses and other undertakings vested in theGovernment by or under any written law; and

(c)any company registered or deemed to be registeredunder the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 in which

13National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

the Government or a public corporation or localauthority holds fifty per centum or more of theshares of that company.

(2) The fee to be charged shall be determined by theAuditor-General in consultation with the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister assigned the subject of Financewith the concurrence of the Secretary to the relevant Ministryof the Minister assigned the respective auditee entity.

(3) The fee received by the Auditor-General under thissection shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund afterhaving deducted the costs incurred in carrying out the audit.

(4) An auditee entity shall settle the accounts for auditfees within thirty days from the date of invoice.

(5) If an auditee entity defaults on the payment of auditfees the Auditor-General shall promptly notify the Ministryof Finance and where applicable, the relevant ProvincialCouncil to recover such fees.

(6) The Secretary to the Treasury or the Chief Secretary ofthe relevant Provincial Council, shall after consulting therelevant parties, direct that the audit fees recoverable froman auditee entity, be defrayed from a vote on the national ora provincial budget identified by the Treasury or relevantProvincial Council.

PART IV

IMPOSITION OF SURCHARGE

19. (1)(a)Unless otherwise specifically provided for,in any other written law, the Audit ServiceCommission shall report the amount of anydeficiency or loss in any transaction of anauditee entity where the Audit ServiceCommission has reasonable grounds tobelieve that such transaction has been made

Audit ServiceCommission toimpose asurcharge.

14National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

contrary to any written law and has causedany deficiency or loss due to fraud,negligence, misappropriation or corruptionof those involved in that transaction to theChief Accounting Officer of the auditee entityfor imposition of a surcharge on the value ofthe deficiency or loss in every transaction ofsuch auditee entity;

(b)Any person involved in causing thedeficiency or loss referred to in paragraph (a)shall hereinafter be referred to as the personwho is responsible for the deficiency or loss.

(2) The Chief Accounting Officer of the auditee entityshall charge the surcharge under subsection (1), against anyperson who is responsible for the deficiency or loss, eitherjointly or severally, followed by a formal disciplinary actionby the Disciplinary Authority or a judicial process.

(3) The Chief Accounting Officer of the auditee entityshall, in charging the amount to be recovered, adopt thefollowing procedure:

(a)issue a notice to each person in respect of whom thesurcharge is to be imposed specifying the reasonsfor such imposition, and afford an opportunity foreach such person to make representation to showcause, in writing in respect of subsections (1) and(2), within a period of twenty one days from thedate of receipt of the Notice.The Chief AccountingOfficer shall report thereof to the Audit ServiceCommission;

(b)consider the representations made under paragraph(a) prior to making a decision on the surcharge tobe imposed;

(c)where no representations have been made withinthe time specified, the Chief Accounting Officer of

15National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

the auditee entity shall proceed to make a decisionon the surcharge to be charged;

(d)the surcharge shall be decided on the cumulative ofthe amount of the deficiency or loss and such interestas may have accrued, as charged on the rates forTreasury bills when the deficiency or loss arose;

(e) the decision of the Chief Accounting Officer of theauditee entity under paragraphs (b) and (c) shall becommunicated forthwith to each person who isresponsible for the deficiency or loss by issuing aSurcharge Certificate, specifying the following:

(i)the reasons for surcharging;

(ii)the amount to be charged, which includesthe deficiency or loss of the transaction, thesurcharge decided and any interestpercentage, as may be determined, for anydelay of payment of the said amountsexceeding two months from the date ofpayment specified;

(iii)the action contemplated for its recovery;

(iv)the date on or before which the amountspecified under item (ii) is to be paid;

(v)the details of the manner in which paymentshall be made.

(4) The Chief Accounting Officer of the auditee entityshall charge the amount specified under subsection (3)(e)(ii)from the person who is responsible for the deficiency or losswho may be in-service or not in-service at the time of the

16National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Appeals to bemade to theSurchargeAppealCommittee.

audit, within one month of the date of payment as specifiedin the Surcharge Certificate.

20.(1) Any person aggrieved by a decision made by theChief Accounting Officer of the auditee entity under section19 may, within one month from the date of receiving theSurcharge Certificate, appeal against such decision to theSurcharge Appeal Committee appointed under section 21.

(2) The said Surcharge Appeal Committee may

(a)allow the appeal;

(b)amend, alter or vary the decision; or

(c)disallow the appeal.

(3) (a)The decision referred to in subsection (1) shallbe communicated in writing to the appellant andthe Chief Accounting Officer of the auditeeentity and the Chairman of the Audit ServiceCommission through the Chairman of theSurcharge Appeal Committee;

(b)The Chief Accounting Officer of the auditeeentity shall immediately execute the decisionand report back to the Audit Service Commissionin writing, within one month from the date ofissue of such communication.

(4) Where any person is dissatisfied by the decision ofthe Committee, he may appeal to the Court of Appeal withinthirty working days from the date of issue of thecommunication under subsection (3)(b) of this section.

(5) The Order of the Court of Appeal shall becommunicated by the Chief Accounting Officer of the

17National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Crediting ofmoneys paid asSurcharge.

Proceedings forrecovery beforea Megistrate.

Appointment ofthe SurchargeAppealsCommittee.

auditee entity, in writing to the Chairman of the AuditService Commission.

21.(1) There shall be a Surcharge Appeal Committee(hereinafter referred to as the Committee). TheConstitutional Council shall appoint the Committee and itsChairman. The Committee shall consist of not less than fivemembers, from among those having experience in the fieldsof auditing, law and public finance management, publicadministration and engineering, to hear and determineappeals of any person aggrieved by a decision referred to insection 20.

(2) No member of the National Audit Office and theSri Lanka State Audit Service shall be a member of theCommittee. The Auditor-General shall not be a member ofthe Committee. The Committee shall act independently ofthe Auditor-General.

(3) The said Committee shall determine the appealprocedure and rules pertaining to appeal, which shall bepublished in the Gazette.

22.The Chief Accounting Officer of the auditee entityshall credit, all such sums of money collected as surchargeand interest accrued, if any, under section 19 (3)(e)(ii), to theConsolidated Fund:

Provided that where the surcharge is related to atransaction made in respect of a Provincial Council or a localauthority, the sum collected as surcharge shall be credited tothe Provincial Fund of such Provincial Council or the Fund ofthe relevant local authority, as the case may be.

23.(1) Where any sum to be charged under section19 (3)(e)(ii) has not been paid within the time specified andwhere the Audit Service Commission is satisfied that

18National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

immediate action is necessary for the recovery of such sum,unless an appeal is pending before the Committee undersection 20(1), in the Court of Appeal under section 20(4),the Audit Service Commission may issue a certificatecontaining particulars of such sum to be recovered and thename and last known place of employment or residence ofthe person who is responsible for the deficiency or loss, to aMagistrate having jurisdiction in the division in which suchplace is situated within a period of ninety working days.

(2) (a)The Magistrate shall thereupon summon suchperson who is responsible for the deficiency orloss to show cause as to why further proceedingsfor the recovery of the sum to be recovered shallnot be taken against him.

(b)Where the person who is responsible for thedeficiency or loss fails to show sufficient cause,the sum to be recovered shall be deemed to be afine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate onsuch person who is responsible for the deficiencyor loss for an offence punishable with fine onlyand not punishable with imprisonment.

(3) (a)The certificate issued by the Audit ServiceCommission shall be conclusive proof that thesum to be recovered has been duly assessed andis in default in any proceeding before theMagistrate under subsection (1).

(b)The proceeding under this section shall beconducted within thirty days from the date ofissue of the certificate under subsection (1) unlessan appeal has been made to the Surcharge AppealCommittee under section 20 (1) or to the Court ofAppeal under section 20 (4), as the case may be.

19National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

(4) The provisions of Chapter XXIV of the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall mutatismutandis apply in relation to default of payment of a fine,and in addition the Magistrate may make any directionwhich, he could have made at the time of imposing suchsentence.

(5) Nothing in subsection (2) to (5) of section 291 of theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall applyin any case referred to in subsection (1).

(6) In any case referred to in subsection (2), where indefault of payment of the fine, the person who is responsiblefor the deficiency or loss shall be sentenced to imprisonmentfor a period not exceeding one year. The Magistrate mayallow time for the payment of the amount of that fine ordirect payment of that amount to be made in instalments.

(7) Where a Magistrate directs that the payment be madein instalments and default is made in the payment of anyone instalment, proceedings may be taken as if default hadbeen made in payment of all the instalments then remainingunpaid.

(8) Any person aggrieved by the decision of theMagistrate may appeal to the High Court established underArticle 154P of the Constitution not later than thirty daysfrom the date of such decision.

(9) Wherever the Audit Service Commission issues acertificate under subsection (1), he shall at the same timeissue to the person who is responsible for the deficiency orloss, whether resident or non-resident, a notification thereofby personal service, registered letter sent through the post ortele mail service; and the non- receipt of such notificationby the person who is responsible for the deficiency or lossshall not invalidate proceedings under this section.

20National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

(10) For the purpose of Part IV of this Act, in the event theAudit Service Commission finds that the Chief AccountingOfficer of the auditee entity has caused or has been involvedin causing any deficiency or loss due to fraud, negligence,misappropriation or corruption in a transaction madecontrary to any written law, the Secretary to the Treasuryshall charge the amount as referred to in subsection (3)(e)(ii)of section 19 from the Chief Accounting Officer of the auditeeentity.

PART V

AUDIT SERVICE COMMISSION

24. (1) There shall be an Audit Service Commission(hereinafter referred to as Commission) established underArticle 153A (1) of the Constitution consisting of the Auditor-General and four other members appointed by the Presidenton the recommendation of the Constitutional Council.

(2) The Commission shall have its own Secretariat.

25. In addition to the powers and functions of theCommission as set out under Article 153C of the Constitution,the Commission shall

(a)appoint Committees to assist in the affairs of theCommission;

(b)introduce schemes to enhance the quality ofperformance of the staff of the National Audit Officereferred to in section 29; and

(c)make rules for which specific provision has beengiven in this Act.

Establishment ofan Audit ServiceCommission.

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Commission.

21National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

26.(1) The Chairman of the Commission shall presideat all meetings of the Commission and, in his absence, amember elected by the members present from amongthemselves shall preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for a meeting of the Commission shall bethree members. All decisions of the Commission shall bemade by a majority of the members present at the meeting.In the event of an equality of votes, the member presiding atthe meeting as Chairman shall have a casting vote.

(3) The Commission shall have power to actnotwithstanding any vacancy in its membership, and no act,proceeding or decision of the Commission shall be or deemedto be invalid by reason only of any such vacancy or anydefect in the appointment of a member thereof.

(4) The Commission shall meet at least once in a month.

(5) In the event a written request is made by at least threemembers to summon an urgent meeting of the Commission,the Chairman of the Commission shall summon suchmeeting as soon as possible, but in any case not later thanten days after the receipt of such request.

(6) There shall be a Secretary to the Commission whoshall be appointed by the Commission. The Secretary shallbe responsible for proper recording and maintenance ofminutes of the meetings of the Commission and the commonseal of the Commission and its custody.

27.(1) The President may grant any member of theCommission leave from the discharge of his functions as amember of the Commission for a period not exceeding twomonths and shall for the duration of such period, on therecommendation of the Constitutional Council and having

Meetings of theCommission.

Leave from thedischarge offunctions as amember of theCommission.

22National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

regard to the provisions of Article 153A (1) of theConstitution, appoint a person to be a temporary member ofthe Commission, for the period of such leave.

(2) A member of the Commission who without obtainingleave from the President is absent from three consecutivemeetings of the Commission, shall be deemed to havevacated office with effect from the date of the third of suchmeetings, and shall not be eligible thereafter to bereappointed as a member of the Commission.

28.(1) The appointment, promotion, transfer,disciplinary control and dismissal of the members belongingto the Sri Lanka State Audit Service recruited by theCommission shall be vested in the Commission.

(2) The Commission may appoint a qualified Secretaryand such other officers and Non-Audit Staff to theCommission and to the National Audit Office on such termsand conditions as may be determined by the Commission.

(3) The salaries and other allowances and any otherbenefits of persons recruited by the Commission, exceptthose who have been attached to the National Audit Officefrom the Combined Services, shall be determined by theCommission, after having obtained the views of the Salariesand Carders Commission, and shall be charged on theConsolidated Fund.

PART VI

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE AND THESRI LANKA STATE AUDIT SERVICE

29.There shall be a National Audit Office (hereinafterreferred to as the Audit Office) to assist the AuditorGeneral in the discharge of his duties and functions, whichshall consist of the Auditor-General and a staff comprisingthe members belonging to the Sri Lanka State Audit Serviceestablished under section 30 of this Act and the Non-AuditStaff (hereinafter referred to as the staff of the Audit Office).

Commission toappoint,promote &c.officers andstaff.

Establishment ofthe NationalAudit Office.

23National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

30.(1) There shall be established a service known asthe Sri Lanka State Audit Service.

(2) The members of the Sri Lanka Audit Service and theAudit Examiners Service serving on the date immediatelyprior to the date of operation of this Act, shall be deemed tobe members of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service as at thedate of operation of this Act.

31.Any member of the staff of the Audit Office recruitedby the Commission may resign his office by writing underhis hand, addressed to the Chairman of the Commission.

32.A person aggrieved by the decision of theCommission in the exercise of its powers under section 28,may appeal against such decision to the AdministrativeAppeals Tribunal as specified under Article 153G.

33.(1) The Auditor-General may deploy any of theofficers of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service or qualifiedauditor or any other person lawfully engaged by him,to carry out any audit of an auditee entity in any part ofSri Lanka.

(2) All auditee entities shall cooperate with the Auditor-General and any officer deployed by him and shall providea safe and secure working environment to facilitate thecarrying out of an effective audit.

34.The Commission shall prepare the annual budgetestimates of the Audit Office within the period as specifiedby the Minister assigned the subject of Finance. The saidestimates shall be submitted to the Speaker on such date asmay be decided by the Speaker after consultation with thesaid Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the

Establishment oftheSri Lanka StateAudit Service.

Resignation of amember of theStaff of theAudit Office.

Appeals to theAdministrativeAppealsTribunal.

Stationing of theOfficers.

The Commissionto submit annualbudget estimatesforincorporation inthe nationalbudget.

24National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Commission. The Speaker shall table the said estimates inParliament for its review with the observations of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance, who shall provide hisobservations to the Speaker within ten working days fromits receipt of such annual budget estimates from the Speaker.The Parliament shall after having reviewed the annual budgetestimates of the Audit Office forward the estimates to theMinister assigned the subject of Finance for incorporationin the national budget with such modifications, if any, asParliament thinks fit.

35.(1) At least sixty days before the beginning of eachfinancial year, the Auditor-General shall prepare and submitto the Speaker a draft annual work programme that describesthe Auditor-Generals proposed work programme for theforthcoming year.

(2) The Speaker shall cause the draft annual workprogramme to be reviewed by a committee of Parliamentestablished under the Standing Orders calling for anycomments or amendments including the programmepriorities. The Speaker or the said committee may be requiredto forward the said comments or amendments within thirtydays from the date of receipt of the work programme. TheSpeaker shall forward the same to the Auditor-General.

(3) Where there are no reviews made under subsection (2)the Speaker shall directly table the work programmesubmitted by the Auditor-General in Parliament.

(4) Where there are reviews made under subsection (2),the Auditor-General may, after considering any commentsor amendments, amend the work programme as suggestedby the Speaker or the said committee.

(5) The Auditor -General shall present a completed annualwork programme to the Speaker before the beginning of

The Auditor-General tosubmit annualworkprogramme.

25National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

each financial year and the Speaker shall then table the workprogramme in Parliament.

36.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions in any otherlaw to the contrary, the Speaker shall appoint an independentqualified auditor to carry out the audit of the financialstatements, accounts and other information relating to thefinancial year of the Audit Office and for this purpose theAudit Office shall be deemed an auditee entity under thisAct. Any reference to an auditee entity and the Auditor-General shall, mutatis mutandis apply in relation to the AuditOffice and the independent qualified officer.

(2) The appointment of an independent qualified auditorunder subsection (1) shall be subject to such terms andconditions as the Commission may determine, includingthe remuneration to be paid to such auditor, which shall bedefrayed as part of the expenses of the Audit Office.

(3) On completion of the audit, such independentqualified auditor shall be required to submit such reportthereon to the Commission, and the Commission shall causesuch report to be tabled in Parliament together with anyobservations or views that the Auditor General may haveexpressed on such audit at the time of carrying out the sameby the independent qualified auditor.

(4) The report of the independent qualified auditor shallinclude

(a)the audited financial statements prepared inaccordance with section 5 of this Act and incompliance with any other written law; and

(b)an account of the implementation of the annualwork programme required under section 35.

Power toappoint anindependentqualifiedauditor to auditthe Audit Office.

26National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

37.(1) There shall be established a fund to be known asthe Audit Fund (hereinafter referred to as the Fund).

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund-

(a) fifteen per centum of the moneys collected bythe Auditor-General as Audit fees;

(b) all payments credited by the Government, withthe concurrence of the Parliament;

(c) any cost recovered in any suit or prosecutionunder section 50.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund-

(a) any expense incurred in any suit or prosecutionunder section 50;

(b) all expenses incurred in the administration ofthe Fund;

(c) all payments given as rewards or incentives inaccordance with the rules made in that behalf topersons who have shown exceptionalperformance in the discharge of their duties underthis Act;

(4) Any sum not utilized within the financial year shallbe credited to the Consolidated Fund.

(5) The accounts of the Fund shall be audited undersection 36.

Audit Fund.

National Audit Act, No. 19 of 201827

PART VII

RESPONSIBILITIES OF A CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER ANDACCOUNTING OFFICER

38.(1) Unless otherwise specified in the provisions ofthis Act or any other written law, the Chief Accounting Officeror an Accounting Officer of an auditee entity, for the purposeof this Act shall:-

(a) be the Officer responsible within the auditee entityto co-ordinate with the Auditor-General tosuccessfully carry out the audit of such entity;

(b) ensure that financial planning, internal controls,maintenance of proper books and accounts, financialmanagement and a mechanism for providingmanagement information, are effectively in place;

(c) ensure that an effective internal control system forthe financial control exists in each such entity andcarry out periodic reviews to monitor theeffectiveness of such systems and accordingly makeany alterations as required for such systems to beeffectively carried out;

(d) ensure the timely preparation and submission ofannual and other financial statements and in additionthe Chief Accounting Officer shall be required tosubmit annual reports to Parliament pertaining tothe auditee entity;

(e) ensure that all audit queries be answered within thespecified time as required by the Auditor-General;

(f) ensure that an effective mechanism exists to conductan internal audit;

Responsibilitiesof a ChiefAccountingOfficer or anAccountingOfficer.

28National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

(g) ensure that adequate office space and facilitiesnecessary for the officers authorized by the Auditor-General, be provided to discharge their duties in aproper manner; and

(h) upon receipt of a notice by the Auditor-General ofany apparent fraud or any criminal activity, he shallwithout delay make a complaint to a law enforcingauthority.

(2) The review to be carried out by a Chief AccountingOfficer referred to in paragraph (c) of subsection (1) shall bein writing and copies of the same shall be made available tothe Auditor-General.

39. (1) The Chief Accounting Officer of a Ministry, theAccounting Officer of a Department, or the governing bodyor the Head of any other auditee entity concerned shall, onreceipt of the Annual Detailed Management Audit Reportof the Auditor-General referred to in section 11, considersuch report and inform the Auditor-General, the Secretary tothe Treasury and the appropriate Minister, of the concernsand remedial actions proposed.

(2) The remedial actions referred to in subsection (1) shallbe submitted to the Auditor-General within three monthsfrom the submission of the reports to the auditee entities,giving reasons for the ability or inability, if any, to takeaction on any of the matters pointed out in such DetailedManagement Audit Report.

40. (1) The Chief Accounting Officer of a Ministry shallappoint an Internal Auditor to such Ministry and theAccounting Officer of each Department coming under suchMinistry shall appoint a competent auditor to carry out theInternal Audit of such Department, and every other auditeeentity shall have its own Internal Auditor, who is to performan internal audit duly appointed by the governing body ofsuch auditee entity.

ChiefAccountingOfficer & c., toconsider theDetailedManagementAudit Reportsubmittedby theAuditor-General.

Internal audit.

National Audit Act, No. 19 of 201829

(2) Where an Internal Auditor has not been appointedunder subsection (1), such appointment shall be made withina period not exceeding two years from the date of operationof this Act.

(3) An Internal Auditor appointed under subsection (1)shall directly report to the Chief Accounting Officer, theHead or the governing body of such auditee entity, as thecase may be, for the purposes of this Act.

(4) Copies of all reports submitted by the internal auditorsunder subsection (3) shall be forwarded to the Departmentof Management Audit.

41.(1) There shall be an Audit and ManagementCommittee for every auditee entity specified undersubsection (2), referred to by that name or by any other name,appointed by the respective Chief Accounting Officer oraccounting officer or the respective governing body, as thecase may be, to assist him by undertaking continuous reviewof operations of each auditee entity and, to periodicallyreport to the said Chief Accounting Officer, accountingofficer or the respective governing body. The said Committeeshall in particular-

(a) review all audit and management aspects of theauditee entity to ensure that its resources, are usedeconomically and efficiently for the purpose ofachieving the predetermined objectives of suchentity as a whole, or in respect of any specific projector programme undertaken giving priority to theresources available in Sri Lanka; and

Audit andManagementCommittees.

30National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

(b) ascertain whether such objectives have actually beenachieved within the authorized time limits, for thedisbursement of funds allocated for such activity,and whether any completed project or programme isin actual operation as envisaged in the plans.

(2) For the purposes of this section an auditee entityreferred to in subsection (1) shall be:

(a) a Ministry;

(b) a Provincial Council;

(c) a public corporation;

(d) a Commission constituted under the Constitution ora Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry;

(e) the Presidential Secretariat;

(f) the Office of the Secretary General of Parliament;

(g) a company registered or deemed to be registeredunder the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 in which theGovernment or a public corporation or a localauthority holds fifty per centum or more of the sharesof that company;

(h) any business or other undertaking vested in theGovernment under any written Law; and

(i) any body corporate or incorporate established bylaw or otherwise.

National Audit Act, No. 19 of 201831

PART VIII

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

42.An auditee entity shall fulfill any requirement ofthe Auditor General or any person authorized by him, in theperformance and discharge of the duties and functions underthis Act and any person who

(a) fails or refuses to furnish any information, document,explanation, report or material when requested to doso within a period of not less than twenty one workingdays from the date of receipt of such request;

(b) refuses or fails to nominate a person conversant onthe subject, to appear before the Auditor-General orany person authorized by him, when requested to doso;

(c) makes any statement or submits a document to theAuditor-General or any person authorized by himknowing it to be false or misleading;

(d) resists or obstructs the functions and duties of theAuditor-General or any person authorized by him,

commits an offence and shall on conviction after summarytrial by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less than fivethousand rupees and not more than twenty five thousandrupees.

43.(1) A person who otherwise than in the course ofhis duty, directly or indirectly, in person or throughanother, influences or attempts to influence, any decision ofthe

(a) Commission;

(b) any member of the Commission;

Failure to assistthe Auditor-General to be anoffence.

Influencing orattempting toinfluence adecision of theCommission orany officer ofthe Sri LankaState AuditService &c. tobe an offence.

32National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Other offences.

(c) any officer of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service;

(d) any Qualified Auditor appointed under section 36;or

(e) any person as may be appointed by the Commissionor by the Auditor-General to undertake any functionunder this Act,

commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to afine not less than five thousand rupees and not more thantwenty five thousand rupees.

(2) Every High Court established under Article 154P ofthe Constitution shall have jurisdiction to hear anddetermine any matter referred to in subsection (1).

44.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then

(a) if such body of persons is a body incorporate orunincorporate, or a corporation every director orofficer or agent thereof; and

(b) if such body of persons is a firm, every partner,

shall be liable to a fine as specified for the respective offencesunder sections 42 and 43: Provided however, a director or an officer or agent ofsuch body incorporate, unincorporate or of such corporationor partner of such firm shall not be deemed to be guilty ofsuch offence if he proves that such offence was committedwithout his knowledge or that he used all such diligence toprevent the commission of such offence.

45.Any person who contravenes the provisions of thisAct or any rule made thereunder, commits an offence andshall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate

Offences bybodies ofpersons.

National Audit Act, No. 19 of 201833

be liable to a fine not more than one hundred thousand rupeesor to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment.

46.Any person convicted for an offence under theprovisions of this Act shall not be precluded from beingpunished for any other offence committed in the processunder any another written law.

PART IX

GENERAL

47.(1) A Centre for Public Audit Training andDevelopment shall be established under the Audit Officewith a view to enhancing the capacity of human resources inthe field of public finance and auditing.

(2) The Commission shall formulate rules pertaining tothe management of the Centre.

48.(1) The Commission may make rules in respect ofall or any of the matters in respect of which rules areauthorized or required to be made under this Act.

(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(3) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall, withinthree months from the date of its publication in the Gazettebe placed before Parliament for approval. Every rule whichis not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as fromthe date of disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

Convictedpersons to bepunished forother offences inthe process.

Establishment ofa Centre forPublic AuditTraining andDevelopment.

Power of theCommission tomake rules.

34National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Members of theCommission,officers and staffof the AuditOffice deemedto be publicservants.

The AuditOffice deemedto be aScheduledInstitutionwithin themeaning of theBribery Act.

49.The Auditor-General may, from time to time, givethe staff of the Audit Office or any person authorized by himsuch general and special directions, in writing as to theexercise and discharge of its powers and functions whenconducting an audit and the staff or any person authorizedby him shall give effect to such direction. 50.(1) No liability, whether civil or criminal, shallattach to the Auditor-General, any officer of the Sri LankaState Audit Service, any officer of the National Audit Officeor any other person assisting in the discharge of the duties ofthe Auditor-General as referred to in section 9(1)(a), foranything which in good faith is done in the performance orexercise of any function or power imposed or assigned underthe provisions of this Act.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Auditor-General, anofficer of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service, any officer ofthe National Audit Office or any other person assisting inthe discharge of the duties of the Auditor-General as referredto in section 8(a), as the case may be, in any suit orprosecution brought against him before any court in respectof any act which is done by him under this Act shall, if thecourt holds that such act was done in good faith, be paid outof the Consolidated Fund, unless such expenses are recoveredby him in such suit or prosecution.

51.All members of the Commission, officers and staffof the Audit Office shall be deemed to be public servantswithin the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

52.The Audit Office shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and theprovisions of that Act, shall be construed accordingly.

Auditor-Generalto givedirections.

Protection fromlaw suits.

National Audit Act, No. 19 of 201835

53.Auditor-Generals Fees Act, No. 26 of 1958 is herebyrepealed.

54.(1) The Auditor Generals Department shall ceaseto be in operation from the date of operation of this Act.

(2) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (1),

(a) all moneys lying to the credit of the Auditor-Generals Department on the day immediatelypreceding the date of operation of this Act, shallstand transferred with effect from that date to theAudit Office established under this Act;

(b) all property and other rights over movable orimmovable owned by the Auditor-GeneralsDepartment and used for the purposes of theDepartment on the day immediately precedingthe date of operation of this Act shall vest in theAudit Office with effect from that date;

(c) all debts, obligations and liabilities of theAuditor-Generals Department subsisting on theday immediately preceding the date of operationof this Act shall be deemed to be debts,obligations and liabilities of the Audit Officewith effect from that date;

(d) all contracts and agreements entered into for thepurposes of the Auditor-Generals Departmentand subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the date of operation of this Act shallbe contracts and agreements entered into by theAudit Office deemed with effect from that date;

(e) all actions and proceedings instituted by oragainst the Auditor-Generals Department and

Repeal ofAct, No. 26 of1958.

Transitionalprovisions.

36National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

pending on the day immediately preceding thedate of operation of this Act shall be deemedwith effect from the date of operation of this Actto be actions and proceedings instituted by oragainst the Audit Office;

(f) all decrees and orders entered or made by anycompetent court in favour of or against theAuditor-Generals Department which remainunsatisfied on the day preceding the date ofoperation of this Act shall with effect from thatdate be deemed to have been entered or made infavour of or against the Audit Office and may beenforced accordingly;

(g) every rule in force on the day immediatelypreceding the date of operation of this Act andwhich are not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act shall be deemed to be a rule madeunder this Act;

(h) all audits that are pending shall be continued bythe Auditor-General under this Act.

(3) Where an Internal Auditor is not appointed to anauditee entity, the internal auditors function as carried outimmediately before the date of operation of this Act shallcontinue until such appointment.

(4) Members of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service and theAudit Examiners Service employed in the Auditor GeneralsDepartment immediately before the establishment of theNational Audit Office shall be deemed to be employees ofthe National Audit Office and shall be employed under thesame terms and conditions as may be applicable to thatemployee immediately before that date.

National Audit Act, No. 19 of 201837

(5) The offer of employment to all officers and staff of theAuditor Generals Department on the day immediatelypreceding the date of operation of this Act, shall be as follows:

(a) The Commission shall, within three months of thedate of operation of this Act, offer all members of theSri Lanka Audit Service and the Audit ExaminersService serving on the date immediately prior to thedate of operation of this Act in the Auditor-GeneralsDepartment, employment in the Audit Office on suchterms and conditions of employment as are not lessfavourable than were applicable to them on the dateon which the offer is made;

(b) The offer made by the Commission under paragraph(a) shall be open until the expiry of a period of twomonths from the date on which the offer was made,and any member of the Sri Lanka Audit Service andthe Audit Examiners Service serving on the dateimmediately prior to the date of operation of this Actin the Auditor-Generals Department, who opts tojoin the Audit Office shall become a member of theSri Lanka State Audit Service;

(c) Where a member of the Sri Lanka Audit Service andthe Audit Examiners Service serving on the dateimmediately prior to the date of operation of this Actor an Non-Audit Staff member recruited by theAuditor-Generals Department and employed in theAuditor-Generals Department on the dateimmediately prior to the date of operation of thisAct, becomes an employee of the Audit Office, hisperiod of employment in the public service as anemployee of the Auditor-Generals Department shallbe counted as a period of employment as a memberof the Sri Lanka State Audit Service and the changein his status of employment shall not break thecontinuity of his period of employment in the publicservice;

38National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

(d) Any member of the Sri Lanka Audit Service and theAudit Examiners Service serving on the dateimmediately prior to the date of operation of this Actin the Auditor-Generals Department or any Non-Audit Staff member of the Auditor GeneralsDepartment who does not opt to serve the Audit Officemay retire under the provisions of the Minutes onPensions. Until the Commission formulates itsprocedural rules relating to appointment, promotionsand transfer, the procedural rules formulated andpublished in Gazette Extraordinary No.1589/3 onFebruary 20, 2009 by the Public Service Commissionshall mutatis mutandis be applied to the members ofthe Staff of the National Audit Office;

(e) A member of the Combined Services or any otherService employed in the Audit Office shall remain inthe Audit Office subject to the terms and conditionsof the Service Minutes of the respective CombinedServices;

(f) A member of a Combined Services employed in theAuditor-Generals Department on the dateimmediately prior to the date of operation of this Actshall have the option to serve the Audit Office or tobe transferred out of the Audit Office, subject to theterms and conditions of the respective CombinedService Minutes;

(g) The Officers who have been directly recruited by theAuditor General and serve in the Auditor GeneralsDepartment at the time of operation of this Act who optto remain as the Non-Audit Officers in the Audit Officewithin the Department Service shall be distinctlyseparate from the Sri Lanka State Audit Service.

National Audit Act, No. 19 of 201839

55.In this Act, unless the context otherwiserequires

any person authorized by the Auditor-General meansany person appointed in writing or whose servicesare engaged by the Auditor-General by name or office,to discharge the functions assigned to him under thisAct or any rules made thereunder, who are membersof the State Audit Service of the National AuditOffice, qualified auditor or any other person havingexpertise in a required field; and shall discharge suchfunctions until he ceases to hold office;

auditee entity includes -

(a) Offices of the Cabinet of Ministers;

(b) all Departments of the Government;

(c) the Presidential Secretariat;

(d) Office of the Secretary to the Prime Minister;

(e) the Judicial Service Commission;

(f) the Constitutional Council;

(g) the Commissions referred to in the Schedule toArticle 41B of the Constitution and the SpecialPresidential Commission of Inquiry establishedunder the special Presidential Commissions ofInquiry (Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of 1978;

(h) the Parliamentary Commissioner forAdministration;

(i) the Office of the Secretary General of Parliament;

Interpretation.

40National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

(j) Provincial Councils and local authorities;

(k) public corporations and statutory Funds orBoards;

(l) businesses and other undertakings vested in theGovernment by or under any written law;

(m) any company registered or deemed to beregistered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of2007 in which the Government or a publicCorporation or local authority holds fifty percentum or more of the shares of that company;

Auditing Standards Committee means the AuditingStandards Committee established under theprovisions of the Sri Lanka Accounting and AuditingStandards Act, No.15 of 1995;

Accounting Officer includes, except where otherarrangements are made by the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance or as provided for inany other written law, Head of each Department whoshall be immediately responsible to the ChiefAccounting Officer in the manner specified in theFinancial Regulations;

Auditor-General means the Auditor General appointedunder Article 153 of the Constitution;

Concurrent Audit includes examination of the financialtransactions at the time the transaction takes placeor examining any parallel transaction;

Chief Accounting Officer includes, unless otherwisespecifically provided for in any other written law-

(a) the Secretary to a Ministry, appointed to bethe Chief Accounting Officer of such Ministry,by the Minister assigned the subject of Finance;

National Audit Act, No. 19 of 201841

(b) an officer in charge of a department specifiedin Article 52(4) of the Constitution; or

(c) an officer in charge of any other department orentity, not supervised by a Secretary to aMinistry as specified in paragraph (a);

Constitution means the Constitution of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

financial institution includes

(a) any licensed commercial bank within the meaningof the Banking Act, No 30 of 1988;

(b) any licensed specialized bank within the meaningof the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

(c) any banking institution within the meaning ofthe Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422);

(d) any registered finance company within themeaning of the Finance Business Act, No. 42 of2011;

(e) any finance leasing company within the meaningof Finance Leasing Companies Act, No. 56 of2000;

(f) any money broker within the meaning of theMoney Broking Regulations No.1 of 2013published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1796/21 dated February 8, 2013 issued under theMonetary Law Act (Chapter 422);

(g) any primary dealer within the meaning of theRegistered Stock and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420) and the Local Treasury BillsOrdinance (Chapter 417);

42National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

(h) any insurance company within the meaning ofthe Regulation of Insurance industry Act, No. 43of 2000;

(i) any insurance broker and loss adjuster within themeaning of the Regulation of Insurance industryAct, No. 43 of 2000;

(j) any insurance agent adjuster within the meaningof the Regulation of Insurance industry Act,No. 43 of 2000;

(k) any stock exchange within the meaning of theSecurities and Exchange Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 36 of 1987;

(l) any stock broker or stock dealer within themeaning of the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987;

(m) any managing company to operate a unit trustwithin the meaning of the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987;and

(n) any person who carries on business as a marketintermediary within the meaning of the Securitiesand Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act,No. 36 of 1987;

governing body means the body entrusted with theadministration and management of the affairs of anystatutory body or entity or any company registeredor deemed to be registered under the Companies Act,No. 7 of 2007 in which the Government or a publiccorporation or a local authority holds fifty per centumor more of the shares of that company;

Head means the Head of a Department coming under aMinistry;

National Audit Act, No. 19 of 201843

information shall include any oral or written evidenceincluding data generated by electronic means;

local authority means a Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil or a Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyauthority created or established by or under any lawto exercise, perform and discharge powers, duties andfunctions corresponding or similar to the powers,duties and functions exercised, performed ordischarged by any such Council or Sabha;

Non-Audit Staff means persons other than members ofthe Sri Lanka Audit Service and the Audit ExaminersService serving on the date immediately prior to thedate of operation of this Act in the Auditor GeneralsDepartment and persons recruited by theCommission after the operation of this Act andincludes persons attached to the Combined ServicesStaff;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished for a Province by virtue of Article 154Aof the Constitution;

public corporation means any corporation, board orother body which was or is established by or underany written law other than the Companies Act, No. 7of 2007, with funds or capital wholly or partlyprovided by the Government by way of grant, loanor otherwise;

resources includes public finance, public property,human, physical or natural resources and debt;

Sri Lanka Accounting Standards means the Sri LankaAccounting Standards specified under the Sri LankaAccounting and Auditing Standards Act, No. 15 of1995;

44National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standards meansthe Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standardsissued from time to time by the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject of Finance, undersection 8 (3) and section 12 of the Finance Act, No.38 of 1971 and as may be specified under theprovisions of the Sri Lanka Accounting and AuditingStandards Act, No. 15 of 1995;

Sri Lanka State Audit Service means the Sri LankaState Audit Service established under Article 153B(2) of the Constitution of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka; and

transaction includes any activity connected with afinance business or non-finance business; and inrelation to property includes:

(a) a purchase, sale, loan, charge, mortgage, lien,pledge, transfer, delivery, assignment,subrogation, transmission, gift, donation,creation of a trust, settlement, deposit includingthe deposit of any article, withdrawal, transferbetween assets, extension of credit;

(b) any agency or grant of power of attorney;

(c) any other disposition or dealing of property inwhatever form, or whatsoever description ornature, however described, which results in anyright, title, interest or privilege, whether presentor future, or whether vested or contingent, in thewhole or any part of such property beingconferred on any person.

56.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

National Audit Act, No. 19 of 201845

SCHEDULE[Section 9 (c)]

Oath of Secrecy

In terms of Section 9 of the National Audit Act, No. of 2018.

I, ................. being memberof the Audit Service Commission/ an employee of the*, and expert person assisting inthe discharge of the duties of the Auditor-General as referred to insection 8(a), do solemnly declare and affirm / swear that I shallmaintain in utmost secrecy the information whatsoever which is given,stated, discussed or otherwise gathered in the performance of myduties and such information will not be disclosed, discussed or statedin any form whatever to any person in public or private, except

(a) when required to do so by a Court of Law;

(b) when required by Parliament; or

(c) when specified under any written law, subject tosection 9(b) of the National Audit Act, No. of 2018.

The obligations herein set out shall bind me during my term ofoffice in the ..................................* and shall continue thereafterexcept in relation to any information that has come into public domaindue to no breach of my obligations hereunder.

I append my signature to this oath on this ........... dayof...................... Two Thousand ......................

.Signature

Taken oath on this day of .. 20in before me.

..Speaker / Auditor-General

*National Audit Office/Auditor Generals Department/CombinedServices

46National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.