17Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

AGRICULTURAL AND AGRARIAN INSURANCEACT, NO. 20 OF 1999

[Certified on 16th July, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 16, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price: Rs. 11.50 Postage: Rs.5.25

(Internet Version)

1Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

[Certified on 16th July, 1999]

L.D.-O. 24/98.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF ANAGRICULTURAL AND AGRARIAN INSURANCE BOARD TO

PROVIDE INSURANCE OF AGRICULTURAL AND HORTICULTURAL

CROPS AND MEDICINAL PLANTS, LIVESTOCK, FISHERIES AND

FORESTRY, AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT AND IMPLEMENTS AND

THE STORAGE AND PRESERVATION OF AGRICULTURAL AND

HORTICULTURAL PRODUCE AND THE PRODUCTS OF MEDICINAL

PLANTS, FISHERIES AND FOREST PRODUCE; TO PROVIDE

MEDICAL BENEFITS AND SOCIAL SECURITY SCHEMES FOR

AGRICULTURISTS; TO REPEAL THE AGRICULTURAL INSURANCELAW, NO.27 OF 1973 ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Agricultural andAgrarian Insurance Act, No.20 of 1999 and shall come intooperation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date)

PART I

THE AGRICULTURAL AND AGRARIAN INSURANCE BOARD

2. (1) There shall be established a Board which shall becalled the Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance Board (hereinafter referred to as the Board)

(2) The Board shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3. The Board shall consist of the following members -(a) the Chairman appointed by the Minister;

Short Title anddate of operation.

Establishment ofthe Agriculturaland AgrarianInsurance Board.

Constitutionof the Board.

H - 022545

2Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

(b) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance, or an officer ofthe Ministry of Finance nominated by suchMinister;

(c) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Agriculture or hisnominee;

(d) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Fisheries or his nominee;

(e) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Livestock or his nominee;

(f) the Chief Executive of a licensed Commercial Bankwithin the meaning of the Banking Act, No.30 of1988 nominated by the Minister, or his nominee;

(g) the nominee of a National Farmers Associationrecognized by the Government.

4. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall, subject to the provisions of subsections (4) and (5) hold office for a periodof three years from the date of his appointment,and shall beeligible for re-appointment.

(2) If the Chairman of the Board is for any reasontemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, theMinister may appoint a fit and proper person to act in his place.

(3) The Chairman of the Board shall be remunerated insuch manner and at such rates as may be determined by theMinister with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(4) The Chairman of the Board may resign from theoffice of Chairman by letter addressed to the Minister.

(5) The Minister may at any time remove the Chairmanof the Board from the office of Chairman, without assigningany reason therefor.

Chairmanof the Board.

3Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

5. (1) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall bethree and, subject as aforesaid, the Board may regulate theprocedure in regard to its meetings and the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings.(2) The Board may act notwithstanding any vacancyamong its members.

6. (1) The seal of the Board shall be in the custody of theBoard.(2) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except in the Presence of two members of the Board both of whom shall sign the instrumentin token of their presence.(3) The seal of the Board may be altered in suchmanner as may be determined by the Board.

7.The functions of the Board shall be-(a) to establish and operate a comprehensiveinsurance scheme for the benefit ofagriculturists, in respect of corps,including plantation crops, medicinal plants,fisheries, forestry and livestock, which willindemnify them against losses, and with a viewto providing stability to agriculturists and topromoting agricultural production;

(b) to establish and operate and insurance schemefor the benefit of agriculturalists in respect ofagricultural equipment and implements and othermovable and immovable property ofagriculturists;

(c) to establish and operate an insurance schemefor the benefit of agriculturists in respect of thestorage and preservation of agricultural andhorticultural produce and the products ofmedicinal plants and fisheries and forestproduce;

(d) to establish and operate medical benefits andsocial security schemes for the benefit ofagriculturists.

Quorum andprocedure atMeetings.

Seal of the Board.

Functions of theBoard.

4Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

8. (1) The Board may exercise all or any of the followingpowers:-(a) acquire, hold, take on lease or hire, mortgage, sellor otherwise dispose of, any movable orimmovable property ;

(b) borrow money for the purposes of the Board insuchmanner and upon such security as the Board may,with the approval of the Minister given with theconcurrence of the Minister of Finance, determine;

(c) conduct, assist and encourage research into allaspects of the insurance activities of the Board;

(d) enter into and perform,either directly or throughanyofficer or agent authorized in that behalf, all suchcontracts as may be necessary for the dischargeof its functions ;

(e) do anything, for the purpose of advancing the skillsof officers and servants of the Board, and toprovide facilities for training persons required fordischarging the functions of the Board ;

(f) authorize any member or officer of the Board todischarge such functions as the Board mayconsider necessary for the efficient transaction ofits business ;

(g) make rules in relation to its officers and servantsincluding their appointment, promotion,remuneration, disciplinary control, conduct andgrant of leave to them ;

(h) enter into joint schemes with any PublicCorporation, Company registered under the Com-panies Act, No.17 of 1982, co-operative societyor any Agrarian Institution, fordischarging its functions under this Act ;

(i) to make rules in respect of the administration ofthe Board ;

Powers of theBoard.

5Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

(j) to delegate, subject to the general or specialdirection of the Board, to the Chairman of theBoard and through him to any member or officerof the Board, any such function of the Board asthe Board may consider necessary so todelegate for the efficient discharge ofsuch functions;(k) to do all other things which in the opinion of theBoard are necessary or incidental to the dischargeof its functions.

9. (1) The Board may appoint to the staff of the Boardsuch officers and servants as may be necessary for theefficient discharge of its functions, on such terms andconditions as may be determined by the Board from time totime.

(2) At the request of the Board, any public officer maywith the consent of that officer and the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister in charge of the subject of PublicAdministration, be temporarily appointed to the staff of theBoard for such period as may be determined by the Boardwith like consent or be permanently appointed to such staff.

(3) Where any public officer is temporarily appointedto the staff of the Board the provisions of subsection (2) ofsection 14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No.37of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation, tohim.

(4) Where any public officer is permanently appointedto the staff of the Board the provisions of subsection (3) ofsection 14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation, tohim.

(5) Where the Board employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which he hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service to the Board by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

Staff of theBoard.

6Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

10.All officers and servants of the Board shall be deemedto be public officers within the meaning of and for thepurposes of the Penal Code.

11.The Board shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

12.The Minister may give the Board such general orspecial directions in writing as to the discharge of thefunctions and the exercise of the powers of the Board and theBoard shall give effect to such directions.

PART II

INSURANCE

13. (1) The Board may from time to time , determine, therates of premium payable on Insurance Policies issued underSchemes established and operated by the Board, havingregard to the subject matter of the Insurance and the risksinsured against.

(2) The Board shall consider every application made toit, for an insurance policy under any scheme established andoperated by it, and if satisfied in regard to the genuineness ofthe application, issue a policy to the applicant which shallindicate inter alia -

(a) the identity of the proposers;

(b) the subject matter of insurance;

(c) the Insureds Name;

(d) the term of Cover;

(e) the sum insured;

Officers andservants of theBoard deemed tobe public servants.

The Boarddeemed to be aScheduledInstitution underthe Bribery Act.

Powers of theMinister inrelation to theBoard.

Determinationand paymentof premium.

7Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

(f) the amount of premium;

(g) the perils and losses insured against;

(h) the terms, conditions and exceptions applicableto the risk undertaken;

(i) other prescribed particulars.

14.Where, due to any specified cause, there is losswhether total or partial of the subject matter insured by aninsurance policy issued by the Board the insured personsshall, within fourteen days of the occurrence of such loss,prefer a written claim to the sum insured under such policy tothe agent appointed by the Board within whose area ofjurisdiction , the subject matter lies.

15.A contract of insurance by the Board may bedeclared void, by Court and the premia paid in respect of suchcontract may be forfeited to the Board if the insuredperson -(a) has concealed or misrepresented any materialfact or committed any fraud relating to theinsurance; or

(b) fails to comply with any term or condition ofsuch contract.

16.The holder or holders of an insurance policy issuedby the Board may assign such policy to an approved creditagency as security for a loan given by such agency to suchholder or holders.

17.Where any person is entitled to any sum of moneypayable under an insurance policy issued by the Board andthe Board is satisfied that any sum is due from that person toan approved credit agency in repayment of the whole or anypart of a loan granted by such agency to that person or inpayment of any interest on that loan, the Board may causethe sum due to such approved credit agency to be deductedfrom the amount payable under such insurance policy and tobe remitted to such agency.

Loss Claim.

Voidance ofInsurance.

Assignment ofinsurance policyby way ofsecurity for loan.

Deductions frommoney payableunder insurancepolicy.

8Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

18.The computation of the amount payable in respectof the loss of the subject matter of insurance shall be madeaccording to such terms and conditions as are specified in thecontract of insurance entered into between the Board and theinsured person.

19. (1) Where an officer authorized in that behalf by theBoard rejects a claim made by an insured person under a policyissued by the Board or where an insured person isdissatisfied with the amount awarded to him by any suchofficer, such insured person may, within thirty days of thenotification to him of the rejection of the claim or of the award,as the case may be, make a written appeal to the Board,stating the grounds of appeal.

(2) An appeal by an insured person under subsection(1) shall not prejudice his right to institute action in court inrespect of the insurance policy to which the appeal relates,and in computing the period of prescription for any suchaction, the period commencing on the date of the making ofsuch appeal and ending on the date of determination of suchappeal shall be disregarded.

20.The Board may enter into reinsurance contracts withthe Government or any local or foreign institutionundertaking the business of reinsurance.

21. (1) The Board or any officer authorized in that behalfby the Board may enter and inspect any land on which there isany specified crop or any insured livestock and anydocuments relating thereto and it shall be the duty of everyperson who is in occupation of such land to permit and assistsuch inspection.

(2) Every person who fails to comply with theprovisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act and shall, on conviction after summary trialbefore a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding onehundred rupees.

Award.

Reinsurance.

Appeals againstrejection ofclaims &c.

Power ofinspection ofIands in whichspecified cropsare raised.

9Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

Power to directan insured personto take measuresto prevent damageto insured land.

22. The Board or any officer authorized in that behalfby the Board may direct an insured person or the holder of aninsurance policy under this Law to take such measures inrespect of the crop or livestock as may be necessary to prevent or minimize damage to such crop or livestock.

PART III

FINANCE

23. (1) The initial capital of the Board shall be twentymillion Rupees.

(2) The amount of the initial capital of the Board shallbe paid to the Board out of the Consolidated Fund of SriLanka.

(3) The Capital of the Board may be increased fromtime to time by such amount as may be determined by theBoard in consultation with the Minister in charge of thesubject of Agriculture.

24. (1) The Board shall have its own Fund to be called theAgricultural and Agrarian Insurance Fund (hereinafter referredto as the Fund)

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund -

(a) all such sums of money as are paid to the Boardunder section 23.

(b) all such sums of money as were lying to thecredit of the Agricultural Insurance Fundestablished by the Agricultural Insurance Law,No.27 of 1973 on the day preceding theappointed date;

(c) all such sums of money as are received asinterest on investments made by the Board;

(d) all such sums of money as are received by theBoard as gifts and donations;

Capital of theBoard

Fund of theBoard

10Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

Borrowingpowers of theBoard

(e) all such sums of money as are received by theBoard in the exercise and discharge of itspowers and functions.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe Board in the exercise and discharge of its powers andfunctions under this Act.

(4) At the close of each financial year, the Board shallset apart an amount to create a Reserve Fund which shall beused at the discretion of the Board to settle claims arisingfrom unforeseen occurrences.

25. (1) The Board may, with the concurrence of theMinister, and the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,or in accordance with the terms of any general authority givenwith like concurrence, borrow, by way of overdraft orotherwise, or negotiate and obtain on credit, such sums as theBoard may require for meeting the obligations of the Board ordischarging its functions.

(2) The Board may, with the consent of the Ministergiven with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance, borrow money otherwise than by way ofloan under subsection (1) for all or any of the followingpurposes:-

(a) the requisition or acquisition of any movable orimmovable property required for the businessof the Board;

(b) the repayment of any money borrowed undersubsection (1)

26.Any funds of the Board which are not immediatelyrequired for the purpose of the business of the Board shall beinvested by the Board in high yielding securities at themaximum obtainable rates of interest.

Investment ofthe Funds ofthe Board.

11Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

Accounts andBalance sheet.27.The Board shall cause its books to be balanced onthe thirty - first day of December in each year and shall notlater than the thirtieth day of April next following prepare aprofit and loss account and a balance sheet containing asummary of the assets and liabilities of the Board made up tothe date aforesaid, prepared and signed by the officerresponsible for the preparation of such accounts and balancesheet.

28.Article 154 of the Constitution shall apply to theaudit of the accounts of the Board.

PART IV

GENERAL

29.The provisions of this Act shall have effectnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Control ofInsurance Act or any other written law, and accordingly, inthe event of any conflict or inconsistency between theprovisions of this Act and such other law, the provisions ofthis Act shall prevail.

30. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie -(a) against the Board for any act which in good faithis done or purported to be done by the Boardunder this Act ; or

(b) against any member , officer, servant or agent ofthe Board for any act which in good faith is doneor purported to be done by him under this Actor on the direction of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by any such person as isreferred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit orprosecution brought against him before any court in respectof any act which is done by him under this Act or on thedirection of the Board shall, if the court holds that the act wasdone in good faith, be paid out of the Fund.

Audit ofAccounts.

This Act toprevail overother writtenlaw.

Protection ofaction

12Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

Property of theRepublic bothimmovable andmovable to bemade available,to the Board andacquisition ofimmovableproperty underthe LandAcquisition Actfor the Board.

31. (1) Where any immovable property of the Republic isrequired for the purpose of the business of the Board, suchpurpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for which a specialgrant or lease of such property may be made under section 6of the Crown Lands Ordinance, and accordingly, theprovisions of that Ordinance shall apply to a special grant orlease of such property to the Board

(2) Where any movable property of the Republic is requiredfor the purpose of the business of the Board. the Ministermay by Order published in the Gazette transfer to and vest inthe Board the possession and use of such movable property.

(3) Where any immovable property is required to beacquired for the purpose of the business of the Board , andthe Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, approves ofthe proposed acquisition, that property shall be deemed to berequired for a public purpose and may accordingly beacquired under the Land Acquisition Act and be transferredto the Board.

(4) Any sum payable as compensation for theacquisition of any immovable property under the LandAcquisition Act for the purposes of the Board shall be paidby the Board out of the Fund.

32. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purposeof carrying out or giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act or in respect of matters which arerequired by this Act to be prescribed.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

Regulations

13Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

33.(1) The Agricultural Insurance Law, No.27 of 1973is hereby repealed.(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the AgriculturalInsurance Law, No. 27 of 1973 -(a) all contracts entered into by the AgriculturalInsurance Board established by that Law andsubsisting on the day preceding the appointeddate shall be deemed, with effect from theappointed date to be contracts entered into withthe Board and may be enforced accordingly;(b) all actions and proceedings instituted by oragainst the Agricultural Insurance Boardestablished by that Law and pending on the daypreceding the appointed date shall be deemed,with effect from the appointed date, to beactions and proceedings instituted by or againstthe Board and may be continued accordingly;(c) all decrees and orders entered in favour of,oragainst, the Agricultural Insurance Boardestablished by that Law and remainingunsatisfied on the day preceding the appointeddate shall be deemed, with effet from theappointed date, to be decrees and ordersentered in favour of, or against, the Board, asthe case may be, and may be enforced accordingly;(d) all powers and duties conferred or imposed onthe Agricultural Insurance Board established bythat Law, by the Farmers Pension and SocialSecurity Benefit Scheme Act, No.12 of 1987 theFishermans Pension and Social SecuritiesBenefit Scheme Act, No.23 of 1990, shall bedeemed, with effect from the appointed date, tobe powers and duties conferred or imposed onthe Board, and accordingly, references in theFarmers Pension and Social Security BenefitScheme Act, No.12 of 1987 and the FishermansPension and Social Security Benefit Scheme Act,No.23 of 1990 respectively, to the AgriculturalInsurance Board shall be deemed to bereferences to the Board.

Repeal andtransitionalprovisions

14Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

(e) all property movable or immovable owned bythe Agricultural Insurance Board establlishedby that Law and used for the purpose of theBoard on the day immediately preceding theappointed date shall vest in the Board witheffect from the appointed date;

(f) all debts and liabilities of the AgriculturalInsurance Board established by that Law andsubsisting on the day immediately preceding theappointed date shall be deemed to be debts andliabilities of the Board with effect from theappointed date;

(g) all officers and servants of the AgriculturalInsurance Board established by that Law on theday immediately preceding the appointed datewho accept employment with the Board shall beemployed by the Board on such terms andconditions as are not less favourable than theterms and conditions of employment that wereapplicable to them on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date;

(h) all moneys lying to the credit of the AgriculturalInsurance Board established by that Law on theday immediately preceding the appointed dateshall stand transferred with effect from that dateto the Fund of the Board established under this Act.

34.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail

35.In this Act -agriculturist means a person, Agrarian ServicesCommittee or Farmer Organization established orregistered under the Agrarian Services Act, No.58 of 1979,or a Company registered under the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 or co-operative Society registered under the Co-operative Societies

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Interpretation

15Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

Law, No. 5 of 1972 or any other societyregistered under any law for the time being inforce or any Non Governmental Organization,carrying on any activity relating to agriculture,horticulture, medicinal plants, livestock ,fisheries or forestry ;

approved credit agency means any co-operative societyor other institution for the time being dulyrecognized by the Board for the purposes of thisAct;

Notional Farmers Association means a nationalfarmers association recognized by the Ministerhaving regard to the services provided by suchassociation;

Prescribed means prescribed by regulation made underthis Act;

public corporation means any corporation, Board or otherbody which was or is established by or underany written law, other than the Companies Act,No.17 of 1982 with capital wholly or partlyprovided by the Government by way of grant,loan or other form.

16Agricultural and Agrarian InsuranceAct, No.20 of 1999

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180(Foreign). Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.