PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 16.25 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2005

[Certified on 23rd September, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

SRI LANKA ACCREDITATION BOARD FORCONFORMITY ASSESSMENTACT, No. 32 OF 2005

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 20051

[Certified on 23rd September, 2005]

L. D. O. 60/98

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKAACCREDITATION BOARD FOR CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT; AND TO PROVIDE

FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka AccreditationBoard for Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA ACCREDITATION BOARD

FOR CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT

2. (1)There shall be established a Board which shallbe called the Sri Lanka Accreditation Board for ConformityAssessment (hereinafter referred to as the Board). The Boardshall be the national accreditation authority for Sri Lanka.

(2)The Board shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1) be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporatename.

3. The functions of the Board shall be

(a)to grant accreditation, in accordance with nationalstandards based on the relevant internationalstandards, to laboratories, certification andinspection bodies, training institutions and otherpersons required to carry out conformityassessments;

(b)to promote accreditation activities in conformitywith the guidelines laid down in the NationalQuality Policy as approved by the Cabinet ofMinisters;

Short title.

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaAccreditationBoard forConformityAssessment.

Functions ofthe Board.

2P L 000297-5,650-(05/2005)

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 20052

(c)to ensure competence in internationally acceptedaccreditation practices and to facilitate internationalco-operation in accreditation;

(d)to encourage and promote the use of accreditation,the training of assessors, the conduct of seminars,and the dissemination of information, onaccreditation;

(e)to conclude agreements on mutual recognition withregard to areas related or connected to accreditationwith foreign and international bodies ; and

(f)to do all such other acts as may be necessary orconducive in discharging any or all of the abovefunctions.

4. The Board shall have and may exercise all or any of thefollowing powers -

(a)to hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, any moveableor immovable property;

(b)to undertake to execute any trusts, or any agencybusiness which may seem to the Board conduciveto the discharge of its functions;

(c)to borrow and raise loans for the discharge of itsfunctions and for the purpose of raising such loansto offer by way of mortgage or collateral, suchproperty owned by the Board, as is considerednecessary;

(d)to invest any moneys of the Board not immediatelyrequired for the discharge of its functions in suchmanner as may, from time to time be determined bythe Board;

Powersof the Board.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 20053

(e)to charge such fees as may be determined by theBoard for any services rendered by the Board ;

(f)to enter into such contracts as may be necessary forthe discharge of its functions; and

(g)to do all such other things as are necessary for, orincidental, or conducive to the discharge of thefunctions of the Board.

5. (1) The Board shall have a Governing Council (herein-after referred to as the Council), consisting of thirteenmembers appointed by the Minister, of whom -

(a)three members shall be from amongst persons whohave distinguished themselves in the fields ofscience, technology, education, trade, industry oradministration or any other relevant field.

(b)one member who shall be the representative of theSri Lanka Standards Institution established by theSri Lanka Standards Institution Act, No.6 of 1984,nominated by the Chairman of that Institution;

(c)one member who shall be the representative of theMinistry of the Minister in charge of the subjectof Science and Technology and the Departmentsand statutory bodies assigned to such Minister,appointed in consultation with that Minister;

(d)one member who shall be the representative of theGeneral Treasury, appointed in consultation withthe Minister in charge of the subject of Finance;

(e)one member who shall be the representative of theMinistry of the Minister in charge of the subjectof Trade and the Departments and statutory bodiesassigned to such Minister, appointed inconsulation with that Minister;

Governing Cocncil.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 20054

(f)one member who shall be the representative of theMinistry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofIndustrial Development and the Departments andstatutory bodies assigned to such Minister,appointed in consultation with that Minister;

(g)one member who shall be the representative of theMinistry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofHealth and the Departments and statutory bodiesassigned to suchMinister, appointed in consultationwith that Minister;

(h)one member who shall be the representative of theDepartment of Measurement Units, Standards andServices, appointed in consultation with the Minister,to whom that Department has been assigned;

(i)one member who shall be the representative of theMinistry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofAgriculture and the Departments and statutorybodies assigned to such Minister, appointed inconsultation with that Minister ;

(j)one member to be selected by the Minister from apanel of three names submitted to the Minister, bythe National Academy of Sciences, Sri Lanka; and

(k)one member to be selected by the Minister from apanel of three names submitted to the Minister, bythe Federation of Chambers of Commerce andIndustry.

(2)Where a member of the Council is, by reason ofillness, absence from Sri Lanka, or for any other cause,temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, for aperiod exceeding three months, the Minister may, on therecommendation of the Chairman and having regard to theprovisions of subsection (1), appoint some other person toact in his place.

(3)The exercise of the powers of the Board and thegeneral superindence, direction and management of affairsof the Board, shall vest with the Council.

6.(1) The Minister shall appoint one of the members ofthe Council as the Chairman of the Council. Chairman andVice Chairman ofthe Council.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 20055

(2) The functions of the Chairman shall be to guide theCouncil in its activities and to preside at the meetings of theCouncil.

(3) The Minister shall appoint one of the members of theCouncil as the Vice Chairman of the Council. The ViceChairman shall perform the duties of the Chairman in theabsence of the Chairman or whenever there is a vacancy inthe office of the Chairman.

7. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Council if he -

(a)is a member of Parliament, a member of a ProvincialCouncil or a member of a local authority;

(b)directly or indirectly, by himself or by any otherperson on his behalf, holds or enjoys any right orbenefit under any contract made by or on behalf ofthe Board;

(c)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any othercountry, found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(d)is a person who, having been declared an insolvent,or a bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka orin any other country, is an undischarged insolventor bankrupt; or

(e)is a person who has been convicted of any offenceby any court in Sri Lanka or any other country.

8. (1) A member of the Council may resign from officeby a letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister.

(2)The Minister may for reasons assigned, remove anymember of the Council from office.

Term of office ofmembers ofthe Council.

Disqualificationfor being amember of theCouncil.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 20056

(3)Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and(2) the term of office of a member of the Council shall bethree years :

Provided that a member of the Council appointed in placeof a member who dies, resigns or is removed from office,shall hold office for the remainder of the term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

(4)The Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Council mayresign from the offices respectively, of Chairman and ViceChairman, by letter in that behalf addressed to the Ministerand the resignation shall be effective from the date on whichsuch letter is accepted by the Minister.

(5)The Minister may for reasons assigned, remove theChairman and Vice Chairman of the Council from the officesrespectively, of Chairman and Vice Chairman.

(6)Subject to the provisions of subsections (4) and (5),the terms of office of the Chairman and Vice Chairman of theCouncil shall be their respective periods of membership ofthe Council.

9. A member of the Council who vacates office byaffluxion of time shall be eligible for re-appointment.

10. All members of the Council may be paidremuneration out of the Fund of the Board at such rates as theMinister may determine with the concurrence of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance.

11. (1) Five members shall form a quorum for anymeeting of the Council.

(2) If at least five members of the Council are present inSri Lanka, any question may be decided by the circulation ofthe relevant papers to the members present in Sri Lanka andby such members recording, in writing, their views thereon

Eligibility forre-appointment.

Remunerationof members of theCouncil

Meetings ofthe Council

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 20057

and by their recording their votes on that question in thepresence of each other and in every such case, a report ofsuch question, views and votes shall be recorded in theminutes book of the Council. If there is an equality of suchvotes, such question shall be submitted for decision to ameeting of the Council.

(3)Subject to the other provisions of this section, theCouncil may regulate the procedure with regard to itsmeetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

(4)No act, decision or proceedings of the Council shallbe deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence ofany vacancy in the Council or any defect in the appointmentof a member thereof.

12 .(1) The affixing of the seal of the Board to anyinstrument, other than an instrument referred to in subsection(2), shall be in the presence of, and be attested by

(a)the Chairman of the Council and the Director; or

(b)the Chairman of the Council or the Director andany other member of the Council; or

(c)the Director and such officer or servant of the Boardas may have been specially authorized by theCouncil to act on its behalf.

(2) The affixing of the seal of the Board to an instrumentcontaining an agreement for the rendering of any service bythe Board shall be in the presence of, and be attested by, theDirector or in his absence, by any officer or servant of theBoard who has been specially authorized, by the Council toact on its behalf.

13.(1) The Council may delegate any of its powersand duties, to the Director, a member of the Council or toany committee appointed under this Act, or to any officer orservant of the Board.

Seal.

Delegation ofpowers and dutiesof the Council.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 20058

(2) The Director, member of the Council or officer orservant of the Board or committee to whom any of the powersand duties of the Council have been delegated undersubsection (1), shall exercise and perform the powers andduties so delegated, subject to the special or general directionsof the Council.

14.(1) The Council may appoint committees to assist itin the performance of its duties consisting of such persons(whether officers or servants of the Board or not) as it considersnecessary to be members of any such committee.

(2) The Council may assign to a committee soappointed such of its powers as it may deem fit, but mayexercise any powers so assigned, notwithstanding suchassignment. The Council may amend or revoke any decisionmade by any such committee.

(3) The members of every such committee may bepaid out of the Fund of the Board, such remuneration andallowances as the Council may determine with the concurrenceof the Minister.

PART II

ACCREDITATION

15.The Minister may make regulations specifying thecriteria and requirements for accreditation of laboratories,certification and inspection bodies, training institutions andother persons required to carry out conformity assessments.

16.The Administrative Officer or Chief ExecutiveOfficer as the case may be, of a laboratory or a certification orinspection body, training institution or any person requiredto carry out conformity assessments may apply to the Boardfor accreditation to carry out the tests or other activitiesrequired by this Act, in the manner and form as shall beprescribed by regulations made in that behalf.

Appointment ofCommittees.

Determination ofcriteria &c.for accreditation.

Application forAccreditation to bein prescribedform.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 20059

17.Where the Board is satisfied, after consideration ofthe applications forwarded to it under section 16 by anylaboratory, certification or inspection body, traininginstitution, or person seeking accreditation and upon suchexaminations and assessments as it may consider necessaryand after consultation with the relevant committee appointedunder section 14, that the applicant satisfies the criteria andrequirements for accreditation prescribed under section 15,the Board shall grant accreditation to such laboratory,certification or inspection body, training institution or person,as the case may be.

18.(1) Where the Board grants accreditation to alaboratory, certification or inspection body, traininginstitution or other person required to carry out conformityassessments, under section 17, it shall issue a Certificatesigned by the Director, specifying the tests or other activitieswhich such laboratory, certification or inspection body,training institution or person is accredited, to carry out orperform, and also permit such laboratory, certification orinspection body, training institution or person to use theprescribed Accreditation Mark, in the manner hereinafter setout.

(2) The Certificate issued under subsection (1), shall beprominently displayed in the -

(a)laboratory; or

(b)registered place of business of the certification orinspection body, training institution or person, asthe case may be, of the institution to whom or theperson to whom such Certificate has been issued.

(3) (a) Subject to the provisions of the IntellectualProperty Act, No. 36 of 2003, no person other than a laboratory,certification or inspection body, training institution or person,granted accreditation under section 17 shall use the prescribedAccreditation Mark.

Grant ofAccreditation

Certificate and useof AccreditationMark.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200510

(b) A laboratory, certification or inspection body, traininginstituton or person may use the prescribed Accreditation Markfor so long only as the accreditation granted to it under section17 is in force and only in relation to the tests and other specificactivities it is accredited to carry out or perform under thissection.

19.It shall be the duty of a laboratory, a certification orinspection body, training institution or other person, grantedaccreditation under section 17, to forthwith inform the Board,of any changes in its status or operations.

20. (1) Where the Board is satisfied

(a)that any laboratory, certification orinspection body, training institution orperson granted accreditation under section17, no longer satisfies the criteria andrequirements prescribed under section 15for accreditation; or

(b)that there is a false statement in, or theomission of any material particular from,the application for accreditation made inrespect of such laboratory, certification orinspection body, training institution or aperson, as the case may be, or in any otherdocument submitted in connection withsuch application,

the Board may suspend or revoke the accreditation granted tosuch laboratory, certification or inspection body, traininginstitution or person, as the case may be, and shall forthwithinform such laboratory, certification or inspection body,training institution or person, as the case may be, of suchsuspension or revocation, as the case may be.

(2) Any person aggrieved by an order of suspension orrevocation made under subsection (1) may, appeal therefromto the Council in the prescribed manner and within theprescribed period. The decision of the Council on any suchappeal shall be final .

Suspensionandrevocation ofAccreditation.

Duty to informBoard, of changesin status &c.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200511

21.The Board shall maintain a Register of thelaboratories, certification and inspection bodies, traininginstitutions and persons granted accreditation under section17, and of the tests and the scope of the activities which suchlaboratories, certification and inspection bodies, traininginstitutions and persons are accredited to carry out or perform.

PART III

STAFF OF THE BOARD

22. (1) The Minister shall in consultation with theCouncil appiont a person who is suitably qualified in thefield of Science and Technology to be the Director of theBoard (in this Act referred to as "the Director" ).

(2)The terms and conditions of employment of theDirector shall be determined by the Minister.

(3)The remuneration of the Director shall bedetermined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(4)Whenever the Director is by reason of illness orabsence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause, unable toperform the duties of his office, the Minister may appointanother person to act in his place, during such absence.

(5)The functions of the Director, who shall be the ChiefExecutive Officer of the Board, shall be to organize, anddirect the work of the Board under the directions of and inaccordance with the policies adopted by the Council and heshall function as the Secretary to the Council.

23.The Council shall have the power to appoint, andexercise disciplinary control (including dismissal) over theofficers and servants of the Board, other than the Director.

Director of theBoard.

Power of theCouncil toexercisedisciplinarycontrol overofficers andservantsof the Board.

Board tomaintain a register.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200512

24.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), theCouncil may delegate to the Director all or any of its powersrelating to the appointment and dismissal, of other officers orservants of the Board. The conditions of employment,including remuneration, of every officer or servant appointedby the Director in the exercise of the powers delegated to himhereunder, shall be determined by him with the concurrenceof the Council.

(2)The Director shall not, except with the prior approvalof the Board, appoint, any person who is not a citizen of SriLanka, as an officer or servant of the Board.

(3)The dismissal by the Director of any officer or servantof the Board, shall be with the prior approval of the Board.

25.(1) The Director shall, with the approval of theCouncil appoint a panel of Assessors from amongst officersand servants of the Board or any other persons who are suitablyqualified, to function as Assessors for the purpose of makingthe assessments required under the provisions of this Act.

(2) The Director shall, with the approval of the Councillay down the procedure for the selection of Assessors fromthe Panel of Assessors, to function in respect of any particularassignment.

(3) Every Assessor shall be issued with a letter ofappointment by the Board to the effect that he has beenappointed as an Assessor for the purposes of this Act.

(4) A person who has been appointed as an Assessor interms of the provisions of this section may be paid out of theFund of the Board, remuneration or allowances in respect ofassignments carried out by him, at such rates as may bedetermined by the Director with the concurrence of theCouncil.

Appointmentof Assessors.

Delegation ofpowers of theCouncil.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200513

PART IV

FINANCE

26. (1) The Board shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Board

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted byParliament, for the use of the Board;

(b)all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Board in respect of services renderedby it under this Act;

(c)all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Board as donations or grants fromany source whatsoever, whether in Sri Lankaor abroad;

(d)all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Board in the exercise of its' powers,and the performance of its' duties, under thisAct, including any sums of money realizedby the sale of any movable or immovableproperty of the Board.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Board -

(a)all such sums of money as are required todefray any expenditure incurred by the Boardin the exercise of its' powers and theperformance of its' duties, under this Act; and

(b)all such sums of money as are required, byany provision of this Act, to be paid out ofthe Fund of the Board; and

(c)all such sums as are required under theEmployees Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of1958 and the Employees Trust Fund Act,No. 46 of 1980 to be paid as contributionsrespectively, to the Employees ProvidentFund and the Employees Trust Fundestablished by the aforesaid Acts.

Fund of theBoard.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200514

27.The Board shall cause to be prepared, a budget inrespect of every financial year and such budget shall beapproved by the Council not later than three months prior tothe commencement of the financial year to which the budgetrelates.

28.Subject to the provisions of any regulations madeunder section 39, the Board may, in respect of any servicesrendered by it under this Act, charge such fees as may beprescribed.

29. (1) The financial year of the Board shall be thecalendar year.

(2)The Council shall cause proper books of accounts tobe kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions, of the Board.

(3)The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Board.

(4)The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of1971, shall mutatis mutandis apply to, and in relation to, theBoard.

(5)The Council shall be responsible for the submissionof final accounts and the annual reports in due time inaccordance with the provisions of the Finance Act, No.38 of1971.

PART V

GENERAL

30.Every member of the Council or any Committeethereof, every officer and servant of the Board and everyAssesor appointed under this Act shall, before entering upon

Secrecy.

Charging feesfor servicesrendered.

Financial yearand the auditof accounts.

Budget of theBoard.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200515

his duties sign a declaration pledging not to disclose anymatter which may come to his knowledge in the exercise andperformance of his powers and duties under this Act except -

(a)when required to do so by a court of law;

(b)in order to comply with any of the provisions of thisAct or other written law.

31.All members of the Council, officers and servants ofthe Board and all assessors appointed under this Act shall bedeemed to be public officers within the meaning and for thepurposes of the Penal Code.

32.The Board shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

33. (1) No action or prosecution shall be instituted

(a)against the Board for any act which in good faith isdone or purported to be done by the Board underthis Act;

(b)against any member of the Council, any officer orservant of the Board or a member of any committeethereof or any assessor appointed under this Act forany act which in good faith is done, or purported tobe done, by him under this Act or on the direction ofthe Board or Council.

(2)Any expenses incurred by the Board or the Councilin any action or prosecution instituted by or against the Boardor Council in any Court shall be paid out of the Fund of theBoard and any costs paid to, or recovered by, the Board or theCouncil in any such action or prosecution shall be creditedto the Fund of the Board.

Members of theCouncil andBoard

Board to be ascheduledinstitution withinthe meaning ofthe Bribery Act.

Protection ofaction takenunder this Act.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200516

(3)Any expenses incurred by any such person as isreferred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), in any action orprosecution instituted against him in respect of any act done,or purported to be done, by him under this Act or on thedirection of the Board or the Council shall be paid out of theFund of the Board if the court held that the act was done ingood faith, unless such expense is recovered by him in suchaction or prosecution.

34.An officer of the Board or an Assessor appointedunder this Act, authorized in writing by the Board, may enterthe registered place of business of any person grantedaccreditation under section 17, and

(a)make such inquiries and investigations thereon inso far as it is required for the purpose of ascertainingwhether the criteria for accreditation has beensatisfied ; or

(b)require such person to furnish such information orreturns as may be necessry to ascertain whether heis complying with the provisions of this Act andthe regulations made thereunder or the terms ofthe Certificate issued to him under section 18.

35.Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),of section 36, no person shall carry on any activity, business,trade or occupation under any name assinged to the Board bysubsection (1) of section 2 this Act, or under any acronymthereof.

36. (1) Except with the written approval of the Ministerand subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3)

(a) no trade mark, device, brand, heading, label, ticket,pictorial representation, name, signature, letter,numeral or any combination thereof which containsthe words "Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment" or any other name oracronym adopted by the Board shall be registeredunder the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 ;

Powers ofentry.

Prohibition of theuse of any nameassigned to theBoard by the Act.

Restrictions on theuse of the wordsSri LankaAccreditationBoard forConformityAssessment orAccreditation.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200517

(b)no person shall unless granted accreditation undersection 17, sell any commodity or product or offerany service or facility under a mark which containsthe word "Accreditation" or under a description inwhich that word is used in such a manner as maycreate the impression that such person has beengranted accreditation under section 17.

(2)Any person who on date of commencement of thisAct carried on any activity, business, trade or occupation, oris registered under any such name as is referred to in section(35) may, notwithstanding the provisions of section (35),continue to carry on such activity, business, trade oroccupation or be registered, as the case may be, under suchname.

(3)The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection(1) shall not affect any trade mark registered on the date ofthe commencement of this Act, or the sale of any commodityor product under any such trade mark.

(4)The Minister may at any time withdraw any approvalgiven by him under subsection (1) if, in his opinion, it isnecessary to do so in order to avoid abuse.

37.Any person who

(a)contravenes the provisions of subsection (3) ofsection 18 ;

(b)contravenes the provisions of section 30 or section35 or paragraphs (a) or (b) of subsection (1) of section36 ;

(c)resists or obstructs a member of the Council or anofficer of the Board or an Assessor appointed underthis Act in the exercise by such officer or Assessor,of the powers conferred on him by the Act ; or

Offences.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200518

(d)wilfully makes any false statement in, or omits anymaterial particular from, any return or informationfurnished by him under section 34,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

38. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in anyprovisions of any other law, every person guilty of an offenceunder this Act shall, on conviction after summary trial beforea Magistrate, be liable -

(a)in the case of an offence referred to in paragraph (a)or (c) or (d) of section 37, to a fine not less than tenthousand rupees and not exceeding five hundredthousand rupees ; and

(b)in the case of an offence referred to in paragraph (b)of section 37, to a fine not less than five thousandrupees and not exceeding two hundred and fiftythousand rupees.

(2)Wherever any person is convicted of an offencereferred to in section 37, the court may in addition to anyother penalty which it may impose for such offence, orderthat all or any part of the products in respect of which theoffence was committed be forfeited to the State and theproducts so ordered to be forfeited shall be disposed of insuch manner as the Court may direct.

39.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then -

(a)if that body is a body corporate, every person whoat the time of the commission of the offence was adirector of that body corporate; and

(b)if that body is a firm, every person who at the timeof the commission of the offence was a partner ofthat firm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he provesthat the offence was committed without his knowledge orthat he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commissionof the offence.

Penalties.

Offences by bodyof persons.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200519

40. (1) The Minister may make regulations on therecommendations of the Council in respect of all matters, forwhich regulations are authorized or required by this Act to bemade or which are required by this Act to be prescribed.

(2)Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(3)Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Every regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval, but without prejudice to the validityof anything done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

41.Any accreditation granted under AccreditationScheme for Testing Laboratories, by the Sri Lanka StandardsInstitution established by the Sri Lanka Standards InstitutionAct, No. 6 of 1984 and in force on the day preceding the dateof commencement of this Act shall be valid and effectual fora period of six months from the date of commencement ofthis Act.

42.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

43.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

accreditation means the recognition by the Board,that a laboratory, certification or inspection body,training institution or person required to conductconformity assessments is competent to carry outor perform the tests and activities which arespecified in the Certificate issued with respect tosuch laboratory, certification or inspection body,training institution or person, as the case may be;

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Accreditationgranted by the SriLanka StandardsInstitution to bevalid for sixmonths.

Interpretation.

Regulations.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200520

Accreditation Mark" means a mark prescribed byregulations made under thisAct;

Certificate means a Certificate of Accreditation issuedby the Board under section 18;

conformity assessment means the determinationdirectly or indirectly that any process, system,commodity, product or service conforms to thestandards and other technical requirements(including requirements relating to manufacture,production, processing or treatment) specified by,or under, any written law, with respect to suchprocess, system, commodity, product or service;

"local authority" means a Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyauthority created or established by or under anylaw, to exercise, perform and discharge, powers,duties and functions corresponding to, or similarto the powers, duties and functions exercised,performed and discharged by any such Council orSabha;

"person" includes a body of persons;

"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations madeunder this Act;

"Provincial Council" means a Provincial Councilestablished under Chapter XVIIA of theConstitution.

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board forConformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 200521

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNM ENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.