Price : Rs. 31.00 Postage : Rs. 9.00

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 22, 2003

[Certified on 20th August, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

COMMON AMENITIES BOARD (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 24 OF 2003

1Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

[Certified on 20th August, 2003]

L.D.O 53/2001.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE COMMON AMENITIES BOARD LAW NO. 10 OF 1973

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Common AmenitiesBoard (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2003.

2.The Long Title to the Common Amenities Board Law,No. 10 of 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended by the substitution for thewords As the Common Amenities Board for the control,Management, Maintenance and Administration of theCommon Amenities and Common Elements of Units ofAccommodation of the words As the CondominiumManagement Authority for the Control, Management,Maintenance and Administration of the CondominiumProperty, Semi Condominium Property and ProvisionalCondominium Property.

3.(1) In the principal enactment and in any other writtenlaw, there shall be substituted

(a)for the words Common Amenities Board Law, thewords Condominium Management AuthorityLaw ;

(b)for the words Common Amenities Board andBoard denoting the Common Amenities Board,the words Condominium Management Authorityand Authority respectively.

(2)Every reference to the Common Amenities BoardLaw and the Common Amenities Board in any notice,notification, contract, communication or other document shallbe read and construed as a reference to the CondominiumManagement Authority Act and the CondominiumManagement Authority respectively.

CommonAmenities BoardLaw, andCommonAmenities Board,and Board to beknown as theCondominiumManagementAuthority Law,CondominiumManagementAuthority andAuthority.

2H 18079 5,650 (2003/05)

Amendment of theLong Title of Law,No. 10 of 1973.

Short title.

2Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

4.Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor :

4.This Law shall apply to any building orbuildings having two or more stories onalienated land, held as one land parcel capableof being subdivided into parcels, and to anybuilding or buildings having only one storeyon the same land capable of being subdividedinto parcels, (hereinafter referred to asCondominium Property), any buildingproposed to be or in the process of being erectedon alienated land, held as one land parcel andwhich shall be capable of being subdivided intoparcels (hereinafter referred to as ProvisionalCondominium Property) and any partlycompleted building in which there are more thanone completed condominium parcels fit forhuman habitation shown in the registeredProvisional Condominium Plan (hereinafterreferred to as Semi Condominium Property)..

5.Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor :

5. The objects of the Authority shall be to

(a)control, manage, maintain and administerthe condominium parcels, the commonelements and the common amenities ofthe Condominium Property or SemiCondominium Property ;

(b)ensure that the common elements and theCommon Amenities of the CondominiumProperty or Semi Condominium Propertyare properly maintained in good order andthat periodic repairs are being carried outin order to maintain such property in good

Replacement ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.Applicationof the Law.

Objects ofthe Authority.

Replacement ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

3Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

and serviceable order, and to assist themanagement corporation or the owner orowners or occupiers to carry out suchactivities or to be directly involved withsuch activities in the event of themanagement corporation or owner orowners or occupiers failing to carry outsuch activities ;

(c)ensure that all buildings comprising suchcondominium parcels are insured againstrisk of fire, civil commotion and riot orto insure or keep insured, if so requestedby the management corporation or by theowners, and to recover such premium orcharges from the management corporationor the owners as the case may be ;

(d)remove all such unauthorizedconstructions erected or carried out by therespective owners or occupiers of suchcondominium parcels or by any person,contrary to the registered condominiumplan of the Condomenium Property or theregistered Semi Condominium Plan of theSemi Condominium Property ;

(e)ensure that the management corporationof the condominium property or SemiCondominium Property are Properlyfunctioning and to manage and administerthe activities of such managementcorporation ;

(f)assist the management corporation or theowner or owners or occupiers of thecondominium parcels, of theCondominium Property or SemiCondominium Property in providing theservices such as water, sewerage,

4Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

drainage, gas, electricity, garbagedisposal, air conditioning, telephone,radio and redifusion services to the owneror owners or occupiers of thecondominium parcels of suchcondominium Property or SemiCondominium Property ;

(g)assist the management corporation toestablish and maintain for use by ownersor occupiers of such condominiumparcels, facilities such as roads,accessways, lawns, gardens, parks,playgrounds and other open spaces, or tobe directly involved with such activities,in the event of the managementcorporation failing to establish andmaintain such facilities ;

(h)transfer to the local authority themaintenance of roads, accessways, lawns,gardens, parks, playgrounds and otheropen spaces for the use by owners oroccupiers of the condominium parcels ofthe Condominium Property or SemiCondominium Property ;

(i)provide maintenance and repair servicesto such condominium parcels of theCondominium Property or SemiCondominium Property at the request ofthe management corporation or owners oroccupiers thereof ;

(j)monitor the progress of the constructionof the registered Provisionalcondominium Property in order to ensurethat the interests of the stakeholders areprotected and to intervene wherevernecessary to protect such interests ;

5Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

(k)formulate and submit condominium re-development programmes includingcapital investment plans to the Ministerfor approval by the Government ;

(l)call upon the National HousingDevelopment Authority or the UrbanDevelopment Authority or any localauthority or any government agency orany private sector developer, to undertakethe implementation of such condominiumre-development projects, or to undertakethe execution of the condominium re-development projects, of such programmeas may be approved by the Government ;

(m)undertake the completion of anycondominium building shown in theregistered Semi Condominium Plan orProvisional Condominium Plan, in theevent of any owner failing to completesuch project ;

(n)develop or re-develop land for carryingout of any of the objects of theAuthority ; and

(o)do all such other acts as may be necessaryor conducive to the attainment of any orall of the above objects..

6.Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor :

6. For the proper carrying out of its objectsthe Authority shall exercise any one or more ofthe following powers :

(a)acquire by way of acquisition, vesting,grant or purchasing, or to receive by wayof gift or otherwise any immovable or

Replacement ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.Powers of theAuthority.

6Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

movable property and to hold, manage,sell, surrender, exchange, lease orotherwise dispose of such property ;

(b)receive donations and bequests from anysource whether local or foreign ;

(c)borrow moneys required by it for thedischarge of the functions ;

(d)charge rent for any land parcel orbuildings or Condominium Property letby the Authority ;

(e)levy fees or charges, for any servicesrendered by the Authority under this Lawor any other written law ;

(f)recover any premia from owners inproportion to their interests in thecondominium parcels ;

(g)recover from any person including anowner, expenses incurred in making goodany damage caused by him to the commonamenities or common elements of thecondominium parcels ;

(h)provide to any condominium parcel, anyservices including its refurbishment,repair, and maintenance at the request ofthe management corporation or owner oroccupier of the condominium parcel andlevy charges therefor ;

(i)undertake construction work ;

(j)enter, either by itself or by its dulyauthorized agents, at all reasonable times,any condominium parcel for the purpose

7Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

of inspecting, repairing, or renewingpipes, wires, cables and ducts which alsoserve other condominium parcels or thecommon elements of the condominiumparcels or for the purpose of maintaining,renewing, refurbishing, or repairing thecondominium parcel or the commonamenities or the common elements, of theCondominium Property or for the purposeof removing or demolishing unauthorizedconstructions of the CondominiumProperty or Semi Condominium Propertyor for the purpose of ensuring that anyrelevant statutory requirements are beingcomplied with, or in the exercise of anyof the powers, referred to in this section ;

(k)enter either by itself or by its dulyauthorized agents at all reasonable times,any land parcel of the ProvisionalCondominium Property for the purposeof inspecting and reviewing the progressof the construction of the building shownin the registered provisionalcondominium plan ;

(l)enter into such contracts and to make sucharrangements as are reasonably requiredfor the purpose of carrying out any of theobjects of the Authority ;

(m)resolve disputes between the managementcorporation and the owner or owners, andoccupier, or owner and purchaser, orowner and mortgagee, or mortgagee andprospective purchaser or mortgagor andmortgagee of the condominium parcels ofthe Condominium Property, or SemiCondominium Property, or registeredProvisional Condominium Property ;

8Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

(n)employ such officers and servants as maybe necessary to carry out the work of theAuthority and exercise disciplinarycontrol over its officers and servants ;

(o)make rules for the administration of theaffairs of the Authority ; and

(p)do all things which in the opinion of theAuthority, are necessary to facilitate thecarrying out of its objects..

7.Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor

7. Notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other law, the Authority may, on adirective made by the Minister or on a requestmade by an owner or the owners of all thecondominium parcels, or by the managementcorporation, or by the local authority, or anyother public corporation as the case may be,where the Authority is satisfied that the owneror owners or the management corporation, areincapable of properly controlling, maintaining,managing and administering the commonelements or common amenities of thecondominium parcels of the CondominiumProperty or Semi Condominium Property,undertake to control, maintain, manage andadminister of the common elements andcommon amenities, until such time themanagement corporation is capable ofcontrolling, maintaining, managing andadministering such common elements andcommon amenities of the CondominiumProperty or Semi Condominium Property..

Authority totake over thecontrol,maintenance&c. of thecommonamenities andcommonelements oftheCondominiumProperty.

Replacement ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

9Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

8.Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor :

8. (1) The management and administrationof the affairs of the Authority shall be vested ina Board of Management (hereinafter referredto as the Board) which shall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio membersnamely

(i)the General Manager of the NationalHousing Development Authorityestablished under the NationalHousing Development Authority Act,No. 17 of 1979 ;

(ii)the Director-General of the UrbanDevelopment Authority establishedunder the Urban DevelopmentAuthority Law, No. 41 of 1978 ;

(iii)The Director-General of the PublicUtilities Commission of Sri Lankaestablished by the Public UtilitiesCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No.35 of 2002 ;

(iv)the General Manager of the NationalWater Supply and Drainage Boardestablished under the National WaterSupply and Drainage Board Law, No.2 of 1974 ;

(v)the Municipal Commissioners ofMunicipal Councils of Colombo,Kotte, Dehiwala Mount - Lavinia andMoratuwa, respectively ;

(vi)the General Manager of the Authoritywho shall be the Secretary of theBoard appointed interms of section 17;

Board ofManagement.

Replacement ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

10Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

(b)six persons to be appointed by theMinister (hereinafter referred to as theappointed members) in the followingmanner :

(i)the representative of the Secretary tothe Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance ;

(ii)a representative of the HomeMortgage Lenders Association ;

(iii)a representative of the Private SectorDevelopers Association ;

(iv)a representative of the managementcorporation ;

(v)a representative of the CeylonChamber of Commerce ;

(vi)a person having experience in the areaof condominium propertymanagement, who shall be theChairman.

(2)A person shall be disqualified frombeing appointed or from continuing as a memberof the Board

(a)if he is or becomes a member ofParliament, a Provincial Council or anylocal authority ;

(b)if he is not or ceases to be a citizen of SriLanka.

(3) The appointed members shall subjectto the provisions of subsections (5) and (7) holdoffice for a term of three years, and shall beeligible for re-appointment.

11Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

(4)The Minister may remove from officethe Chairman or any member

(a)if he becomes subject to anydisqualifications specified in sub-section (2) ;

(b)if he becomes incapable of performing hisduties owing to physical disability orunsoundness of mind ; or

(c)if he does any act or thing which, in theopinion of the Minister is likely to bringthe Authority to disrepute.

(5)In the event of the vacation of officeby the Chairman or any other member of theBoard, the Minister may appoint another personto hold office during the unexpired part of theterm of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(6)If the Chairman or any appointedmember of the Board is temporarily unable todischarge the duies of his office due to ill healthor absence from Sri Lanka or for any othercause, the Minister may appoint some otherperson to act in his place as Chairman or asmember.

(7)Any member of the Board may at anytime resign his office by written communicationaddressed to the Minister. Such registrationshall be effective from the date of acceptenceof the same by the Minister.

(8)The members of the Board shall beremunerated in such manner and at such rates,as may be determined by the Minister with theconcurrence of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance.

12Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

(9)The Chairman of the Board, shall, ifpresent preside at all meetings of the Board, inthe absence of the Chairman from any suchmeeting, the members present shall elect oneof the members to preside at the meeting.

(10)Any ex - officio member may, at anytime by prior notice in writing nominate hisdeputy to represent him at the Board meetingto be held on a given date, if he is unable toattend such meeting due to unavoidablecircumstances.

(11)The quorum for any meeting of theBoard shall be five members and the Board mayregulate the procedure in regard to the conductof meetings of the Board and the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings.

(12)The Board shall, in the exercise,discharge or performance of its powers,functions or duties under this Act be subject tosuch general or special directions as may fromtime to time, be issued by the Minister.

(13)A member of the Board, who isdirectly or indirectly interested in any businesstransacted or proposed to be transacted by theBoard shall disclose the nature of such interestat the meeting of the Board where such businessis discussed. The disclosure shall be recordedin the minutes of the Board, and such membershall not take part in any deliberation or decisionof the Board with regard to such business, andshall withdraw from such meeting while suchdeliberation is in progress or such decision isbeing made.

13Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

(14)No act or proceeding of the Boardshall be invalid by reason only of the existenceof a vacancy among its members of any defectin the appointment of a member..

9.Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor :

9. (1) The Authority, may on its ownmotion, or on the application of a majority ofthe members of the management corporation orof not less than one-third of the owners of theCondominium Parcels of the CondominiumProperty or Semi Condominium Property, holdan inquiry, or direct a person authorized inwriting in that behalf, by the Authority by orderto hold an inquiry into the activities and financialstability of the management corporation.

(2) For the purposes of an inquiry undersubsection (1), the Authority or any personauthorized by to hold an inquiry, shall have thepower

(a)to summon any member of themanagement corporation,or owner orowners of the condominium parcels ;

(b)to require the production of any book ordocument relating to the affairs of themanagement corporation or any cash orsecurity ;

(c)to summon a special general meeting ofthe owners of the condominium parcels ;

(d)to take into his custody, books of accountsor documents in the possession of themanagement corporation.

Replacement ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.Inquiry intothe activitiesof themanagementcorporation.

14Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

(3) Where an inquiry is held undersubsection (1) the Authority or the personauthorized by the authority to hold the inquiryshall after due inquiry make order as regardsthe management corporation and shallcommunicate the order of the inquiry to all theowners of the condominium Parcels of theCondominium property or Semi CondominiumProperty.

(4)It shall be the duty of the managementcorporation to abide by any order made undersubsection (3)..

10.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 9 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 9A, 9B, 9C and 9D of thatenactment :

9A. (1) Where the Authority receives acomplaint or receives information that anunauthorized construction has been erected oris being erected in any registered or unregisteredCondominium Property or Semi CondominiumProperty, the Authority shall, cause a notice inwriting to be served on the owner of thecondominium parcel and a copy of such noticeto be served on each occupier of suchcondominium parcel and the managementcorporation if any, who is erecting or has erectedsuch unauthorised construction in thecondominium parcel, or the common elementand direct such owner, occupier or managementcorporation, as the case may be, to be present atan inquiry on a date, time and place, to bespecified in the notice and to show cause

(a)why the Authority should not prohibitsuch person from proceeding with theconstruction ;

Insertion of newsections 9A, 9B, 9Cand 9D in theprincipalenactment.

Demolitionofunauthorisedconstructions.

15Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

(b)why the unauthorised construction shouldnot be demolished and the CondominiumParcel restored to its original condition.

(2)The persons present at the inquiry inpersuant to the receipt of a notice issued undersubsection (1), shall be given an opportunity ofbeing heard and thereafter where the Authorityis of the opinion that such construction is anunauthorized construction, it may direct, suchowner or occupier or management corporationor other person, as the case may be

(a)not to proceed with such unauthorisedconstruction ; or

(b)to restore the condominium parcel or anaccessory parcel appurtenant to thecondominium parcel or common elementto its original condition ; or

(c)to take such other measures for thepurpose of compliance with the conditionsset out in the permit subject to which theCondominium Property or SemiCondominium Property has beenconstructed.

(3)Where such owner or occupier ormanagement corporation or other person, as thecase may be

(a)fails to be present at the inquiry ; or

(b)after being present at such inquiry refusesto comply with any direction issued undersubsection (2) within seven days from thedate of issue of such direction,

16Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

the Authority shall

(i)take appropriate measures to demolishsuch unauthorised construction ;

(ii)direct the discontinuance of the use of theland parcel or building ;

(iii)do all such other acts as the owner oroccupier or other person was required todo by such directive under subsection (2).

(4)The Authority may, for the purpose ofacting under paragraphs (i), (ii) or (iii) ofsubsection (3) authorise any officer to enter theCondominium Property or the SemiCondominium Property on which suchunauthorised construction is being erected orerected and do all such acts as may be necessaryfor the purpose.

(5)No action or other proceeding shall lieagainst any person for any act, done withinexercise of the powers conferred by subsection(4), and no owner, occupier or person shall beentitled to any compensation for any damageor loss caused by such act.

(6)It shall be the duty of every member ofthe Police when requested to do so, to renderall necessary assistance to the Authority for thepurpose of taking action under paragraphs (i),(ii) or (iii) of subsection (3).

(7)The Authority shall be entitled torecover all reasonable expenses incurred by theAuthority in removing, demolishing theunauthorized constructions of the CondominiumProperty or Semi Condominium Property ordiscontinuing any work in pursuance of theprovisions of subsection (4).

17Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

(8)The preceding provisions of this sectionshall not affect any liability incurred by suchowner or occupier or other person by reason ofhis failure to comply with such notice.

9B. (1) On a written complaint made by apurchaser of a condominium parcel of theCondominium Property, which has beenregistered with the Registrar of Lands under theRegistration of Documents Ordinance (Chapter117), without the Certificate of Conformityrelating to the standard of the common amenitiesprovided to such Condominium Parcel by theregistered owner of the Condominium Property,issued by the Authority who has beenempowered to approve the building plan, theAuthority shall on being satisfied after dueinquiry, make Order directing the registeredowner to provide the required commonamenities in the manner acceptable to theAuthority, at his expense within the periodspecified in that Order.

(2)Where the registered owner againstwhom an Order is made under subsection (1)fails to comply with such Order, the Authorityshall, provide such services to the purchaser ofthe condominium parcel of the CondominiumProperty and recover such expenses from theregistered owner in an action in any court ofcompetent jurisdiction, as a debt due to suchAuthority from the said registered owner.

9C. (1) Upon registration of the provisionalcondominium plan by the Registrar under theApartment Ownership Law, No. 11 of 1973, theowner of the Provisional CondominiumProperty, shall submit quarterly reports, intriplicate, indicating the progress of theconstruction of the building to be erected, shownin the registered provisional condominium plan,

Complaints bya purchaser asregards thecommonamenitiesprovided bythe registeredowner.

Monitoringthe progressof theconstructionof thebuildingshown in theregisteredprovisionalCondominiumPlan.

18Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

as per the project implementation plan filedalong with the said Provisional CondominiumPlan. One copy shall be to the Registrar, onecopy, to the General Manager and one copy tothe mortgagee, if any.

(2)The progress report to be submittedquarterly shall be submitted in the format as setout in Schedule I.

(3)Where the General Manager is satisfiedthat the owner is not carrying out theconstruction of the registered ProvisionalCondominium Property as per the projectimplementation plan filed along with theProvisional Condominium Plan, satisfactorily,and is of the opinion, that the intervention ofthe Authority is necessary in order to safeguardthe interest of mortgagees, or registeredprospective purchasers who have alreadyprovided finances to the owner under mortgagessecured on the land parcel where the proposedbuilding is to be erected as shown in theProvisional Condominium Plan and registeredwith the Registrar or provided finances asadvances to the owner agreeing to purchase theprovisional condominium parcels under theagreements for sale and registered with theRegistrar, he shall convene after due notice, ameeting of the owner, such mortgagees, if any,and such prospective purchasers, if any, anddiscuss the issues which hinder the owner fromsatisfactorily carrying out such construction.

(4)Where the owner fails to participate atsuch meeting, or after participating fails toprovide satisfactory explanation for the delay,or provide a satisfactory work programme forthe construction of the proposed building upto

19Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

the level of a partly completed building, so thatall existing mortgages securing the land parceland individual condominium parcel could beredeemed and all commitments made towardsthe registered prospective purchasers could besettled, the Authority may

(a)recommend that the mortgagees takeaction as per the mortgage instruments,and to recover the money due to themortgagee, and to settle the claims of theregistered prospective purchasers, if thereis any surplus money with the mortgageeafter the sale of the land parcel ; or

(b)recommend the Minister that such landparcel be ested in the Authority where theProvisional Condominium Property is tobe erected, in order to settle the dues ofthe registered mortgagees or registeredprospective purchasers.

9D. Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in this Law or any other Law

(a)the Minister, shall on beingsatisfied after due inquiry, on arecommendation being made by theAuthority or upon the request of themortgagee make order directing theowner to carry out the constructionas per the registered ProvisionalCondominium Plan.

(2)where the Minister makes an Orderunder paragraph (a), directing theowner of the registered ProvisionalCondominium Property to carry outsuch construction, the Minister, shallspecify in such order

(i)the number of provisionalcondominium parcels in theregistered Provisional

Vesting of theland parcel ofa defaultingowner.

20Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act , No. 24 of 2003

Condominium Plan that shall beconstructed to be considered as asemi condominium Property ;

(ii)the period within which suchconstruction needs to becompleted ;

(iii)the final date by which theapplication for registration of theSemi Condominium Plan is to beTendered to the Registrar.

(c)Where the owner of any provisionalcondominium property in respect ofwhich an order is made under subsection(1) fails to comply with the order(hereinafter referred to as the defaultowner) the Minister shall, by orderpublished in the Gazette vest such landparcel shown in the registered provisionalplan in the Authority ;

(d)Where the land parcel of the provisionalCondominium Property has been vestedin the Authority under paragraph (e), thedefaulting owner of the said land parcelshall be entitled to compensation inrespect of the same on the basis of thevaluation of the Chief Valuer as at the dateof registration of the ProvisionalCondominium Plan, and the followingdues of the defaulting owner shall be setoff against the compensation due

(i)outstanding dues arising out of themortgage or mortgages of theproperty acquired ;

21Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

(ii)outstanding dues arising out of theagreements for sale of the provisionalcondominium parcels ;

(iii)outstanding dues to any of the governmentagencies in relation to registeredProvisional Condominium Property,

(e)if any amount remains unsettled to any of theparties mentioned above such unsettled amountwill be recovered by the Authority by way ofin an action in a court of competent jurisdictionas debt due to it from the relevent defaultingowner..

11.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

10.(1) Where any immovable property isrequired to be acquired for any specific purposeof the Authority and the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette approves the proposedacquisition for that purpose, that property shallbe deemed to be required for a public purposeand may accordingly be acquired under the LandAcquisition Act and transferred to the Authority.

(2)Any sum payable, for the acquisitionof any immovable property under subsection (1)for the Authority shall be paid out of the Fundof the Authority..

12.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 10 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 10A, 10B and 10C of thatenactment :

Acquisitionof immovableproperty underthe LandAcquisitionAct.

Insertion of newsections 10A, 10Band 10C in theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200322

10A.(1) Where any immovable propertyof the State is required for any purpose of theAuthority, such purpose shall be deemed to bea purpose for which a special grant or lease ofsuch property may be made under section 6 ofthe Crown Lands Ordinance, and accordinglythe provisions of that Ordinance shall apply toa special grant or lease of such property of theAuthority.

(2)Where any movable property of theState is required for any purpose of theAuthority, the Minister may, by Order publishedin the Gazette, transfer to, and vest in theAuthority the possession and use of suchmovable property :

Provided, however, no Order affecting anymovable property of the State shall be made bythe Minister under the preceding provisions ofthis subsection, without the concurrence of theMinister having control over such property.

(3)No Order affecting any movableproperty of any government department orpublic corporation shall be made by the Ministerunder subsection (2) without the consent of theMinister to whom such department or publiccorporation has been assigned.

10B. (1) Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in this Law; or any other Law, theMinister may, by notification published in theGazette, declare that it is necessary to acquirefor the purposes of carrying out anycondominium re-development project, any ofthe Condominium Property or any part or anyof the condominium parcel or SemiCondominium Property referred to in any of thefollowing cases :

Acquisition ofCondominiumproperty forcondominiumdevelopmentproject.

State propertyboth movableand immovableto be madeavailable to theAuthority.

23Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

(a)where any sub-divided building shownin a Condominium Plan or SemiCondominium Plan has been resolvedto be destroyed by the resolution of theowners of the condominium parcels, inaccordance with section 20Q of theApartment Ownership Law, No. 11 of1973; or

(b)where any subdivided building shownin a Condominium Plan or SemiCondominium Plan is damaged but isnot totally destroyed and themanagement corporation or the ownershave neglected or failed to restore thedamaged portion of the subdividedbuilding as accordance with section 20Rof the Apartment Ownership Law, No.11 of 1973; or

(c)where any sub-divided building shownin a Condominium Plan or SemiCondominium Plan, and constructed atleast forty (40) years prior to thedeclaration ; or

(d)where the maintenance of a subdividedbuilding and its common elementsshown in a Condominium Plan or SemiCondominium Plan, has been neglectedby the majority of the owners of thecondominium parcels or themanagement corporation, therebycausing a nuisance to the neighbours ora threat to the environment.

(2)Where a notification under subsection(1) is published in the Gazette, theCondominium Property or Semi Condominium

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200324

Property to which such notification relates shall,for the purposes of the Land Acquisition Act,be deemed to be a land required for a publicpurpose and may be acquired under that Act.

10C. (1) The Authority may, with the approvalof the Minister, dispose by way of sale, lease,rent or rent purchase any land, flat, house or otherliving accommodation held by the Authority,subject to such terms and conditions as may bedetermined by the Minister and specified in theinstrument of disposition, and in particular, butwithout prejudice to the generality of theforegoing provisions of this section, a conditionto the effect that the disposition effected by suchinstrument may be cancelled or determined inthe event of a failure to comply with any othercondition specified in such instrument or in theevent of any money due to the Authority undersuch instrument remaining unpaid for any suchperiod as may be specified therein.

(2)Nothing in the Crown Lands Ordinanceshall affect or be deemed or construed to affectthe disposition of any State land held by theAuthority for any of the purposes of theAuthority..

13.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

15. A certificate issued by the GeneralManager to the effect that a sum of money isdue to the Authority from the person specifiedin the certificate shall, if it purports to be signedby the General Manager or a person authorizedby him in that behalf, be prima facie proof ofthe facts stated therein and shall be admissible

Right ofalienation ofland, flat,house or otherlivingaccommodation.

Replacement ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment.Certificatefrom theGeneralManager.

25Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

Insertion of newsections 15A, 15Band 15C of theprincipalenactment.

in evidence without proof of the signature ofthe General Manager or the person authorizedby him in that behalf..

14.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 15 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 15A, 15B and 15C of thatenactment :

15A. (1) Upon production of a certificateissued by the General Manager stating that asum of money is due to the Authority on aspecified date from the person, specified therein,before a District Court having jurisdiction in thedistrict in which that person resides or whereany property movable or immovable owned bythat person is situated, the Court shall issue aninjunction restraining such person from theplace where such property is kept or fromcausing or permitting the removal therefrom ofsuch property and shall direct a writ of executionto be issued to the Fiscal authorizing andrequiring him to seize and sell all or any of theproperty movable and immovable of suchperson or such part thereof as may be necessaryfor the recovery of that sum ; the provisions ofsections 226 and 297 of the Civil ProcedureCode (Chapter 101) shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to such a seizure and sale.

(2)Where the General Manager issues acertificate referred to in subsection (1), he shallat the same time issue to the person specified inthe certificate a notification thereof by personalservice, registered post, or telegraph, but thenon-receipt of such notification by such personshall not invalidate proceedings under thissection.

Recovery ofmonies due tothe Authority.

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200326

15B. (1) Any person who is liable to pay anysum under this Law to the Authority shall, if heis an employee of the Government of Sri Lanka,or the Local Government Service, JudicialService, or of any corporate or incorporatedbody, be liable to have any such sum recoveredor deducted out of his remuneration from suchemployment.

(2)The General Manager shall, if he is ofthe opinion that the method of recovery referredto in subsection (1) is a satisfactory method ofrecovery in the case of any person, direct inwriting to the employer of that person to deductand pay to the Authority out of the remunerationpayable to that person such amount in suchmanner, and at such intervals as may bespecified in the directions.

(3)Every employer who receives adirection under subsection (2) shall forthwithcomply with such direction.

(4) Where a deduction from remuneration outof such employment is made, the employer shallwithin a reasonable time, but not later thanfourteen days from the date of recovery, issue areceipt to the person from whom the recoveryhas been made acknowledging receipt of suchmoney or recovery of such dues and shallforthwith inform the General Manager fromwhom he has received such direction of that fact.

(5)Where any person in respect of whoma direction under subsection (2) is in force isabout to leave, or leaves, the employment ofhis employer, the employer shall forthwith

Recovery ofsums liable tobe paid to theAuthority by aperson out oftheremunerationof such person.

27Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

(a)if the remuneration due to such personexceeds the sum liable to be paid undersuch direction to the Authority deductthat sum from such remuneration andpay the sum so deducted to theAuthority ; and

(b)if such remuneration does not exceedthe sum to be recovered, pay theamount of such remuneration to theAuthority.

(6)Where for any reason an employer ofany person is unable to comply with a directionissued under subsection (2), he shall inform theGeneral Manager forthwith in writing of hisinability to do so and the reason therefor.

(7)Every employer who contravenes anyof the preceding provisions of this section shallbe guilty of an offence and shall, on convictionafter summary trial before a Magistrate, be liableto a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees orto imprisonment of either description for aperiod not exceeding one year or to both suchfine and imprisonment.

(8)Where any offence under the precedingprovisions of this section is committed by a bodyof persons, then

(a)if the body of person is a bodycorporate, every director and officer ofthat body corporate ; and

(b)if the body of persons is a firm, everypartner of that firm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of such offecne :

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200328

Provided that no such director, officer orpartner shall be deemed to be guilty of suchoffence if he is able to prove that such offencewas committed without his knowledge or thathe exercised all due diligence to prevent thecommission of such offence.

(9)No prosecution for an offence underthis section shall be instituted except by or withthe sanction of the Authority.

(10)Nothing in the preceding provisions ofthis section shall affect, or be deemed orconstrued to affect the rights of the GeneralManager to recover in any other manner or byany other procedure applicable in that behalf, anysum which is liable to be paid to the Authorityunder this law and in respect of which he hasgiven a direction under subsection (2).

15C. The General Manager is authorized onbehalf of the Authority to sign and execute alldocuments required to be signed or executed inthe exercise, discharge or performance of anypower, function or duty assigned to him by theAuthority under this law..

15.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andsubstitute therefore of the following subsection :

(1)Where any dispute arises between anowner and occupier or owner and owner or themanagement corporation and owner or themanagement corporation and owner or ownersor mortgagee and owner, or mortgagee andmortgagee, or owner and purchaser, or ownerand prospective purchaser or mortgagee andprospective purchaser, of any such

Signature ofdocuments byGeneralManager onbehalf of theAuthority.

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

29Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

condominium parcel in respect of the use oroccupation of any such condominium parcel orthe enjoyment of the common amenities orcommon elements appurtenant thereto, suchdispute shall be referred by such person or themanagement corporation to the Authority, andthe Authority as the case may be shall, after dueinquiry, make such order in respect of thatdispute as may appear to the Authority to bejust and equitable..

16.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substitutedtherefor :

17. (1) The Authority may, with the approvalof the Minister, appoint a General Manager, whoshall be the chief executive officer.

(2)The Authority may, at any time if itconsiders necessary to do so, terminate theappointment of the General Manager with theapproval of the Minister for reasons assigned.

(3)The General Manager shall, subject tothe general direction and control of theChairman, be charged with the direction of thebusiness of the Authority, the organization andexecution of the powers, functions and dutiesof the Authority, and the administrative controlof the employees of the Authority.

(4)The General Manager may, with theapproval of the Authority, delegate in writingto any other employee of the Authority, any ofhis powers, functions or duties, as he may, fromtime to time consider necessary and anyemployee to whom any such powers, functionsor duties are so delegated, shall exercise,discharge or perfrom subject to the general orspecial directions of the General Manager..

GeneralManager ofthe Authority.

Replacement ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200330

17.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 17 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 17A of that enactment :

17A. (1) The Authority may appoint suchofficers and servants as it considers necessaryfor the efficient discharge of its functions.

(2)The officers and servants appointedunder subsection (1) shall be remunerated insuch manner and at such rates, and shall besubject to such conditions of service, asmay be determined by rules made by theAuthority.

(3)At the request of the Authority anyofficer in the public service may, with theconsent of that officer and the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister in charge of the subjectof Public Administration, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority for suchperiod as may be determined by the Authoritywith like consent, or be permanently appointedto such staff.

(4)Where any officer in the public serviceis temporarily appointed to the staff of theAuthority the provisions of subsection (2) ofsection 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall,mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation tohim.

(5)Where any officer in the public serviceis permanently appointed to the staff of theAuthority, the provisions of subsection (3) ofsection 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No 37 of 1991, shall, mutatismutandis, apply to and in relation to him.

Appointmentof officers andservants.

Insertion of newsection 17A in theprincipalenactment.

31Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

(6)Where the Authority employs anyperson who has agreed to serve the Governmentfor a specified period, any period of service withthe Authority by that person shall be regardedas service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such agreement.

(7) At the request of the Authority anymember of the Provincial Public Service or anyother officer or servant of any local authoritymay, with the consent of such member, officeror servant and the provincial Public ServiceCommissioner or that local authority, as the casemay be, be temporarily appointed to the staff ofthe Authority for such period as may bedetermined by the Authority with like consentor be permanently appointed to such staff on suchterms and conditions including those relating topension or provident fund rights as may be agreedupon by the Authority and the Provincial PublicService Commission or the local authority.

(8)Where any person is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority inpursuance of subsection (4) or subsection (7),such person shall be subject to the samedisciplinary control as any other member of suchstaff..

18.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following :

(2)There shall be credited to the Fund of theAuthority :

(a)all such sums of money as may be votedfrom time to time by the Parliament forthe use of the Authority ;

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200332

(b)all such sums of money as may bereceived by the Authority in the exercise,performance or discharge of its powers,duties or functions ;

(c)all such sums of money as may bereceived by the Authority by way ofdonations, gifts, or grants from anysource whatsoever, whether in or outsideSri Lanka ; and

(d)all such sums of money as may betransferred to the Authority by anyGovernment department, publiccorporation or other institutions. ; and

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) ofthe following subsection :

(2A) There shall be paid out of the Fund of theAuthority all such sums of money required to defrayany expenditure incurred by the Authority in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions..

19.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 19 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 19A of the that enactment :

19A. (1) The Authority may, with the consentof the Minister, given with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance andsubject to such terms and conditions, borrowtemporarily, by way of overdraft or otherwise,such sums as the authority may require for meetingthe obligations of Authority or discharging itsduties and functions under this Act :

Provided however, that the aggregate of theamounts outstanding in respect of any temporaryloans raised by the Authority under this

Insertion of newsection 19A in theprincipalenactment.

Borrowingpowers of theAuthority.

33Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

subsection shall not at any time exceed such sumas may be determined by the Minister inconsultation with the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance.

(2)The Authority may, with the consent ofthe Minister given with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance,borrow money, otherwise than by way oftemporary loan under subsection (1) by the issueof debentures and the debentures so created andissues in this Act are referred to asCondominium Management AuthorityDebentures.

(3)Condominium Management AuthorityDebentures shall be issued, transferred, dealtwith, redeemed and cancelled in accordancewith such terms and conditions as may bedetermined by the Authority with the approvalof the Minister given with the concurrence ofthe Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance..

20.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following subsection substituted therefor :

20. (1) The Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance shall, guarantee therepayment of the principal of, and the paymentof the interest on, any sum due on debenturesissued under this Act.

(2)Any sum required for the fulfillmentof a guarantee provided under subsection (1)may, with the prior approval of the Parliament,be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

Replacement ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.Governmentguarantee.

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200334

Protection foraction subjectto Article 126of theConstitution.

Insertion of newsection 20A of theprincipalenactment.

(3)Any sum paid out of the ConsolidatedFund in fulfillment of a guarantee providedunder subsection (1) shall be repaid, togetherwith interest thereon, at such rates as theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance maydetermine with the concurrence of the Minister,by the Authority, in such manner and over suchperiod as the Minister in charge of the subjectof Finance may with such concurrencedetermine.

(4)Where any sum is paid out of theConsolidated Fund in fulfillment of a guaranteeprovided under subsection (1), the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance shall forthwithlay before Parliament a statement that such sumhas been so paid..

21.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 20 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 20A of the that enactment

20A (1) Subject to the provisions of Article126 of the Constitution, no suit or prosecutionshall lie against any member, officer, servantor agent of the Authority for any act which ingood faith is done or purported to be done byhim under this Act, or on the direction of theAuthority.

(2) Any expenses incurred by the Authorityin any suit or prosecution brought by or againstthe Authority before any court shall be paid outof the Fund and any costs paid to, or recoveredby the Authority in any such suit or prosecutionshall be credited to the Fund..

35Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

22.Section 25 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution,for the words from for a period not exceeding six monthsto the end of that section of the words for a period notexceeding one year or a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupeesor to both such imprisonment and fine and if such offence isa continuing offence to an additional fine of one thousandrupees for each day on which the offence is continued afterconviction..

23.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the substitution for the definition of the expressioncommon amenities of the following definition :

common amenities means water, sewerage,drainage, gas, electricity, garbage disposal,airconditioning, telephone and radio services,and roads, accesses, lawns, gardens, parks,playgrounds and other open spaces ;;

(2)by the substitution for the definition of theexpression common elements of the followingdefinition :

common elements shall have the same meaningas is assigned to it by the ApartmentOwnership Law No. 11 of 1973 ;;

(3)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression common elements of thefollowing definition :

Condominium Plan, shall have the samemeaning as is assigned to it by the ApartmentOwnership Law No. 11 of 1973 ;;

(4)by the omission of the definition of the expressionscondominium property and housing scheme ;

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment.

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200336

(5)by the substitution for the definition of the expressionlocal authority of the following definition :

local authority means any Municipal Council,Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha andincludes any authority created or establishedby or under any law to exercise, perform anddischarge powers, duties and functionscorresponding to, or similar to the powers,duties and functions, exercised, performed anddischarged by any such Council or Sabha ;;

(6)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression local authority of the followingdefinition :

management corporation in relation to any oneor more subdivided buildings shown on acondominium plan or semi condominium plan,means the management corporationestablished in respect of such buildings underthe Apartment Ownership Law, No. 11 of1973 ;;

(7)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression management corporation of thefollowing definitions :

owner means the owner of the land parcelimmediately before the subdivision thereof ;

owner of the condominium parcel means theregistered owner for the time being of acondominium parcel having a freehold estatein the condominium parcel or where aleasehold estate in the condominium parcel hasbeen created a leasehold estate in thecondominium parcel having an unexpired termof not less than twenty years computed as fromthe date of registration of such creation ofleasehold estate ;

37Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

parcel means a defined space which is shown asan independent condominium parcel on acondominium plan or semi condominium planor provisional condominium plan and whichis designed for independent use consisting ofone or more rooms whether occupying theentirety or part of one or more storeys in abuilding of more than one storey and which isshown as a separate condominium parcel on acondominium plan or semi condominium planor provisional condominium plan and includesa parcel specified as an accessory parcel onany such plan provided that such defined spacehas a direct exit to a road or a common arealeading to a road and access cannot be hadthrough it to any enclosed space of likedescription ;;

(8)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression prescribed of the followingdefinitions :

prospective purchaser shall have the samemeaning as is assigned to it by the ApartmentOwnership Law, No. 11 of 1973 ;;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished by Chapter XVIIA of theConstitution;;

Provisional Condominium Plan shall havethe same meaning as is assigned to it bythe Apartment Ownership Law, No. 11 of1973 ;;

(9)by the omission of the definition of the expressionpublic corporation;

(10)by the substitution for the definition of theexpression residential unit of the followingdefinition :

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200338

residential condominium parcels means suchresidential condominium parcels as arecomprised in a Condominium Property orSemi Condominium property ; ;

(11)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression residential condominium parcelsof the following definition :

Registrar means the Registrar of Titles appointedunder the Title Registration Act, No. 21 of1998 and having jurisdiction over theregistration district in which the CondominiumProperty or semi condominium Property orProvisional Condominium Property issituated ;;

(12)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression Registrar of the followingdefinitions :

storey means any part of land parcel consistingof a space of any shape below, on, or abovethe surface of the land parcel or partly belowand partly above the surface of the land parcel,the dimensions of which are delineated ;

Semi Condominium Plan shall have the samemeaning assigned to it by the ApartmentOwnership Law, No. 11 of 1973 ;

sub-divided building means any one or morebuildings comprised in a Condominium Planor Semi Condominium Plan or ProvisionalCondominium Plan approved by the authorityempowered by law to approve the buildingplan ;;

(13)by the omission of the definitions of the expressionstenement and unit ; and

39Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

(14)by the addition of the following definitionimmediately after the definition of subdividedbuilding :

unauthorized construction means anyimprovement or alteration to the condominiumparcel or ancillary parcel appurtenant to suchcondominium parcel, any improvement oralteration to the common elements, anyparceling or subdivision of the land parcelwhere the Condominium Property or Semicondominium Property is constructed, theerection or re-erection of sub structures andthe construction of works on the land parcel,where the Condominium Property or SemiCondominium Property is constructed,carrying out of building, engineering and otheroperations on over or under such land parcel,or any change in the use for which the landparcel or any building or any structure thereofis used, without a valid permit from theauthority who have been empowered by lawto approve the building plan, or contrary toany term or condition set out in the permitissued in respect of the building plan approvedfor the relevant Condominium Property orsemi Condominium Property ; .

24.The following Schedule is hereby added immediatelyafter section 27 of the principal enactment :

SCHEDULE [Section 9C]

i.Name of the owner:

Address:

ii.Reference No. onRegistration of ProvisionalCondominium Plan:

Addition ofSchedule in theprincipalenactment.

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200340

iii.Name of the mortgageeor mortgagees:

iv.Amount secured undereach mortgage of the ProvisionalCondominium parcel:

v.Location-District:

Town:Street:Assessment No.:

vi.Number of storeys and numberof condominium parcels ineach of the stories as per theProvisional Condominium plan:

vii.Progress as at .

25.For the avoidance of doubts, it is declared that

(a)all contracts, agreements and other instruments ofthe Common Amenities Board subsisting on the dayimmediately prior to the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall be deemed to be contracts, agreementsor other instruments entered into by theCondominium Management Authority ;

(b)all suits, actions, and other legal proceedingsinstituted by or against the Common AmenitiesBoard and pending on the day, immediately prior tothe date of commencement of this Act, shall bedeemed to be suits, actions and other legalproceedings instituted by or against theCondominium Management Authority ;

(c)all rights, liabilities and obligations of the CommonAmenities Board on the day immediately prior tothe date of commencement of this Act, shall bedeemed to be the rights, liabilities and obligationsof the Condominium Management Authority ;

Savings.

41Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 2003

(d)every decree, order or judgment entered in favourof or against the Common Amenities Board by anycourt in any action or proceeding, shall with effectfrom the date of commencement of this Act, hedeemed to be a decree, order or judgment entered infavour of or against the Condominium ManagementAuthority and may be enforced accordingly ;

(e)every officer or servant of the Common AmenitiesBoard, holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be deemed with effect from the date ofcommencement of this Act, to be an officer or scrvantof the Condominium Mangement authority ;

(f)every regulation made under the Common AmenitiesBoard Law and in force on the date prior to the dateof commencement of this Act and which is notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act shall bedeemed to be regulations made under this Act andmay accordingly be amended, added to, or rescindedby regulations made under this Act.

26.Every person holding office as a member of the Boardon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, by virtue of the provisions of subsection (1) ofsection 8 of the principal enactment shall, notwithstandinganything in the principal enactment cease to hold office onthe date of commencement of this Act.

27.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Members of theBoard holdingoffice on the daypreceding the dateof commencementof this Act tocease to hold suchoffice on the dateof commencementof this Act.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Common Amenities Board (Amendment)Act, No. 24 of 200342

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.