PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 9.50 Postage : Rs. 4.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 09, 2004

[Certified on 6th January, 2004]

Printed on the Order of Government

LOCAL TREASURY BILLS (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 1 OF 2004

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 20041

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 6 of theLocal TreasuryBills Ordinance(Chapter 417).

Insertion of newsections 7A, 7Band 7C in theprincipalenactment.

2 H 19293 5,650 (09/2003)

[Certified on 6th January, 2004]

L. D. O. 45/2003.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL TREASURY BILLS ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Local Treasury Bills(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2004.

2.Section 6 of the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance(Chapter 417) (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended by the substitution for thewords at the Treasury in Colombo when the Treasury Billsfall due of the words when the Treasury Bills fall due :

Provided however that if the day on which a Treasury Billfalls due is a day on which the Central Bank is not open forbusiness, payment shall be made in accordance with suchprocedures as may be prescribed.

3. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 7 of the principal enactment, andshall have effect as sections 7A, 7B and 7C of that enactment :

7A. Without prejudice to anythingcontained in this Ordinance particularly theprovisions of sections 8, 9, 10 and 11, theCentral Bank shall regulate, supervise andmonitor the primary dealers and the designatednon dealer bidders with respect to theirtransactions in Treasury Bills issued in the formof written certificates.

7B.The Minister may, by notificationpublished in the Gazette and in two localnewspapers in Sinhala, Tamil and English,notify the public of a day, from which, TreasuryBills may be issued in the form of ScriplessTreasury Bills.

CentralBank tosupervise orto monitorthe transac-tions ofprimarydealers andnon dealerbidders.

Issue ofScriplessTreasuryBills

2Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 2004

7C.(1) The Central Bank may bynotification published in the Gazette and intwo local newspapers in Sinhala, Tamil andEnglish, require the holders of Treasury Billsissued in the form of written certificates havinga specified date of maturity, if they so desire, tosurrender such Bills for conversion intoScripless Treasury Bills in accordance with suchprocedure as may be prescribed. Such TreasuryBills shall upon conversion into ScriplessTreasury Bills be deemed to be ScriplessTreasury Bills issued under this Ordinance.

(2) Nothing contained in subsection (1)shall be construed as affecting or dischargingthe liability of the Government under thisOrdinance in respect of a Treasury Bill which isnot converted into a Scripless Treasury Bill asprovided for in subsection (1)..

4.Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) as follows :

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (b) of that subsection andthe substitution therefor of the followingparagraph :

(b)the period within which the maturity proceedspaid on Scripless Treasury Bills in suchaccounts shall be paid to customers or personsentitled thereto;;

(2) in paragraph (e) of that subsection by the substitution forthe words pledged or encumbered.; of the words pledgedor encumbered;; and

(3) by the addition immediately after paragraph (e) ofthat subsection of the following new paragraph :

(f)the furnishing of information to the CentralBank, the manner, means and periods at whichsuch information shall be furnished to theCentral Bank..

Conversionof TreasuryBills issued inthe form ofwrittencertificates.

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 20043

5.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor :

9. (1) The Central Bank, may in writingappoint any primary dealer or other person tobe a direct participant who shall be entitled tomaintain accounts in respect of ScriplessTreasury Bills as are specified in subsection (2).

(2) A direct participant shall maintain in adepository referred to in the Monetary Law Act,Securities Accounts to hold Scripless TreasuryBills and other scripless securities to which suchdirect participant has title and to record theinterest of such direct participant in ScriplessTreasury Bills and other Scripless securities inaccordance with the rules and regulations madeunder the Monetary Law Act.

(3) The Central Bank shall pay to a directparticipant the maturity proceeds on ScriplessTreasury Bills in respect of which such directparticipant is recorded as owner in accountsmaintained by a direct participant undersubsection (2) on the day such maturity proceedsbecome payable.

(4) The Central Bank may inspect and takecopies of any books, records or accountsmaintained by a direct participant relating toor affecting any Scripless Treasury Bills heldin its own account or in the case of a dealerdirect participant, with respect to its ownaccount as well as those held in customersaccounts. The direct participant and its officers,directors, employees, servants and agents shallfurnish to the Central Bank all such books,records correspondence or any other documentas may be required by the Central Bank andshall provide the Central Bank with all suchassistance as it may require to perform the dutiesimposed on the Central Bank by this Ordinancein respect of issue of Scripless Treasury Bills.

DirectParticipants.

Replacement ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

4Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 2004

The provisions of this section shall apply toany book, record, accounts and correspondencemaintained in an electronic form.

(5) In the event of the Governmentincurring any liability or making payment ofany maturity proceeds with respect to a ScriplessTreasury Bill and where such liability arises orsuch payment is made in consequence or byreason of any default of a direct participant or adealer direct participant, such participant shallbe liable on demand by the Government, toindemnify the Government with respect to suchliability or payment.

(6) For the purpose of this sectiondefault includes

(a)any negligence or failure on the part of a directparticipant or a dealer direct participant incarrying out of any function or the dischargingof any duty assigned to or imposed on, him ,bythis Ordinance or by any other written law inrelation to any matter dealt with by thisOrdinance ; and

(b)any act or omission on the part of directparticipant or dealer direct participantwhich constitutes an offence under thisOrdinance or any other written law inrelation to any matter dealt with by thisOrdinance

(i) whether or not there has been anyprosecution in respect of such offence; or

(ii) whether such act or omission was bythe direct participant or the dealerdirect participant or by any director,officer, employee or agent of suchdirect participant or dealer directparticipant..

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 20045

6.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsections (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7),(8) and (9) of that section and the substitution therefor of thefollowing subsections :

(2) A dealer direct participant shall, in additionto maintaining accounts required to be maintainedunder subsection (2) of section 9, maintain in adepositary referred to in the Monetary Law Act,accounts in respect of each of its customers to holdScripless Treasury Bills and other scripless securitiesto which each such customer has title and to record theinterests of each such customer in Scripless TreasuryBills and other scripless securities in accordance withthe regulations and rules made under the MonetaryLaw Act.

(3) The Central Bank shall pay to a dealer directparticipant, in addition to the payments referred to insubsection (3) of section 9, the maturity proceeds onScripless Treasury Bills in respect of which a customeror such dealer direct participant is recorded as ownerin accounts maintained by such dealer direct participantunder subsection (2), on the day such maturityproceeds become payable.

(4) No person other than a dealer direct participantmay transact in Scripless Treasury Bills on behalf ofany other person. Any person other than a directparticipant and the Central Bank desiring either tomake a transfer or to take a transfer of Scripless TreasuryBills shall do so only through a dealer direct participant.

(5) A dealer direct participant shall maintain booksand records to enable it to perform and discharge itsduties and functions under this Ordinance and todischarge its obligations to its customers and shallcomply with directions, if any, issued by the CentralBank for such purpose.

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

6Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 2004

(6) Upon receipt by a dealer direct participant ofany amount by way of payment from the Central Bankin terms of subsection (3) in respect of Scripless TreasuryBills held in a customer account, the dealer directparticipant shall pay such amount, within the timespecified in any direction issued by the Central Bank,to the customer or to any other party entitled to suchpayment by law or in terms of a written agreement towhich the dealer direct participant and the customerare party.

(7)If a dealer direct participant is unable, for anyreason to effect payment to a customer or to a partyentitled to payment in terms of subsection (6), withinthe time specified in any directions issued by theCentral Bank, the dealer direct participant shall withinsuch period as may be specified in such directions,transfer the sum remaining unpaid to a prescribedaccount of the Central Bank and shall provide theCentral Bank with such information as may be requiredby the Central Bank with regard to the payment andthe customer or other party, as the case may be.

(8)The sums of money transferred to a prescribedaccount of the Central Bank in terms of subsection (7)shall be paid to persons entitled thereto and any monieslying unclaimed shall be dealt with or disposed of bythe Central Bank in such manner as is prescribed byregulations made for such purpose.

(9)A dealer direct participant shall, except to theextent required for the proper conduct of its businessand administration, maintain confidentiality in respectof accounts maintained for a customer and any matterconnected therewith and shall not disclose to anyperson except to the Central Bank, any informationrelating to an account of a customer unless authorizedto do so in writing by the customer, or except where itis required to do so under any law or by an Order ofCourt..

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 20047

7.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

11. (1) Where a transfer of title to aScripless Treasury Bill is made by a dealerdirect participant from or into an accountmaintained for a customer under subsection (2)of section 10, or an interest of any customer ina Scripless Treasury Bill is recorded or anyamendment or variation is made in respect ofany such interest in any Scripless Treasury Billin such account, such dealer direct participantshall issue to such customer a confirmation inaccordance with such directions as may fromtime to time be issued by the Central Bank.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shallnot be construed as derogating from anyobligation imposed under the Monetary LawAct on the provider of depository facilities forScripless Securities, to issue statements orconfirmations in respect of accounts maintainedin such depositary and in the event of anyconflict or inconsistency between a statementor confirmation so issued by the depositary andthe statement or confirmation issued undersubsection (1), the statement or confirmationissued by the depositary, shall prevail.

(3) Subject to the provisions of anyapplicable written law, a dealer directparticipant shall be wholly responsible andliable to customers in respect of all transferstaken or made by such customer through suchdealer direct participant.

(4) The confirmation referred to insubsection (1) shall not be capable of beingnegotiated and shall be used solely as evidenceof dealings between such dealer directparticipant and the customer in respect ofScripless Treasury Bills to which it relates.

Transfer ofScriplessTreasuryBills.

Replacement ofsection 11 of theprincipaleanctment.

8Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 2004

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.

(5) The Central Bank may permit anynotification, confirmation, acknowledgmentor receipt required under this section to be issuedin a non written form and to be transmitted ordelivered by wire, telephone, satellite cable orany other such electronic, magnetic or opticalmedia, as may be specified from time to time,by the Central Bank in that behalf.

(6) An electronic record of a ScriplessTreasury Bill or any notification, confirmation,acknowledgment, receipt or other document orrecord issued or maintained for the purposes ofthis Ordinance in an electronic form, shall notbe denied legal effect, validity or enforceabilitysolely on the grouns that such Scripless TreasuryBill is maintained in an electronic form orthat such notification confirmation,acknowledgment, receipt or other document orrecord is issued or maintained in electronic formand such notifcation confirmation,acknowledgment, receipt or other document maybe tendered in evidence in proceedings beforeany court or tribunal in accordance with Part IIand Part III of the Evidence (Special Provisions)Act, No. 14 of 1995 or any other law for the timebeing in force in relation to the tendering ofcomputer evidence before any court or tribunal..

8.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the repeal ofsubsection (2) thereof and by the substitution therefor of thefollowing subsection :

(2) Any person guilty of an offence under thisOrdinance shall be liable on conviction after summarytrial before a Magistrate, to imprisonment for a termnot exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding tenmillion rupees or where the offence has resulted inmonetary loss or monetary gain or a loss or gain which

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 20049

is quantifiable in monetary terms to any person, to afine equivalent to twice the value of such loss or gainor to both such imprisonment and fine..

9. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 15 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 15A and 15B of that enactment :

15A. The Scripless Treasury Bills issuedunder this Ordinance shall be transferredpledged, encumbered, lent, borrowed orotherwise transacted in, as provided byregulations and any transfer, pledge,encumbrance, loan, borrowing or any othertransaction effected accordingly shall be validand effectual notwithstanding any other writtenlaw relating to transactions in Treasury Billsissued in the form of written certificates.

15B. (1) The Central Bank may with theconsent of Court having regard to thecircumstances in which an offence under thisOrdinance was committed, compound suchoffence for a sum of money not exceeding rupeesfive million or where the offence has resultedin monetary loss or monetary gain or a loss orgain which is quantifiable in monetary terms toany person for a sum of money equivalent toone and a half times the value of such loss orgain.

(2) The compounding of an offence underthis section shall have the effect of an acquittal..

10. Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the substitution for the definition of theexpression customer of the following newdefinition :

customer in relation to a dealer direct participantmeans any person who purchases or sells orotherwise acquires or disposes of Scripless

Insertion ofsection 15A and15B in theprincipalenactment.Transactionsin ScriplessSecurities.

Compoundingof offences.

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

10Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 2004

Treasury Bills or an interest therein through suchdealer direct participant or who negotiates withsuch dealer direct participant for the possibleacquisition or disposition of such bill or interestand shall include where the context so permits alegal representative of such customer or of theestate of such customer;;

(2)by the addition immediately after the definition ofthe expression interdealer broker of the followingnew definition :

Monetary Law Act means the Monetary Law Act,(Chapter 422) as amended from time to time andshall include any enactment that replaces such Actin relation to the matters contained therein andwhere any section is specifically referred to in thisOrdinance the reference shall be taken to includecorresponding sections in the subsequentenactment ; ;

securities account shall have the same meaning asin the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422)..

11.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)Act No. 1 of 200411

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNM ENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.