TOBACCO TAX ACT, No. 08 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 09th April, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 09, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 10.25Postage : Rs. 5.25

(Internet Version)

1Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

Imposition oftobacco tax.

Short title.

H - 022545

[Certified on 09 th April, 1999]

L.D.O. 80/96.

AN ACT TO IMPOSE A TAX ON CIGARETTES, CIGARS, BEEDIES,CIGARETTE SUBSTITUTES AND PIPE TOBACCO, MANUFACTURED INSRI LANKA; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

1. This Act may be cited as the Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of1999.

2. (1) There shall be charged, levied and paid on everycigarette, cigar, beedi, cigarette substitute and everykilogramme of pipe tobacco manufactured in Sri Lanka, a tax(hereinafter referred to as the tobacco tax) at such respectiverates as may be fixed by the Minister by Order published inthe Gazette.

(2) The rate or rates of tabacco tax levied in respect ofany article referred to in subsection (1) may be determined byreference to the class or description of that article andaccordingly, different rates of tobacco tax may be determinedin respect of different classes or descriptions of that article.

(3) The rate of the tobacco tax charged respectively oncigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes and pipetobacco or any class or description thereof may from time totime be varied by the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance by Order published in the Gazette.

(4) Every Order under subsection (1) or subsection (3)shall come into force on the date of its publication in theGazette or on such later date as may be specified in the Order,and shall be brought before Parliament for approval as soonas may be convenient.

(5) Any Order under subsection (1) or subsection (3)which Parliament refuses to approve shall with effect from thedate of such refusal, be deemed to be revoked but withoutprejudice to the validity of anything done thereunder.Notification of the date on which any such Order is deemed tobe revoked shall be published in the Gazette.

2Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

Tax to be payableby manufacturersof cigarettes,cigars, beediescigarettesubstitutes of pipetobacco.

(6) For the purposes of this Act, the cigarettes, cigars,beedies, cigarette substitutes and pipe tobacco, removed fromany factory shall be presumed to be cigarettes, cigars, beedies,cigarette substitutes and pipe tobacco, manufactured at suchfactory.

3. (1) The tobacco tax shall be payable by each personwho carries on business as a manufacturer of cigarettes orcigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco. Theamount of the tax shall be computed by reference to the numberof cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes andkilograms of pipe tobacco manufactured at, and removed from,the factory at which such manufacture is carried on; and theamount of the tax payable upon the total quantity of cigarettes,cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes or kilograms of pipetobacco so removed from a factory in any week shall be paidas provided in this Act not later than the end of the nextsucceeding week.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person shallnot cause or permit any cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco to be removed from any factory atwhich cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipetobacco are or is manufactured unless and until the tobaccotax payable thereon has been duly paid in accordance withthe provisions of this Act.

(3) Where any quantity of tobacco leaf is delivered at afactory or any quantity of cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco is to be removed from a factory, itshall be the duty of the person in charge of the factory, withina period of forty eight hours after the time of such delivery orforty eight hours prior to the time of such removal, as the casemay be, to furnish to the Commissioner General of Excise or toany officer designated by the Commissioner General of Excisefor the purpose, a declaration signed by such personspecifying the quantity of tobacco leaf so delivered orthe quantity of cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco proposed to be so removed,as the case may be.

3Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

Manufacturerintending toexportcigarettes,cigars, beediescigarettesubstitutes orpipe tobacco tomake declarationto theCommissionerGeneral ofExcise.

(4) Every declaration referred to in subsection (3) shallbe in such form as may be approved or provided for the purposeby the Commissioner General of Excise.

4. (1) Where a manufacturer registered for the purposeunder this Act, makes a declaration to the CommissionerGeneral of Excise that he intends to export to such country asis specified in such declaration, cigarettes, cigars, beedies,cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco manufactured by him, ofsuch quantity as is specified in such declaration, theCommissioner General of Excise shall allow suchmanufacturer to remove such cigarettes, cigars, beedies,cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco from any factory orwarehouse in which they are stored, without the payment ofthe tobacco tax payable thereon, under this Act.

(2) Every manufacturer making a declaration undersubsection (1) shall adduce proof to the satisfaction of theCommissioner General of Excise, within six months of suchdeclaration, that he has exported cigarettes, cigars, beedies,cigarette substitutes of pipe tobacco of such quantity as isspecified in such declaration, to the country specified in suchdeclaration.

(3) Where a manufacture referred to in subsection (1)fails to adduce proof to the satisfaction of the commissionerGeneral of Excise, that he has exported cigarettes, cigarsbeedies, cigarette substitutes ot pipe tobacco of such quantityas is specified in the declaration made by him under thatsubsection, to the country specified in such declaration, theCommissioner General of Excise shall direct him to pay thetobacco tax payable on such cigarettes, cigars, beedies.cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco, with interest on theamount of such tax at the rate of ten per centum per annum,from the date on which such cigarettes, cigars, beedies,cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco were removed from anyfactory or warehouse in which they were stored, to the date ofpayment of such tax and the interest thereon.

4Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

5. (1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, a person shall not use any tobacco leaf in the manufactureof cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipetobacco unless he has been registered by the CommissionerGeneral of Excise as a manufacturer for the purposes of thisAct.

(2) Every application for registration as a manufacturerfor the purposes of this Act -

(a) shall be made to the Commissioner General of Excisein such form as he may provide for the purpose;

(b) shall contain all such particulars as may be set outin such form with respect to the use or the proposeduse of tobacco leaf in the manufacture of cigarettes,cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipetobacco;and

(c) shall be accompanied by an application fee of theprescribed amount.

(3) A person who is registered as a manufacturer for thepurposes of this Act shall, whenever so required by theCommissioner General of Excise, furnish a return containingparticulars as to the quantity of cigarettes, cigars, beedies,cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco, as the case may be,being manufactured or estimated to be manufactured by theuse of a specified quantity of tobacco leaf; and separateparticulars shall be furnished in such return with respect toeach class or description of cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco manufactured by thatmanufacturer.

6. (1) The amount of the tobacco tax payable from time totime under this Act by any manufacturer shall be paid to theCommissioner General of Excise or to a person designated bysuch Commissioner General and shall be credited by theCommissioner General of Excise or such person to theConsolidated Fund.

(2) Regulations made under section 21 may provide forthe manner or payment of the tobacco tax.

Registration ofmanufacturers.

Tobacco tax tobe paid to theCommissionerGeneral ofExcise.

5Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

7. (1) The Commissioner General of Excise or any officer ofthe Excise Department of a rank not below that of inspector orany officer of the Customs Department of a rank not belowthat of Superintendent or any Police officer not below therank of a Sub-inspector of police may -

(a) stop and board any vehicle or vessel in whichtobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco are or is beingtransported or suspected of being transported;

(b) at any reasonable time enter and inspect any factoryor premises in which any tobacco leaf, cigarettes,cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipetobacco are or is kept or stored or suspected to bekept or stored,

for the purpose of ascertaining whether any offenceunder this Act has been or is being committed or forthe purpose of ascertaining the quantity of suchtobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco, which are or is in suchvehicle, vessel, factory or premises, or of ascertainingwhether or not the tobacco tax, Excise (SpecialProvisions) duty, customs duty or any other tax hasbeen paid or is payable thereon, or of verifying theaccuracy of any return, or declaration furnished to theCommissioner General of Excise under this Act, or ofexamining any books or documents relating to suchtobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco, as the case may be.

(2) Every person who resists or obstructs an officerreferred to in subsection (1) in the exercise by such officer ofthe powers conferred on him by that subsection shall be guiltyof an offence under this Act.

8. (1) A person who is registered as a manufacturer forthe purposes of this Act shall not have in his factory anyquantity of imported tobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars, beedies,cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco unless he has in his

Powers ofinspection.

Importedtobacco leaf andtobaccoproducts.

6Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

possession a duplicate of the bill of entry relating to theimportation of that quantity of tobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars,beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco, as the casemay be, into Sri Lanka.

(2) Every person who registered as a manufacturer forthe purposes of this Act shall, when requested to do so byany officer of the Excise Department of a rank not below thatof Inspector or any Police officer not below the rank of anInspector of Police, produce for inspection a duplicate of thebill of entry relating to any quantity of imported tobacco leaf,cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipetobacco, as the case may be, kept in his factory.

9. Every person who is registered as a manufacturer forthe purposes of this Act shall keep in his factory such weightsand weighing instruments for weighing quantities of tobaccoleaf as are in conformity with the standards established underany law for the time being in force relating to weights andmeasures and stamped as provided by such law, and shall,when requested to do so by any officer of the ExciseDepartment of a rank not below that of Inspector or any PoliceOfficer not below the rank of sub-Inspector of Police weigh,or cause to be weighed, any quantity of tobacco leaf which isin such factory.

10. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by any decision madeby any officer of the Excise Department other than theCommissioner General of Excise under the provisions of thisAct or any regulation made thereunder may within thirty daysafter such decision is communicated to him, appeal therefromto the Commissioner General of Excise.

(2) Any person who is aggrieved by any decision madeby the Commissioner General of Excise under the provisionsof this Act or any regulation made thereunder may, withinthirty days after such decision is communicated to him, appealtherefrom to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance.

(3) Every appeal under this section shall be in writingand shall state the grounds of appeal.

Weights andweighinginstruments tobekept in factories

Appeals.

7Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

(4) The Commissioner General of Excise shall beforedetermining any appeal made to him under subsection (1),afford the appellant an opportunity of being heard either inperson or by his authorised representative.

(5) The Commissioner General of Excise or the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister may, upon any appeal made tohim under subsection (1) or subsection (2) as the case may be,affirm, vary or annul the decision against which such appealwas made.

11. Every person who stores, transports, supplies,possesses, sells or otherwise deals with any cigarettes whichbeing cigarettes chargeable on their importation with customsor excise duty -

(a) were unshipped at or brought into, any port or otherplace in Sri Lanka or were unloaded from any aircraftin Sri Lanka, without payment of that duty exceptas provided by or under the Customs Ordinance,and Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989;

(b) are imported into Sri Lanka concealed in a containerholding goods of a different description;

(c) are found whether before or after delivery in SriLanka, not to correspond to the bill of entry madein respect thereof; or

(d) are concealed or packed in any manner appearingto be intended to deceive an officer of the CustomsDepartment or the Excise Department,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

12. Every person who transports, supplies, sells or storesor exposes for sale any cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco on which tobacco tax or Customsduty or excise duty has not been paid shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act.

Dealing inimproperlyimportedcigarettes be anoffence.

Dealing inillicitlymanufactured orimportedtobacco productsbe an offence.

8Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

13. Every person who, being a manufacturer of or trader in,or importer or dealer of, cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco fails or neglects to comply withany direction issued to him under the Consumer ProtectionAct, No. 01 of 1979, shall be guilty of an offence under thisAct.

14. Any person who contravenes or fails to comply withany of the provision of this Act or of any regulation madethereunder shall be guilty of any offence under this Act.

15. (1) Every person guilty of an offence under this Actshall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate beliable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingfive years.

(2) The court which convicts any person of any offenceunder this Act committed in respect of any tobacco leaf,cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarette substitute or pipe tobacco,may in addition to any other punishment which it may impose,make order declaring that such tobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars,beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco and any vehicleor article used in or in connection with the commission of thatoffence shall be forfeited to the State.

(3) An order made under subsection (2) shall take effect-

(a)where an appeal has been preferred to a HighCourt established under Article 154P of theConstitution against the order of forfeiture,upon the final determination of such appealconfirming or upholding the order offorfeiture;

(b)where an appeal has not been preferred to aHigh Court established under Article 154P ofthe Constitution against the order of forfeiturewithin the period allowed therefor, after theexpiration of that period.

Non compliancewith theprovisionof the ConsumerProtection Actbe an offence.

Miscellaneousoffences.

Penalty.

9Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

(4) Where a person convicted of an offence under thisAct has been registered as a manufacturer for the purposes ofthis Act, the court may in addition to any other punishmenthereinbefore provided make order cancelling the registrationof that person as a manufacturer ;

Provided, however, that any such person may againbe registered as a manufacturer by the Commissioner Generalof Excise if he thinks fit so to do in his discretion.

(5) Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody corporate, every person, who at the time of thecommission of the offence was a director, general manager,secretary or other similar officer of that body corporate shallbe deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he proves thatthe offence was committed without his knowledge and that heexercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of suchoffence.

(6) Any officer of the Excise Department, of a rank notbelow that Commissioner of Excise may, with the writtenapprovals of the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister andthe Commissioner General of Excise compound any offenceunder this Act for a sum of money equal to not less than onefifth of the maximum fine imposable for such offence.

(7) The Commissioner- General of Excise shall takepossession of any tobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars, beedies,cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco forfeited to the State byan order made under subsection (2), and shall cause the sameto be sold by public auction and the proceeds of sales disposedof as provided for in section 17.

16. (1) For the purposes of this Act, any tobacco leaf,cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipe tobaccoon which no customes duty or excise duty has been paid shallbe presumed to be Sri Lanka tobacco leaf or cigarettes, cigars,beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipe tobacco manufacturedin Sri Lanka until the contrary is proved.

Evidence.

10Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

(2) Where in any prosecution instituted under this Act,a question arises as to whether any substance or article istobacco leaf, a cigarette, cigar, beedi, cigarette substitute orpipe tobacco, a certificate under the hand of the GovernmentAnalyst or a tobacco officer of the Department of Agricultureor an Excise Officer of sufficient experience, to the effect thatthe substance or article described in the certificate is tobaccoleaf, cigarette, cigar, beedi, cigarette substitute or pipe tobacco,as the case may be, shall be admissible in evidence and shallbe prima facie proof of the facts stated therein.

17. The amount -

(a) of all sums received under subsection (6) of section15; and

(b) the proceeds of sale of articles forfeited undersubsection (2) of section 15,

shall be paid into the hands of the Commissioner Generalof Excise and shall (after deducting any expensesincurred) be applied as follows: -

(i) three fourths shall be paid to the Deputy Secretaryto the Treasury, and shall be credited by him to theConsolidated Fund; and

(ii) the balance one fourth shall be paid into a RewardFund to be established by this Act under the controlof the Commissioner -General of Excise, fordistribution in accordance with a scheme to beapproved by the Minister, among Excise Officers,Customs Officers, Police Officers and informers,and others assisting in the enforcement of thisAct.

18. Where any manufacturer registered for the purposes ofthis Act or other person requires -

(a) any service which is determined by the Minister asa special service; or

Disbursement offorfeitures andpenaltiesrecoveredunder the Act.

Payment toExcise Officersfor specialservices andattendances.

11Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

(b) the attendance of any Excise officer at any factoryor warehouse or premises other than his properplace of employment,

payment shall be made for such service or attendance, asthe case may be, to the Commissioner-General of Exciseby such manufacturer or person at such rates as may bespecified by the Commissioner-General of Excise.

19. The Commissioner-General of Excise may delegate inwriting to the Director-General of Customs or Director Generalof Excise any power, duty or function conferred or imposedon or assigned to him by this Act if he is of opinion that it isexpedient to do so for the efficient administration of theprovisions of this Act.

20. No action shall lie against the Commissioner General ofExcise, the Director General of Customs or the Director Generalof Excise or any excise officer, for damages in any civil courtfor any act done in good faith in pursuance or supposedpursuance of any provisions of this Act, or of any delegationmade thereunder.

21. (1) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance maymake regulations for the purpose of carrying out and givingeffect to the provisions of this Act and for the prevention ofthe evasion of the tobacco tax imposed by this Act, and inrespect of all matters which are required by this Act to beprescribed.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1) regulations made under thatsubsection may provide for the maintenance, at any factoryat which any tobacco leaf is used, of a separate warehouse orroom for the storage of cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco manufactured from such tobaccoleaf prior to the payment of the tobacco tax payable thereonand for the measures that may be taken by the CommissionerGeneral of Excise to supervise or control the removal of suchcigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipe tobaccofrom such warehouse or room prior to payment of the tobacco

Delegation ofpowers to theDirector-General ofCustoms andDirectorGeneral ofExcise.

Protection ofaction.

Regulations.

12Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

tax payable thereon, and the terms and conditions subject towhich the exemption from the tobacco tax, payable oncigarettes, cigars, beedies, and pipe tobacco intended for exportshall be granted under section 4.

(3) Every regulation made under this section shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication or on such later dated as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation shall as soon as convenient afterits publication in the Gazette be brought before Parliament forapproval. Any regulation which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date of its disapproval butwithout prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

22. (1) Tobacco Tax Act, No. 27 of 1953 (Chapter 245) ishereby repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Tobacco Tax Act,No. 27 of 1953 -

(a) the regulations made under that Act, and in forceon the day preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act shall, except where and insofar as they arenot inconsistant with the provisions of this Act bedeemed to be regulations made under this Act andshall continue in force until altered, amended orresicnded by regulations made under this Act;

(b) all persons registered as manufacturers for thepurpose of that Act shall be deemed to bemanufactures registered under section 5 of this Act.

23. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Repeal andsavings.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

13Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

24. In this Act -

beedi means tobacco specially grown for themanufacture of beedi whether cut, crushed, broken orpowdered -

(i) rolled in a leaf of the tropical tree botanically knownas Diospyros Melanoxylon or Diospyros Ebinumof the family of Ebenaneae or any of its substitutes;and

(ii) intended for smoking;

cigar means tobacco whether cut, crushed, broken orpowdered -

(i) rolled in a tobacco leave; and

(ii) intended for smoking;

cigarette means tobacco specially grown for themanufacture of cigarettes whether cut, crushed, brokenor powdered -

(i) rolled in any type of wrapper (other than tobaccoleaf or leaf meant for the manufacture of beedi);and

(ii) intended for smoking;

cigarette substitute means tobacco in any form rolled inany type of wrapper and intended for smoking, anddoes not include a beedi, cigar or cigarette;

Commissioner General of Excise means theCommissioner General of Excise appointed under theExcise Ordinance;

Customs duty means Customs duty charged and leviedunder the Customs Ordinance;

Director General of Customs means the Director Generalof Customs appointed under the Customs Ordinance;.

Interpretation.

14Tobacco Tax Act, No. 08 of 1999

Director General of Excise means the Director Generalof Excise appointed under the Excise (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989;

Excise Duty means Excise Duty charged and leviedunder the Excise Duty (Special Provisions) Act, No.13 of 1989;

factory -(a) means any premises at which the manufactureof cigarettes, cigars, beedies, cigarettesubstitutes or pipe tobacco is carried on; and

(b) includes any store or other place maintained inconnection with any premises referred to inparagraph (a);

import means to bring into Sri Lanka, by sea or air, fromany place outside or beyond the limits of Sri Lanka;

Minister means the Minister appointed under Article44 of the Constitution, to whom the subject ofFinance is assigned;

pipe tobacco means cut tobacco or tobaccocompressed into slabs which can be used, or isintended for smoking in pipes;

Prescribed means prescribed by regulations madeunder this Act;

Sale or purchase with their grammatical variations andcognate expressions in relation to any cigarettes,cigars, beedies, cigarette substitutes or pipe tobaccomeans any transfer of the possession of the sameby one person to another in the ordinary course oftrade or business for cash or deferred payment orfor other valuable consideration ;Sri Lanka tobacco leaf means the leaf of the tobaccoplant grown in Sri Lanka and includes any tobaccoleaf found in Sri Lank the origin of which is notestablished otherwise;

transport means to move from one place to anotherwithin Sri Lanka.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.