PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA -

LOCAL AUTHORITIES (REVISION OF
ASSESSMENTS AND REDUCTION OF
RATES) ACT, No. 57 OF 1979

[Certified on 4th September, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 07, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price: 65 cents Postage : 25 cents


Local Authorities (Revision of Assessments and
Reduction of Rates) Act, No. 57 of 1979

[Certified on 4th September, 1979]
L. D.—O. 1/79 ,

”" An AcT TO AMEND THE LAW RELATING TO LOCAL AUTHORITIES TO
PROVIDE FOR THE REVISION OF ASSESSMENT OF ANNUAL VALUE
OF PROPERTIES OF LOCAL AUTHORITIES ONLY IN INSTANCES
WHERE THE MINISTER SO DIRECTS, TO EMPOWER THE MINISTER
TO AUTHORIZE THE WAIVER OR REDUCTION OF RATES IN CERTAIN
CIRCUMSTANCES, AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO. . se

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities Short title.
(Revision of Assessments and Reduction of Rates) Act,
No. 57 of 1979.
PART I
AMENDMENTS TO THE MUNICIPAL COUNCILS ORDINANCE

2. Section 230 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance, as Amendment —
amended by Act No. 8 of 1967, is hereby further amended of section .

ZAC og 230 of the
by the insertion, immediately after subsection (1a) of that . Municipal
section, of the following new subsections:— Con

“ (1s) It shall be lawful for the Minister to authorize -
the waiver of the whole or any part of the rates imposed
by the Council under this section in any past year and
any costs incurred for the purpose of recovering those
rates where—

(a) he is of the opinion that such rates have been imposed —
without the provision of adequate services; or

(b) he determines, with the approval of the Government,
that such waiver is just and equitable in all the .
circumstances of the case.

* (1c) Where the Minister has under subsection (18)
authorized the waiver of the whole or part of any rates
imposed and any costs incurred, the Council shall—

‘ (a) where such rates and any costs incurred have been
. paid, set off such amount of the rates and costs
waived, against future rates due on the property
in respect of which such rates have been paid ;
(b) where such rates and any costs incurred have not
! been paid, waive the amount of such rates and
costs.

No person shall have a right to a refund of such amount.”.
2-A 48006—13,400 (79/07)


Replacement
of section
238 of the
Municipal ~
Councils
Ordinance,

2 Local Authorities (Revision of Assessments and

Reduction of Rates) Act, No. 57 of 1979 -

8. Section 238 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance, as
amended by Act, No. 48 of 1971, is hereby repealed and
the following new section substituted therefor :—

** Assess-
ments of -

annual
values. ;

238. (1) A Municipal Council shall prepare
a new assessment only when so directed by
the Minister, generally oor specially.
The Minister may direct the preparation of
a new assessment in respect of any class or
species of immovable property or all
immovable property in any Municipal
Council area having regard to the provision
of new services or the improvement of exist- .
ing services in such Municipal Council area.
Except when a new assessment is carried
out on the directions of the Minister, the
Council shall adopt the valuation or assess-
ment for the preceding year with such
alterations as may, in particular cases, be
deemed necessary, as the valuation or
assessment for the year following:

Provided always that notice of such
valuation and assessment shall be given in

’ the prescribed manner.

(2) The Minister may on representations
made or of his own volition direct the revi-
sion of the assessment of the annual values
in respect of any past year in such manner
as he may deem fit having regard to the
services that had been provided at the time.

(3) Where there has been a reduction of
the rates asa result of the revision of
assessments on a direction of the Minister
under subsection (2), the Council shall—

(a) where such rates have been paid, set
off the amount of such rates and. any
costs incurred for the purpose. of
recovering those rates so reduced,
against future rates due on the
property in respect of which such
rates have been paid ; or

(b). where such rates have not been paid,
waive the amount of such rates and
any costs incurred.

No person shall have a right to a refund
of such amoun

So Stee eyed


Local Authorities (Revision of Assessments and 3
Reduction of Rates) Act, No. 57 of 1979

\ PART II

AMENDMENTS TO THE URBAN CouNcILs ORDINANCE
4, Section 130 of the Urban Councils Ordinance is hereby

amended as follows :—

(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)
of that section ; and

(2) by the addition, at the end of subsection (1) of that
section, of the following subsections :— _

(2) It shall be lawful for the Minister to autho-

rize the waiver of the whole or any part of the
special rate imposed by the Council under sub-
section (1) (b) in any past year and any costs
incurred for the purpose of recovering that rate
where—

(a) he is of the opinion that such rate has been
imposed without the provision of adequate
services; or

(b) he determines, with the approval of the
Government, that such waiver is just and

equitable in all the circumstances of the

- Case.

(3) Where the Minister has under subsection (2)
authorized the waiver of the whole or part of any
special rate imposed and any costs incurred for the

purpose of recovering that rate, the Council shall—

(a) where such special rate has been paid, set off
such amount of the rate and any costs incurr-

_ed, against future rates due on the property

in respect of which such rate has been paid ; or

(b) where such special rate. has not been paid,
waive the amount of such rate and any costs

incurred.
No person shall have : a right to.a refund of such
-amoun ifs _ a 5 5 antl oe cae aed

L

Amendment

‘of section

130 of the
Urban Coun.
cils Ordi-
nance.


Amendment
of section
160 of the
Urban

. Councils

Ordinance.

Amendment
of section
129 of the
Town ‘
Councils
Ordinance.

4 Local Authorities (Revision of Assessments and
Reduction of Rates) Act, No. 57 of 1979

5. Section 160 of the Urban Councils Ordinance is hereby
amended by the insertion, immediately after subsection (2)
of that section, of the following new subsections :—

as (2a) It shall be lawful for the Minister to authorize

the waiver of the whole or any part of the rate imposed

by the Council under this section in any past year and any

_ costs incurred for the purpose of recovering that rate
where—

(a) he is of the opinion that such rate has been imposed

without the provision of adequate services ; or

(6) he determines, with the approval of the Government,

that such waiver is just and equitable in all the cir-
cumstances of the case. -

. (28) Where the Minister has under subsection (2a)

authorized the waiver of the whole or part of any rate

imposed and any costs incurred for the purpose of
' recovering that rate, the Council shall—

(a) where such rate has been paid, set off such amount
of the rate and any costs incurred, against future

rates due on the property in respect of which such
rate has been paid; or »

(b) where such rate has not been paid, waive the amount *
. of the rate and any costs incurred.

No person shall have a right to a refund of such amount.”.

PART III

. AMENDMENTS TO THE Town CouNCcILS ORDINANCE

| 6. Section 129 of the Town Councils Ordinance is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1) —
of that section ; and a

_ (2) by the addition, at the end of subsection (1) of that
section, of the following subsections :—

“ (2) It shall be lawful for the Minister to autho-
rize the waiver of the whole or any part of the
special rate imposed by the Council under subsec-
tion (1) (b) in any past year and any costs incurred
for the purpose of recovering that rate where—

(a) he is of the opinion that such rate has been

imposed without the provision of adequate
services ; or


Local Authorities (Revision of Assessments and = 5
Reduction of Rates) Act, No. 57 of 1979

(b) he determines, with the approval of the Gov-
ernment, that such waiver is just and equit-
able in all the circumstances of the case. —

(3) Where the Minister has under subsection. (2)

authorized the waiver of the whole or part of any _

special rate imposed and any costs incurred for the
purpose of recovering that rate, the Council shall—

(a) where such special rate has been paid, set off
such amount of the rate and any costs in-
curred, against future rates due on the pro-
perty in respect of which such rate has been
paid ; or j

(b) where such special rate has not been paid,
waive the amount of such rate and any costs

incurred.

No person shall have a right to a refund of such _

\ amount.”.

7. Section 159 of the Town Councils Ordinance, as amend-
ed by Act No. 8 of 1967, is hereby further amended by the
insertion, immediately after subsection (1a) thereof, of
the following new subsections :—

“ (18) It shall be lawful for the Minister to authorize
the waiver of the whole or any part of the rate imposed
by the Council under this section in any past year and
any costs incurred for the purpose of recovering that
rates where—

(a) he is of the opinion that such rate has been imposed
without the provision of adequate services ; or

(b) he determines, with the approval of the Government,
that such waiver is just and equitable in all the cir-
cumstances of the case.

(lc) Where the Minister. has under subsection (18)
authorized the waiver of the whole or part of any rate
imposed and any costs incurred for the purpose of recover-

_ing that rate, the Council shall— _

(a) where such rate has been paid, set off such amount
of the rate and any costs incurred, against future
rates due on the property in respect of which such
rate has been paid ; or

(b) where such rate has not been paid, waive the amount
of such rate and any costs incurred.

No person shall have a right to a refund of such amount.”

Amendment
of section
159 of the
Town
Councils
Ordinance.


Amendment
of section
37 of the
Village
Councils
Ordinance.

6 Local Authorities (Revision of Assessments and
Reduction of Rates) Act, No. 57 of 1979

- PART IV

AMENDMENTS TO THE VILLAGE COUNCILS ORDINANCE

: 8. Section 37 of the Village Councils Ordinance, as’
amended by Act No. 48 of 1971, js hereby further amended
as follows :—~-

(1) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (2)
thereof, of the following new subsections :—

“ (2a) It shall be Jawful for the Minister to
authorize the waiver of the whole or any part of
the assessment tax imposed by a Village Council
under this section in any past year where— .

(a) he is of the opinion that such assessment tax
has been imposed without the provision of

adequate services ; or

(b) he determines, with the approval of the
Government, that such waiver is just and

equitable in all the circumstances of the case.
(28) Where the Minister has under subsection
(2A) authorized the waiver of the whole or part

of the assessment tax imposed, the Council shall—

(a) where such assessment tax has been paid, set
off such amount of the tax paid against any
future tax due on the property in respect of

which such assessment tax has been paid, or

(b) where such assessment tax has not been paid,

waive the amount of such tax.

No person shall have a right to a refind of such

assessment tax.”.;

”


Local Authorities (Revision of Assessments and 7
Reduction of Rates) Act, No. 57 of 1979.

(2) by the repeal of subsection (8) of that section and
the substitution therefor, of the. following new
subsection :—

“ (8) For the purpose of levying the assessment
tax referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (2),
a Village Council shall prepare-a new assessment
only when so directed by the Minister, generally
or specially. The Minister may direct the prepara--
tion of a new assessment only in respect of any class
or species of immovable property or all immovable
property in any built-up locality of a village area
having regard to the provision of new services or
the improvement of existing services in such built-
up locality of a village area. Except when a new
assessment is carried out on the direction of the
Minister, the Council shall adopt the valuation or

assessment for the preceding year with such alte-
rations as may, in particular cases, be deemed
necessary, as the valuation or assessment for the
year following:

Provided always that notice of such valuation
and assessment shall be given in the prescribed
manner.” ; and

(3) by the insertion immediately after subsection (8) of
that section, of the following new subsections :—

“ (9) The Minister may, on representations made
or of his own volition, direct the revision of the
,assessment of the annual values in respect of any
’ past year in such manner as he may deem fit having
regard to the services that had been } provided at
the time.

(10) Where there has been a reduction of the
assessment tax or special rates as a result of the
revision of assessments on a direction of the Minis-
ter under subsection (9), the Council shall—

(a) where such assessment tax or special rates
have been paid, set off the amount of such
tax or special rates so reduced against future
tax or special rates due on the property in
respect of which such assessment: tax or
special rates have been paid ; or


Amendment
of section
40a of the
Village
Councils
Ordinance.

8 Local Authorities (Revision of Assessments and
Reduction of Rates) Act, No. 57 of 1979

(b) where such tax or special rates have not been
‘paid, waive the amount of such tax or rates
so reduced

No person shall have a right to a refund of such
amount.”, ’

9. Section 40a of the Village Councils Ordinance, insert-
ed by Act No. 60 of 1961, is hereby amended as follows :—

(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)
of that section ; and.

(2) by the addition, at the end of that section, of the
following subsections :—

“ (2) It shall be lawful for the Minister to autho-

rize the waiver of the whole or any part of a

_ special rate imposed by a Council under subsection

(1) (b) in any past year where he is of the opinion

that such special rate has been imposed without the
provision of adequate services. |

(3) Where the Minister has under subsection (2)

i authorized the waiver:of the whole or part of any

special rate imposed, the Council shal—

(a) where such special rates have been paid set off
such amount of rates against future rates due
on the property in respect of which such
special rates have been paid; or.

(b) where such special.rates have not been paid,
waive the amount of the special rates.

No person shall have a right to a refund
of such amount.”.
