PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
~~ SRI LANKA © .

we mee cee eee ee ey

IMMLIGRAN(S AND EMIGRANTS:
(AMENDMENT) :
ACT, No. 16 OF 1993

\

[Certified on 31st March, 1993] -
Printed on the Orders of Government

re rn
.

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratie
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 02, 1993

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO:

‘Price: 60 cents. ae ge Postage: Re. 1:00
7 t efi!

( ua
; Ff
‘ ‘


ae ae Inimigrants and Emigrants (Amendment)
Act, No. 16 of 1993
[Certified on 31st March, 1993]

L.D.—O. 70/90 |
AN Act TO AMEND THE IMMIGRANTS AND EAGRAES: Act

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Immigrants and
Emigrants (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of (1998.

2. Section 45 of the Tramigrants and Emigrants Act
(hereinafter referred to as the “ principal enactment”) is
hereby amended as follows :—

@) in subsection (1) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (h) of that
subsection, for the words “order made

thereunder ; or”, = the words “ order made

thereunder ;”;.. —

Short title.

Chapter 351

(b). ‘by the relettering of paragraph (7) of that - .

subsection. as paragraph (0) of that subsec-
, tion ;

(c) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph
(h) of that subsection, of the following new
paragraphs :—

f @ being the holder of a travel document,

residing outside Sri Lanka, despatches
or transmits such travel document to
a person residing in Sri Lanka,
through the post or through another
person, without the prior approval in
writing of the Controller ;

(j) being the holder of a travel document,
residing in Sri Lanka, despatches or
transmits such travel document to a
a person residing in any country out-
side Sri Lanka, through the post or
. through another person, without the
prior approval in writing sof the
Controller ;

(k) has in his possession, more than one

travel document for the time being in

force, issued to him;


‘insertion
of new
aection
@1C in the
principal
enactment.

Immigrants. and Emigrants (Amendment) —
Act, No. 16 of 1993

(l) being in possession of a travel document
issued to him, and for the time being
in force, applies for the issue of a
travel document ;

(m) without lawful authority, has in his
possession a travel document of any
other person ;

’ (n) during the pendency of an order under
section 5lc, “. impounding a_ travel
« docttment issued to. such person,

apvlies for the issue of - another
travel document ;”; gr ey

(d) by the substitution, for all the words from
“shall on conviction” to the end of that
subsection, of the words “ shall on conviction
be liable to a fine of not less than five
thousand rupees and of not more than fifty
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a term of not less than

- six months and of not more than five years,
or to -both. such fine and imprisonment.”; _
and, .

(2) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (4)
of that section,-of the following new subsection :—

“(5) In this section, the expression “travel
document” means a Sri Lanka passport, or an
emergency certiticate or identity certificate issued

under the Immigrants and Emigrants Regulations,
1956.”

3. The following new section is. hereby _ inserted
immediately after section 51s, and shall have effect as
section 5lc of the principal enactment :—

-*Court may Sic. (1) Whenever in any proceeding in
| impound _ Yespect of any offence under any law it
etait appears to the court that the attendance of
aitendance «AN accused or suspect or the examination of
of accused, _ a witness is necessary, it may, impound any
sutpecs. =i travel document issued to such accused,

suspect or witness, as the case may be, and
for the time being in force, for such period
as it may deem necessary to procure the
_attendance of such accused, or suspect oF


w-

Immigrants and Emigrants (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 16 of 1993

the examination of such witness. A court
making an order under this section impound-
ing a travel document issued to any person
shall cause a copy of such order to be trans-
mitted to the Controller.

(2) In this section, the expression “ travel

document” means a Sri Lanka passport, or |

an emergency certificate or identity certifi-
cate issued under the Immigrants and
Emigrants Regulations, 1956.’.

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the —

Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text
shall prevail. + 8
