PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING(AMENDMENT) ACT, NO. 40 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th October, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 10.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 07, 2011

1Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 2011

Short tile.

Amendment ofsection 2 of thePrevention ofMoneyLaundering Act,No. 5 of 2006.

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

[Certified on 06th October, 2011]

L.D.O. 9/2010.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERINGACT, NO. 5 OF 2006

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Prevention of MoneyLaundering (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 2011.

2.Section 2 of the Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No.5 of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended in paragraph (a) of thatsection by the substitution for the words being resident inSri Lanka; of the words in Sri Lanka;.

3.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) thereof by the repeal of all thewords from knowing or having reason to the endof that subsection and the substitution therefor ofthe following:

knowing or having reason to believe that suchproperty is derived or realized, directly orindirectly from any unlawful activity, or fromthe proceeds of any unlawful activity shall beguilty of the offence of money laundering andshall on conviction after trial before the HighCourt be liable to a fine which shall be not lessthan the value of the property in respect of whichthe offence is committed and not more thanthree times the value of such property, or torigorous imprisonment for a period of not lessthan five years and not exceeding twenty years,or to both such fine and imprisonment.;

Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 20112

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)thereof of the following new subsection:

(1A) The assets of any person found guiltyof the offence of money laundering under thissection shall be liable to forfeiture in terms ofPart II of this Act.;

(3)in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution for thewords for the commission by the accused of theunlawful activity of the words for the commissionof the unlawful activity.

4.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words be liable to afine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonmentof either description for a period not exceeding six months,of the words be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundredthousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description fora period not exceeding twelve months,.

5.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution forthe words not below the rank of Superintendent of Policeor in the absence of such an officer an AssistantSuperintendent of Police may, of the words not below therank of an Assistant Superintendent of Police may,.

6.Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words provisions of section 6 shall, withinthe seven days during which such order shall be inforce, make an application of the words provisionsof section 7 shall within the seven days duringwhich such order shall be in force, make an exparteapplication;

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

3Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 2011

(2) in subsection (2) of that section

(i)by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(b)to the requirement that the maximumperiod of any extension so grantedshall not exceed three months at anygiven time and in any event shall notin the aggregate exceed a period of twoyears from the date of the issuing ofthe Freezing Order by such policeofficer:;

(ii)by the substitution in the proviso thereof forthe words indictment is filed for the offenceof money laundering in respect of and forthe words Freezing Order wherever suchwords appear in such proviso, of the wordsindictment is filed for an offence undersection 3 of this Act in respect of andFreezing Order respectively;

(3)in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution for thewords Freezing Order and Order of Freezing ofthe words Freezing Order.

7.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words No transactionshall be effected of the words and figures No transactionshall, except with the sanction of Court as provided for insection 10, be effected.

8.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution for the words make orderpermitting of the words make order sanctioning ;and

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 10 ofthe principalenactment.

Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 20114

(2)by the repeal of the marginal note to that sectionand the substitution therefor of the following:

High Court to sanctionessential and legitimatetransactions.

9.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words not below therank of a Superintendent of Police or in the absence of suchan officer an Assistant Superintendent of Police, of thewords not below the rank of an Assistant Superintendentof Police,.

10.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of all the words from Any PoliceOfficer to the end of paragraph (a) of subsection(1) of that section and the substitution therefor ofthe following:

Any police officer not below the rank ofan Assistant Superintendent of Police shalltake possession of, and otherwise deal with,any account, property or investment, which issubject to a Freezing Order, and the Court mayon application made by the said police officerand for the purpose of determining who owns,possesses or is in control of such account,property or investment to which the FreezingOrder relates, order

(a)that any document relevant to

(i)identifying, locating orquantifying such account,property or investment;

(ii)establishing the ownership,possession or control of suchaccount, property or investment;

Amendment ofsection 11 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 12 ofthe principalenactment.

5Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 2011

(iii)obtaining any other informationpertaining to such account,property or investment,

be delivered forthwith to such police officer; and ;

(2)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words Upon determining in whom theownership, possession or control of any property towhich the Freezing Order relates, of the wordsUpon determining who owns, possesses or is incontrol of any account, property or investment towhich the Freezing Order relates,.

11.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) therof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection(2), where a person is convicted of an offenceunder section 3 of this Act, the Court convictingsuch person shall, make order that any account,property or investment, owned, possessed orunder the control of such person which has beenderived or realized directly or indirectly fromany unlawful activity, any income or profitearned on such account, property or investmentand any instrumentalities used in the commissionof such unlawful activity, be forfeited to the Statefree from all encumbrances.;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)thereof of the following new subsections:

(1A) Where such account, property,investment, income, profit or instrumentalitiescannot be found or traced the Court convictingsuch person shall order him to pay to the Statethe equivalent value of such account, property,investment, income, profit or instrumentalities.

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 20116

(1B) Where such person fails to pay suchequivalent value, the Court shall, in accordancewith the provisions of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, order him to paysuch value as a fine within such period as maybe specified by Court.;

(3)in subsection (2) thereof by the substitutions forthe words a bona fide interest in such property.of the words a bona fide interest in such property,or investment or any income or profit earned onsuch property or investment.;and

(4)in subsection (4) thereof by the substitution for thewords any movable or immovable propertybelonging to the person of the words any propertybelonging to the person.

12.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:

14. (1) Any person, being a person to whomthe provisions of paragraph (a) of section 2 donot apply, who owns, possesses or is in controlof, any account, property or investment towhich the Freezing Order made under section7 relates, may within thirty days of the makingof such Order apply to the Court making thesame, seeking the intervention of Court toexclude from such Order any account, propertyor investment he owns, possesses or is incontrol of.

(2) Where an application is made undersubsection (1), the Court shall upon beingsatisfied on the information before Courtthat

(a)the account, property or investmentwhich the applicant owns, possessesor is in control of, is not derived or

Replacement ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.Restoringthe rights ofbona fideclaimants.

7Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 2011

realized directly or indirectly, from anyunlawful activity or from the proceedsof any unlawful activity or the account,property or investment is not aninstrumentality used in the commissionof such unlawful activity;

(b)the applicant was not in any wayinvolved in the commission of theoffence of money laundering in relationto which the Freezing Order was made;

(c)the applicant had acquired aninterest in the account, property orinvestment at any time prior to thecommission of the offence of moneylaundering and the applicant wasunaware of the fact that the defendanthad used or had intended to use suchaccount, property or investment in orin connection with the commission ofsuch offence; or

(d)the applicant had acquired an interestin the account, property or investmentat the time of or after the commissionor alleged commission of the offence,that such interest was acquired incircumstances which would not giverise to a reasonable suspicion that suchaccount, property or investment wasproceeds or instrumentalities of suchoffence,

make Order for the release of the account,property or investment which is the subject ofthe application before it, from the FreezingOrder made under section 7, and restore theright of the applicant in respect of the same..

Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 20118

13.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:

15. Where any account, property orinvestment or any income or profit earned onsuch account, property or investment has beenforfeited to the State under section 13 of thisAct, the Court making the Order of Forfeituremay, appoint a Receiver in accordance withthe provisions of the Civil Procedure Code(Chapter 101) to be in charge of such account,property, investment, income or profit soforfeited..

14.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the addition, immediately after subsection (2)of that section, of the following new subsections:

(3) No person shall

(a)falsify, conceal, destroy or otherwisedispose of, or cause or permit thefalsification, concealment, destructionor disposal of, any document ormaterial or thing which is or is likely tobe relevant to the execution of anyOrder made in accordance with theprovisions of this Act; or

(b)divulge, the fact that an investigationinto an offence of money laundering oran offence under the law of any foreignState corresponding to the offence ofmoney laundering, is being, or is aboutto be made, or divulge to anotherperson any other information which islikely to prejudice such investigation.

Replacement ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment.Appointment

of a Receiver

upon

Forfeiture.

Amendment ofsection 20 ofthe principalenactment.

9Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 2011

(4) Any person who contravenes the provisionsof subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence underthis Act and shall on conviction after trial beforethe High Court be liable to a fine not exceedingone hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonmentof either description for a period not exceedingtwelve months or to both such fine andimprisonment.;

(2)by the repeal of the marginal note to that sectionand the substitution therefor of the following newmarginal note:

Offences.

15.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

16.Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words by means of anyillegal activity, of the words by means of any unlawfulactivity,.

17.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution for thewords and figure under section 2 of this Act, ofthe words and figure under section 3 of this Act,;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words No Commonwealthcountry of the words Non-Commonwealthcountry;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following:

(3) The grant of assistance to any countryreferred to in subsection (2) may be made subject to

Repeal ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment.

Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 201110

such terms and conditions as the Minister may deemappropriate in the circumstances..

18.Section 33 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)thereof of the following new subsection:

(2) In particular and without prejudice to thegenerality of the powers conferred by subsection(1), the Minister may make regulations in respectof the following matters:

(a)prescribing any business as a designated nonfinance business taking into considerationthe interests of the national economy;

(b)prescribing any business as a financebusiness taking into consideration theinterest of the national economy..

(2)by the renumbering of subsections (2) and (3) ofthat section, as subsections (3) and (4) thereof,respectively.

19.Section 35 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately before the definitionof the expression designated non-financebusiness of the following new definition

account means any facility or arrangement bywhich an Institution does any of thefollowing:

(a)accepts deposits of currency;

Amendment ofsection 33 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 35 of theprincipalenactment.

11Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 2011

(b)allows withdrawals of currency; or

(c)pays cheques or payment orders drawn on theInstitution or collects cheques or paymentorders on behalf of a person other than theFinancial Institution,

and includes any facility or arrangement for a safetydeposit box or any other form of safe deposit;;

(2)in the definition of the expression designated non-finance business

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (e) thereof;

(b)by the relettering of all paragraphs from (f) to(l) as paragraphs (e) to (k) thereof, respectively;

(c)by the repeal of paragraph (m) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following newparagraphs:

(l)pawn brokering under Pawn BrokersOrdinance (Chapter 90);

(m)non profit organizations or nongovernmental organizations registeredunder any written law;;

(3)in the definition of the expression financebusiness

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the followingparagraph:

(b)finance business as defined in FinanceCompanies Act, No. 78 of 1988 or anyAct enacted in place thereof ;;

Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 201112

(b) by the repeal of paragraph (k) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the followingparagraphs:

(k)any company, to whom a licence tocarry on banking business under theBanking Act, No. 30 of 1988, is issued;

(l)any finance business carried on by anysociety registered under the Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972or any Act enacted in place thereof;

(m)any finance business carried on by theSamurdhi Authority of Sri Lanka,established by the Samurdhi Authorityof Sri Lanka Act, No. 30 of 1995; and

(n)underwriting and placement ofinsurance as well as insuranceintermediation by agents and brokers.;and

(4)in the definition of the expression unlawfulactivity

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (e) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(e)the Exchange Control Act (Chapter423) and any Rule, Order or Regulationmade thereunder;;

(b)by the repeal of paragraphs (j) and (k) thereofand the substitution therefor of the followingparagraphs:

(j)any written law for the time being inforce relating to offences connectedwith the trafficking or smuggling ofpersons;

13Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 2011

(k)the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)and any Regulation, Rule or Order madethereunder;

(l)the Excise Ordinance (Chapter 52) andany Regulation, Rule or Order madethereunder;

(m)the Payment Devices Frauds Act, No.30 of 2006 and any Regulation, Ruleor Order made thereunder;

(n)the National Environmental Act, No.47 of 1980 and any Regulation, Ruleor Order made thereunder;

(o)an offence under any other written lawfor the time being in force which ispunishable by death or withimprisonment for a term five years ormore:

Provided however that,notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in the preceding provision,any offence under sections 386, 388,399 and 401 of the Penal Code (Chapter19) shall be deemed to be an unlawfulactivity for the purposes of this Act;and

(p)an act committed within anyjurisdiction outside Sri Lanka, whichwould either constitute an offence inthat jurisdiction or which would ifcommitted in Sri Lanka amount to anunlawful activity within the meaningof this Act..

20.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment)Act, No. 40 of 201114

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.