PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ath Session 1968-69

apens
Pr re

tne wR
= >

a

as
Industrial Disputes (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 37
of 1968

Date of Assent: September 4, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Governn.. .

Printed at the GOVERNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annua! Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40

(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT

PuBLICATIONS BurREAv, P. O. Box 500, CoLomso 1, before 20th

December each year in respect of the year following. Late

subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 35 cents. Postage 10 cents.


Industrial Disputes (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 37 of 1968

L. D.—O. 22/67.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REMOVAL OF CERTAIN
DIFFICULTIES IN THE SETTLEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL
DISPUTES AND OTHER MATTERS UNDER THE INDUS-
TRIAL DISPUTES ACT WHICH HAVE ARISEN IN
CONSEQUENCE OF DECISIONS MADE BY THE SUPREME
CouURT AND DECISIONS MADE ON APPEAL TO HER
MAJESTY IN COUNCIL, AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: September 4, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Industrial Disputes
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 37 of 1968.

2. (1) Every president of a labour tribunal shall
be appointed by the Public Service Commission and,
subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), every
president of a labour tribunal appointed by the
Judicial Service Commission prior to the relevant date
shall be deemed to have been, and to be, validly
appointed by the Public Service Commission.

(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed or
construed to validate any order of any labour tribunal
which was subsequently quashed by any relevant deci-
sion of the Supreme Court on appeal or on application
by way of writ:

Provided, however, that nothing in the preceding
provisions of this sub-section shall be deemed or cons-
trued to preclude or prevent such appeal or application
by way of writ from being entertained, heard and
decided de novo by the Supreme Court, as hereafter
provided in this Act.

3. Where a labour tribunal had made order, before
the relevant date, rejecting or dismissing any applica-
tion on the ground that such application had been
made at a time when the president of such tribunal
had been appointed by the Public Service Commission,
such order of such tribunal shall be deemed to have

Short title.

Validation of
appointments
of presidents
of labour
tribunals.

Special provi.
sions applicable
to certain
rejected or
dismissed
applications.


ee

aes

a SE Oe

ng ge ee

Special provi.
sions relating

to industrial
court panels,
industrial
courts, and
references made
to such courts,
ke.

Special provi-
sions relating

to appointments
and nominations
of arbitrators,
and references
made to such
arbitrators,

&e,

2 Industrial Disputes (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 37 of 1968

been, and to be, null and void and such tribunal is
hereby empowered, authorized and required, and shall
have jurisdiction, to entertain, hear and determine
such application de novo under the principal Act.

4, (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3),
every panel appointed by the Governor-General under
sub-section (1) of section 22 of the principal Act, and
every industrial court constituted from such panel by
the Minister, whether before or on or after the relevant
date, shall be deemed to have been, and to be, validly
appointed and constituted.

(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), every
reference of any industrial dispute under the principal
Act, whether before or on or after the relevant date,
to any industrial court referred to in sub-section (1),
shall be deemed to have been, and to be, a valid
reference and every industrial court shall be deemed
to have been, and to be, duly authorized to settle every
industrial dispute referred to such court under the
principal Act.

(3) Nothing in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall
be deemed or construed to validate any award of any

industrial court where such award was subsequently ' ~

quashed by any relevant decision of the Supreme Court
on application by way of writ:

Provided, however, that nothing in the preceding
provisions of this sub-section shall be deemed or
construed to preclude or prevent such application by
way of writ, from being entertained, heard and
decided de novo by the Supreme Court as hereafter
provided in this Act.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3),
every arbitrator nominated or appointed under the
principal Act, whether before or on or after the
relevant date, shall be deemed to have been, and to be,
validly nominated or appointed 5

(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), every
reference of any industrial dispute under the principal
Act, whether before or on or after the relevant date,

_ to any arbitrator referred to in sub-section (1), or to

any labour tribunal shall be deemed to have been, and
to be, a valid reference, and every arbitrator and


v

Industrial Disputes (Special Provisions) 3
Act, No. 37 of 1968

labour tribunal shall be deemed to have been, and to
be, duly authorized to settle every industrial dispute
referred to such arbitrator or labour tribunal under
the principal Act. |

(3) Nothing in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall
be deemed or construed to validate any award of any
arbitrator or any labour tribunal where such award
was subsequently quashed by a relevant decision of the
Supreme Court on application by way of writ:

Provided, however, that nothing in the preceding
provisions of this sub-section shall be deemed or
construed to preclude or prevent such application by
way of writ, from being entertained, heard and
decided de novo by the Supreme Court as hereafter
provided in this Act.

6. Where any order of any labour tribunal was
subsequently quashed by a relevant decision of the
Supreme Court on appeal or on application by way of
writ on the ground that the president of such tribunal,
not having been validly appointed, had no jurisdiction
to make such order, the following provisions shall
apply in the case of such appeal or application by way
of writ, as the case may be: —

(a) such decision of the Supreme Court shall be
se to have been, and to be, null and
void;

(b) such appeal or application by way of writ shall
be deemed to be an appeal or application
which was not decided by the Supreme Court,
but to be an appeal or application made
de novo to such Court on the relevant date;

(c) the Supreme Court is hereby empowered and
authorized, and shall have jurisdiction, to
entertain, hear and decide such appeal or
application de novo; and

(d) the practice and procedure to be followed by
the Supreme Court in entertaining, hearing
and deciding such appeal or application
de novo shall be as determined by order of
the Chief Justice.

Special provi-
sions relating
to certain
relevant
decisions of
the Supreme
Court in respect
of orders of
labour tribunals.


Special provi-
sions relating
to certain
relevant
decisions of
the Supreme
Court in respect
of awards of
arbitrators,
labour tribunals
and industrial
courts.

Special provi-
sions relating
to certain
actions under
the principal
Act.

4 Industrial Disputes (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 37 of 1968

7. Where any award of any industrial court,
arbitrator or labour tribunal on a reference under the
principal Act was subsequently quashed by any
relevant decision of the Supreme Court on application
by way of writ, on the ground that such industrial
court was not validly constituted, or such arbitrator
or president of such tribunal was not validly appointed
to exercise jurisdiction in the matter to which such
reference related, the following provisions shall apply
in the case of such application by way of writ :—

(a) such decision of the Supreme Court shall be
deemed to have been, and to be, null and
void; ,

(b) such application shall be deemed to be an appli-
cation which was not decided by the Supreme
Court, but to be an application by way of
writ made de novo to such Court on the
relevant date;

(c) the Supreme Court is hereby empowered and
authorized, and shall have jurisdiction, to
entertain, hear and decide such application
de novo; and

(d) the practice and procedure to be followed by

the Supreme Court in entertaining, hearing .

and deciding such application de novo shall
be as determined by order of the Chief
Justice.

8. (1) Where any action which was instituted
against any person before a Magistrate prior to the
relevant date in respect of any order or award under
the principal Act, was not entertained or was dis-
missed by order of such Magistrate on the ground that
the industrial court, arbitrator or president of the
labour tribunal which made such order or award was
not validly constituted or appointed to make such order
or award, the following provisions shall apply :—

(i) the order of such Magistrate shall be deemed to
have been, and to be, null and void;

(ii) such action shall be deemed to be an action
instituted de novo before such Magistrate on
the relevant date;

(i111) such Magistrate is hereby empowered, autho-
rized and required, and shall have jurisdic-
tion, to entertain, hear and decide such action
de novo; and

a, 4


lndustrial Disputes (Special Provisions) 5
Act, No. 37 of 1968

(iv) the practice and procedure to be followed by
such Magistrate in entertaining, hearing and
deciding such action de novo shall be as
determined by order of the Chief Justice.

(2) For the purposes of this section, the term
‘“ action ’’ includes any application, petition, suit or
prosecution, or any other proceedings by whatsoever
name or designation called.

9. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition
to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of the
principal Act or any other written law, and accord-
ingly shall be read and construed as one with the
principal Act or such other written law:

Provided, however, that in the event of any conflict
or inconsistency between the provisions of this Act and
the provisions of the principal Act or any other written
law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail over the
provisions of the principal Act or such other written
law to the extent of such conflict or inconsistency.

10. The provisions of this Act shall, for all
purposes and in all respects, be as valid and effectual
as though those provisions were in an Act for the
amendment of the Ceylon (Constitution) Order in
Council, 1946, enacted by Parliament after compliance
with the requirement imposed by the proviso to sub-
section (4) of section 29 of that Order in Council.

11. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—

‘‘ appeal ’’ means any appeal under section 31p of
the principal Act;

‘“ application ’’, in relation to a labour tribunal,
means an application under section 318 of
the principal Act;

“principal Act ’’ means the Industrial Disputes
Act, as amended from time to time;

‘* relevant date ’’ means March 9, 1967;

““ relevant decision ’’, in relation to the Supreme
Court, means a decision made by such Court
prior to the relevant date.

This Act to
prevail in the
event of any
conflict or
inconsistency
with the
principal Act
or any other
written law,

The provisions
of this Act to
be regarded as
amendments to
the Ceylon
(Constitution)
Order in
Council, 1946.

Interpretation.
