PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

TELECOMMUNICATIONS
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)

ACT, No. 25 OF 1996 |

{Certified on 8th October, 1896}
(Printed on the Order of Gevernment) ~~~

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Demuczatia¢
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 11, 1996

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA !
'O BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: 60 cts. Postage: Rs. 2.8


Telecommunications (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 25 of 1996

(Certified on 8th October, 1996]
L D.—O-31/95°

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE FXTENSION OF PENSION RIGHTS TO
CERTAIN TRANSFERABLE PUBLIC OFFICERS IN THE DEPARTMENT
Or TELECOMMUNICATIONS WHO SUBSEQUENTLY JOINED SRI
CaANKA TELECOM

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Telecommunications
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 25 of 1996.

2 Every public officer of the Department of Telecom-
munications who was in a transferable service of the
trovernment (other than in the Sri Lanka Engineering
Service) on the day immediately prior to the transfer
date and who was employed by the Corporation on or
after the transfer date (hereinafter referred to as “a
relevant officer”) shall—

(a) if he, being a pensionable officer, had on the date
of his employment by the Corporation, not less
than ten years pensionable service be eligible for
such a pension under the Minutes on Pensions as
would have been awarded to him had he . retired
from public service on the ground of abolition of
office on such date;

» (8) if he, being a pensionable officer, had, on the date
of his employment by the Corporation, less than
ten years pensionable service, be eligible for
such award under the Minutes on Pensions ag
would have been awarded to him had he left the
public service on the ground of abolition of
office on such date;

: fc) if he was a contributor to the Public Service Pro-.

vident Fund establisned under the Public Service
Provident Fund Ordinance, be deemed for the
purposes of the Public Service Provident Fund
to have left the service of the Government on the
determination of his contract with the consent of
the Government, otherwise than by dismissal
on the date of his employment by the Corpora-

tion.

Shor) tithe

Spectal
provisioz
relating

to the
pension,
rights of
certain
transferable
public
officers

in the
Department
of Telecon»
MuNnicatroku
who were.
gubsequent?
emploved:
by the
Corporations


Terms of
service of
relevant

favourable
then those
employed
them in the
Department
of Teiecom=
munications.

Relevans$
officers
with moré
than eighé

dut less thar .

ten yesra
pensionabis
service
deemed ta
continue to
hold posts
in the

_ Departmen’
of Telecom.
munications

Telecommunications (Special Provisions) naaie
Act, No. 25 of 1996

8. Every relevant officer shall be employed by the
Corporation on terms and conditions not less éavourable
than the terms and conditions on which such relevant
officer was employed in the Department of Telecommuns-
cations, on the day preceding the transfer date. °

4, Where a relevant officer held, on the day preceding
the date of hig employment by the Corporaton, a post
éeclared to be pensionable and who had on such date,
lesa than ten and not less than eight years service, then—

(6) Such officer shall be deemed, for the purposes only
of the Minutes on Pensions, to be holding the post
in the Depertment of Telecommunications that
he held on the day preceding the date of his
employment by the Corporation, until such
period of time, which when added to his pension-
able vervicee under the Government, makes aB
‘ agerezate of ten years pensionable | service
{service under the Corporation being counted ag
pensionable service under the Government for
the computation of such aggregate) ;

{®) in respect of such relevant officer, the Corporation
shall pay out of the funds of the Corporation to
the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury to be
credited to the Consolidated Fund for every
complete month of the period of service during
which he is deemed for the purposes of the
Minutes on Pensions to be holding the post in the

Department of Telecommunications that he held
on the day preceding the date of his employment
by the Corporation, such sum as may be deter-
-rmined by the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance; and

((c) at the end of the period referred to in sub-par@
‘graph (a) he shall be deemed to have retired from
L. the public service and shall be eligible for such

pension under the Minutes on Pensions as would


P heed

Act, No. 25 of 1996

have been awarded to him had he retired from the
| public service on the ground of abolition of office
on the termination of such period.

2. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in section 2,
where a relevant officer—

(a) becomes eligible under that section, for a pension on
the date of his employment by the Corporation,
and elects to draw his full pension, he shall not be
paid such pension during the peri:d of his employ-
ment with the Corporation ;

{&) becomes eligible under that section, for a pension
j . and elects to draw a gratuity in partial computa-
tion of one-fourth part of his pension in accordance
with the provisions of section 24 (4) (i) of the
Minutes on Pensions —

‘t) such gratuity shall not be paid to him but shall
be credited to his account in an approved
provident fund of the Corporation ;

‘W} the remaining three-fourth part of the pension
‘ oayable to him under the said Minutes shall
not be paid to him during the period of his

employment with the Corporation ;

3”) for the purpose of computation of the period
of ten years from the date of his retirement
referred to in section 2A (4) (ii) of the said
Minutes the date of his retirement shall be
deemed to be the last date of his employ-

: ment with the Corporation ;

" fe) Secomes eligible under that section for a gratuity and
! not a pension under the Minutes on Pensions, such

gratuity shall not be paid to him but shall be
eredited to his account in an ‘approved provident.
i fund of the Corporation ; and

a ey

any sum of money under the Public Service Provi-
7 dent Fund Ordinance, such some shall not be paid
. to him but shall be credited to his account in an

wr" approved prevident fund of the Corperatien.

Telecommunications (Special Provisions) 3

(@) becomes eligible under that section for the recelpt ef

Fayment
o
pensions &:


ans
aaeut 24

- *,2° Beleoommunications (Special Provisions} ~")

“ye Act, No. 25 of 1996 7

@ In the event of any inconsistency between the

Finhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text
ghall prevail

~

7. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Corporation ” means Sri Lanka Telecom establisk-
‘ ed by an Order made under section 2 of the
te ; State Industrial Corporations Act, No. 49
a of 1957 and published in Gazette Extra-
fs ordinary No. 596/11 cf February 6, 1990;

_ “transfer date” means September 1, 1991.
