PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PORTS AND AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENTLEVY ACT, No. 18 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st March, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2011

1 Ports and Airports Development LevyAct, No. 18 of 2011

[Certified on 31st March 2011]

L.D.O. 9/2011.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF A

LEVY TO BE CALLED THE PORTS AND AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT LEVY

ON EVERY ARTICLE ORIGINATING FROM OUTSIDE SRI LANKA AND

IMPORTED INTO SRI LANKA; TO AMEND PART I OF THE FINANCE ACT,NO. 11 OF 2002; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Ports and AirportsDevelopment Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011.

PART I

IMPOSITION OF PORTS AND AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT LEVY

2.Subject to the provisions of section 7, there shall becharged and levied on the cost, insurance and freight valueof every article originating from outside Sri Lanka andimported into Sri Lanka, a levy to be called the Ports andAirports Development Levy ( hereinafter in this Part referredto as the Levy).

3.(1) The levy to be charged and levied in respect ofthe cost, insurance and freight value of any article referredto in section 2 shall be calculated, at the rate of 5.0percentum, for the period commencing on January 1, 2011.

(2) With effect from January 1, 2011, no levy shall becharged in respect of the cost, insurance and freight value ofany article imported into Sri Lanka

(a)for the purpose of processing and re-export; or

(b)to be used for the manufacture of goods for exports.

Short title.

Levy on articlesimported intoSri Lanka.

Manner ofcalculating thelevy.

2Ports and Airports Development LevyAct, No. 18 of 2011

(3) The Minister may, from time to time having regard tothe interests of the national economy, by Order published inthe Gazette

(a)exempt from the operation of the above levy, anyarticle specified therein; or

(b)specify a concessionary rate to be charged andlevied in respect of any article or articles specifiedtherein.

(4) Every Order, made in terms of subsection (3) by theMinister shall

(i)be in operation immediately upon the Ministeraffixing his signature thereto;

(ii)be published in the Gazette as soon as convenient;

(iii)be approved by resolution of Parliament as soon asconvenient thereafter; and

(iv)if not approved by Parliament, be deemed to berescinded with effect from the date of suchresolution..

4.(1) The following articles shall be exempt from thePorts and Airports Development Levy

(i)foreign currency notes as specified under therelevant Harmonized Commodity Description andcoding System Numbers for the purposes ofCustoms Ordinance (Chapter 235) (with effect fromJune 1, 2010);

(ii)goods for the use of international events conductedin Sri Lanka, on donations from abroad, as approvedby the Minister in charge of the subject of Financehaving regard to the interests of the nationaleconomy (with effect from May 12, 2010);

No levy to becharged inrespect ofspecifiedarticles.

3 Ports and Airports Development LevyAct, No. 18 of 2011

(iii)goods for any infrastructure development projectout of the donations directly to GovernmentMinistries, as approved by the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance;

(iv)goods for any specified project funded throughforeign loans and on which project the tax is borneby the Government, as approved by the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance having regard tothe interests of the national economy; and

(v)any other article which the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Finance may, by Order published inthe Gazette, in terms of subsection (3) of section 3,declare as being an exempted article.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 2 and 3,the Director-General of Customs shall defer the collectionof the levy on the importation of any article, for the use ofany specified project identified by the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Finance, by an Order published in the Gazette,having regard to the interests of the national economy onwhich the tax is borne by the government, with effect fromJuly 1, 2009 until such time the article is re-exported afterthe completion of such project, subject to the furnishing ofa corporate guarantee which covers the amount of the taxdue on the articles so imported.

5.The levy payable under section 2 on an articleimported into Sri Lanka, shall be paid by the person importingthe article to the Director-General of Customs, at the time ofthe import of the article, and upon payment of the levy theDirector-General of Customs shall cause an endorsementspecifying the amount recovered as the levy to be made onthe import invoice relating to that article.

6.Where any article originating from outside Sri Lankaand imported into Sri Lanka is sold

(a)by the Director-General of Customs for the recoveryof any customs duty, surcharge or other levy payable

Levy to be paidto the Director-General ofCustoms.

Purchase ofcertain articlesdeemed to beimported for thepurpose of thisAct.

4Ports and Airports Development LevyAct, No. 18 of 2011

or deemed to be payable under the CustomsOrdinance or for any contravention of theprovisions of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235);

(b)by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority established by theSri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979, forthe recovery of any dues under that Act; or

(c)by the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue,for any taxes administered by him,

the purchaser of that article shall be deemed for the purposesof section 5 to be the person importing that article and theprovisions of this Act shall accordingly apply to such purchaser.

7.Nothing in section 2 shall apply to any articleimported into Sri Lanka in respect of the provision of anyservice by a mission of any State or any organization towhom the provisions of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9of 1996 applies.

8.The levy shall, for purposes of recovery of the levyand notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, bedeemed to be a customs duty payable under the CustomsOrdinance (Chapter 235), and accordingly the provisions ofthe Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) shall apply to therecovery of such levy.

9.The Director-General of Customs shall transmit tothe Consolidated Fund, all sums recovered by him as thelevy under this Act.

10.In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,article means any goods, materials, foreign currency notes,any agricultural or horticultural products or merchandisebut does not include diamonds, gems, gold, jewellery andelectronic items, imported for the purpose of processing andre-export.

Exemptions.

CustomsOrdinance toapply to therecovery oflevy.

Amountrecovered aslevy to becredited to theConsolidatedFund.

Interpretation.

5 Ports and Airports Development LevyAct, No. 18 of 2011

11.The provisions of

(1)paragraph (i) of subsection (1) of section 4 of thisAct shall be deemed for all purposes to have comeinto effect on June 1, 2010;

(2)paragraph (ii) of subsection (1) of section 4 of thisAct shall be deemed for all purposes to have comeinto effect on May 12, 2010;

(3)paragraph (iii) of subsection (1) of section 4 of thisAct shall be deemed for all purposes to have comeinto effect on September 8, 2010;

(4)paragraph (iv) of subsection (1) of section 4 of thisAct shall be deemed for all purposes to have comeinto effect on January 1, 2010;

12.The provisions of this Act shall, be deemed for allpurposes to have come in to operation on January 1, 2011.

13.Where the Director-General of Customs collects,during the period commencing on January 1, 2011 andending on the date of the commencement of this Act, from aperson importing any article, the levy on such amount as isequal to five percentum as specified in section 3 of this Acton the cost, insurance and freight value of such article, suchcollection, shall be deemed for all purposes to have been,and to be, validly made, and the Director-General of Customsis hereby indemnified against all action, civil or criminal, inrespect of such collection.

14.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed orin respect of which regulations are required or authorized tobe made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication, or on later date as may be specifiedtherein.

Retrospectiveeffect.

Operation of theprovisions ofthis Act,

Indemnity.

Regulations.

6Ports and Airports Development LevyAct, No. 18 of 2011

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, beplaced before Parliament for approval. Every regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

PART II

AMENDMENT OF PART I OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF 2002

15.Section 2 of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002 (Part I)is hereby amended in the first proviso to that section, by therepeal of paragraph (d) thereof and the substitution thereforof the following paragraph:

(d)for the period commencing on January 1, 2009and ending on December 31, 2010 at the rate of5.0 per centum..

16.It is hereby declared for the avoidance of doubts,that the provisions of Part I of the Finance Act, No. 11 of2002 relating to the payment of the Ports and AirportsDevelopment Levy shall not apply to any article originatingfrom outside Sri Lanka and imported into Sri Lanka or afterJanuary 1, 2011.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Amendment ofsection 2 of PartI of the FinanceAct, No. 11 of2002.

Part I of theFinance Act, No.11 of 2002 notto apply.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof anyinconsistency.

7 Ports and Airports Development LevyAct, No. 18 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.