PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 80.00 Postage : Rs. 27.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 14, 2003

[Certified on 12th November, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTYACT, No. 36 OF 2003

1Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

2H 18510 10,650 (2003/05)

Appointment andpowers of theDirector-General.

[Certified on 12th November, 2003]

L.D.O. 54/2002.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE LAW RELATING TO INTELLECTUAL

PROPERTY AND FOR AN EFFICIENT PROCEDURE FOR THE REGISTRATION,

CONTROL AND ADMINISTRATION THERE OF ; TO AMEND THE CUSTOMSORDINANCE (CHAPTER 235) AND THE HIGH COURT OF THE PROVINCES(SPECIAL) PROVISIONS ACT, NO. 10 OF 1996 ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Intellectual PropertyAct, No. 36 of 2003.

PART I

ADMINISTRATION

2.(1) There shall be a person to be or to act as theDirector-General of Intellectual Property of Sri Lanka(hereinafter referred to as the Director-General).

(2)The Director-General shall

(a)be vested with the power of implementation of theprovisions of this Act, the control andsuperintendence of the registration andadministration of Industrial Designs, Patents, Marksand of any other matter as provided by the Act, andthe supervision and control of all persons appointedfor, or engaged in, the implementation of theprovisions of this Act ; and

(b)take all necessary steps to promote and encouragenational awareness of the subject of IntellectualProperty including copyright and related rights byorganisation of exhibitions, contests, seminars andpublications and by promoting and encouraging theestablishment and proper functioning oforganisations or societies to protect and administercopyright and related rights under Part II of the Act.

Short title.

2Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(3)The Director-General shall comply with the generalpolicy of the government with respect to subject ofintellectual property and with any general or specialdirections issued by the Minister in relation to such policy.

3.(1) There may from time to time be appointed a fitand proper person or persons, to be or to act as Director ofIntellectual Property and such other Deputy Directors forthe proper implementation and administration of theprovisions of this Act.

(2)Any person so appointed may exercise, perform anddischarge any power, duty or function expressly conferredor imposed upon the Director or the Deputy directors, as thecase may be, and may, subject to the directions of the Ministerand under the authority and control of the Director-General,exercise, perform and discharge any powder, duty or functionconferred or imposed upon the Director-General by or underthis Act.

(3)There shall be appointed such other officers andservants as may be necessary for the administration of theAct.

4.(1) There shall be an office called the NationalIntellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referredto as the Office). Such office shall be the sole office in SriLanka for the registration and administration of Industrialdesigns, patents, marks and any other matter as provided bythe Act.

(2)All registers required to be kept and maintainedunder the provisions of this Act shall be kept and maintainedunder the supervision of the Director-General at the Officeand such registers shall be the only legally recognizedregisters in Sri Lanka for the registration of industrial designs,patents, marks and any other matter as provided by the Act.

Office andmaintenance ofregisters.

Director andDeputy Directors.

3Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

PART II

CHAPTER I

COPYRIGHT

5.For the purposes of this Part

audiovisual work means a work that consists of aseries of related images which impart theimpression of motion, with or withoutaccompanying sounds, susceptible of being madevisible, and where accompanied by soundssusceptible of being made audible ;

author means the physical person who has createdthe work ;

broadcasting means the communication of a work,a performance or a sound recording to the publicby wireless transmission, including transmissionby satellite ;

collective work means a work created by two or morephysical persons at the initiative and under thedirection of a physical person or legal entity, withthe understanding that it will be disclosed by thelatter person or entity under his or its own nameand that the identity of the contributing physicalpersons will not be indicated ;

communication to the public means the transmissionto the public by wire or without wire of the imagesor sounds, or both, of a work, a performance or asound recording including the making availableto the public of a work, performance or soundrecording in such a way that members of the publicmay access them from a place and at a timeindividually chosen by them ;

Interpretation.

4Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

computer means an electronic or similar devicehaving information processing capabilities ;

computer program is a set of instructions expressedin words, codes, schemes or in any other form,which is capable, when incorporated in a mediumthat the computer can read, of causing a computerto perform or achieve a particular task or result ;

economic rights means the rights referred to insection 9 ;

expression of folklore means a group oriented andtradition based creation of groups or individualsreflecting the expectation of the community as anadequate expression of its cultural and socialidentity, its standards and values as transmittedorally, by imitation or by other means, including :

(a)folktales, folk poetry, and folk riddles ;

(b)folk songs and instrumental folk music ;

(c)folk dances and folk plays ;

(d)productions of folk arts in particular,drawings, paintings, carvings, sculptures,pottery, terracotta, mosaic, woodwork,metalware, jewellery, handicrafts, costumes,and indigenous textiles ;

infringement means an act that violated any rightprotected under this Part ;

moral rights means rights referred to in section 10 ;

performers means singers, musicians, and otherpersons who sing, deliver, declaim, play in, orotherwise perform, literary or artistic works orexpressions of folklore ;

5Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

photographic work means the recording of light orother radiation on any medium on which an imageis produced or from which an image may beproduced, irrespective of the technique (chemical,electronic or other) by which such recording ismade, a still picture extracted from an audiovisualwork shall not be considered a photographicwork but a part of the audiovisual workconcerned ;

producer of an audiovisual work or a sound recordingmeans the physical person or legal entity thatundertakes the initiative and responsibility for themaking of the audiovisual work or soundrecording ;

public display means the showing of the original ora copy of a work

(a)directly ;

(b)by means of a film, slide, television imageor otherwise on screen ;

(c)by means of any other device or process ; or

(d)in the case of an audiovisual work, theshowing of individual imagesnonsequentially at a place or places wherepersons outside the normal circle of a familyand its closest social acquaintances are orcan be present, irrespective of whether theyare or can be present at the same place andtime or at different places or times, and wherethe work can be displayed withoutcommunication to the public within themeaning of the definition of the expressionCommunication to the Public;

public lending means the transfer of the possessionof the original or a copy of a work or a soundrecording for a limited period of time for non-profit making purposes, by an institution, theservices of which are available to the public, suchas a public library or archives ;

6Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

public performance means

(a)in the case of a work other than anaudiovisual work, the recitation, playing,dancing, acting or otherwise performing thework in public either directly or by meansof any device or process ;

(b)in the case of an audiovisual work, theshowing of images in sequence or themaking of accompanying sound audible inpublic ; and

(c)in the case of a sound recording, makingthe recording sounds audible at a place orat places where persons outside the normalcircle of the family and its closestacquaintances are or can be present,irrespective of whether they are or can bepresent at the same place and time, or atdifferent places or times, and where theperformance can be perceived without theneed for communication to the public withinthe meaning of the definition of theexpressioncommunication to the public ;

published means a work or a sound recording

(a)copies of which have been made availableto the public in a reasonable quantity for sale,rental, public lending or for transfer of theownership or the possession of the copies ;or

(b)which has been made available to the publicby means of an electronic system :

Provided that, in the case of a work, themaking available to the public took place withthe consent of the owner of the copyright, andin the case of a sound recording, with theconsent of, the producer of the soundrecording or his successor in title ;

7Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

rental means the transfer of the possession of theoriginal or a copy of a work or sound recordingfor a limited period of time for profit makingpurposes ;

reproduction means the making of one or morecopies of a work or sound recording in anymaterial form, including any permanent ortemporary storage of a work or sound recordingin electronic form ;

sound recording means any exclusively aural fixationof the sounds of a performance or of other sounds,regardless of the method by which the sounds arefixed or the medium in which the sounds areembodied ; it does not include a fixation of soundsand images, such as the sounds incorporated inan audiovisual work ;

work means any literary, artistic or scientific workreferred to in section 6 ;

work of applied art means an artistic creation withutilitarian functions or incorporated in a usefularticle, whether made by hand or produced on anindustrial scale ;

work of joint authorship means a work to the creationof which two or more authors have contributed,provided the work does not qualify as a collectivework.

6.(1) The following works shall be protected as literary,artistic or scientific work (hereinafter referred to as works)which are original intellectual creations in the literary, artisticand scientific domain, including and in particular

(a)books, pamphlets, articles, computer programs andother writings ;

(b)speeches, lectures, addresses, sermons and otheroral works ;

Works protected.

8Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(c)dramatic, dramatic-musical works, pantomimes,choreographic works and other works created forstage productions ;

(d)stage production of works specified in paragraph(c) and expressions of folklore that are apt for suchproductions ;

(e)musical works, with or without accompanyingwords ;

(f)audiovisual works ;

(g)works of architecture ;

(h)works of drawing, painting, sculpture, engraving,litho-graphy, tapestry and other works of fine art ;

(j)photographic works ;

(k)works of applied art ;

(l)illustrations, maps, plans, sketches and threedimensional works relative to geography,topography, architecture or science.

(2)The works specified in subsection (1) of this sectionshall be protected by the sole fact of their creation andirrespective of their mode or form of expression, as well asof their content, quality and purpose.

7.(1) The following shall also be protected as works :

(a)translations, adaptations, arrangements and othertransformations or modifications of works ; and

(b)collections of works and collections of mere data(data bases), whether in machine readable or otherform, provided that such collections are originalby reason of the selection, co-ordination orarrangement of their contents.

Derivative works.

9Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2)The protection of any work referred to in subsection(1) shall be without prejudice to any protection of a pre-existing work incorporated in, or utilized for, the making ofsuch a work.

8.Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 6 and 7,no protection shall be extended under this Part

(a)to any idea, procedure, system, method of operation,concept, principle, discovery or mere data, even ifexpressed, described, explained, illustrated orembodied in a work ;

(b)to any official text of a legislative, administrativeor legal nature, as well as any official translationthereof ;

(c)to news of the day published, broadcast, or publiclycommunicated by any other means.

9.(1) Subject to the provisions of sections 11 to 13 theowner of copyright of a work shall have the exclusive rightto carry out or to authorize the following acts in relation tothe work

(a)reproduction of the work ;

(b)translation of the work ;

(c)adaptation, arrangement or other transformation ofthe work ;

(d)the public distribution of the original and each copyof the work by sale, rental, export or otherwise ;

(e)rental of the original or a copy of an audiovisualwork, a work embodied in a sound recording, acomputer program, a data base or a musical workin the form of notation, irrespective of the ownershipof the original or copy concerned ;

Works notprotected.

Economic rights.

10Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(f)importation of copies of the work, (even where theimported copies were made with the authorizationof the owner of the copyright) ;

(g)public display of the original or a copy of the work ;

(h)public performance of the work ;

(j)broadcasting of the work ; and

(k)other communication to the public of the work.

(2)The provisions of subsection (1) of this section shallapply to both the entire work and a substantial part thereof.

(3)The rights of rental in terms of paragraph (e) ofsubsection (1) shall not apply to rental of computer programswhere the program itself is not the essential object of the rental.

(4)Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d) ofsubsection (1), the owner of a work or a copy of a worklawfully made or any person authorized in that behalf bysuch owner, is entitled without the authority of the owner ofthe copyright, to sell or otherwise dispose of that copy.

10.(1) The author of a work shall independently ofhis economic rights and even where he is no longer the ownerof those economic rights, have the following rights :

(a)to have his name indicated prominently on thecopies and in connection with any public use of hiswork, as far as practicable ;

(b)the right to use a pseudonym and not have his nameindicated on the copies and in connection with anypublic use of his work ;

(c)to object to any distortion, mutilation or othermodification of, or other derogatory action inrelation to, his work which would be prejudicial tohis honour or reputation.

Moral Rights.

11Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2) No right mentioned in subsection (1) shall betransmissible during the life time of the author, however onthe death of the author, the right to exercise any of thoserights shall be transmissible by testamentary disposition orby operation of law.

(3)The author may waive any of the moral rightsmentioned in subsection (1), provided that such a waiver isin writing and clearly specifies the right or rights waivedand the circumstances to which the waiver applies :

Provided that where any waiver of the rights underparagraph (c) of subsection (1) specifies the nature and extentof the modification or other action in respect of which theright is waived, subsequent to the death of the author, thephysical person or legal entity upon whom or which the moralrights have devolved shall have the right to waive the saidrights.

11.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection(1) of section 9, the fair use of a work, including such use byreproduction in copies or by any other means specified bythat section, for purposes such as criticism, comment, newsreporting, teaching (including multiple copies for classroomuse), scholarship or research, shall not be an infringementof copyright.

(2)The following factors shall be considered indetermining whether the use made of a work in any particularcase is fair use :

(a)the purpose and character of the use, includingwhether such use is of a commercial nature or isfor non-profit educational purposes ;

(b)the nature of the copyrighted work ;

(c)the amount and substantiality of the portion usedin relation to the copyrighted work as a whole ; and

(d)the effect of the use upon the potential market for,or value of, the copyrighted work.

Fair use.

12Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(3)The acts of fair use shall include the circumstancesspecified in section 12.

12.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained inparagraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 9 and subject tothe provisions of subsection (2) of this section, the privatereproduction of a published work in a single copy shall bepermitted without the authorization of the owner of thecopyright, where the reproduction is made by a physicalperson from a lawful copy of such work exclusively for hisown personal purposes.

(2)The permission under subsection (1) of this sectionshall not be extended to the reproduction

(a)of a work of architecture in the form of a buildingor other constructions ;

(b)in the form of reprography of the whole or asubstantial part of a book or of a musical work inthe form of notations ;

(c)of the whole or a substantial part of a data base ;

(d)of a computer program, except as provided insubsection (7) ; and

(e)of any work, in case the reproduction would conflictwith a normal exploitation of the work or wouldotherwise unreasonably prejudice the legitimateinterests of the owner of the copyright.

(3)Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) ofsubsection (1) of section 9, the reproduction, in the form ofa quotation, of a short part of a published work shall bepermitted without authorization of the owner of copyright :

Provided that the reproduction is compatible with fairpractice and does not exceed the extent justified by thepurpose of such reproduction. The quotation shall beaccompanied by an indication of the source and the name ofthe author, if his name appears in the work from which thequotation is taken.

Act of fair use.

13Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of parargraph (a)of subsection (1) of section 9, the following acts shall bepermitted without the authorization of the owner of thecopyright :

(a)the reproduction of a short part of a published workfor teaching purposes by way of illustration, inwriting or sound or visual recordings, provided thatthe reproduction is compatible with fair practiceand does not exceed the extent justified by thepurpose of such reproduction;

(b)the reprographic reproduction for face to faceteaching in any educational institution the activitiesof which do not serve direct or indirect commercialgain, of published articles, other short works or shortextracts of works, to the extent justified by thepurpose, provided that the act of reproduction is anisolated one occurring, if repeated, on separate andunrelated occassions :

Provided however the source of the workreproduced and the name of the author shall beindicated as far as practicable on all copies madeunder this subsection.

(5)Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) ofsubsection (1) of section 9, any library or archives, whoseactivities do not serve any direct or indirect commercial gainmay, without the authorization of the owner of copyright,make a single copy of the work by reprographicreproduction

(a)where the work reproduced is a published article,other short work or short extract of a work, andwhere the purpose of the reproduction is to satisfythe request of a physical person :

Provided that

(i)the library or archives is satisfied that thecopy will be used solely for the purposes ofstudy, scholarship or private research,

14Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(ii)the act of reproduction is an isolatedoccurance, occurring if repeated, onseparate and unrelated occasions ;

(b)where the copy is made in order to preserve and, ifnecessary replace a copy, or to replace a copy whichhas been lost, destroyed or rendered unusable inthe permanent collection of another similar libraryor archives :

Provided that it is not possible to obtain such acopy under reasonable conditions ; and

Provided further, that the act of reprographicreproduction is an isolated occurance occurring ifrepeated, on separate and unrelated occasions.

(6)Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a),(h) and (j) of subsection (1) of section 9, and subject to thecondition that the source and the name of the author isindicated as far as practicable, the following acts shall bepermitted in respect of a work without the authorization ofthe owner of copyright

(a)the reproduction in a newspaper or periodical,manner of broadcasting or other manner ofcommunication to the public, of an article publishedin a newspaper or periodical on current economic,political or religious topics or a broadcast orcommunication relating to the same, and suchpermission shall not apply where the right toauthorize reproduction, broadcasting or othercommunication to the public is expressly reservedon the copies, by the owner of copyright, or inconnection with broadcasting or othercommunication to the public of the work ;

(b)for the purpose of reporting current events, thereproduction and the broadcasting or othercommunication to the public of short excerpts of a

15Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

work seen or heard in the course of such events, tothe extent that it is justified by the purpose of suchreproduction;

(c)the reproduction in a newspaper or periodical,broadcasting or other manner of communication tothe public, of a political speech, a lecture, address,sermon or other work of a similar nature deliveredin public, or a speech delivered during legalproceedings, to the extent that it is justified byreason of the fact of providing current information.

(7)(a)Notwithstanding anything contained inparagraphs(a) and (c) of subsection (1) of section 9,reproduction in a single copy or the adaptation of a computerprogram by the lawful owner of a copy of that computerprograme, shall be permitted without the authorization ofthe owner of copyright provided that the copy or adaptationis necessary

(i)for use of the computer program with a computerfor the purpose and extent for which the computerprogram has been obtained ;

(ii)for archival purposes and for replacement of thelawfully owned copy of the computer program inthe event that the said copy of the computer programis lost, destroyed or rendered unusable.

(b)No copy or adaptation of a computer program shallbe used for any purpose other than those specified inparagraph (a), and any such copy or adaptation shall bedestroyed in the event that continued possession of the copyof the computer program ceases to be lawful.

(8)Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (f) ofsubsection (1) of section 9, the importation of a copy of awork by a physical person for his own personal purposesshall be permitted without the authorization of the owner ofcopyright.

16Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(9)Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph(g) of subsection (1) of section 9, the public display oforiginals or copies of works shall be permitted without theauthorization of the owner of copyright :

Provided that the display is made other than by means ofa film, slide, television image or otherwise on screen or bymeans of any other device or process :

Provided further, the work has been published or theoriginal or the copy displayed has been sold, given away orotherwise transferred to another person by the author or hissuccessor in title.

(10)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Part,the following shall not be an infringement of copyright :

(a)the performance or display of a work for educationalor teaching purposes by government or non profiteducational institutions, in classrooms or similarplaces set aside for education :

Provided that, in the case of an audiovisual work,the performance or the display of individual images,is given by means of a lawfully made copy, or theperson responsible for the performance did not knowor had no reason to believe that the copy was notlawfully made.

(b)the communication of a transmission embodying aperformance or display of a work by the publicreception of the transmission on a single receivingapparatus, of a kind commonly used in privatehomes, unless

(i)a direct charge is made to see or hear thetransmission ; or

(ii)the transmission thus received is furthertransmitted to the public.

17Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

13.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3),(4) and (5), the economic and moral rights shall be protectedduring the life time of the author and for a further period ofseventy years from the date of his death.

(2)In the case of a work of joint authorship, theeconomic and moral rights shall be protected during thelife of the last surviving author and for a further period ofseventy years from the date of the death of the last survivingauthor.

(3)In the case of a collective work, other than a workof applied art, and in the case of an audiovisual work, theeconomic and moral rights shall be protected for seventyyears from the date on which the work was first published,or failing publication within seventy years from the makingof the work.

(4)In the case of a work published anonymously orunder a pseudonym, the economic and moral rights shall beprotected for seventy years from the date on which the workwas first published :

Provided that, where the authors identity is revealed oris no longer in doubt before the expiration of the said period,the provisions of subsection (1) or subsection (2) shall apply,as the case may require.

(5)In the case of work of applied art, the economic andmoral rights shall be protected for twenty-five years fromthe date of the making of the work.

(6)Every period provided for under the precedingsubsections shall run to the end of the calendar year in whichit would otherwise expire.

14.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3),(4) and (5), of this section, the author who created the workshall be the original owner of economic rights.

Originalownership ofeconomic rights.

Duration ofcopyright.

18Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2)In respect of a work of joint authorship, the co-authors shall be the original owners of the economic rights.If, however, a work of joint authorship consists of parts thatcan be used separately and the author of each part can beidentified, the author of each part shall be the original ownerof the economic rights in respect of the part that he hascreated.

(3)In respect of a collective work, the physical personor legal entity at the initiative, and under the direction, ofwhom or which the work has been created shall be theoriginal owner of the economic rights.

(4)In respect of a work created by an author employedby a physical person or legal entity in the course of hisemployment, the original owner of the economic rights shall,unless provided otherwise by way of a contract, be theemployer. If the work is created pursuant to a commission,the original owner of economic rights shall be, unlessotherwise provided in a contract, the person whocommissioned the work.

(5)In respect of an audiovisual work, the original ownerof the economic rights shall be the producer, unless otherwiseprovided in a contract. The co-authors of the audiovisualwork and the authors of the pre-existing works, included in,or adapted for, the making of the audiovisual work shall,however, maintain their economic rights in their contributionsor pre-existing works, respectively, to the extent that thosecontributions or pre existing works can be the subject ofacts covered by their economic rights separately from theaudiovisual work.

15.(1) The physical person whose name is indicatedas the author on a work in the usual manner shall, in theabsence of proof to the contrary, be presumed to be the authorof the work. The provisions of this section shall be applicableeven if the name is a pseudonym, where the pseudonymleaves no doubt as to the identity of the author.

(2)The physical person or legal entity whose nameappears on an audio-visual work shall, in the absence ofproof to the contrary, be presumed to be the producer of thesaid work.

Presumption ofauthorship and ofrepresentation ofthe author.

19Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

16.(1) The owner of a copyright may -

(a)grant licence to a physical person or legal entity tocarry out all or any of the acts relating to theeconomic rights referred to in section 9 ;

(b)assign or transfer in whole or any part of theeconomic rights referred to in section 9.

(2)Any assignment or transfer of an economic right,and any licence to do such an act subject to authorization bythe owner of the copyright, shall be in writing signed by theassignor and the assignee, transferor and the transferee orby the licensor and the licensee, as the case may be.

(3)An assignment or transfer in whole or in part of anyeconomic right, or a licence to do an act subject toauthorization by the owner of copyright, shall not include orbe deemed to include the assignment or transfer or licencein respect of any other rights not expressly referred to therein.

CHAPTER I I

RELATED RIGHTS

[PROTECTION OF RIGHTS OF PERFORMERS, PRODUCERS OF SOUND

RECORDING AND BROADCASTING ORGANIZATION]

17.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 21, aperformer shall have exclusive right to carry out or toauthorize any of the following acts :

(a)the broadcasting or other communication to thepublic of his performance or a substantial partthereof, except where the broadcasting, or the othercommunication

(i)is made from a fixation of the performance,other than a fixation made in terms of section21 ; or

Rights requiringauthorization ofperformers.

Assignment orlicence ofauthors rights.

20Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(ii)is a re-broadcasting, made or authorized bythe organisation initially broadcasting theperformance or substantial part thereof ;

(b)the fixation of his unfixed performance orsubstantial part thereof ;

(c)the reproduction of a fixation of his performanceor substantial part thereof.

(2)Once the performer has authorized the incorporationof his performance in a audiovisual fixation, the provisionsof subsection (1) shall have no further application.

(3)Nothing in this section shall be construed to depriveperformers of the right to enter into contracts in respect oftheir performances on terms and conditions more favourableto them.

(4)The rights under this section shall be protected fromthe moment the performance takes place until the end ofthe fiftieth calendar year following the year in which theperformance takes place.

18.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 21, aproducer of a sound recording shall have the exclusive rightto carry out or to authorise any of the following acts :

(a)the direct or indirect reproduction of the soundrecording or substantial part thereof ;

(b)the importation of copies of the sound recording ora substantial part thereof even where such importedcopies were made with the authorisation of theproducer ;

(c)the adaptation or other transformation of the soundrecording or a substantial part thereof ;

(d)the rental of a copy of the sound recording or asubstantial part thereof, irrespective of theownership of the copy rented ;

Rights ofproducers ofsound recordings.

21Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(e)the sale or offering for sale to the public of theoriginal or copies of the sound recording orsubstantial part thereof.

(2)The rights under subsection (1) of this section shallbe protected from the date of publication of the soundrecording until the end of the fiftieth calendar year followingthe year of publication, or if the sound recording has notbeen published, from the date of fixation of the soundrecording until the end of fiftieth calendar year followingthe year of fixation.

19. (1) where a sound recording published for commercialpurposes, or a reproduction of such sound recording, is useddirectly for broadcasting or other form of communication tothe public, or is publicly performed, a single equitableremuneration for the performer or performers and the producerof the sound recording shall be paid by the user.

(2)Unless otherwise agreed between the performer orthe producer, half of the sum received by the producer undersubsection (1) shall be paid by the producer to any performer.

(3)The right to an equitable remuneration under thissection shall subsist from the date of publication of the soundrecording until the end of the fiftieth calendar year followingthe year of publication, or if the sound recording has notbeen published, from the date of fixation of the soundrecording until the end of the fiftieth calendar year followingthe year of fixation.

20.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 21, abroadcasting organisation shall have the exclusive right tocarry out or to authorize any of followings acts :

(a)the re-broadcasting of its broadcast or a substantialpart thereof ;

(b)the communication to the public of its broadcast ora substantial part thereof ;

Rights ofbroadcastingorganisation.

Equitableremuneration foruse of soundrecordings.

22Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(c)the fixation of its broadcast or a substantial partthereof ;

(d)the reproduction of a fixation of its broadcast or asubstantial part thereof.

(2)The rights under this section shall be protected fromthe moment when the broadcasting takes place until the endof the fiftieth calender year following the year in whichbroadcast takes place.

21.Sections 17, 18, 19 and 20 shall not apply wherethe acts referred to in those sections are related to

(a)the use by a physical person exclusively for his ownpersonal purposes ;

(b)using short excerpts for reporting current events tothe extent justified by the purpose of providingcurrent information ;

(c)use solely for the purpose of face to face teachingactivities or for scientific research ;

(d)cases where, under copyright, a work can be usedwithout the authorization of the owner of copyright.

22.(1) Any person who infringes or is about to infringeany of the rights protected under this Part may be prohibitedfrom doing so by way of an injunction and be liable todamages. The owner of such rights is entitled to seek suchother remedy as the court may deem fit.

(2)(a) The Court shall have power and jurisdiction

(i)to grant such injunctions to prohibit thecommission of any act of, infringement orthe continued commission of such acts ofinfringment of any right protected underthis Part ;

Enforcement ofrights anddisputesresolution.

Limitations onprotection.

23Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(ii)to order the impounding of copies of worksor sound recordings suspected of being madesold, rented or imported without theauthorization of the owner of any rightprotected under this Part where the making,selling, renting or importation of copies issubject to such authorization, as well as theimpounding of the packaging of, theimplements that could be used for themaking of, and the documents, accounts orbusiness papers, referring to, such copies.

(b)The Court shall in addition have the jurisdiction toorder the payment by the infringer, of damages for the losssuffered as a consequence of the act of infringement, as wellas the payment of expenses caused by the infringement,including legal costs. The amount of damages shall be fixedtaking into account inter alia, the importance of the materialand moral prejudice suffered by the owner of the right, aswell as the importance of the infringers profits attributableto the infringement. Where the infringer did not know orhad no reasonable cause to know that he or it was engagedin infringing activity, the court may limit damages to theprofits of the infringer attributable to the infringement or topre established damages.

(c)The Court shall have the authority to order thedestruction or other reasonable manner of disposing of copiesmade in infringement of any right protected under this Partif available and their packaging outside the channels ofcommerce in such a manner as would avoid harm to theowner of the rights, unless he requests otherwise. Theprovisions of this section shall not be applicable to copiesand their packaging which were acquired by a third party ingood faith.

(d)Where there is a danger that implements may be usedto commit or continue to commit acts of infringement, theCourt shall, whenever and to the extent that it is reasonable,order their destruction or other reasonable manner of disposingof the same outside the channels of commerce in such a manneras to minimize the risks of further infringements, includingsurrender to the owner of the rights.

24Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(e)Where there is a danger that acts of infringementmay be continued, the court shall make such orders as maybe necessary prevent such acts being committed.

(f)The provisions of Chapter XXXV of this Act relatingto infringement and remedies shall apply, mutatis mutandis,to rights protected under this Part.

(g)Any person who infringes or attempts to infringeany of the rights protected under this Part shall be guilty ofan offence and on conviction be liable to any penalty asprovided for in Chapters XXXVIII and XLI of the Act.

(3)(a) The Director-General may on an applicationbeing made in the prescribed form and manner by a personaggrieved by any of his rights under this Part being infringedor in any other manner affected, and after such inquiry as hethinks fit determine any question that may be necessary orexpedient to determine in connection with such applicationand such decision shall be binding on the parties subject tothe provisions of paragraph (b) of this subsection.

(b) Any person aggrieved by the decision of theDirector-General may make an appeal to the Court and unlessthe Court issues an interim order staying the operation ofthe decision of the Director-General, such decision shallcontinue to be in force until the matter is decided by theCourt.

23.(1) The following acts shall be considered unlawfuland in the application of section 22 shall be assimilated toinfringements of the rights of the owner of copyright :

(i)the manufacture or importation for sale or rental ofany device or means specifically designed oradapted to circumvent any device or means intendedto prevent or restrict reproduction of a work or toimpair the quality of copies made (the latter deviceor means hereinafter referred to as copy protectionor copy management device or means) ;

Measures,remedies andsanctions againstabuses in respectof technicalmeans.

25Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(ii)the manufacture or importation for sale or rental ofany device or means that is susceptible to enable orassist the reception of an encrypted program, whichis broadcast or otherwise communicated to thepublic, including reception by satellite, by thosewho are not entitled to receive the program.

(2)In the application of section 22, any illicit deviceand means mentioned in subsection (1) of this section shallbe assimilated to infringing copies of works.

(3)The owner of copyright in a work shall also beentitled to the damages for infringement provided for insection 22 where

(a)authorized copies of the work have been made andoffered for sale or rental in an electronic formcombined with a copy protection or copymanagement device or means, and a device ormeans specifically designed or adapted tocircumvent the said device or means, made orimported for sale or rental ;

(b)the work is aurhorised for inclusion in an encryptedprogram, broadcast or otherwise communicated tothe public, including by satellite, and a device ormeans enabling or assisting the reception of theprogram by those who are not entitled to receivethe program made or imported, for sale or rental.

24.(1) Subject to the provision of subection (4) of thissection expressions of folklore shall be protected against

(a)reproduction ;

(b)communication to the public by performance,broadcasting, distribution by cable or other means ;

(c)adaptation, translation and other transformation,when such expressions are made either forcommercial purposes or outside their traditional orcustomary context.

Protection ofexpressions offolklore anddamages.

26Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2) The rights conferred by subsection (1) of this sectionshall not apply where the acts referred to therein are relatedto

(a)the use by a physical person exclusively for his ownpersonal purposes ;

(b)using short excerpts for reporting current events tothe extent justified by the purpose of providingcurrent information ;

(c)the use solely for the purpose of face to face teachingor for scientific research ;

(d)instances referred to in sections 11 and 12, where awork can be used without the authorization of theowner of copyright.

(3)In all printed publications, and in connection withany communication to the public of any identifiableexpression of folklore, its source shall be indicated in anappropriate manner and in conformity with fair practice bymentioning the community or place from where theexpression utilized has been derived.

(4)The right to authorize acts referred to in subsection(1) of this section shall subject to the payment of a prescribedfee, vest in a Competent authority to be determined by theMinister.

(5)The money collected under subsection (4) shall beused for purposes of cultural development.

(6)Any person who, without the permission of theCompetent Authority referred to in subsection (4), uses anexpression of folklore in a manner not permitted by thissection shall be in contravention of the provisions of thissection and shall be liable to damages, and be subject to aninjunctions and any other remedy as the Court may deem fitto award in the circumstances.

27Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

25.(1) (a) No person or body of persons corporate orunincorporate shall, after the coming into operation of thisAct, commence or carry on the business of issuing or grantinglicences in respect of any right protected under this Partexcept under or in accordance with, the provisions ofparagraph (c) of this subsection :

Provided that the owner of such right shall, in hisindividual capacity, continue to have the right to grantlicences in respect of his own rights. Where such owner is amember of a society registered under this section the grantof such licences shall be consistent with his obligations as amember of such society.

(b)Any body of persons corporate or unincorporatewhich fulfils such conditions as may be prescribed, apply tothe Director-General for permission to engage in the businessspecified in paragraph (a) and register the society.

(c)The Director-General may having regard to theinterests of the owners of the rights protected under this Part,the interests and convenience of the public and in particularof the groups of persons who are most likely to seek licencesin respect of relevant rights and the ability and professionalcompetence of the applicant to grant permission tocommence or carry on business specified in paragraph (a)of subsection (1) and register such person or body of personsas a collective society subject to such conditions as may beprescribed :

Provided that the Director-General shall not ordinarilyregister more than one such society to do business in respectof the same class of rights.

(d)The Director-General may, if he is satisfied that thesociety is being managed in a manner detrimental to theinterests of the owners of rights concerned, cancel or suspendthe registration of the society and the permission tocommence or carry on business as specified in paragraph(a) of this subsection, after such inquiry as may be necessary.

Registration ofsociety,administration ofrights by societies,control over therights andsubmission ofreport.

28Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(e) The Director-General may by order cancel or suspendthe registration of such society and the permission to carryon business pending inquiry for such period not exceedingone year as may be specified in such order under paragraph(d) of this subseciton.

(f)Where the Director-General suspends the registrationof a society, he shall thereupon appoint an administrator tocarry out the functions of the society.

(2)(a) Subject to such conditions as may beprescribed

(i)a society may accept from an owner of therights exclusive authorization to administer anyright under this Part by the issue of licences orcollection of licence fees or both ; and

(ii)an owner of the rights shall have the right towithdraw such authorization without prejudiceto the rights of the society under any contractbetween such owner and society.

(b)It shall be competent for a society to enter into anyagreement with any foreign society or organizationadministering rights corresponding to the rights protectedunder this Part, and to entrust to such foreign society ororganization the administration in any foreign country ofrights administered by the said society in Sri Lanka, or foradministering in Sri Lanka the rights administered in aforeign country by such foreign society or organization :

Provided that no such society or organization shall permitany discrimination in regard to the terms of a licence or thedistribution of fees collected in connection with the rightsprotected under this Part and in such foreign country.

(c)Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, asociety may

(i)issue licences in respect of any rights protectedunder this Part ;

29Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(ii)collect fees in pursuance of such licences ;

(iii)distribute such fees among owners of rights aftermaking deductions for its own expenses ;

(iv)perform any other functions consistent with theprovisions of subsection (4).

(3)(a) Every society shall be subject to the collectivecontrol of the owners of rights under this Part whose rightsare administered in such a manner as may be prescribed inorder to

(i)obtain the approval of such owners of rights for itsprocedures of collection and distribution of fees ;

(ii)obtain their approval for the utilization of anyamounts collected as fees for any purpose otherthan distribution to the owner of rights ; and

(iii)provide to such owners regular, full and detailedinformation concerning all its activities, in relationto the administration of their rights.

(b)All fees distributed among the owners of rights shall,as far as may be, be distributed in proportion to the actualuse of their works.

(4)(a) Every Society shall submit to the Director-General such returns as may be prescribed.

(b)The Director-General may call for any report orrecords of any society for the purpose of satisfying himselfthat the fees collected by the society in respect of the rightsadministered by it are being utilized or distributed inaccordance with the provisions of this Part.

26.(1) The provisions of this Part in respect of theprotection of literary, artistic or scientific works shall applyto

(a)works of authors who are nationals of , or have theirhabitual residence in, Sri Lanka ; and

Scope ofapplication.

30Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(b)works first published in Sri Lanka, works firstpublished in another country and hereuponpublished in Sri Lanka, within thirty days from suchpublication, irrespective of the nationality orresidence of the author.

(2) The provisions of this Part shall also apply to worksthat are protected in Sri Lanka by virtue of, and in accordancewith, any international convention or any internationalagreement to which Sri Lanka is a party.

27.(1) The provisions of this Part in respect ofprotection of performers shall apply to

(a)performers who are nationals of Sri Lanka ;

(b)performers who are not nationals of Sri Lanka butwhose performances :

(i)take place on the territory of Sri Lanka ; or

(ii)are incorporated in sound recordings that areprotected under this Part ; or

(iii)have not been fixed in a sound recording butare included in broadcasts qualifying forprotection under this Part.

(2) The provisions of this Part on the protection of soundrecodings, shall apply to

(a)sound recordings the producers of which, arenationals of Sri Lanka ;

(b)sound recordings first fixed in Sri Lanka ; and

(c)sound recordings first published in Sri Lanka.

(3) The provisions of this Part on the protection ofbroadcasts shall apply to

(a)broadcasts of broadcasting organisations where theregistered office of such organisations are situatedin Sri Lanka ; and

Protection ofperformers.

31Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

Conditions forprotection.

Definition ofindustrial design.

Scope of this Part.

(b)broadcasts transmitted from transmitters situatedin Sri Lanka.

(4) The provisions of this Part shall in addition apply toperformers, producers of sound recordings and broadcastingorgainsations protected by virtue of, and in accordance with,any international convention or any international agreementto which Sri Lanka is a party.

PART III

CHAPTER III

INDUSTRIAL DESIGNS

SCOPE OF THIS PART AND DEFINITIONS

28.The protection of industrial designs provided underthis Part shall be in addition to and not in derogation of anyother protection provided under any other written law, inparticular under Part II of this Act.

29.The protection provided under this Part shall

(a)apply only to new industrial designs ;

(b)not apply to an industrial design which consistsof any scandalous design or is contrary to moralityor public order or public interest or which, in theopinion of the Director-General or of any Courtto which such matter has been referred to is likelyto offend the religious or racial susceptibilities ofany community.

30.For the purposes of this Part any composition oflines or colours or any three dimensional form, whether ornot associated with lines or colours, that gives a specialappearance to a product of industry or handicraft and iscapable of serving as a pattern for a product of industry orhandicraft shall be deemed to be an industrial design :

32Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

Provided that anything in an industrial design which servessolely to obtain a technical result shall not be protected underthis Part.

31. (1) For the purpose of this Part a new industrialdesign means an industrial design which had not been madeavailable to the public anywhere in the world and at anytime whatsoever through description, use or in any othermanner before the date of an application for registration ofsuch industrial design or before the priority date validlyclaimed in respect thereof.

(2)An industrial design shall not be deemed to havebeen made available to the public solely by reason of thefact that, within the period of six months preceding the filingof an application for registration, it had been a displaly atan official or officially recognized, international exhibition.

(3)An industrial design shall not be considered a newindustrial design solely by reason of the fact that it differsfrom an earlier industrial design in minor respects or that itconcerns a type of product different from a productembodying an earlier industrial design.

CHAPTER IV

RIGHT TO PROTECTION OF INDUSTRIAL DESIGN

32.(1) The right to obtain protection of an industrialdesign belongs to its owner.

(2)Subject to provisions of section 34, the owner of anindustrial design or his successor in title is its creator .

(3)Where two or more persons have jointly created anindustrial design, the right to obtain protection shall belongto them jointly :

Provided that a person who has merely assisted in thecreation of an industrial design but has made no contributionof a creative nature shall not be deemed to be the creator ora co-creator of such industrial design.

Ownership andright to protectionof industrialdesign.

Definition ofnovelty.

33Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(4)Subject to the provisions of sections 33 and 34 theperson who makes the first application for the registrationof an industrial design or the person who first validly claimsthe earliest priority for his application shall be deemed to bethe creator of such industrial design.

33.(1) Where the essential elements of an industrialdesign, are the subject of an application for registration orhave been derived from an industrial design, for which theright to protection belongs to another person, such otherperson may apply in writing to the Director-General to assignthe said application or registration to him.

(2)The application for assignment shall be forwardedwith the prescribed fee and evidence to substantiate the claimof the applicant. Where the registration has already beeneffected, the application under subsection (1) shall be madewithin one year from the date of the publication of theregistration under section 44.

(3)The Director-General shall forthwith send a copyof such application for assignment to the applicant forregistration or the registered owner of the industrial design,who shall within a period of three months from the date ofsuch notice forward to the Director-General a counterstatement in the prescribed manner together with theprescribed fee and evidence to substantiate his claim.

(4)If the applicant or the registered owner forwards acounter statement as referred to in subsection (3), theDirector-General shall after hearing the parties, if heconsiders it necessary decide as expeditiously as possiblewhether the application or registration should be assignedand, where applicable whether the register should berectified. If the applicant or the registered owner fails toforward a counter statement as provided for in subsection(3) within the period of three months, the Director-Generalshall allow the application referred to in subsection (1).

Industrial design.

34Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(5) Where, after an application for the registration of anindustrial design has been filed, the person to whom the rightto protection belongs gives his consent to the filling of thesaid application, such consent shall, for all purposes, bedeemed to have been effective from the date of filling ofsuch application.

34.(1) In the absence of any provision to the contraryin any contract of employment or for the execution of work,the ownership of an industrial design created in theperformance of such contract or in the execution of suchwork shall be deemed to accrue to the employer, or the personwho commissioned the work, as the case may be :

Provided that where the industrial design acquires aneconomic value much greater than the parties couldreasonably have foreseen at the time of concluding thecontract of employment or for the execution of work, as thecase may be, the creator shall be entitled to equitableremuneration which may be fixed by the Court on anapplication made by the creator to Court in the absence ofan agreement between the parties.

(2) Where an employee whose contract of employmentdoes not require him to engage in any creative activitycreates, in the field of activities of his employer, an industrialdesign using data or means placed at his disposal by hisemployer, the ownership of such industrial design shall bedeemed to accrue to the employer in the absence of anyprovision to the contrary in the contract of employment :

Provided that the employee shall be entitled to equitableremuneration, which in the absence of agreement betweenthe parties, may be fixed by the Court on an applicationmade by the employee, taking into account his emoluments,the economic value of the industrial design and any benefitderived from it by the employer.

(3) The rights conferred on the creator of an industrialdesign by subsections (1) and (2) shall not be restricted bycontract.

Industrial designcreated by theemployee toaccrue toemployer.

35Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

35. (1) The creator of an industrial design shall be namedas such in the registration, unless by a declaration in writingsigned by him or any person authorized by him in writing inthat behalf and submitted to the Director-General indicateshis willingness to forgo his name being used in suchregistration.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) not be altered, variedor modified by the terms of any contract.

CHAPTER V

REQUIREMENTS OF APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE FORREGISTRATION OF AN INDUSTRIAL DESIGN

36. (1) An application for registration of an industrialdesign shall be made to the Director-General in the prescribedform and shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee andshall contain

(a)a request for registration of the industrial design ;

(b)the name, address and description of the applicantand, if he is a resident outside Sri Lanka, a postaladdress for service in Sri Lanka ;

(c)a specimen of the article embodying the industrialdesign or copies of a photographic or graphicrepresentation of the industrial design, in colourwhere it is in colour, or drawings and tracings ofthe design ;

(d)an indication of the kind of products for which theindustrial design is to be used and, where theregulations make provision for classification, anindication of the class or classes in which suchproducts are included ;

(e)a declaration by the applicant that the industrialdesign is new to the best of his knowledge.

Naming of creatorof an industrialdesign.

Requirements ofapplication.

36Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2)The application for registration may be accompaniedby a declaration signed by the creator of the industrial design,giving his name and address and requesting the same to beindicated in the registration.

(3)Where the applicant is not the creator of the industrialdesign the application shall be accompanied by a statementjustifying the applicants right to obtain registration.

(4)The Director-General shall in every case where theapplicant is not the creator of the Industrial design, shallserve the creator with a copy of the statement referred to insubsection (3). The creator of the industrial design shall havethe right to inspect the application and to receive, on paymentof the prescribed fee, a copy thereof.

(5)Where the application is filed through an agent, itshall be accompanied by power of attorney granted to suchagent by the applicant.

37.The applicant for registration of an industrial designwho desires to availhim self of the priority of an earlierapplication filed in a convention country shall, within sixmonths of the date of such earlier application, append to hisapplication a written declaration indicating the date andnumber of the earlier application, the name of the applicantand the country in which he or his predecessor in title filedsuch application and shall, within a period of three monthsfrom the date of the later application filed in Sri Lanka,furnish a copy of the earlier application certified as correctby the Appropriate Authority of the country where suchearlier application was filed.

38.An application for registration of an industrial designshall not be entertained unless the prescribed fee has beenpaid to the Director-General.

39.(1) The Director-General shall examine whether theapplicant has complied with the provisions of sections 36,section 37 (where applicable) and section 38.

Application fee.

Examination ofapplication.

Right of priority.

37Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2)Where the applicant fails to comply with theprovision of sections 36 and 37 the Director-General shallrefuse registration of the industrial design :

Provided that the Director-General shall first notify theapplicant of any defect in the application and shall affordhim an opportunity to remedy such defect within threemonths from the date of receipt of such notification.

(3)Where the applicant fails to comply with theprovisions of section 37 the Director-General shall not, inconnection with the registration of the industrial design, makeany reference to the priority claimed

(4)Where the applicant complies with the provisionsof section 37 the Director-General shall, in connection withthe registration of the industrial design, record the priorityclaimed.

(5)Where the Director-General refuses to register anindustrial design he shall, state the grounds for such refusaland inform the applicant, on payment of a prescribed fee ofthe grounds for his decision.

40.(1) Where the applicant complies with the provisionsof sections 36 and 38 the Director-General shall examinethe industrial design in relation to the provisions of section29.

(2)Where the industrial design is not registrable undersection 29 the Director-General shall notify the applicantaccordingly, stating the grounds for refusal of registration.

(3)Where the Director-General refuses the applicationof a person for registration of an industrial design, theapplicant may within a period of one month from the dateof such notification in terms of section (2), make hissubmissions in writing on the matter of such refusal to theDirector-General.

Registration.

38Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(4)On receipt of any such submission as required bysubsection (3) the Director-General may grant such applicanta hearing and inform him of the date and time of such hearing.The Director-General may after such hearing register orrefuse to register such industrial design.

(5)(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections(1) (2), (3) and (4) where the Director-General finds that theessential elements of an industrial design is derived from anindustrial design already registered in respect of which anapplication for registration is made, he shall notify theapplicant accordingly and request him, with a copy to theregistered owner of the cited industrial design, to show thatthe industrial design is not so derived.

(b)The applicant may, within a period of three monthsfrom the date of such notice, tender his written submissionsto the Director-General with the prescribed fee. Theregistered owner of the cited industrial design may also tenderhis observations in writing within the same period of time.

(c)On receipt of such written submissions andobservations, if any, the Director-General shall after hearingthe parties if he considers it necessary forthwith determinewhether such industrial design should be registered or not.

(d)Where the applicant fails to tender his writtensubmissions as required by paragraph (b) of subsection (5)the Director-General shall refuse the application for theregistration of the industrial design for reasons to be statedand he shall in writing, if the aplicant so requests, informthe applicant in writing of the grounds for his decision onpayment by the applicant of the prescrided fee.

(6)Where the Director-General is of the opinion thatthe industrial design is registrable he may request theapplicant to pay within a period of one month the prescribedfee for publication of the application.

(7)Where the fee for publication of the application isnot paid within the prescribed period registration of theindustrial design shall be refused.

39Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(8)(a) If the fee for publication is paid within theprescribed period the Director-General shall proceed topublish the application setting out the date of application,number of the application, the name and address of theapplicant and if the applicant is resident outside Sri Lanka,a postal address for service in Sri Lanka, the priority claimed,a description of the industrial design and the kind and classof the industrial design.

(b)Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (6),(7) and paragraph (a) of subsection (8), the Director-Generalmay in his discretion by a written notice, require the applicantto publish the application in accordance with the provisionsof paragraph (a) of subsection (8) and in the form as indicatedby the Director-General. Where the applicant fails or neglectsto publish the application as required by the Director-Generalwithin a period of two months from the said notice of theDirector-General, the application may be refused.

(9)Where any person considers that the industrial designis not registrable on one or more grounds referred to in section29 he may within a period of two months from the date ofpublication give to the Director-General in a prescribed formand together with the prescribed fee, notice of opposition tosuch registration stating his grounds of oppositionaccompanied by evidence to substantiate such grounds.

(10)Where notice of opposition has not been receivedby the Director-General within the period specified insubsection (9) the Director-General shall register theindustrial design.

(11)Where, within the period specified in subsection(9) notice of opposition in the prescribed form is receivedby the Director-General, together with the prescribed fee,he shall serve a copy of such grounds of opposition on theapplicant and shall request him to present his observationson those grounds in writing accompanied by evidence tosupport his application within a period of one month.

40Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(12)On receipt of the observations of the applicant theDirector-General shall after hearing the parties, where takingall the circumstances into consideration he considers suchhearing necessary, decide, as expeditiously as possible,whether or not the industrial design may be registered. If hedecides that the industrial design is registrable he shallaccordingly register such industrial design

(a)where no appeal is preferred against his decision,upon the expiry of the period within which an appealmay be preferred against his decision ;

(b)where an appeal is preferred against his decision,upon the dismissal of such appeal, as the case maybe.

(13)The Director-General may allow a reasonableextension of the prescribed period within which any act hasto be done or any fee has to be paid under this section.

41.Upon the registration of an industrial design, theDirector-General shall issue to the registered owner thereofa Certificate of Registration and shall, at the request of theregistered owner, send such certificate to him by registeredpost to his last recorded postal address in Sri Lanka or, if heis resident outside Sri Lanka, to his last recorded postaladdress.

42.(1) The Director-General shall keep and maintaina register called the Register of Industrial Designs whereinshall be recorded, in the order of their registration, allregistered industrial designs and such other particularsrelating to the industrial designs as are authorised or directedby this Part to be so recorded or may from time to time beprescribed

(2)The registration of an industrial design shall includea representation of the industrial design and shall specify itsnumber, the name and address of the registered owner and,if the registered owner is resident outside Sri Lanka, a postaladdress for service in Sri Lanka ; the date of application and

Issue of certificateof registration.

Register ofIndustrialDesigns.

41Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

registration ; if priority is validly claimed, an indication ofthat fact and the number, date and country of the applicationon the basis of which the priority is claimed ; the kinds andclasses of products referred to in paragraph (d) subsection(1) of section 36 and the name and address of the creator ofthe industrial design, if he has requested his name to beindicated as such in the registration.

43.Any person may examine the register and may obtaincertified extracts therefrom on payment of the prescribed fee.

44.The Director-General shall cause to be publishedin the Gazette, in the prescribed form, all registered industrialdesigns in the order of their registration, including in respectof each industrial design so published reference to suchparticulars as may be prescribed.

CHAPTE RVI

DURATION OF REGISTRATION OF AN INDUSTRIAL DESIGN

45.Subject to, and without prejudice to the otherprovisions of this Part, registration of an industrial designshall expire on the completion of five years from the date ofreceipt of the application for registration.

46. (1) Registration of an industrial design may berenewed for two consecutive periods of five years each, onan application made in that behalf and on payment of theprescribed fee.

(2)The renewal fee shall be paid within the six monthspreceding the date of expiration of the period of registration :

Provided, however, that a period of grace of six monthsshall be allowed for the payment of the fee after the date ofsuch expiration, upon payment of such surcharge as may beprescribed.

(3)The Director-General shall record in the register andcause to be published in the Gazette in the prescribed forma list of all renewals of registration of industrial designs.

Duration ofregistration.

Renewal.

Examination ofregister andcertified copies.

Publication ofregisteredindustrial designs.

42Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(4)Where the renewal fee has not been paid within suchperiod or such extended period as is specified in subsection(2), the Director-General shall remove from the relevantregister the registration relating to such industrial design.

CHAPTERVII

RIGHTS OF A REGISTERED OWNER OF AN INDUSTRIAL DESIGN

47.(1) Subject and without prejudice to otherprovisions of this Part, the registered owner of an industrialdesign shall in relation to such industrial design have theexclusive rights to

(a)reproduce and embody such industrial design inmaking a product ;

(b)import, offer for sale, sell or use a productembodying such industrial design ;

(c)stock for the purpose of offering for sale, selling orusing, a product embodying such industrial design ;

(d)assign or transmit the registration of the industrialdesign ;

(e)conclude licence contracts.

(2)No person shall do any of the acts referred to insubsection (1) without the consent of the registered ownerof the industrial design.

(3)The acts referred to in subsection (1), if done byany unauthorized person, shall not be lawful solely by reasonof the fact that the reproduction of the registered industrialdesign differs from the registered industrial design in minorrespects or that the reproduction of the registered industrialdesign is embodied in a type of product different from aproduct embodying the registered industrial design.

Rights of aregistered ownerof an industrialdesign.

43Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

48.The provisions of subsection (1) of section 47 shall

(1)extend only to acts done for industrial orcommercial purposes ;

(2)not preclude third parties from performing any ofthe acts referred to therein in respect of a productembodying the registered industrial design after thesaid product has been lawfully manufactured,imported, offered for sale, sold, used or stocked inSri Lanka.

CHAPTER VIII

ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSMISSION OF APPLICATIONS FOR

REGISTRATION OF INDUSTRIAL DESIGNS AND REGISTRATIONS OF THE SAME

49.(1) An application for registration or the registrationof an industrial design may be assigned or transmitted andsuch assignment or transmission shall be in writing signedby or on behalf of the contracting parties.

(2)Any person becoming entitled by assignment or bytransmission to an application for registration or theregistration of an industrial design may apply to the Director-General in the prescribed manner along within the prescribedfee to have such assignment or transmission recorded in theregister.

(3)No such assignment or transmission shall berecorded in the register unless the prescribed fee has beenpaid to the Director-General.

(4)No such assignment or transmission shall have effectagainst third parties unless so recorded in the register.

50.In the absence of any agreement to the contrarybetween the parties, joint owners of an application forregistration or the registration of an industrial design may,separately, assign or transmit their rights in the application

Limitation ofregistered ownersrights.

Assignment andtransmission ofapplications andregistrations.

Joint ownership ofapplications andregistration.

44Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

or registration, use the industrial design and exercise theexclusive rights referred to in paragraphs (a) to (c) ofsubsection (1) of section 47, but may only jointly withdrawthe application, renounce the registration or conclude alicence contract.

CHAPTERIX

LICENCE CONTRACTS OF INDUSTRIAL DESIGNS

51.For the purposes of this Part licence contract meansany contract by which the registered owner of an industrialdesign (the Licensor) grants to another person or enterprise(the licensee) a licence to do any or all of the acts referredto in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (1) ofsection 47.

52.(1) A licence contract shall be in writing signed byor on behalf of the contracting parties.

(2)Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf ofthe contracting parties, the Director-General shall onpayment of the prescribed fee, record in the register suchparticulars relating to the contract as the parties theretorequires to be recorded :

Provided that the parties shall not be required to discloseor have recorded any other particulars relating to the saidcontract.

53.In the absence of any provision to the contrary inthe licence contract, the licensee shall

(a)be entitled to do any or all of the acts referred to inparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (1) ofsection 47 within Sri Lanka, during the period ofvalidity of the registration of the industrial design,inclusive of the period of renewl if any ;

(b)not be entitled to assign or transmit his rights underthe licence contract or grant sub-licenses to thirdparties.

Form and recordof licencecontract.

Interpretation.

Rights of licensee.

45Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

54.(1) In the absence of any provision to the contraryin the licence contract, the licensor may grant further licensesto third parties in respect of the same industrial design or onbehalf of himself do any or all of the acts referred to in sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (1) of section 47.

(2)Where the license contract provides that the licenseis exclusive, and unless it is expressly provided otherwise insuch contract, the licensor shall not grant further licenses tothird parties in respect of the same industrial design or notexecute any of the acts referred to in sub-paragraphs (a), (b)and (c) of subsection (1) of section 47 or cause to be executed.

55.Any clause or condition in a license contract shallbe null and void in so far as it imposes upon the licensee, inindustrial or commercial field, restrictions not derived fromthe rights conferred by this Part on the registered owner ofan industrial design, or unnecessary for safeguarding of suchrights :

Provided that

(a)restrictions concerning the scope, extent, or durationof use of the industrial design, or the geographicalarea in or the quality or quantity of the products inconnection with which the industrial design maybe used ; and

(b)obligations imposed upon the licensee to refrainfrom all acts capable of prejudicing the validity ofthe registration of the industrial design,

shall not be deemed to constitute such restrictions.

56.Where, before the expiration of the license contractthe registration is declared null and void the licensee in suchevent not be required to make any payment to the licensorunder the licence contract, and shall be entitled toreimbursement of the payments already made :

Invalid clauses inlicense contracts.

Effect of nullity ofregistration oflicense contract.

Rights of licensor.

46Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

Provided that the licensor shall not be required to makeany repayment, or be required to make repayment in part, tothe extent of his ability to prove that such repayment wouldbe inequitable having considerd all the circumstances andin particular whether the licensee has effectively profitedfrom the licence.

57.The Director-General shall

(1)if he is satisfied that a recorded licence contracthas expired or been terminated, record that fact inthe register upon a request in writing to that effectsigned by or on behalf of the parties thereto ;

(2)record in the register the expiry, termination orinvalidation of a licence contract under anyprovision of this Part.

58.(1) Where the Director-General has reasonablecause to believe that any licence contract or any amendmentor renewal thereof

(a)which involves the payment of royalties abroad ; or

(b)which by reason of other circumstances relating tosuch licence contract,

is detrimental to the economic development of Sri Lanka heshall in writing communicate such fact to the Governor ofthe Central Bank and transmit all papers in his custodyrelevant to the matter which are essential to the making of adecision on such matter to the Governor of the Central Bank.

(2)Where the Governor of the Central Bank on receiptof any communication under subsection (1) informs theDirector-General in writing that the said licence contract orany amendment or renewal thereof is detrimental to theeconomic development of Sri Lanka, the Director-Generalshall cancel and invalidate the record of such contract in theregister.

(3)The provisions of this section shall apply, mutatismutandis, to assignment and transmissions.

Licencecontractsinvolvingpaymentsabroad.

Expiry,termination orinvalidation oflicencecontract.

47Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(4)The provisions of this Chapter shall apply mutatismutandis, to sub-licences.

CHAPTER X

RENUNCIATION AND NULLITY OF REGISTRATION OF INDUSTRIAL

DESIGN

59.(1) The registered owner of an industrial design mayrenounce the registration by a declaration in writing signedby him or on his behalf in writing and submit it to theDirector-General.

(2)The Director-General shall, on receipt of the saiddeclaration, record it in the register and cause such recordto be published in the Gazette.

(3)The renunciation shall take effect from the date thatthe Director-General receives the said declaration.

(4)Where a licence contract in respect of an industrialdesign is recorded in the register the Director-General shallnot, in the absence of any provision to the contrary in suchlicence contract, accept or record the said renunciation exceptupon receipt of a signed declaration by which every licenseeor sub-licensee on record consents to the said renunciation,unless the requirement of their consent is expressly waivedin the licence contract.

60.(1) The Court may on the application, to which theregistered owner of the industrial design and every assignee,licensee or sub-licensee on record shall be made a party, ofany person having a legitimate interest, or of any competentauthority including the Director-General, declare theregistration of the industrial design null and void on any oneor more of the following grounds

(a)that the provisions of sections 29, 30 and 31 havenot been complied with :

Nullity ofregistration.

Renunciation ofregistration.

48Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

Provided, however, that the grounds of nullityreferred to in subsection (2) of section 29 shall notbe taken into account if such grounds are notapparent on the date of the making of the applicationto Court ;

(b)that the identical industrial design has beenpreviously registered upon a prior application orhas been conferred earlier priority by virtue of anapplication in that behalf upon the ground of priorregistration in another country ;

(c)that the essential elements of the registeredindustrial design have been unlawfully derived fromthe creation of another person within the meaningof section 33.

(2) Where an application under subsection (1) of thissection relates to several industrial designs, included in theregistration and any ground for nullity applies to some, theCourt shall declare such registration null and void in so faras it relates to the industrial design in respect of which theground for nullity applies.

61.(1) Upon a final decision of the Court declaringtotal or partial nullity of the registration of an industrialdesign, the registration shall be deemed to have been nulland void totally or partially, as the case may be, from thedate of such registration.

(2) When a declaration of nullity becomes final theRegistrar of the Court shall notify the Director-General whoshall record such declaration in the register and cause it bepublished in the Gazette.

Date and effect ofnullity.

49Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

PART IV

CHAPTERXI

DEFINITIONS

62. (1) For the purposes of this Part, invention meansan idea of an inventor which permits in practice the solutionto a specific problem in the field of technology.

(2) An invention may be, or may relate to, a product orprocess.

(3) The following, notwithstanding they are inventionswithin the meaning of subsection (1), shall not bepatentable

(a)discoveries, scientific theories and mathematicalmethods ;

(b)plants, animals and other micro organism other thantransgenic micro organism and an essentiallybiological process for the production of plants andanimals other than non-biological andmicrobiological processes :

Provided however, that a patent granted inrespect of micro-organisms shall be subject to theprovisions of this Act;

(c)schemes, rules, or methods for doing business,performing purely mental acts or playing games ;

(d)methods for the treatment of the human or animalbody by surgery or therapy, and diagnostic methodspracticed on the human or animal body :

Provided however, any product used in any suchmethod shall be patentable ;

(e)an invention which is useful in the utilization ofspecial nuclear material or atomic energy in anatomic weapon ;

Definition ofinvention.

50Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(f)any invention, the prevention within Sri Lanka ofthe commercial exploitation of which is necessaryto protect the public order, morality including theprotection of human, animal or plant life or healthor the avoidance of serious prejudice to theenvironment.

63.An invention is patentable if it is new, involves aninventive step and is industrially applicable.

64.(1) An invention is new if it is not anticipated byprior art.

(2)Prior art shall consist of

(a)everything disclosed to the public, anywhere in theworld, by written publication, oral disclosure, useor in any other way, prior to the filing or, whereappropriate, priority date of the patent applicationclaiming the invention ;

(b)the contents of patent application made in Sri Lankahaving an earlier filing or, where appropriate,priority date than the patent application referred toin paragraph (a), to extent that such contents areincluded in the patent granted on the basis of thesaid patent application made in Sri Lanka.

(3)A disclosure made under paragraph (a) of subsection(2) shall be disregarded

(a)if such disclosure occurred within one yearpreceding the date of the patent application and ifsuch disclosure or in consequence of acts committedby the applicant or his predecessor in title ;

(b)if such disclosure occurred within six monthspreceding the date of the patent application and ifsuch disclosure was by reason or in consequenceof any abuse of the rights of the applicant or hispredecessor in title.

Patentableinventions.

Novelty.

51Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

65.An invention shall be considered as involving aninventive step if, having regard to the prior art relevant tothe patent application claiming the invention, such inventivestep would not have been obvious to a person having ordinaryskill in the art.

66.An invention shall be considered industriallyapplicable if it can be made or used in any kind of industry.

CHAPTERXII

RIGHT TO A PATENT

67.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 68 the rightto a patent shall belong to the inventor.

(2)Where two or more persons have jointly made aninvention, the right to a patent shall belong to them jointly.

(3)If and to the extent to which two or more personshave made the same invention independently of each other,the person whose application has the earliest filling date or,if priority is claimed, the earliest validly claimed prioritydate, shall have the right to the patent, so long as thatapplication is not withdrawn, abandoned or rejected.

68.Where the essential element of the invention claimedin a patent application or patent have been unlawfully derivedfrom an invention for which the right to the patent belongsto another person, such other person may apply to the Courtfor an order that the said patent application or patent beassigned to him :

Provided that where, after a patent application has beenfiled, the person to whom the right to the patent belongsgives his consent to the filing of the said patent application,such consent shall, for all purposes, be deemed to have beeneffective from the date of filing of such application :

Provided also that the Court shall not entertain anapplication for the assignment of a patent after the expiry ofa period of five years from the date of grant of the patent.

Assignment ofpatent applicationor patent, by courtin case ofusurpation.

Right to apatient.

Inventive step.

Industrialapplication ofinvention.

52Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

69.(1) In the absence of any provision to the contraryin any contract of employment or for the execution of work,the right to a patent for an invention made in the performanceof such contract of employment or in the execution of suchwork shall be deemed to accrue to the employer, or the personwho commissioned the work, as the case may be :

Provided that where the invention acquires an economicvalue much greater than the parties could reasonably haveforeseen at the time of entering the contract of employmentor for the execution of work, as the case may be, the inventorshall be entitled to equitable remuneration which may befixed by the Court an application made to it in that behalf,in the absence of an agreement between the parties.

(2)Where an employee whose contract of employmentdoes not require him to engage in any inventive activity,makes in the field of activities of his employer, an inventionusing data or means placed at his disposal by his employer,the right to the patent for such invention shall be deemed toaccrue to the employer, in the absence of any provision tothe contrary in the contract of employment :

Provided that the employee shall be entitled to equitableremuneration which, in the absence of agreement betweenthe parties, may be fixed by the Court, taking into accounthis emoluments an application made to it in that behalf theeconomic value of the invention and any benefit derivedfrom it by the employer.

(3)The rights conferred on the inventor undersubsections (1) and (2) shall not be restricted by contract.

70.(1) The inventor shall be named as such in thepatent, unless by a declaration in writing signed by him oron his behalf and submitted to the Director-General, heindicates his decision to forgo his name being included inthe patent.

(2)The provisions of subsection (1) shall not bemodified by the terms of any contract.

Naming ofinventor.

Inventions madeby an employeeor pursuant to acommission.

53Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

CHAPTER XIII

REQUIREMENTS OF APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE

FOR GRANT OF A PATENT

71.(1) (a) An application for the grant of a patent shallbe made to the Director-General in the prescribed form andshall contain

(i)a request for the grant of the patent ;

(ii)a description of the patent ;

(iii)a claim or claims ;

(iv)a drawing or drawings, where required ;

(v)an abstract ;

(vi)date and number of any application for a patentfiled by the applicant abroad (hereinafter referredto as the foreign application), if any, relating tothe same, or essentially the same invention as thatclaimed in the present application ;

(vii)a declaration that the applicant or his predecessorin title has not obtained a patent abroad before theapplication was filed relating to the same oressentially the same invention as that claimed inthe application.

(b)If the declaration referred to in sub-paragraph (vii)of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of this section is found tobe false, the Court may declare the patent to be null andvoid on an application made to it by any interested party ora Competent Authority including the Director-General. Theregistered owner of the patent, assignees and licensees shallbe made party to that application.

Requirements ofapplications

54Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(c)Where the applicants ordinary residence or principalplace of business is outside Sri Lanka, he shall be representedby an agent resident in Sri Lanka whose name and addressshall be given in the application, and the application shallbe accompanied by a power of attorney granted to such agentby the applicant.

(d)The application may be accompanied by adeclaration signed by the inventor, giving his name andaddress and requesting that he be named as such in the patent.

(2)(a) The request shall contain

(i)a petition that the patent be granted ;

(ii)the title of the invention;

(iii)the name, address, description and any otherprescribed information concerning the applicant,the inventor and the agent, if any.

(b)Where the applicant is not the inventor, the requestshall be accompanied by a statement justifying the applicantsright to the patent.

(c)The Director-General shall send a copy of thestatement referred to in paragraph (b) to the inventor whoshall have the right to inspect the application and to receive,on payment of the prescribed fee, a copy thereof.

(3)The description shall disclose the invention in amanner sufficiently clear and complete for the invention tobe evaluated, and to be carried out by a person havingordinary skill in the relevant technology and shall, inparticular, indicate the best mode known to the applicantfor carrying out the invention.

(4)The claim or claims shall be clear, concise andsupported by the description.

(5)Drawings shall be required when they are necessaryfor the understanding of the invention.

55Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(6)The terms of any claim shall determine the scopeand extent of the protection afforded by the patent, and thedescription and drawings may be used to interpret such claim.

(7)The abstract shall serve the purpose of technicalinformation and shall not be used for the purpose ofdetermining or interpreting the scope and extent of theprotection afforded by the patent.

(8)Any application filed outside Sri Lanka under thePatent Corporation Treaty for a patent designating Sri Lankashall if the applicant files a corresponding application withthe Director-General be deemed to be an application madeunder this Act.

For the purposes of this Chapter the Patent CorporationTreaty means the Patent Corporation Treaty made inWashington on June 19th 1970, as amended from timeto time.

72. An application for the grant of a patent shall not beentertained unless prescribed fee has been paid to theDirector-General.

73.(1) Every applicant shall furnish, within theprescribed period, a report, which if not in English shall beaccompanied by a translation thereof in English, of a searchwhich shall conform such type as may be prescribed :

Provided, however, that in lieu of the said search anapplicant may request the Director-General to refer theapplication to a local examiner who shall examine theapplication on the basis of any claim with due regard to thedescription and the drawings, if any, and furnish a report tothe Director-General within the prescribed period, on therelevant prior art, after making the required effort to discoveras much of the relevant prior art as facilities permit ; and forthe purposes of the search the local examiner shall makereference to every documentation on prior art available tohim.

Application fee.

Search report.

56Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2)The applicant shall, when requiring the Director-General to refer his application to a local examiner, forwardsuch application with the prescribed fee to Director-General.

(3)(a) The applicant shall, at the request of the Director-General, furnish him with the following documents in respectof any foreign application for a patent filed by him abroadrelating to the same or essentially the same invention as thatclaimed in the application filed under this Act

(i)a copy of any communication received by theapplicant concerning the results of any search orexamination carried out in respect of the foreignapplication ;

(ii)a copy of the patent granted on the basis of theforeign application ; and

(iii)a copy of any final decision rejecting the foreignapplication or refusing the grant of a patentrequested in the foreign application.

(b)The applicant shall, at the request of the DirectorGeneral, furnish him with a copy of any final decisioninvalidating the patent granted on the basis of the foreignapplication referred to in paragraph (a).

(4)For this purposes of the section local examinermeans any skilled person to whom the Director-General mayrefer questions concerning patents.

74.An application shall relate to one invention only orto a group of inventions which are so linked to each other soas to form a single general inventive concept.

75.(1) An applicant may amend the application,provided that the amendment shall not exceed the limits ofthe disclosure in the initial application.

(2)(a) An applicant may divide the application intotwo or more applications (hereinafter referred to asdivisional applications) provided that each divisionalapplication shall not exceed the limits of disclosure in theinitial application.

Unity ofinvention.

Amendmentand divisionof application.

57Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(b)Each divisional application shall be entitled to thefiling, or where applicable, priority, from date of the initialapplication.

(3)An amendment to an application or a division of anapplication shall be subject to the payment of a prescribedfee.

76.(1) An application may contain a declarationclaiming the priority, pursuant to the Convention, of one ormore earlier national, regional or international applicationsfiled by the applicant or his predecessor in title in or for anyState party to the said Convention.

(2)Where the application contains a declaration undersubsection (1), the Director-General may require theapplicant to furnish, within the prescribed period, a copy ofthe earlier application, certified as correct by an officerauthorized in that behalf, for that purpose by the Office withwhich it was filed or, where the earlier application is aninternational application filed under the Patent Co-operationTreaty, by an office authorized in that behalf for that purposeby the International Bureau of the World Intellectual PropertyOrganization.

(3)The effect of the declaration referred to in subsection(1) shall be the same as provided for in the Conventionreferred to therein.

(4)Where any of the requirements of this section orany regulation made thereunder have not been compliedwith, the declaration referred to in subsection (1) shall bedeemed to be null and void.

77.(1) The Director-General shall record as the filingdate, the date of receipt of the application :

Provided that on the date of the receipt of the application, contains

(a)the name and address of the applicant ;

Right of priority.

Filing date.

58Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(b)the name and address of the inventor and, where theapplicant is not his inventor, the statement referredto in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 71 ;

(c)a description of the patent;

(d)a claim or claims :

Provided further that at the time of receipt of theapplication the prescribed fee has been paid.

(2)Where the Director-General finds, at the time ofreceipt of the application, that the provisions of subsection(1) have not been complied with, he shall request theapplicant to file the required correction within a period ofthree months from the date of such request.

(3)Where the applicant complies with the requestreferred to in subsection (2), the Director-General shall recordas the filing date, the date of receipt of the required correction; where the applicant fails to so comply the DirectorGeneralshall treat the application as null and void.

(4)Where the application refers to drawings which infact are not included in the application, the Director-Generalshall request the applicant to furnish the missing drawings.

(5)Where the applicant complies with the requestreferred to in subsection (4), the Director-General shall recordas the filing date the date of receipt of the missing drawings ;where the applicant fails to so comply the Director-Generalshall record as the filing date, the date of receipt of theapplication and shall make no reference to the said drawings.

(6)The title, description, drawings, abstracts and claimsfiled with any international application made undersubsection (8) of section 71, designating Sri Lanka shall bedeemed to be carried out in accodance with specificationsrequired under this Act.

59Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(7)The filing date of such application made undersubsection (8) of section 71 and processed by the office shallbe deemed to be the date of filling of such application underthe Patent Corporation Treaty.

78.(1) The Director-General shall examine theapplication and shall satisfy himself as to the fulfilment ofthe following :

(a)where applicable, the requirements of paragraph (b)of subsection (1) of section 71 ;

(b)the requirements of paragraph (a) of subsection (2)of section 71 ;

(c)where applicable, the requirements of paragraph (b)of subsection (2) of section 71 ;

(d)the description, the claims and where applicable,the drawings, which comply with the prescribedrequirements ;

(e)the essential elements of the invention claimed inthe application have not been unlawfully derivedfrom a patent already granted in Sri Lanka ;

(f)the application contains an abstract ;

(g)the search report referred to in section 73 has beensubmitted.

(2)Where the Director-General finds that the conditionsreferred to in subsection (1) are not fulfiled he shall requestthe applicant to file the required correction within a periodof three months from the date of such request ; where theapplicant fails to so comply the application shall, subject tothe provisions of subsection (3), be rejected.

(3)Where no correction is provided in response to arequest under subsection (2), the Director-General shall, onpayment of the prescribed fee within the prescribed period,include the corrections into the application and if theprescribed fee is not paid within the prescribed period theapplication shall be rejected.

Examination ofapplications &c.

60Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(4)Where the Director-General finds that the essentialelements of an invention claimed in an application areunlawfully derived from a patent already granted in SriLanka, such application shall be rejected.

(5)The Director-General shall notify the applicant ofany decision under subsections (2), (3) and (4) and anydecision taken to reject the application shall be in writingstating the reasons for such rejection.

79.(1) The grant of a patent shall not be refused and apatent shall not be invalidated on the ground that thecommercial exploitation of the claimed invention is prohibitedby any law except where the prevention of the commercialexploitation of the claimed invention is necessary in order toprotect public order, and morality including the protection ofhuman, animal or plant life or health or for the avoidance ofserious prejudice to the environment.

(2)Where the applicant fulfils the requirements ofsubsection (1) of section 78 to the satisfaction of the Director-General, he shall grant the patent, and shall forthwith

(a)record the particulars relating to patent in theRegister of patents required to be maintained inaccordance with the provisions of section 80 ;

(b)issue a certificate to the applicant in respect of thegrant of a patent together with a copy of the patentdocuments including the search report :

Provided however where the applicant has not tenderedan international search report, but has requested the DirectorGeneral to refer the application to a local examiner underthe proviso to section 73, the Director-General shall publisha notice informing the public, of the possibility of grantinga patent to the applicant at the expiration of a period of threemonths from the date of publication of the notice, unlessotherwise directed by the Court.

Grant of patent.

61Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(3) The Director-General shall thereafter as soon aspracticable cause to be published in the Gazette a noticepertaining to the grant of the patent.

(4) The patent shall be deemed to be granted on the datethat the Director-General acts in accordance with theprovisions of paragraph (a) of subsection (2).

(5)The notice referred to in the proviso to subsection (2)shall contain the name and address of the applicant and wherethe applicant is resident outside Sri Lanka a postal addressfor service in Sri Lanka, a description of the invention andany other information as may be prescribed.

(6)The applicant shall make the payment of theprescribed fee for the publication referred to in the provisoto subsection (2) upon the request of the Director-General,and where the applicant fails to satisfy such request withinone month from the date of such request the Director-Generalshall refuse to grant such patent.

80.The Director-General shall keep and maintain aregister (hereinafter called and referred to as the Registerof Patents) wherein all patents shall be recorded, in theorder of their grant, specifying the number of the patent,the name and address of the grantee and, if the grantee isresident outside Sri Lanka, a postal address for service inSri Lanka, the date of application and grant, any change inthe ownership of a patent application or patent, theamendment or division of a patent application, theassignment or transmission of a patent application or patent,any valid claim to priority, the surrender or revocation of apatent and such other matters relating to patents as areauthorised or directed by this Part to be so recorded ormay from time to time be prescribed.

81.Any person may examine the register and may obtaincertified extracts therefrom on payment of the prescribed fee.

Register ofPatents.

Examination ofregister andcertified copies.

62Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

82.(1) Any person may, after the grant of a patent,inspect, subject to subsections (2) and (3), the file relatingto any patent and may obtain certified extracts therefrom onpayment of the prescribed fee.

(2)The file relating to a patent application may beinspected before the grant of the patent only with the writtenpermission of the applicant :

Provided that before the grant of the patent the Director-General may divulge the following information to anyperson

(a)the name, address and description of the applicantand the name and address of the agent, if any ;

(b)the number of the application ;

(c)the filing date of the application and, if priority isclaimed, the priority date, the number of the earlierapplication and the name of the State in which theearlier application was filed or, when the earlierapplication is a regional or an internationalapplication, the name of the State or States for whichand the office with which, it was filed ;

(d)the title of the invention ;

(e)any change in the ownership of the application andany reference to a licence contract appearing in thefile relating to the application.

(3)Where the provisions of the proviso to subsection(2) of section 79 are applicable, the reference to the grant ofa patent in subsections (1) and (2) of this section shall bedeemed to be a reference to the publication of the noticereferred to in the said proviso.

(4)No person employed in or at the Office may make apatent application or be granted a patent or acquire or holdin any manner whatsoever any right relating to a patent duringthe period of his employment in or at the office and for oneyear after the termination of such employment.

Inspection offiles.

63Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

CHAPTERXIV

DURATION OF PATENT

83.(1) Subject and without prejudice to the otherprovisions of this Part a patent shall expire twenty yearsafter the filing date of application for its registration.

(2) Where a patentee intends at the expiration of thesecond year from the date of grant of the patent to keep thesame in force he shall, twelve months prior to the date ofexpiration of the second and each succeeding year duringthe term of the patent, pay the prescribed annual fee:

Provided, however, that a period of grace of six monthsshall be allowed after the date of such expiration, uponpayment of such surcharge as may be prescribed :

Provided further that the patentee may pay in advancethe whole or any portion of the aggregate of the prescribedannual fees.

CHAPTERXV

RIGHTS OF OWNER OF PATENT

84.(1) Subject and without prejudice to the otherprovisions of this Part, the owner of a patent shall have thefollowing exclusive rights in relation to a patentedinvention:

(a)to exploit the patented invention ;

(b)to assign or transmit the patent ;

(c)to conclude licence contracts.

(2) No person shall do any of the acts referred to insubsection (1) without the consent of the owner of the patent.

Rights of owner ofpatent.

Duration of patent.

64Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(3)For the purposes of the this Part exploitation of apatented invention means any of the following acts in relationto a patent :

(a)when the patent has been granted in respect of aproduct

(i)making, importing, offering for sale, selling,exporting or using the product ;

(ii)stocking such product for the purpose ofoffering for sale, selling, exporting or using ;

(b)when the patent has been granted in respect of aprocess

(i)using of the process ;

(ii)doing any of the acts referred to in paragraph(a), in respect of a product obtained directlyby means of the process ;

(iii)preventing any person using that process orusing, selling or importing any productobtained directly by means of that processunless such person is authorized to do so.

85.(1) Where the subject mater of a patent is a processfor obtaining a product, the burden of proof in a civil actionof establishing that an alleged infringing product was notobtained by that patented process shall be on the allegedinfringer

(a)if the product obtained by the patented process isnew ; or

(b)if a substantial likelihood exists that the productwas made by the patented process and the patentowner has been unable through reasonable effortsto determine the process actually used.

Burden of proofto be on thealleged infringer.

65Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2)In the gathering and evaluation of evidence, thelegitimate interests of the alleged infringer in protecting hisundisclosed information shall be taken into account.

86.(1) The provisions of section 84 shall

(i)extend only to acts done for industrial orcommercial purposes and in particular shall notextend to acts done only for the purpose of scientificresearch ;

(ii)not preclude a person having the rights referred toin section 87 or a licensee, from exploiting thepatented invention ;

(iii)not extend to the presence or use of products onforeign vessels, aircraft, spacecraft, or land vehicleswhich temporarily or accidentally enter the waters,airspace or territory of Sri Lanka ;

(iv)not extend to acts in respect of articles which havebeen put in the market by the owner of the patentor by a manufacturer under licence.

(2)(a) Any person, body of persons, a governmentdepartment or a statutory body may make an application tothe Director General for the purpose of obtaining a licenceto exploit a patent in the manner hereafter provided.

(b)Upon the receipt of such application, the DirectorGeneral may issue a licnece for exploition if he is satisfiedthat the applicant has made efforts to obtain approval fromthe right holder on reasonable commercial terms andconditions and that such efforts have not been successfulwithin a reasonable period of time.

(c)Director-General may waive the requirements setout in paragraph (b) where he has statisfied himself of theexistence of a national emergency or any other circumstancesof extreme urgency or in case of public non-commercial use

Limitation ofowners rights.

66Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

for the purposes such as national security, nutrition, healthor for the development of others vital section of the nationaleconomy.

(d)The exploitation of the patent shall be limited inscope and duration to the purpose as is specified in thelicence. Such exploitation shall be predominantly for thepurpose of supply to the domestic market.

(e)The Director-General shall consider eachapplication on its individual merits before granting a licenceto exploit a patent.

(f)The issuance of a licence shall be non-exclusive andsubject to the payment of adequate remuneration to the ownerof the patent taking into consideration the economic valueas determined by the Director-General, and where applicable,the need to correct anti-competitive practices.

(g)Where such application is for the exploitation ofthe patent (the second patent) which cannot be exploitedwithout infringing another patent (the first patent), thefollowing conditions shall apply :

(i)the invention claimed in the second patent shallinvolve and important technical advance ofconsiderable economic significance in relation tothe invention claimed in the first patent ;

(ii)the owner of the first patent shall be entitled to across licence on reasonable terms to exploit theinvention claimed in the second patent ; and

(iii)the exploitation authorized in respect of the firstpatent shall be non-assignable except with theassignment of the second patent.

(h)The decision of the Director-General, shall benotified in writing to the owner of the patent as soon aspracticable.

67Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(i)The Director-General, shall upon, the request of theowner or of the beneficiary of the licence, after hearing theparties, vary his decision by amending the terms subject towhich licence for the exploitation of the patent is issued tothe extent only that the changed circumstances justify suchvariation.

(j)The Director-General shall upon the request of theowner, terminate the non-voluntary license if he is satisfiedthat the circumstances which led to his decision have ceasedto exist and are unlikely to recur or that the license has failedto comply with terms of such licence.

(k)Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph,(j) the Director-General shall not terminate a licence, if heis satisfied that adequate protection of the legitimate interestof the beneficiary of the licence justifies the continuity ofsuch licence.

(l)The licence to exploit a patent may be transferredonly with the enterprise or the business of the licencee ofsuch patent or with the part of such enterprise or business,in relation to which the licence to exploit has been granted.

(m)Where a judicial or administrative body hasdetermined that the manner of exploitation of a patent by itsowner or its licensee is anti-competitive, and the Director-General is satisfied that the exploitation of a patent inaccordance with this section would remedy such practice,the Director-General may authorize any person, body ofpersons, government departments or statutory body to exploitthe patent without a licence of the owner of the patent. Theprovisions of the above paragraphs except those of paragraphs(b), (c) and (g) shall be applicable to such licence.

(3)Any person aggrieved by any decision of theDirector-General under subsection (2), may tender an appealtherefrom. The provisions of section 173 shal1, mutatismutandis, apply in respect of such appeal.

68Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

87.(1) Where a person at the filing date or, whereapplicable, the priority date, of the patent application

(a)was in good faith making the product or using theprocess in Sri Lanka which is the subject of theinvention claimed in such application ;

(b)had in good faith made serious preparations in SriLanka towards the making of the product or usingthe process referred to in paragraph (a),

he shall have the right, despite the grant of the patent, toexploit the patented invention :

Provided that the product in question is made, or theprocess in question is used by the said person in Sri Lanka :

Provided further, if the invention was disclosed undercircumstances referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection(3) of section 64, he may prove, that his knowledge of theinvention was not as a result of such disclosure.

(2) The right referred to in subsection (1) shall not beassigned or transmitted except as part of the business of theperson concerned.

(3)The provisions of this section shall not affect therights of any person to object to the grant of a patent on theground that such invention is not patendable under sections63, 64, 65 and 66 of the Act, or to seek relief under sections68 and 99 of the Act.

CHAPTERXVI

ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSMISSION OF PATENT APPLICATIONS ANDPATENTS

88.(1) A patent application or patent may be assignedor transmitted and such assignment or transmission shall bein writing signed by or on behalf of the contracting parties.

Assignment andtransmission ofpatent applicationsand patents.

Rights derivedfrom priormanufacture oruse.

69Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2)Any person becoming entitled by assignment ortransmission to a patent application or patent may apply tothe Director-General in the prescribed manner to have suchassignment or transmission recorded in the register.

(3)No such assignment or transmission shall berecorded in the register unless the prescribed fee has beenpaid to the Director-General.

(4)No such assignment or transmission shall have effectagainst third parties unless so recorded in the register.

89.In the absence of any agreement to the contrarybetween the parties, joint owners of a patent application orpatent may, separately, assign or transmit their rights in thepatent application or patent, exploit the patented inventionand take action against any person exploiting the patentedinvention without their consent, but may only jointlywithdraw the patent application, surrender the patent orconclude a licence contract.

C H A P T E RX V I I

LICENCE CONTRACTS

90.For the purposes of this Part licence contract meansany contract by which the owner of a patent (hereinafterreferred to as the licensor) grants to another person orenterprise (hereinafter referred to as the the licensee) alicence to do all or any of the acts referred to in paragraph(a) of subsection (1) and subsection (3) of section 84.

91.(1) A licence contract shall be in writing signed byor on behalf of the contracting parties.

(2)Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf ofthe contracting parties, the Director-General shall, onpayment of the prescribed fee, record in the register suchparticulars relating to the contract as the parties thereto mightwish to have so recorded :

Provided that the parties shall not be required to discloseor have recorded any other particulars relating to the saidcontract.

Joint ownership ofpatent applicationsor patents.

Interpretation.

Form and recordof licencecontract.

70Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

92.In the absence of any provision to the contrary inthe licence contract, the licensee shall

(a)be entitled to do all or any of the acts referred to inparagraph (a) of subsection (1) and subsection (3)of section 84 within the territory of Sri Lanka,without limitation as to time and through applicationof the patented invention ;

(b)not be entitled to assign or transmit his rights underthe licence contract or grant sub-licences to thirdparties.

93.(1) In the absence of any provision to the contraryin the licence contract, the licensor may grant further licencesto third parties in respect of the same patent or perform allor any of the acts referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection(1) and subsection (3) of section 84.

(2)Where the licence contract provides the licence tobe exclusive, and unless it is expressly provided otherwisein such contract, the licensor shall not grant further licencesto third parties in respect of the same patent or perform allor any of the acts referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection(1) and subsection (3) of section 84.

94. Any term or condition in a licence contract shall benull and void in so far as it imposes upon the licensee, in theindustrial or commercial field, restrictions not derived fromthe rights conferred by this Part on the owner of the patent,or unnecessary for the safeguarding of such rights :

Provided that

(a)restrictions concerning the scope, extent or durationof exploitation of the patented invention, or thegeographical area in or the quality or quantity ofthe products in connection with, which the patentedinvention may be exploited ; and

Invalid clausesin licencecontracts.

Rights of licensee.

Rights of thelicensor.

71Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(b)obligations imposed upon the licensee to abstainfrom all acts capable of prejudicing the validity ofthe patent,

shall not be deemed to constitute such restrictions.

95. Where, before the expiration of the licence contract,any of the following events occur in respect of the patentapplication or patent referred to in such contract

(a)the patent application is withdrawn ;

(b)the patent application is finally rejected ;

(c)the patent is surrendered ;

(d)the patent is declared null and void ; or

(e)the registration of the licence contract is invalidated,

the licensee shall no longer be required to make any paymentto the licensor under the licence contract, and shall be entitledto repayment of the payments already made :

Provided that the licensor shall not be required to makeany repayment, or repayment only in part, if he can provethat any such repayment would be inequitable under thecircumstances, in particular if the licensee has effectivelyprofited from the licence.

96.The Director-General shall

(a)if he is satisfied that a recorded licence contracthas expired or been terminated, record that fact inthe register upon a request in writing to that effectsigned by or on behalf of the parties thereto ;

(b)record in the register the expiry, termination orinvalidation of a licence contract under anyprovision of this Part.

Effect of patentapplication notbeing granted orpatent beingdeclared null andvoid.

Expiry,termination orinvalidation oflicence contract tobe recorded.

72Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

97.(1) Where the Director-General has reasonablecause to believe that any licence contract or any amendmentor renewal thereof

(a)which involves the payment of royalties abroad ; or

(b)which by reason of other circumstances relating tosuch licence contract,

is detrimental to the economic development of Sri Lanka,he shall in writing communicate such fact to the Governorof the Central Bank and transmit all papers in his custodyrelevant to a decision on such matter to the Governor of theCentral Bank.

(2)Where on receipt of any communication undersubsection (1) the Governor of the Central Bank informs theDirector-General in writing that the said licence contract orany amendment or renewal thereof is detrimental to theeconomic development of Sri Lanka, the Director-Generalshall cancel and invalidate the record of such contract in theregister.

(3)The provisions of this section shall apply, mutatismutandis, to assignments and transmissions.

(4)The provisions of this Chapter shall apply, mutatismutandis, to sub-licence.

(5)The provisions of this Chapter shall have noapplication to a licence referred to in subsection (2) of section86.

CHAPTERXVIII

SURRENDER AND NULLITY OF PATENT

98. (1) The registered owner of a patent may surrenderthe patent by a declaration in writing signed by him or byany person authorized by him on his behalf and shall submittit to the Director-General.

Surrender ofpatent.

Licence contractsinvolvingpayments abroad.

73Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2)The surrender may be limited to one or more claimsof the patent.

(3)The Director-General shall, on receipt of the saiddeclaration record it in the register or cause it to be registeredand shall cause such record to be published in the Gazette.

(4)The surrender shall take effect from the date ofreceipt of such declaration by the Director-General.

(5)Where a licence contract in respect of a patent isrecorded in the register, the Director-General shall not, inthe absence of provision to the contrary in such licencecontract, accept or record the said surrender except uponreceipt of a signed declaration by which every licensee orsub-licensee on record consents to the said surrender, unlessthe requirement of his consent is expressly waived in thelicence contract.

99.(1) The Court may on the application of any personshowing a legitimate interest, or of any Competent Authorityincluding the Director-General, to which the owner of thepatent and every assignee, licensee or sub-licensee on recordshall be made party, declare the patent null and void on anyone or more of the following grounds :

(a)that what is claimed as an invention in the patent isnot an invention within the meaning of subsection(1) of section 62, or is excluded from protectionunder subsection (3) of section 62, or subsection(1) of section 79, or is not patentable due to thefailure to satisfy the requirements of sections 63,64, 65 and 66 ; or

(b)that the description or the claims, fails to satisfythe requirements of subsections (3) and (4) ofsection 71 ; or

(c)that any drawings required for the understanding ofthe claimed invention have not been furnished ; or

Nullity of patent.

74Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(d)that the right to the patent belongs to a person otherthan the person to whom the patent was granted :

Provided that the patent has not been assigned to theperson to whom the right to the patent belongs.

(2)(a) Where the provisions of subsection (1) applyonly to some of the claims or some parts of a claim, suchclaims or parts of a claim may be declared null and void bythe court.

(b)The nullity of part of a claim shall be declared inthe form of a corresponding limitation of the claim inquestion.

(3)(a) An assignee, licensee or sub-licensee, as the casemay be, who has been made party to the application undersubsection (1), shall be entitled to join in the proceedings inthe absence of any provision to the contrary in any contractor agreement with the owner of the patent.

(b) Where the application to Court is on the groundreferred to in paragraph (d) of subsection (1), the applicantshall give notice of the application to the person to whomthe right to the patent is alleged to belong.

100.(1) Upon a final decision of the Court declaringtotal or partial nullity of a patent, the patent shall be deemedto have been null and void, totally or partially, as the casemay be, as from the date of the grant of such patent.

(2)When a declaration of nullity becomes final theRegistrar of the Court shall notify the Director-General whoshall record the said declaration in the register and cause itto be published in the Gazette.

Date and effect ofnullity.

75Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

PART V

CHAPTERXIX

MARKS AND TRADE NAMES

101.For the purposes of this Part, unless the contextotherwise requires

certification mark means a mark indicating that thegoods or services in connection with which it isused are certified by the proprietor of the mark inrespect of origin, material, mode of manufactureof goods or performance of services, quality,accuracy or other characteristics ;

collective mark means any visible sign designated assuch and serving to distinguish the origin or anyother common characteristic of goods or servicesof different enterprises which use the mark underthe control of the registered owner ;

enterprise means any business, industry or otheractivity carried on by an individual, partnership,company, or co-operative society whereverregistered or incorporated and whether registeredor not under any law for the time being in forcerelating to companies, co-operative societies orbusinesses engaged in or proposing to engage inany business and includes any business undertakingof the Government or any State Corporation whethercarrying on business in Sri Lanka or otherwise ;

false trade description means a trade description whichis false or misleading in a material respect as regardsthe goods or services to which it is applied, andincludes every alteration of a trade description,whether by way of addition, effacement orotherwise, where that alteration makes thedescription false or misleading in a material respect,

Definitions.

76Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

and the fact that a trade description is a trade markor part of a trade mark shall not prevent such tradedescription being a false trade description withinthe meaning of this Part ;

geographical indication means an indication whichidentifies any goods as originating in the territoryof a country, or a region or locality in that territory,where a given quality, reputation or othercharacteristic of the good is essentially attributableto its geographical origin ;

goods means anything which is the subject of trade,manufacture or merchandise and includes services ;

indication of source means any expression or sign usedto indicate that a product or service originates in agiven conutry or group of countries, region, orlocality ;

mark means a trade mark or service mark ;

name includes any abbreviation of a name ;

person means manufacturer, dealer, trader or ownerand includes any body of persons, corporate orunincorporate ;

service mark means any visible sign serving todistinguish the services of one enterprise from thoseof an other enterprise ;

trade description means any description, statementor other indication, direct or indirect

(a)as to the number, quantity, measure, gauge,or weight of any goods ; or

(b)as to the place or country in which any goodswere made or produced ; or

77Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(c)as to the mode of manufacturing or producingany goods ; or

(d)as to the material of which any goods arecomposed ; or

(e)as to any goods being the subject of anexisting copyright, related rights, industrialdesign or patent or any other matter protectedunder this Act ; or

(f)as to the quality, kind or nature of theservices ; or

(g)as to the standard of quality of any goods,according to a classification commonly usedor recognized in the trade ; or

(h)as to the fitness for purpose, strength,performance or behaviour of any goods,

and the use of any figure, word or mark which,according to the custom of the trade, is commonlytaken to be an indication of any of the abovematters shall be deemed to be a trade descriptionwithin the meaning of this Part ;

trade mark means any visible sign serving todistinguish the goods of one enterprise from thoseof another enterprise ; and

trade name means the name or designation identifyingthe enterprise of a natural or legal person.

78Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

CHAPTERXX

ADMISSIBILITY OF MARKS

102.(1) The exclusive right to a mark conferred by thisPart shall be acquired, subject to the succeeding provisions,by registration.

(2)Registration of a mark may be granted to the personwho

(a)is the first to fulfill the conditions of a validapplication ; or

(b)is the first to validly claim the earliest priority forhis application :

Provided however such mark shall not be inadmissibleunder sections 103 and 104.

(3)A mark may consist in particular, of arbitrary orfanciful designations, names, pseudonyms, geographicalnames, slogans, devices, reliefs, letters, numbers, labels,envelopes, emblems, prints, stamps, seals, vignettes,selvedges, borders and edgings, combinations orarrangements of colours and shapes of goods or containers.

103.(1) A mark shall not be registered

(a)which consists of shapes or forms imposed by theinherent nature of the goods or services or by theirindustrial function ;

(b)which consists exclusively of a sign or indicationwhich may serve, in the course of trade, to designatethe kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value,place of origin or time of production, or of supply,of the goods or services concerned ;

Admissibility ofmarks.

Marksinadmissible onobjective grounds.

79Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(c)which consists exclusively of a sign or indicationwhich has become, in the current language or inthe bona fide and established practices of trade inSri Lanka, a customary designation of the goods orservices concerned ;

(d)which, is incapable of distinguishing the goods orservices of one enterprise from those of anotherenterprise ;

(e)which consists of any scandalous design or iscontrary to morality or public order or which, inthe opinion of the Director-General or of any courtto which the matter may be referred to, as the casemay be, is likely to offend the religious or racialsusceptibilities of any community ;

(f)which is likely to mislead trade circles or the publicas to the nature, the source, geographical indicationthe manufacturing process, the characteristics, orthe suitability for their purposes, of the goods orservices concerned ;

(g)which does not represent in a special or particularmanner the name of an individual or enterprise ;

(h)which is, according to its ordinary signification, ageographical name or surname ;

(i)which reproduces or imitates armorial bearings,flags or other emblems, initials, names orabbreviated names of any State or any inter-governmental international organization or anyorganization created by international convention,unless authorized by the Competent Authority ofthat State or international organization ;

(j)which reproduces or imitates official signs or hall-marks of a State, unless authorized by theCompetent Authority of that State ;

80Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(k)which resembles in such a way as to be likely tomislead the public, a mark or a collective mark or acertification mark the registration of which hasexpired and has not been renewed during a periodof two years preceding the filing of the applicationfor the registration of the mark in question or whereits renunciation, removal or nullity has beenrecorded in the register during a period of two yearspreceding the filing of the application for the markin question ;

(l)the registration of which has been sought in respectof goods or services the trading of which isprohibited in Sri Lanka ;

(m)which consists of any other word or definition asmay be prescribed.

(2)The Director-General shall in applying the provisionsof paragraphs (b), (c) , (d), (f), (g) and (h), of subsection (1),have regard to all the factual circumstances and, in particular,the length of time the mark has been in use in Sri Lanka or inother countries and the fact that the mark is held to bedistinctive in other countries or in trade circles.

104.(1) The Director-General shall not register amark

(a)which resembles, in such a way as to be likely tomislead the public, a mark already validly filed orregistered by a third party, or subsequently filed bya person validly claiming priority, in respect ofidentical or similar goods or services in connectionwith which the use of such mark may be likely tomislead the public ;

(b)which resembles, in such a way as to be likely tomislead the public, an unregistered mark usedearlier in Sri Lanka by a third party in connectionwith identical or similar goods or services, if theapplicant is aware, or could not have been unaware,of such use ;

Marksinadmissible byreason of third-party rights.

81Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(c)which resembles, in such a way as to be likely tomislead the public, a trade name already used inSri Lanka by a third party, if the applicant is aware.or could not have been unaware, of such use ;

(d)if it is identical with, or misleadingly similar to, orconstitutes or translation or transliteration ortranscription of a mark or trade name which is wellknown in Srl Lanka for identical or similar goodsor services of a third party, or such mark or tradename is well known and registered in Sri Lankafor goods or services which are not identical orsimilar to these in respect of which registration isapplied for, provided in the latter case the use ofthe mark in relation to those goods or services wouldindicate a connection between those goods orservices and the owner of the well known mark andthat the interests of the owner of the well knownmark are likely to be damaged by such use ;

(e)which infringes other third party rights or is contraryto the provisions of Chapter XXXII relating to theprevention of unfair competition ;

(f)which is filed by the agent or a representative of athird party who is the owner of such mark in anothercountry, without the authorization of such owner,unless the agent or representative justifies his action.

(2) The following criteria shall be taken into account indetermining whether a mark is well known :

(i)particular facts and circumstances relating to eachmark ;

(ii)any fact or circumstance from which it may beinferred that the mark is well known ;

(iii)the degree of knowledge or recognition of the markof the relevant sector of the public ;

(iv)the duration, extent and geographical area of useof the mark ;

82Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(v)the duration, extent and geographical area ofpromotion of the mark, including advertising orpublicity and the presentation at any fair orexhibition of the goods or services to which themark applies ;

(vi)the duration and geographical area of theregistration or the application for registration, ofthe mark, to the extent that they reflect use orrecognition of the mark ;

(vii)the record of successful enforcement of rights inthe mark, in particular, the extent to which the markhas been recognized as being well known, by theCompetent Authority ;

(viii)the value associated with the mark ;

(ix)the criteria specified in this subsection to determinewhether a mark is well known or not shall not beexclusive nor exhaustive ;

(x)for the purpose of this subsection

(a)Competent Authority means anadministrative, judicial or quasi-judicialauthority which is competent, to determinewhether a mark is well known mark or toenforce the protection given to a well knownmark ;

(b)relevant sector of public includes :

(i)actual or potential consumers of the typesof goods or services to which the markapplies ;

(ii)persons involved in channels ofdistribution of the types of goods orservices to which the mark applies ;

(iii)any person or a body of persons dealingwith the type of goods or services to whichthe mark applies.

83Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(3)The Director-General shall, in applying theprovisions of paragraphs (a) to (e) of subsection (1), haveregard to the fact that the third parties referred to thereinhave consented to the registration of such mark.

105.There shall not be entered in the register a noticeof any Trust expressed, implied, or constructive, nor shallany such notice be receivable by the Director-General.

CHAPTERXXI

REQUIREMENTS OF APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE FORREGISTRATION

106.(1) An application for registration of a mark shallbe made to the Director-General in the prescribed form andshall contain

(a)a request for the registration of the mark ;

(b)the name, address of the applicant and, if he isresident outside Sri Lanka, a postal address forservice in Sri Lanka ;

(c)five copies of a representation of the mark ;

(d)a clear and complete list of the particular goods orservices in respect of which registration of the markis requested, with an indication of the correspondingclass or classes in the international classification,as may be prescribed.

(2)Where the application is filed through an agent, itshall be accompanied by a power of attorney granted to suchagent by the applicant.

107.An applicant for registration of a mark who wishesto avail himself of the priority of an earlier application filedin a Convention country shall, within six months of the dateof such earlier application, append to his application a writtendeclaration indicating the date and number of the earlierapplication, the name of the applicant and the country in

Requirements ofapplication.

Trust not to beentered in register.

Right of priority.

84Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

which he or his predecessor in title filed such applicationand shall, within a period of three months from the date ofthe later application filed in Sri Lanka, furnish a copy of theearlier application certified as correct by the appropriateauthority of the country where such earlier application wasfiled.

108.(1) An applicant for registration of a mark whohas exhibited goods bearing the mark or rendered servicesunder the mark at an official or officially recognizedinternational exhibition and who applies for registration ofthe mark within six months from the date on which the goodsbearing the mark or services under the mark were firstexhibited or services respectively at such exhibition, shallon request, be deemed to have applied for registration ofthat mark on the date on which the goods bearing the markor the services rendered under the mark were first exhibitedor rendered at such exhibition.

(2)Evidence of the exhibition of the goods bearing themark or the services rendered under the mark shall be by acertificate issued by the appropriate Authority of theexhibition stating the date on which the mark was first usedat such exhibition in connection with such goods or services.

(3)The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall notextend to any other period of priority claimed by theapplicant.

109.An application for registration of a mark shall notbe entertained unless the prescribed fee has been paid to theDirector-General.

110.(1) The Director-General shall examine whetherthe applicant for registration of the mark satisfies therequirements specified in sections 106 and 109 and whereapplicable the provisions of sections 107 and 108.

(2)Where the applicant fails to comply with theprovision of sections 106 and 109, the Director-General shallrefuse to register the mark :

Examinationof applicationas to form.

Application fee.

Temporaryprotection of markexhibited atinternationalexhibition.

85Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

Provided however the Director-General shall first notifythe applicant of any defect in the application and shall affordhim an opportunity to rectify such defect within three monthsfrom the date of receipt of such notification.

(3)The date on which the applicant rectifies such defectshall be deemed to be the date of receipt of the applicationfor registration.

(4)Where the applicant fails to comply with theprovisions of section 107 or 108, the Director-General shallnot, in connection with the registration of the mark, makeany reference to the priority claimed.

(5)Where the applicant complies with the provisionsof sections 107 and 108, the Director-General shall inconnection with the registration of the mark record thepriority claimed or the date of the certified use of the markat an international exhibition.

(6)Where the Director-General refuses to register amark, he shall, if so requested by the applicant, state inwriting the grounds of his decision.

111.(1) Where the applicant complies with theprovisions of sections 106 and 109, the Director-Generalshall examine the mark in relation to the provisions ofsections 103 and 104.

(2)Where the mark is inadmissible under section 103or 104 the Director-General shall notify the applicantaccordingly stating in writing the grounds on whichregistration of the mark is refused.

(3)Where the applicant is dissatisfied with all or anyof the grounds stated by the Director-General in thenotification referred to in subsection (2) he may, within aperiod of one month from the date of such notification, makehis submissions against such refusal to the Director-General,in writing .

(4)On receipt of any submissions the Director-Generalmay inform the applicant that he has been granted a hearingand the date, time and place of such hearing.

Registration ofmark after furtherexamination andpublication ofmark.

86Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(5)The Director-General may, after such inquiry as hethinks fit, refuse to accept the application for registration ofthe mark, or may accept it absolutely or subject to conditions,amendments or modifications, or to such limitations, if any,as to the mode or place of user or otherwise as he may thinkfit to impose.

(6)In case of any refusal or conditional acceptance ofan application for registration of a mark, the Director-Generalshall, if required by the applicant within a period of threemonths from such refusal or conditional acceptance, statein writing the grounds of his decision.

(7)Where the Director-General is of the opinion thatthe mark is admissible under section 103 or 104 he mayrequest the applicant to pay the prescribed fee within aprescribed period for publication of the application.

(8)The Director-General shall refuse registration of themark where the fee for publication of the application is notpaid within the prescribed period.

(9)(a) If the fee for publication is paid within theprescribed period the Director-General shall proceed topublish the application setting out the date of application,the representation of the mark, the goods or services inrespect of which registration of the mark is requested withan indication of the corresponding class or classes, the nameand address of the applicant and, if the applicant is residentoutside Sri Lanka, a postal address for service in Sri Lanka,the priority claimed, if any, or the date of certified use of themark at an international exhibition.

(b)Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (7),(8) and paragraph (a) of this subsection relating to theprescribed fee and the publication, the Director-General may,at his discretion, require the applicant by notice in writingto publish an application as referred to in paragraph (a) ofthis subsection. Where the applicant fails or neglects topublish such application within a period of three monthsfrom the date of such notice the application may be refused.

87Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(10)Where any person considers that the mark isinadmissible on one or more of the grounds specified insection 103 or 104 he may, within a period of three monthsfrom the date of publication of the application, give to theDirector-General in the prescribed form, and together withthe prescribed fee, notice of opposition to such registrationstating his grounds of opposition accompanied by evidenceto substantiate such grounds.

(11)Where notice of opposition has not been receivedby the Director-General within the period specified insubsection (10) of this section, the Director-General shallregister the mark.

(12)Where, within the period specified in subsection(10) of this section notice of grounds of opposition in theprescribed form is received by the Director-General, togetherwith the prescribed fee, he shall serve a copy of such groundsof opposition on the applicant and shall requset him to presenthis observations on those grounds in writing accompaniedby evidence to support his application within a period ofthree months.

(13)On receipt of the observations of the applicant theDirector-General shall after hearing the parties, if heconsiders such hearing necessary, decide, as expeditiouslyas possible, whether such mark should be registered or not.If the Director-General decides that the mark can beregistered, then if

(a)no appeal is preferred against his decision, uponthe expiry of the period within which an appealmay be preferred against his decision ;

(b)an appeal is preferred against his decision, uponthe determination of such appeal,

the Director-General shall accordingly register such mark.

(14)The Director-General may allow a reasonableextension of the prescribed period within which any act hasto be done or any fee has to be paid under this section.

88Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

112.Where, by reason of default on the part of theapplicant, the registration of a mark is not completed withintwelve months from the date of receipt by the Director-General of the application, the Director-General shall, aftergiving notice of non-completion to the applicant in writingin the prescribed form, treat the application as abandoned,unless it is completed within the time specified in that behalfin such notice.

113.(1) The Director-General shall keep and maintaina register called the Register of Marks wherein shall berecorded in the order of their registration, all registered marksand such other matters relating to marks as are authorizedor directed by this Part to be so recorded or may from timeto time be prescribed.

(2)The registration of a mark shall include arepresentation of the mark and shall specify its number, thename and address of the registered owner and, if theregistered owners address is outside Sri Lanka, a postaladdress for service in Sri Lanka, the dates of applicationand registration ; if priority is validly claimed, an indicationof that fact and the number, date and country of theapplication on the basis of which the priority is claimed, ifa valid certificate has been filed relating to the use of a markat an international exhibition, the contents of such certificate,the list of goods and services in respect of which registrationof the mark has been granted with an indication of thecorresponding class or classes.

(3) Upon the registration of a mark the Director-Generalshall issue to the registered owner thereof a certificate ofregistration and shall, at the request of the registered owner,send such certificate to him by registered post to his lastrecorded postal address in Sri Lanka, or if he is residentoutside Sri Lanka to his last recorded postal address in SriLanka.

Register of marksand issue ofcertificate.

Non completionof registration.

89Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

114.The Director-General shall cause to be publishedin the Gazette, in the prescribed form, all registered marksin the order of their registration, including in respect of eachmark so published reference to such particulars as may beprescribed.

115.Any person may examine the register and mayobtain certified extracts therefrom on payment of theprescribed fee.

116.Where application is made for the registration ofa mark identical with or so closely resembling a mark of theapplicant already on the register for the same goods orservices, the same description of goods or services as to belikely to mislead or cause confusion if used by a personother than the applicant, the Director-General may requireas a condition of registration that such marks shall be enteredon the register as associated marks.

117.Associated marks shall be assignable ortransmissible only as a whole and not separately, but theyshall for all other purposes be deemed to have been registeredas separate marks :

Provided that where under the provisions of this Part userof a registered mark is required to be proved for any purpose,the Director-General may, in so far as is considered necessaryaccept the user of an associated registered mark, or of themark, with additions or alterations not substantially affectingits identity, as an equivalent for such user.

CHAPTER XXII

DURATION OF REGISTRATION OF A MARK

118.(1) Subject and without prejudice to the otherprovisions of this Part, registration of a mark shall expireten years after the date of registration of such mark.

Publication ofregistered marks.

Duration ofregistration.

Examination ofregister andcertified copies.

Associated marks.

Assignment anduser of associatedmarks.

90Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

(2)A mark when registered shall be registered withreference to the date of receipt of the application forregistration by the Director-General, and such date shall bedeemed for the purposes of this Part to be the date ofregistration.

119.(1) Registration of a mark may be renewed forconsecutive periods of ten years each on payment of theprescribed fee.

(2)Renewal of registration of a mark shall not be subjectto any further examination of the mark by the Director-General or to opposition by any person.

(3)The renewal fee shall be paid within the twelvemonths preceding the date of expiration of the period ofregistration :

Provided, however, that a period of grace of six monthsshall be allowed for the payment of the fee after the date ofsuch expiration, upon payment of such surcharge as may beprescribed.

(4)The Director-General shall record in the register andcause to be published in the Gazette in the prescribed formall renewals of registration specifying any removal from thelists of goods or services.

(5)Where the renewal fee has not been paid within suchperiod or such extended period specified in subsection (3),the Director-General shall remove the mark from the register.

120.The registered owner of any mark may apply inthe prescribed manner and with prescribed fee to theDirector-General for leave to add to or alter such mark inany manner not substantially affecting the identity of thesame, and the Director-General may refuse such leave ormay grant the same on such terms and subject to suchlimitations as to mode or place of use as he may think fit. Ifleave be granted, the mark as altered shall be published inthe prescribed manner.

Renewal.

Alteration ofregistered mark.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 200391

CHAPTER XXIII

RIGHTS OF THE REGISTERED OWNER OF A MARK

121.(1) Subject and without prejudice to the otherprovisions of this Part, the registered owner of a mark shallhave the following exclusive rights in relation to the mark :

(a) to use the mark ;

(b) to assign or transmit the registration of the mark ;

(c) to conclude licence contracts.

(2) Without the consent of the registered owner of the markthird parties are precluded from the following acts :

(a) any use of the mark, or a sign resembling it in such away as to be likely to mislead the public, for goods orservices in respect of which the mark is registered orfor similar goods or services in connection with whichthe use of the mark or sign is likely to mislead thepublic ; and

(b) any other use of the mark, or of a sign or trade nameresembling it, without just cause and in conditionslikely to be prejudicial to the interests of the registeredowner of the mark.

(3) The application (whether by way of printing, paintingor otherwise) or the affixing in Sri Lanka by a third party, ofa mark or any sign resembling such mark in such a way as tobe likely to mislead the public, on or in connection with, goodsin respect of which such mark has been registered (whethersuch goods are intended for sale in Sri Lanka, or for exportfrom Sri Lanka) shall be deemed to be an act prohibited underSubsection (2).

(4) The court shall presume the likelihood of misleadingthe public in instances where a person uses a mark identicalto the registered mark for identical goods or services in respectof which the mark is registered.

Rights ofregistered owner.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 200392

Limitation ofregisteredownerss rights.

122.The registration of the mark shall not confer on itsregistered owner the right to preclude third parties

(a) from using their bona fide names, addresses,pseudonyms, a geographical name, or exactindications concerning the kind, quality, quantity,destination, value, place of origin or time of productionor of supply of their goods and services, in so far assuch use is confined to the purposes of mereidentification or information and cannot mislead thepublic as to the source of the goods or services ;

(b) from using the mark in relation to goods lawfullymanufactured, imported, offered for sale, sold, usedor stocked in Sri Lanka under that mark, providedthat such goods have not undergone any change.

CHAPTER XXIV

ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSMISSION OF APPLICATIONS ANDREGISTRATIONS OF MARKS

123.(1) An application for registration or the registrationof a mark may be assigned or transmitted independently ofthe transfer of all or part of the enterprise using the mark, inrespect of all or part of the goods or services for which theapplication was filed or the mark registered and suchassignment or transmission shall be in writing signed by oron behalf of the contracting parties.

(2) Such assignment or transmission shall be invalid ifthe purpose or effect thereof is to mislead the public, inparticular in respect of the nature, source, manufacturingprocess, characteristics or suitability for their purpose of thegoods or services to which the mark is applied.

(3) Any person becoming entitled by assignment ortransmission to an application for registration or theregistration of a mark may apply to the Director-General inthe prescribed manner to have such assignment ortransmission recorded in the register.

Assignment andtransmission ofapplications andregistrations.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 200393

(4) No such assignment or transmission shall be recordedin the register unless the prescribed fee has been paid to theDirector-General.

(5) No such assignment or transmission shall have effectagainst third parties unless so recorded in the register.

CHAPTER XXV

LICENCE CONTRACTS

124.(1) For the purposes of this Part licence contractmeans any contract by which the registered owner of a mark(hereinafter referred to as the licensor) grants to anotherperson or enterprise (hereinafter referred to as the licensee)a licence to use the mark for all or part of the goods or servicesin respect of which the mark is registered.

(2) Use of the mark by the licensee shall be deemed to beuse of the mark by the registered owner.

125.(1) A licence contract shall be in writing signedby or on behalf of the contracting parties.

(2) Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf ofthe contracting parties, the Director-General shall, on paymentof the prescribed fee, record in the register such particularsrelating to the contract as the parties thereto might wish tohave recorded :

Provided that the parties shall not be required todisclose or have recorded any other particulars relating tosuch contract.

126.In the absence of any provision to the contrary inthe licence contract, the licensee shall

(a) be entitled to use the mark within the territory ofSri Lanka, during the entire period of registration ofthe mark, including renewals, in respect of all thegoods or services for which the mark is registered ;

Form and recordof licencecontract.

Rights oflicensee.

Interpretation.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 200394

(b) not be entitled to assign or transmit his rights underthe licence contract or grant sub-licences to thirdparties.

127.(1) In the absence of any provision to the contraryin the licence contract, the licensor may grant further licencesto third parties in respect of the same mark or himself use themark.

(2) Where the licence contract provides the licence to beexclusive, the licensor shall not grant further licences to thirdparties in respect of the same mark or himself use the markunless the contract otherwise provides.

128.(1) A licence contract shall be null and void in theabsence of stipulations ensuring effective control by thelicensor of the quality of the goods or services in respect ofwhich the mark may be used.

(2) Any clause or condition in a licence contract shall benull and void in so far as it imposes upon the licenseerestrictions not derived from the rights conferred by this Parton the registered owner of the mark, or which are unnecessaryfor the safeguarding of such rights :

Provided that

(a) restrictions concerning the scope, extent, duration ofuse of the mark or the geographical area in or thequality or quantity of the goods or services inconnection with which the mark may be used ;

(b) restrictions justified by the stipulations referred to insubsection (1) ; and

(c) obligations imposed upon the licensee to abstain fromall acts capable of prejudicing the validity of theregistration of the mark,

shall not be deemed to constitute a restrictions as mentionedabove.

Nullity of licencecontract andcertain clauses.

Rights of liensor.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 200395

129.The Court may on the application of any personshowing a legitimate interest, or of any Authority includingthe Director-General, to which the registered owner ofthe mark and every assignee, licensee or sub-licensee onrecord shall be made party, annul and cancel the said contractif

(a) the licensor has lost effective control over the qualityof the goods or services in respect of which the markis used ;

(b) the licensee has used the mark in such a way as tomislead or confuse the public.

130.(1) Where the Director-General has reasonablecause to believe that any licence contract or any amendmentor renewal thereof

(a) which involves the payment of royalties abroad ; or

(b) which by reason of other circumstances relating tosuch licence contract,

is detrimental to the economic development of Sri Lanka heshall in writing communicate such fact to the Governor ofthe Central Bank and transmit all papers in his custody relevantto a decision on such matter, to the Governor of the CentralBank.

(2) Where the Governor of the Central Bank on receipt ofany communication under subsection (1) informs theDirector-General in writing that the said licence contract orany amendment or renewal thereof is detrimental to theeconomic development of Sri Lanka the Director-Generalshall cancel and invalidate the record of such contract in theregister.

(3) The provisions of this section shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to assignments and transmissions.

(4) The provisions of this Chapter shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to sub-licences.

Cancellation oflicence contracts.

Licence contractsinvolvingpayments abroad.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 200396

131.Where, before the expiration of the licence contract,the registration is declared null and void, the licensee shallno longer be required to make any payment to the licensorunder the licence contract, and shall be entitled to repaymentof the payments already made :

Provided that the licensor shall not be required to makeany repayment, or shall be required to make repayment onlyin part, to the extent that he can prove that any such repaymentwould be inequitable under all the circumstances, in particularif the licensee has effectively profited from the licence.

132.The Director-General shall

(a) if he is satisfied that a licence contract recorded undersubsection (2) of section 125 has expired or beenterminated, record that fact in the register upon arequest made in writing to that effect signed by or onbehalf of the parties thereto ;

(b) record in the register the expiry, termination,annulment or invalidation of a licence contract underany provision of this Part.

CHAPTER XXVI

RENUNCIATION AND NULLITY OF REGISTRATION OF A MARK

133.(1) The registered owner of a mark may renouncethe registration, either wholly or in respect of part of the goodsor services for which the mark is registered, by a declarationin writing signed by him or on his behalf and forwarded tothe Director-General.

(2) The Director-General shall, on receipt of the saiddeclaration, record it in the register and cause such record tobe published in the Gazette.

(3) The renunciation shall take effect from the date thatthe Director-General receives the said declaration.

Effect of nullityof registration onlicence contract.

Expiry,termination orinvalidation oflicence contract.

Renunciation ofregistration.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 200397

(4) Where a licence contract in respect of a mark is recordedin the register the Director-General shall not, in the absence ofprovision to the contrary in such licence contract, accept orrecord the said renunciation except upon receipt of a signeddeclaration by which any assignee, licensee or sub-licensee onrecord consents to the renunciation, unless his consent isexpressly waived in the licence contract.

134.(1) The Court may on the application of any personshowing a legitimate interest, or of any competent Authorityincluding the Director-General , to which the registered ownerof the mark and every assignee, licensee or sub-licensee onrecord shall be made party, declare the registration of the marknull and void if its registration is precluded under theprovisions of sections 103 and 104 :

Provided, however, that grounds of nullity which do notexist on the date of the application to Court, shall not be takeninto account.

(2) Where the grounds for nullity of registration of themark exist in respect of only part of the goods or services forwhich the mark is registered, nullity of the registration shallbe declared for that part only for such goods or services.

(3) An application for a declaration of nullity based onany of the grounds specified in subsection (1) of section 104shall be made within five years from the date of issue of thecertificate of registration under subsection (3) of section 113.

135.(1) Upon a final decision of the Court declaring totalor partial nullity of registration of a mark, the registration shallbe deemed to have been null and void totally or partially, as thecase may be, from the date of such registration.

(2) When a declaration of nullity becomes final theRegistrar of the Court shall notify the Director-General ofsuch fact and he shall record the said declaration in the registerand cause it to be published in the Gazette.

Nullity ofregistration.

Date and effect ofnullity.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 200398

CHAPTER XXVII

REMOVAL OF MARK

136.(1) The Court may on the application of any personshowing a legitimate interest, or of any Competent Authorityincluding the Director-General, to which the registered ownerof the mark and every assignee, licensee or sub-licencee onrecord shall be made party, remove any registered mark fromthe register

(a) if the registered owner has, without valid grounds,failed to use the mark within Sri Lanka or cause it tobe used within Sri Lanka by virtue of a licence, duringfive consecutive years immediately preceding the dateof the application to Court ;

(b) if the registered owner has caused, provoked ortolerated the transformation of the mark into a genericname for one or more of the goods or services inrespect of which the mark is registered so that in tradecircles and in the eyes of the public its significance asa mark has been lost.

(2) In any application under paragraph (a) of subsection(1) the Court may take into account the fact that non-use ofthe mark was due to circumstances beyond the control of theregistered owner. The Court shall not take into account thelack of funds of the registered owner as a ground for non-useof the mark.

(3) The use of a mark

(a) in a form differing, in elements which do not alter thedistinctive character of the mark, from the form inwhich it was registered, shall not be a ground forremoval of the mark ;

(b) in connection with one or more of the goods orservices belonging to any given class in respect ofwhich the mark is registered, shall suffice to preventthe removal of the mark in respect of all the othergoods or services of the same class.

Removal of mark.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 200399

137.Upon a final decision of the Court in respect ofremoving any registered mark from the register

(1) the Court may, taking into account the date of theevents and other circumstances which occasioned theremoval of the mark, determine the date on which theregistration of the mark shall be deemed to have ceasedto have any legal effect ;

(2) the Registrar of the Court shall communicate thedecision of the Court to the Director-General who shall,if the Court decides that the mark be removed, enter inthe register a record of such removal and cause thedecision of Court to be published in the Gazette.

CHAPTER XXVIII

COLLECTIVE MARKS

138.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter theprovisions relating to marks shall apply to collective marks.

(2) In relation to a collective mark, the reference in section101 (signs of which a trade mark or service mark may consist)to distinguish goods or services of one enterprise from thoseof other enterprises shall be construed as a reference todistinguish goods or services of the enterprise which uses thecollective mark from those of other enterprises.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 103 acollective mark may be registered which consists of a sign orindication which may serve, in trade, to indicate thegeographical origin of the goods or services :

Provided, however, the owner of such a mark shall not beentitled to prohibit the use of such sign or indication inaccordance with honest practices in industrial or commercialmatters and in particular, by a person who is entitled to use ageographical name.

Date and effect ofremoval of mark.

Collective marks.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003100

139.(1) An application for registration of a collectivemark shall not be entertained unless in such application themark is designated as a collective mark and the application isaccompanied by a copy of conditions governing the use ofthe mark duly certified by the applicant.

(2) The conditions governing the use of the mark undersubsection (1) shall define the common characteristics orquality of the goods or services which the collective markshall designate, the conditions in which, and the person bywhom it may be used, the exercise of effective control of theuse of the mark and proper sanctions against the use of themark contrary to such conditions. They shall contain furtherprescribed requirements under this section.

(3) A collective mark shall not be registered unless theconditions governing the use of the mark

(a) comply with the provisions of subsection (2) andany requirement imposed by any regulation madethereunder ;

(b) are not contrary to public policy or acceptedprinciples of morality.

(4) (a) An authorised user shall, subject to any agreementto the contrary between him and registered owner of thecollective mark, be entitled to require the owner to takeinfringement proceedings in respect of any matter whichaffects his interests.

(b) If the owner

(i) refuses to do so ; or

(ii) fails to do so within two months after being calledupon to do so,

the authorised user may bring the proceedings in his ownname as if he was the owner. The registered owner shall bemade party to the action.

Application forregistration ofcollective marks.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003101

(c) In infringement proceedings brought by the owner ofa registered collective mark, any loss suffered or likely to besuffered by any authorised user shall be taken intoconsideration by Court.

(5) The registration of the collective mark may be removedon the following grounds in addition to the grounds specifiedin section 136 :

(i) that the manner in which the mark has been used bythe owner has caused it to become liable to misleadthe public to understand or think that the mark hasstate patronage ;

(ii) that the owner has failed to observe, or to secure theobservance of, the conditions governing use of themark ; or

(iii) that an amendment of the conditions has been madeso that the conditions

(a) no longer comply with subsection (2) and anyother condition imposed by regulation madeunder this Act ; or

(b) are contrary to public policy or to the acceptedprinciples of morality.

(6) The registration of a collective mark shall be declarednull and void in addition to the grounds of nullity specified insection 134 if it was registered in violation of the provisionsof subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section 139.

140.(1) Registration of a collective mark shall be in suchPart of the register as the Director-General may decide and acopy of the conditions governing the use of the mark shall beappended to the registration.

(2) The publication of an application for a collective markin accordance with subsection (9) of section 111 shall includea summary of the conditions to be apended to the registration.

Registration andpublication ofcollectivemarks.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003102

(3) When a collective mark, is registered under subsection(1) it shall be deemed in all respects to be a registered mark.

(4) The conditions governing the use of a registeredcollective mark shall be open for public inspection in the sameway as the register.

141.(1) The registered owner of a collective mark shallnotify the Director-General in the prescribed manner of anychange or amendments effected in the conditions governingthe use of the collective mark.

(2) Any notification of such change or amendment shallbe recorded in the register on payment of the prescribed fee.Any such change or amendment in the condition shall beeffectual only if they have been recorded.

(3) The Director-General shall cause a summary of suchchanges and amendments made in the conditions and recordedunder subsection (2) to be published in the Gazette.

CHAPTER XXIX

CERTIFICATION MARKS

142.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter,provisions relating to marks shall apply to certification marks.

(2) In relation to a certification mark the reference insection 101 (signs of which a trade mark or service markmay consist) to distinguish goods or services of one enterprisefrom those of another enterprise shall be construed as areference to distinguish goods or services which are certifiedfrom those which are not certified.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 103, acertification mark which consists of a sign or indication whichmay serve in trade to designate the geographical origin of thegoods and services may be registered :

Changes inconditiongoverning the useof collectivemarks.

Certificationmarks.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003103

Provided, however, the owner of such mark is not entitledto prohibit the use of such sign or indication in accordancewith honest practices in industrial or commercial matters andin particular by a person who is entitled to use a geographicalname.

(4) An application for registration of a certification markshall not be filed unless in the application the mark isdesignated as a certification mark and is accompanied by acopy of the conditions governing the use of the mark dulycertified by the applicant.

(5) The conditions shall indicate the name of the personauthorised to use the mark, the characteristics to be certifiedby the mark, how the owner is to test those characteristicsand to supervise the use of the mark, the fees (if any) to bepaid in connection with the operation of the mark and theprocedures for resolving disputes. They may in additioncontain further prescribed requirements under this section.

(6) A certification mark shall not be registered

(a) if the owner of the certification mark carries on abusiness involving the supply of goods or services ofthe kind certified ; and

(b) unless the conditions governing the use of the mark,

(i) comply with the provisions of subsection (5) andany other requirement imposed by regulationsmade under that subsection ; and

(ii) are not contrary to public policy or acceptedprinciples of morality.

(7) In infringement proceedings brought by the owner ofthe registered certification mark any loss suffered, or likelyto be suffered, by any authorised user shall be taken intoaccount ; and the Court may give such directions as it thinksfit as to the extent to which the owner is to hold the proceedsof any pecuniary remedy on behalf of such users.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003104

(8) Apart from the grounds of removal of a mark providedfor in section 136, the registration of a certification mark maybe removed on the ground

(a) that the owner has commenced such a business as ismentioned in paragraph (a) of subsection (6) ;

(b) that the manner in which the mark has been used bythe owner has caused it to become liable to misleadthe public as to the character of significance of themark ;

(c) that the owner has failed to observe, or to secureobservance of, the conditions governing the use ofthe mark ;

(d) that the owner is no longer competent to certify thegoods or services for which the mark is registered ;

(e) that an amendment of the conditions have been madeso that the conditions

(i) no longer comply with the provisions ofsubsection (5) and any other condition imposedby regulations ;

(ii) are contrary to public policy and order or to theaccepted principles of morality.

(9) Apart from the grounds of nullity provided in section134 the registration of a certification mark may be declarednull and void if it was registered contrary to the provisions ofsubsections (3), (4) and (5).

(10) (a) Registration of a certification mark shall be insuch part of the register as the Director-General may decide,and a copy of the conditions, governing the use of the mark,shall be appended to such registration.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003105

(b) The publication of an application of a certificationmark shall be in accordance with subsection (9) of section111, which shall include a summary of the conditions to beappended to the registration.

(c) A certification mark registered under subsection (4)shall be deemed for all purposes be a registered mark.

(d) The conditions governing the use of a certificationmark shall be open for public inspection in the same manneras the register.

(11) (a) The registered owner of a certification mark shallnotify the Director-General in prescribed manner of anychanges or amendments effected to the conditions governingthe use of the mark.

(b) Any notification of such changes and amendmentsshall be recorded in the register on the payment of prescribedfee. Any change or amendment of conditions shall come intoforce only if they have been so recorded.

(c) The Director-General shall cause to be published inthe Gazette a summary of the changes or amendments sorecorded in the register.

PART VI

CHAPTER XXX

TRADE NAMES

143.A name or designation shall not be admissible as atrade name if, by reason of its nature or the uses to which itmay be put, it is contrary to morality or public order or islikely to offend the religious or racial susceptibilities of anycommunity or is likely to mislead trade circles or the publicas to the nature of the enterprise identified by that name.

Prohibited tradenames.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003106

144.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any writtenlaw providing for the registration of a trade name, such nameshall be protected, even prior to or without registration, againstany unlawful act committed by a third party.

(2) Any subsequent use of a trade name by a third party,whether as a trade name or as a trade mark, service mark,collective mark or certification mark or any such use of similartrade name, trade mark, service mark or collective mark orcertification mark likely to mislead the public shall bedeemed to be unlawful.

(3) Section 122 of this Act shall apply to trade names.

145.(1) A trade name may be assigned or transmittedtogether with the assignment or transmission of the enterpriseor part of the enterprise identified by that name.

(2) The provisions of section 123 shall apply, mutatismutandis, to trade names.

PART VII

CHAPTER XXXI

LAYOUT DESIGNS OF INTEGRATED CIRCUITS

146.(1) The right to protection of a layout design shallbelong to the creator of layout design. Where several personshave jointly created a layout design such persons shall be co-owners of the right to protection.

(2) The right to protection of a layout design made orcreated in the performance of a contract of employment or inthe execution of a work shall, unless the terms of such contractof employment or contract for the execution of such workotherwise provides, belong to the employer or the person whocommissioned the work, as the case may be.

Protection oftrade name.

Assignment andtransmission oftrade names.

Right toprotection.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003107

147.(1) The protection provided under this Act shallapply to any layout design which is original. For the purposesof this section a layout design is original if

(a) it has not been produced by the mere reproductionof another layout design or of any substantial partthereof; and

(b) it is the result of an intellectual effort of a creator andis not common place among creators of layout designsand manufacturers of integrated circuits at the time ofthe creation of such layout design.

(2) Where a layout design consists of a combination ofelements and interconnections that are common place amongcreators of layout designs or manufacturers of integratedcircuits, such layout designs shall be protected only if thecombination, taken as a whole, meets the conditions referredto in subsection (1).

148.(1) The protection afforded to a layout design underthis Part shall not be dependent on the integrated circuit whichincorporates such layout design being incorporated in an article.Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) the right holder of alayout design shall have the exclusive right to do or authorizeany person to do any of the following acts :

(i) to reproduce whether by incorporation in anintegrated circuit or otherwise, the protected layoutdesign in its entirety or any part thereof, except theact of reproducing any part that does not comply withthe requirement of originality referred to insubsections (1) and (2) of section 147.

(ii) to import, offer for sale, sell or otherwise distributefor commercial purposes, the protected layout designor an integrated circuit in which the protected layoutdesign is incorporated or an article incorporating suchan integrated circuit in so far as it does not contain anunlawfully reproduced layout design.

Originality.

Scope ofprotection.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003108

(2) The scope of the protection of a layout design affordedby this Part, shall not extend to

(i) the reproduction of the protected layout design forthe purpose of evaluation, analysis, research or nonprofit teaching or education ;

(ii) the incorporation in an integrated circuit of a layoutdesign, created on the basis of such analysis,evaluation or research referred to in paragraph (i), ifsuch layout design is itself original within themeaning of subsections (1) and (2) of section 147,or for the performance of any of the acts referred toin subsection (1) of this section in respect of suchlayout design ;

(iii) the performance of any of the acts referred to inparagraph (ii) of subsection (1), where the act isperformed in respect of a protected layout design, orin respect of an integrated circuit in which such layoutdesign is incorporated, and such layout design orintegrated circuit has been put on the market by, orwith the consent of, the right holder; or

(iv) the performance of any act referred to in paragraph(ii) of subsection (1) in respect of an integrated circuitincorporating an unlawfully reproduced layoutdesign or any article incorporating such an integratedcircuit, where the person performing or orderingsuch an act unknowingly performs or orders suchan act and has no reasonable grounds of knowing atthe time of acquiring the integrated circuit or thearticle incorporating such an integrated circuit, thatit incorporated an unlawfully reproduced layoutdesign :

Provided however, where the person performingor ordering any act under this paragraph, is notifiedthat such layout design is an unlawful reproduction,then such person may, perform or order any act only

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003109

with respect to the stock in hand or ordered beforehe was so notified and shall be liable to pay to theright holder a sum equivalent to a reasonable royaltysuch as would be payable under a freely negotiatedlicence in respect of such layout design; or

(v) protection under this Part shall not be available forany layout design which has been commerciallyexploited in or outside Sri Lanka for more than twoyears prior to the commencement of this Act.

149.(1) Protection of a layout design under this Act shallcommence

(i) on the date of the first commercial exploitation in oroutside Sri Lanka of the layout design by, or withthe consent of the right holder, provided anapplication for protection is filed by the right holderwith the Director-General within the time specifiedin subsection (2) of section 150 ; or

(ii) on the filing date accorded to the application for theregistration of the layout design filed by the rightholder, if the layout design has not been previouslyexploited commercially in or out side Sri Lanka.

(2) Protection of a layout design under this Part shallterminate at the end of the tenth calendar year from the dateof commencement of such protection.

150.(1) The application for the registration of a layoutdesign shall be in the prescribed form, and shall beaccompanied by the prescribed fee and shall be filed in theOffice. A separate application shall be filed in respect of eachdifferent layout design.

(2) Any person may apply for registration of a layoutdesign if such layout design has not been commerciallyexploited, or if exploited, in or outside Sri Lanka theapplication for registration shall be made before the expiryof a period of two years from the date of such exploitation.

Requirements ofthe Application.

Commencementand duration ofprotection.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003110

(3) The application shall

(a) contain a request for the registration of the layoutdesign in the Register of Layout Designs and a briefand precise description thereof ;

(b) specify the name, address, nationality of the applicant,and if he is resident outside Sri Lanka a postal addressfor service in Sri Lanka ;

(c) be accompanied by a copy of a drawing of the layoutdesign along with information defining the electronicfunction which the integrated circuit is intended toperform ; however, the application may omit such partsin the copy or drawing that relate to the manner ormanufacture of the integrated circuit, provided thatthe parts submitted are sufficient to allow theidentification of the layout design ;

(d) specify whether the layout design is exploited in oroutside Sri Lanka and the date of its first commercialexploitation, if any ;

(e) provide particulars establishing the right to protectionunder section 146 ;

(f) be accompanied by a declaration as to the originalityof the layout design ;

(g) be accompanied by a power of attorney granted to theagent by the applicant, where the application is madethrough an agent.

(4) (a) Where the applicant fails to comply with therequirements specified in subsection (3) of this section theDirector-General shall, notify the applicant of the same andrequire him to correct the defect made in the application withina period of two months from the date of such notification.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003111

(b) Where the applicant complies with such requirementsspecified in paragraph (a) of this subsection, the Director-General shall accord the date of filing as the date of receipt ofthe application :

Provided however, such application should contain writtenstatement of the need for the registration of the layout design,and information whereby the identity of the applicant can beestablished and shall be accompanied by a copy of thedrawings of the layout design.

(c) Where the applicant fails to submit drawings of a layoutdesign with the original application, but corrects theapplication for the registration of the layout design withinthe period specified in paragraph (a), the date of receipt ofthe corrections shall be deemed to be the date of filing of theapplication. The Director-General shall by a writtencommunication confirm the filing date of the application tothe applicant.

(d) Where the applicant fails, after notification by theDirector-General, to correct the application within the periodspecified in paragraph (a), such application shall be deemednot to have been filed.

151.(1) The Director-General shall maintain a Registerof Layout Designs and he shall register or cause to beregistered of each protected layout design, in respect of whichapplications for registration have been accepted.

(2) Where any application conforms to the requirementsof section 150, the Director-General shall register the layoutdesign in the Register of Layout Designs without examinationof the originality of the layout design, the applicants right toprotection or the correctness of the facts stated in theapplication.

Registration oflayout design inthe Register.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003112

(3) The Register of Layout Designs shall contain thenumber, title, filing date and where indicated in the applicationunder section 150 the date of first commercial exploitation inor outside Sri Lanka of the layout design as well as the nameand address of the right holder, details relating to assignment,transfer, license contract and other prescribed particulars.

(4) Any person may refer the Register of Layout Designsand obtain extracts therefrom, subject to the payment of theprescribed fee.

(5) Every registration of a layout design shall be publishedin the Gazette.

152.(1) Where the essential elements of a layout designhas been taken from a layout design of another person withouthis consent in writing, the second mentioned person may, inwriting together with all relevant material necessary tosubstantiate his claim and the prescribed fee, request theDirector-General to transfer the application to him. Wherethe application has already been registered the secondmentioned person may, within one year from the date ofpublication of such registration write to the Director-Generaltogether with all relevant material necessary to substantiatehis claim and the prescribed fee, requesting the Director-General to transfer the registration to him and to rectify theentry in the register accordingly.

(2) The Director-General shall forthwith send a copy of suchrequest to the applicant or registered right holder, as the casemay be, requiring him to furnish him with a counter claim withina period of two months from the date of such notice in theprescribed manner together with any material if any in hispossession to prove his ownership of the layout design in questionand the prescribed fee. The applicant or the registered right holdermay send the Director-General a counter claim.

(3) Where the registered right holder or the applicant failsto provide any information as required under subsection (2)of this section, within the period specified, the Director-General shall allow the request of the second mentionedperson and rectify the entry in the register.

Right to transferand rectificationof the Register.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003113

(4) If the applicant or the right holder sends a counter-claim, as provided in subsection (2), the Director-General shallafter hearing both parties and taking into consideration themerits of the case, shall make his determination and notifythe parties of his determination.

(5) Where after the filing of the application the person towhom the right to protection belongs, gives his consent tothe filing of that application, such consent shall, for allpurposes, be deemed to be effective from the date of filing ofsuch application.

153.(1) A protected layout design may be assigned ortransmitted and such assignment or transmission shall be inwriting, signed by or on behalf of the contracting parties.

(2) Upon a request in writing signed by or on behalf ofthe assignor or transferor of the layout design the Director-General shall on payment of the prescribed fee, record in theregister such particulars of change of ownership and publishsuch change. Such change shall have no effect against thirdparties until such recording is made.

(3) The right holder of layout design may grant a licenceto another person or enterprise authorizing it to do any or allof the acts referred to in subsection (1) of section 148. Suchlicense contract shall be in writing and signed by or on behalfof the contracting parties. Such license contract shall uponregistration of the layout design be submitted to theDirector-General together with prescribed fee, who shall record or causeto be recorded the existence of such license contract in theregister. A license contract shall have no effect against thirdparties until it is so recorded.

154.(1) Any person interested in a layout designregistered under section 151, or an appropriate Authorityincluding the Director-General may file an application in theCourt, for the cancellation of such registration on the followinggrounds :

(a) that the layout design is not protected under sections147 ;

Cancellation of aRegistration of alayout design.

Changes in theownership andcontractuallicenses.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003114

(b) that the right holder is not entitled to protection undersection 146; or

(c) that the layout design has been commercially exploitedin or out side Sri Lanka, before the filing of theapplication for registration of the layout design, andthe application was not filed within the time limitspecified in subsection (2) of section 148 andsubsection (2) of section 150.

(2) On the establishment of grounds for cancellation of apart of a layout design, the registration applicable to suchcorresponding part only of the layout design, shall becancelled.

(3) The Court may on an application made to it in writingby an interested party or any appropriate Authority includingthe Director-General, and where the registered owner of thelayout design and every assignee, licensee or sub-licensee onrecord shall be made party, make order for the cancellationor partial cancellation of such registration.

(4) Any cancellation of a registration of layout design orpart thereof, shall have the effect of making null and void theregistration of a layout design or part thereof as the case maybe, and as such it shall be effective from the date ofcommencement of the protection of such layout design.

(5) The Court shall notify the Director-General of itsdecision and the Director-General shall record such decisionand publish a notice to that effect, in the Gazette.

155.Where the ordinary residence, or principal, of theapplicatant place of business, of the applicant is outside SriLanka, he shall be represented by an agent registered undersection 175 of the Act.

156.(1) Infringement shall consist of the performanceof any act in contravention of the provisions of section 148.

Representation byan Agent.

Infringement.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003115

(2) The Court may grant an injunction, award damages orgrant any other proper remedy

(a) to a right holder to prevent an infringement orimminent infringement if he makes an applicationhaving reason to believe that a layout design has beenmade infringing the rights protected under section 148of the Act ; or

(b) to a licencee, where the licencee makes an applicationto court, in the event of the right holder failing orneglecting to make an application to Court on his beingmade aware of such infringement by the licencee.

(3) The provisions of Chapter XXXV of this Act shallapply in respect of an infringement and the remedies availableto a right holder or a licencee.

(4) Any action under subsection (2) may be initiated onlyafter an application for registration of the layout design beingfiled with the Director-General.

157.Any person who, knowingly or intentionallycontravenes the provisions of section 148, shall be guilty ofan offence, and shall on conviction after trial before aMagistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees fivehundred thousand or to imprisonment of either descriptionfor a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment and in the case of a second or subsequentconviction such fine or term of imprisonment or both suchfine and imprisonment may be doubled. The Court may inaddition order the seizure, forfeiture and destruction of thelayout design, integrated circuits, articles or any material orimplement, which have been used for or in the commissionof the offence.

158.The provisions of sections 125A and 125B of theCustoms Ordinance and sections 163 to 174, 177, 180, 187,191, 195 to 204 of the Act shall apply to and in relation to thelayout designs of integrated circuits.

Application ofcertain provisionsof the Act.

Offences.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003116

159.In this Part unless the context otherwiserequires

integrated circuit means a product, in its final formor an intermediate form, in which the elements, atleast one of which is an active element, and some orall of the interconnections are integrally formed inor on a piece of material and which is intended toperform an electronic function ;

layout design is synonymous with topography andmeans the three dimensional disposition, howeverexpressed, of the elements, at least one of which isan active element, and of some or all of theinterconnections of an integrated circuit, or such athree-dimensional disposition prepared for anintegrated circuit intended for manufacture ;

right holder means the natural person who, or the legalentity which, is to be regarded as the beneficiary ofthe protection referred to in section 146.

PART VIII

CHAPTER XXXII

UNFAIR COMPETITION AND UNDISCLOSED INFORMATION

160.(1) (a) Any act or practice carried out or engagedin, in the course of industrial or commercial activities, that iscontrary to honest practices shall constitute an act of unfaircompetition.

(b) The provisions of this section shall applyindependently of, and in addition to, other provisions of theAct protecting inventions, industrial designs, marks, tradenames, literary, scientific and artistic works and otherintellectual property.

Interpretation.

Unfaircompetition andundisclosedinformation.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003117

(2) (a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged in, inthe course of industrial or commercial activities, that causes,or is likely to cause, confusion with respect to anothersenterprise or its activities, in particular, the products or servicesoffered by such enterprise, shall constitute an act of unfaircompetition.

(b) Confusion may, in particular, be caused with respectto

(i) a mark, whether registered or not ;

(ii) a trade name ;

(iii) a business identifier other than a mark or tradename ;

(iv) the appearance of a product ;

(v) the presentation of products or services ;

(vi) celebrity or a well known fictional character.

(3) (a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged in, in thecourse of industrial or commercial activities, that damages, oris likely to damage, the goodwill or reputation of anothersenterprise shall constitute an act of unfair competition, whetheror not such act or practice actually causes confusion.

(b) Damaging anothers goodwill or reputation may, inparticular, result from the dilution of the goodwill or reputationattached to

(i) a mark, whether registered or not ;

(ii) a trade name ;

(iii) a business identifier other than a mark or a tradename ;

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003118

(iv) the appearance of product ;

(v) the presentation of products or services;

(vi) celebrity or a well-known fictional character.

(c) For the purposes of these provisions, dilution ofgoodwill or reputation means the lessening of the distinctivecharacter or advertising value of a mark, trade name or otherbusiness identifier, the appearance of a product or thepresentations of products or services or of a celebrity or wellknown fictional character.

(4) (a) Any act or practice carried out or engaged in, inthe course of any industrial or commercial activity, thatmisleads, or is likely to mislead, the public with respect to anenterprise or its activities, in particular, the products or servicesoffered by such enterprise, shall constitute an act of unfaircompetition.

(b) Misleading may arise out of advertising or promotionand may, in particular occur with respect to

(i) the manufacturing process of a product ;

(ii) the suitability of a product or service for a particularpurpose ;

(iii) the quality or quantity or other characteristics ofproducts or services ;

(iv) the geographical indication of products or services ;

(v) the conditions on which products or services areoffered or provided ;

(vi) the price of products or services or the manner inwhich it is calculated.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003119

(5) (a) any false or unjustifiable allegation, in the courseof industrial or commercial activities, that discredits, or islikely to discredit, an enterprise of another person or theactivities of such enterprise, in particular, the products orservices offered by such enterprise, shall constitute an act ofunfair competition.

(b) Discrediting may arise out of advertising or promotionand may, in particular, occur with respect to

(i) the manufacturing process of a product ;

(ii) the suitability of a product or service for a particularpurpose ;

(iii) the quality or quantity or other characteristics ofproducts or services ;

(iv) the conditions on which products or services areoffered or provided ;

(v) the price of products or services or the manner inwhich it is calculated.

(6) (a) Any act or practice, in the course of industrial orcommercial activities, that results in the disclosure,acquisition or use by others, of undisclosed informationwithout the consent of the person lawfully in control of thatinformation (in this section referred to as the rightfulholder) and in a manner contrary to honest commercialpractices shall constitute an act of unfair competition.

(b) Disclosure, acquistion or use of undisclosedinformation by others without the consent of the reghtfulholder may, in particular, result from

(i) industrial or commercial espionage ;

(ii) breach of contract ;

(iii) breach of confidence ;

(iv) inducement to commit any of the acts referred to insub-paragraphs (i) to (iii) ;

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003120

(v) acquisition of undisclosed information by a thirdparty who knew or was grossly negligent in failingto know, that an act referred to in sub-paragraphs (i)to (iv) was involved in the acquisition.

(c) For the purposes of this Act, information shall beconsidered undisclosed information if

(i) it is not, as a body or in the precise configurationand assembly of its components, generally knownamong, or readily accessible to, persons within thecircles that normally deal with the kind of informationin question ;

(ii) it has actual or potential commercial value becauseit is secret ; and

(iii) it has been subject to reasonable steps under thecircumstances by the rightful holder to keep it secret.

(d) Any act or practice, in the course of industrial orcommercial activities, shall be considered an act of unfaircompetition if it consists of results in

(i) an unfair commercial use of secret test or other data,the origination of which involves considerable effortand which have been submitted to appropriateauthority for the purposes of obtaining approval ofthe marketing of pharmaceutical or agricultural orchemical products which utilize new chemicalentities ; or

(ii) the disclosure of such data, except where necessaryto protect the public, or unless steps have been takento ensure that the data is protected against unfaircommercial use.

(e) The undisclosed information for the purpose of thisAct shall include

(i) technical information related to the manufacture ofgoods or the provision of services ; or

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003121

(ii) business information which includes the internalinformation which an enterprise has developed so asto be used within the enterprise.In this section the word enterprise has the same meaningas in section 101 of the Act.

(7) Any person or enterprise or association of producers,manufacturers or traders aggrieved by any act or practicereferred to in this Part, may institute proceedings in Court toprohibit the continuance of such act or practice and obtaindamages for losses suffered as a result of such act or practice.The provisions of Chapter XXXV of this Act relating toinfringement shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to suchproceeding.

(8) (a) Any person, who willfully and without lawfulauthority, discloses any undisclosed information shall be guiltyof an offence under this Act and shall on conviction after trialbefore a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding fivehundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(b) The provisions of Chapter XXXVIII of the Act shallapply, mutatis mutandis, to the offence specified under thissubsection.

(9) The rights conferred by the provisions of subsection(6) shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, anycommon law rights.

PART IX

CHAPTER XXXIII

GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS

161.(1) Any interested party shall be entitled toprevent

(i) the use of any means in the designation orpresentation of goods that indicates or suggeststhat the goods including an agricultural product,food, wine or spirit in question originates in a

Protection ofgeographicalindications.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003122

geographical area other than the true place oforigin in a manner which misleads the public asto the geographical origin of goods ; or

(ii) any use of a geographical indication whichconstitutes an act of unfair competition withinthe meaning of section 160 ;

(iii) the use of a geographical indication identifyinggoods including an agricultural product, food,wine or sprit not originating in the place indicatedby the geographical indication in question oridentifying goods not originating in the placeindicated by the geographical indication inquestion, even where the true origin of the goodsis indicated or the geographical indication is usedin translation or accompanied by expression suchas kind, type, style or immitation or the like.

(2) The protection accorded to geographical indicationsunder sections 103, 160 and 161 shall be applicable againsta geographical indication which, although literally true asto the territory, region or locality in which the goodsoriginate, falsely represents to the public that the goodsoriginate in another territory.

(3) In the case of homonymous geographical indicationsfor goods including an agricultural product, food, wine orspirit, protection shall be accorded to each indication, subjectto the provisions of subsection (2) of this section. The Minister,in case of permitted concurrent use of such indications, shalldetermine by prescribed practical conditions under which thehomonymous indications in question will be differentiatedfrom each other, taking into consideration the need to ensureequitable treatment of the producers concerned and theprotection of consumers from false or deceptive indications.

(4) The Court shall have power and jurisdiction to grantan injunction and any other relief deemed appropriate toprevent any such use as is referred to in this section. Theprovisions of Chapter XXXV of the Act shall, mutatismutandis, apply to such proceedings.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003123

(5) For the purposes of this section geographicalindications shall have the same meaning as in section 101.

PART X

CHAPTER XXXIV

CONSTITUTION AND POWERS OF ADVISORY COMMISSION

162.(1) The Minister may constitute an AdvisoryCommission (hereinafter referred to as the Commission)for the purpose of advising him on any matter referred tohim in relation to the law relating to Copyright, IndustrialDesigns, Marks, Patents and Unfair Competition and anyother area or subject of Intellectual Property.

(2) The Commission constituted under subsection (1)shall consist of

(a) not less than five and not more than ten membersappointed by the Minister from among persons whohave shown capacity in law or commerce or relatedfields, (hereinafter referred to as an appointedmember) ; and

(b) the Director-General who shall be an ex-officiomember and who shall function as the Secretary tothe Commission ;

(3) (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), theterm of office of an appointed member of the Commissionshall be three years :

Provided that a member appointed in place of a memberwho resigns or is removed or otherwise vacates office, shallhold office for the unexpired portion of the part of term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds ;

(b) An appointed member of the Commission who vacatesoffice by effluxion of time shall be eligible for re -appointment.

Appointments &c.of AdvisoryCommission.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003124

(4) (a) An appointed member of the Commission mayresign from office by letter to that effect addressed tothe Minister and such resignation shall take effecton such resignation being accepted by the Minister in writing.

(b) The Minister may at any time remove an appointedmember from office, assigning any reason therefor.

(c) Where an appointed member is temporarilyunable to discharge the duties of his office on account ofillness, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, theMinister may appoint another person to act as a member inhis place.

(5) (a) The Minister shall appoint a Chairman of theCommission (in this Part referred to as the Chairman) fromamong the appointed members of the Commission ;

(b) If the Chairman is by reason of illness, other infirmityor absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily unable to performthe duties of his office, the Minister may appoint anotherappointed member to act in his place.

(c) The Minister may at any time remove the Chairmanfrom office, assigning any reason therefor ;

(d) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairmanby a letter to that effect addressed to the Minister in writingand such resignation shall take effect on such resignationbeing accepted by the Minister.

(e)Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d),the term of office of the Chairman shall be his period ofmembership of the Commission.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003125

(6) There may be appointed such officers and servantsas may be necessary to assist the Commission in performingits duties under this Part.

(7) The members of the Commission may be paid suchremuneration out of the Fund as may be determined by theMinister in consultation with the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance.

(8) It shall be the duty of the Commission

(a) to inquire into and report to the Minister, on anymatter or question relating to the law of Copyright,Industrial Designs, Trade Marks, Patents and UnfairCompetition or any other matter relating toIntellectual Property as may be referred to it by theMinister from time to time ;

(b) to review the law relating to, and applicable to,Copyright, Industrial Designs, Trade Marks, Patentsand Unfair Competition or any other matter relatingto intellectual property from time to time and tomake proposals to the Minister for the alteration,modification or addition to such law ;

(c) in making the report or proposals referred to inparagraph (a) or (b), to consult and take intoconsideration where the Commission deems itnecessary to do so, the views of trade chambers,professional organizations, related institutions,government departments and the general public.

(9) The Minister may give special or general directionsin writing to the Commission, as to the performance of itsduties and the exercise of the powers, and the Commissionshall give effect to such directions.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003126

PART XI

CHAPTER XXXV

APPLICATIONS TO AND PROCEEDINGS BEFORE, THEDIRECTOR-GENERAL AND COURT

163.(1) The Director-General may, on applicationmade in the prescribed manner by or on behalf of theregistered owner of an industrial design, patent, trade markor any other registration provided for under the Act, correctany error or make any change

(a) in the name, address or description of the registeredowner of any Industrial Design, Patent or Mark orany other registration provided for under the Act ;

(b) concerning any other particulars relating to theregistration of an Industrial Design, Patent or Markor any other registration as may be prescribed.

(2) Subject and without prejudice to other provisions ofthe Act

(a) the Court may on the application of any personaggrieved by the non-insertion in or omission fromany register, of any entry, or by any entry made inany register without sufficient cause, or by any entrywrongly remaining on any register, or by any erroror defect in any entry in any register, make suchorder for making, expunging, or varying such entry,as it may think fit ;

(b) the Court may in any proceeding under this sectiondecide any question that may be necessary orexpedient to decide in connection with therectification of any register ;

Correction andrectification ofregister.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003127

(c) in case of fraud in the registration, assignment ortransmission of any registered Industrial Design,Patent or Mark, or any other registration providedfor under the Act, the Director-General himself mayapply to the Court under the provisions of thissection.

(3) In any proceedings under this Act in which the reliefsought includes correction, alteration or rectification of anyregister, the Director-General shall have the right to appearand be heard, and shall appear if so directed by the Court.Unless otherwise directed by the Court, the Director-Generalin lieu of appearing and being heard may submit to the Courta statement in writing signed by him, giving particulars ofthe proceedings before him in relation to the matter in issueor of the grounds of any decision given by him affecting thesame or of the practice of the office in like cases, or of suchother matters relevant to the issue, and within his knowledgeas such Director-General shall think fit, and such statementshall be deemed to form part of the evidence in theproceedings.

(4) The Court, in dealing with any question of thecorrection, alteration or rectification of any register shallhave power to review any decision of the Director-Generalrelating to the entry in question or the correction, alterationor rectification sought to be made.

164.(1) Where the Director-General is satisfied thatany volume of any register kept under this Act has been sodamaged as to render that volume incapable of being mended,he may cause a copy thereof to be made and authenticatedin such manner as he may direct.

(2) Any copy made and authenticated under theprovisions of subsection (1) shall replace the volume of whichit is a copy, and shall for all purposes be deemed to have thesame legal force and effect as the volume which such copyreplaces.

Power to makecopies ofdamaged volumesof any register, toprepare and insertreconstructedfolios.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003128

(3) The Director-General shall cause every damagedvolume of which a copy has been made under the provisionsof subsection (1) to be preserved as long as it is reasonablypracticable for any reference which may be necessary.

(4) Where the Director-General, after due investigation,is satisfied that any folio of any volume of any register hasbeen lost and cannot be recovered or that any such folio hasbeen permanently mutilated or so obliterated or damaged asto render the entries or any material part of the entries thereinillegible, he may cause a reconstructed folio to be prepared.

(5) No folio shall be reconstructed as provided insubsection (4) except in accordance with the prescribedprocedure, providing

(a) for evidence to be admitted and used by theDirector-General in ascertaining the particularsoriginally contained in the lost or mutilated ordamaged folio ;

(b) for the giving of notice by the Director-General ofthe preparation of the reconstructed folio ;

(c) for the lodging of objections by any person affectedby any of the particulars contained in the folio tobe reconstructed ; and

(d) for the holding of an inquiry by the Director-Generalinto any such objections.

(6) Where any folio has been reconstructed by theDirector-General in accordance with the preceding provisionsof this section, the Director-General shall authenticate thereconstructed folio in the prescribed manner and shallthereafter cause the reconstructed folio to be inserted in theappropriate volume of the register in the place formerlyoccupied by the lost folio or in place of the mutilated ordamaged folio, or in a copy of a volume prepared under theprovisions of this section, as the case may be, and thereconstructed folio, when so authenticated and inserted, shallfor all purposes be deemed to have the same legal force andeffect as the folio which such reconstructed folio replaces.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003129

(7) The Director-General may, after such inquiry as hemay deem necessary, correct any clerical error or omissionwhich may be discovered in any entry in any register or inany certificate kept or issued under the provisions of thisAct and for that purpose may recall any such certificate andamend the same or issue a fresh certificate in its place.

165.A certificate purporting to be under the hand ofthe Director-General as to any entry, matter, or thing whichhe is authorized by this Act or regulations made thereunderto make or do, shall be, prima facie, evidence of the entryhaving been made, and of the contents thereof, and of thematter or thing having been done or not done.

166.Printed, mechanically produced, typed or writtencopies or extracts, certified by the Director-General, of orfrom any document, register, or other book filed or kept underthis Act in the office shall be admitted in evidence in anyCourt of Sri Lanka, without further proof or production ofthe originals.

167.(1) In any proceeding under this Act before theCourt, the evidence shall be given by affidavit in the absenceof directions to the contrary. However in any case in whichthe Court shall think it right so to do, the Court may takeevidence, viva voce, in lieu of or in addition to evidence byaffidavit.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall, mutatismutandis, apply in respect of the giving of evidence at aninquiry before the Director-General.

(3) In case any part of the evidence is taken viva voce,the Director-General may exercise the powers conferred ona Commission appointed under the provisions of theCommissions of Inquiry Act for compelling the attendanceof witnesses and the production of documents and foradministering oaths to all persons who shall be examinedbefore him.

Certificate ofDirector-Generalto be evidence.

Certified copies tobe evidence.

Mode of givingevidence.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003130

168.Where any discretionary or other power is givento the Director-General by this Act or any regulation madethereunder, he shall not exercise that power adversely inrespect of the applicant for registration or the registeredowner of an Industrial Design, Patent or Mark or any othermatter provided under this Act without (if duly required soto do within the prescribed time) giving such applicant orregistered owner an opportunity of being heard.

169.The Director-General may, in any case of doubt ordifficulty arising in the administration of any of the provisionsof this Act, seek the assistance of the Attorney-General.

170.(1) Where a person to whom any recognised rightsgranted under this Act, proves to the astisfaction of the Courtthat any person is threatening to infringe or has infringed hisrights or is performing acts which makes it likely to infringe aright under this Act, will occur, the Court may grant aninjunction restraining any such person from commencing orcontinuing such infringement or performing such acts andmay order damages and such other relief as the Court maydeem just and equitable. The injunction may be granted alongwith an award of damages and shall not be denied only for thereason that the applicant is entitled to damages.

(2) The defendant may in the proceedings referred to insubsection (1) request the Court to declare the registrationof an Industrial Design, Patent, Mark or any other registrationprovided for under the Act, as the case may be, or any partof it, null and void, in which event the provisions of thesection relating to the nullity of such registration shall applyas appropriate.

(3) (a) The court shall have the power to order

(i) the infringer to pay the right holder suchdamages as are adequate to compensatehim for the loss suffered by him, by reasonof such infringement, in addition to therecovery of any profits ;

Exercise ofdiscretionarypower byDirectorGeneral.

Director-Generalmay seekassistance ofAttorney-General.

Infringement andthe remedies.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003131

(ii) the infringing goods to be disposed ofoutside the channels of commerce or tobe destroyed without the payment of anycompensation ; and

(iii) subject to the protection of confidentialinformation, the tendering of any evidenceby the opposing party which evidence isrelevant to the substantiation of the claimand is in the control of the opposing party,in cases where a party has presentedreasonably available evidence in supportof the claim and has specified that evidencerelevant to the substantiation of such claimlies in the control of the opposing party.

(b) The court may make any order specified in subsection(1) in respect of materials and implements used in the creationof the infringing goods.

(4) In making such orders the need for maintaining abalance between the seriousness of the infringement and theremedies ordered, as well as the interests of third partiesshall be taken into consideration. In regard to counterfeittrade mark goods, the simple removal of the trade markunlawfully affixed shall not other than in exceptional cases,be sufficient, to permit the release of the goods into thechannels of commerce.

(5) The Court may, other than in an instance where itwould not be in proportion to the seriousness of theinfringement, order the infringer to inform the right holderof the identity of the persons involved in the production anddistribution of the infringing goods or services and ofchannels of distribution used by them.

(6) The Court shall have power to order interim measuresrelating to protection, ex-parte, where appropriate, inparticular where any delay is likely to cause irreparable harmto the right holder or where there is a demonstrable risk ofevidence being destroyed.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003132

(7) Where interim measures have been ordered ex-partethe parties affected shall be given notice and shall on receiptof such notice be entitled to be heard as to whether the interimmeasures ordered should be modified or revoked.

(8) Where the interim measures are modified or revokedor it is subsequently found that there has been no infringementof a protected right, the Court shall have the power to orderthe applicant, upon the request of the defendant to payappropriate compensation for any injury caused.

(9) The Court may require the applicant to providesecurity or other equivalent assurance sufficient to protectthe defendant and to prevent abuse of any interim measuresreferred to in the preceding provisions of this section.

(10) Any owner of the rights protected under this Actmay, notwithstanding any provision in the Act relating tothe award of damages, elect at any time before final judgmentto recover, instead of proved actual damages, an award ofstatutory damages for any infringement involved in the actionof a sum not less than rupees fifty thousand and not morethan rupees one million as the court may considerappropriate and just.

(11) No suit or prosecution shall lie against any officialfor any act which is done in good faith and in pursuance ofany provisions of this Act.

171.In the absence of any provision to the contrary ina licence contract relating to an Industrial Design, Patent orMark or any other matter provided for by the Act, the licenseemay

(a) in respect of the threatened infringement,infringement or acts referred to in section 170request the registered owner of the IndustrialDesign, Patent or Mark or any other matter providedfor by the Act, to apply for an injunction :

Infringementproceedings by orat the request oflicensee.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003133

Provided that the licensee shall indicate thethreatened infringement, infringement or acts beingperformed in relation to such infringement andspecify the relief sought under the Act ; and

(b) if the owner of the said Industrial Design, Patent orMark or any other matter provided for by this Actrefuses or fails to apply for an injunction within threemonths from the receipt of the said request, applyfor an injunction in his own name, with notice to theregistered owner who may join in the proceedings :

Provided that the Court may, on the applicationof the licensee, prior to the expiry of the period ofthree months, specified in paragraph (b) of thissection grant an injunction if he proves thatimmediate action is necessary to avoid substantialdamage.

172.(1) The Court may on the application of any personshowing a legitimate interest to which the registered ownerof the Industrial Design, Patent or Mark, or any other matterprovided for under the Act as the case may be, shall be madeparty, declare that the threatened performance or performanceof a specific act does not constitute a threatened infringementor infringement of the said Industrial Design, Patent or Markor any other matter provided for under the Act.

(2) The registered owner of the industrial design, patentor Mark or any other register provided for under the Act, asthe case may be, shall give notice of the said application toany assignee or licensee, who shall be entitled to join in theproceedings in the absence of any provision to the contraryin any agreement with the registered owner.

(3) The proceedings for a declaration of non-infringementmay be instituted concurrently with proceedings to declarethe registration of an Industrial Design, Patent or Mark orany other matter provided for by the Act be null and void :

Declaration ofnon-infringement.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003134

Provided that the matters in issue in the proceedings fora declaration of non-infringement are not already the subjectof infringement proceedings.

(4) The provisions of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978,and the Civil Procedure Code shall apply to every applicationfor an injunction made to the Court under this Act.

173.(1) Any person aggrieved by any decision madeby the Director-General under any provision of the Act mayappeal therefrom to the Court within a period of six monthsfrom the date of such decision.

(2) Such person may prefer an appeal to the Court byway of a petition of appeal with a certified copy of thedecision appealed form, accompanied by copies of allrelevant documents and affidavits from the file of theIntellectual Property Office. A copy of the petition of appealand the accompanying documents and the affidavits shallbe served on the Director-General and other respondentsnamed in the petition of appeal. Proof of such service shallbe furnished with the petition of appeal to the Court. Therespondents may file a statement of objections.

(3) Court may call for the original file from the Director-General and may receive and admit new evidence by way ofaffidavit and documents, additional to, or supplementary of,the evidence already given before the Director-General inrespect of the matter issue as the Court may require.

(4) On any such appeal, the Court may affirm, reverse orvary the decision of the Director-General or may issue suchdirections to the Director-General, or order a further hearingby the Director-General, as the court may require.

(5) Any person who is dissatisfied with any Order madeby the Court under subsection (4) to which such person is aparty may prefer an appeal to the Supreme Court againstsuch Order for the correction of any error in fact or in law,with the leave of the Supreme Court first had and obtained.

Appeals.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003135

(6) Every appeal to the Supreme Court under subsection(5) shall be made as nearly as may be in accordance withthe procedure prescribed by the rules of the Supreme Courtwith respect to special leave to appeal to the Supreme Court.

174.(1) In all proceedings before the Director-Generalunder this Act, the Director-General shall have power to awardany party such costs as he may consider reasonable, and todirect to whom and to what parties they are to be paid, andsuch order may be filed in Court, and thereupon such ordermay be enforced as if it were an order of the Court.

(2) In any proceedings before a Court under this Act, theDirector-General shall not be ordered to pay costs. The Courtmay however in its descretion Order the payment of costs tothe Director-General.

CHAPTER XXXVI

REGISTERED AGENTS

175.(1) An Agent referred to in this Act means an agentregistered under the provisions of the Act or in accordancewith any regulation made thereunder.

(2) Any person registered as an agent under this Act shallhave the authority and be competent to act as an agent underthis Act.

(3) A person may be admitted and registered as an agentif he

(a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka and is ordinarilyresident in Sri Lanka ; and

(b)(i) is an Attorney-At-Law of the SupremeCourt of Sri Lanka ; or

(ii) is a person possessing the qualificationsprescribed for an agent ; and

(c) pays the prescribed fee.

Costs ofproceedingsbefore Director-General andCourt.

Registered agents.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003136

(4) A corporate body or a firm may act as an agent if themajority of the Directors of such corporate body or if themajority of the partners of the firm, as the case may be, areregistered agents.

(5) The registration of an agent under this Act shall bevalid for a period of three years and shall be renewable,subject to the payment of a prescribed fee, for a consecutiveperiod of three years provided, however, that a period ofgrace of six months shall be allowed for renewal uponpayment of such surcharge as may be prescribed.

(6) Notwithstanding anything in the provisions ofsubsection (2), any duly appointed agent, irrespective ofnot being registered under this Chapter, may represent hisclients, for a period of two years from the date on which theprovisions of this Chapter comes into operation.

(7) The power of attorney referred to in this Act means apower of attorney duly executed or a letter of authorisationduly signed by the principal.

CHAPTER XXXVII

FUND

176.(1) For the purposes of this Act there shall beestablished a Fund which shall be maintained in such manneras the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Trade in consultation with the Director-Generalmay direct.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund two-thirds of everyfee or charge, levied or recoverable under this Act or anyregulation made thereunder.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund referred to insubsection (1) all sums of money required to defray anyexpenditure incurred by the Director-General in the exercise,discharge and performance of his powers, functions and

Fund.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003137

duties under this Act and all such sums of money as arerequired to be paid out of such Fund by or under this Act orany regulation made thereunder.

(4) The balance one-third of the money paid into the Fundunder subsection (2), of each and every such fee or chargelevied or recoverable under this Act or any regulation madethereunder shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.

(5) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Ttrade shall as soon as possible after theend of each calendar year prepare a report on theadministration of the Fund and shall cause to be maintaineda full and appropriate account of the Fund in respect of eachcalendar year.

(6) The Auditor-General shall audit the accounts of theFund in terms of Article 154 of the Constitution.

(7) The financial year of the Fund shall be the calendaryear.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

177.Any person who makes or causes to be made afalse entry in any of the registers kept under this Act, or awriting falsely purporting to be a copy of an entry in anysuch register, or produces, or tenders, or causes to beproduced or tendered in evidence any such writing, knowingthe entry or writing to be false shall be guilty of an offenceand shall on conviction after trial before a Magistrate beliable to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousandor to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.

178.(1) Any person who wilfully infringes any of therights protected under Part II of this Act shall be guilty of anoffence and shall be liable on conviction after trial before aMagistrate to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred

Falsification ofentries in anyregister.

Infringement ofCopyright.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003138

thousand or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding sixmonths or to both such fine and such imprisonment, and inthe case of a second or subsequent conviction such fine orterm of imprisonment or both such fine and imprisonmentmay be doubled.

(2) Any person knowing or having reason to believe thatcopies have been made in infringement of the rights protectedunder Part II of the Act, sells, displays for sale, or has in hispossession for sale or rental or for any other purpose of tradeany such copies, shall be guilty of an offence and shall beliable on conviction by a Magistrate for a fine not exceedingrupees five hundred thousand or to imprisonment for a termnot exceeding six months or to both such fine and suchimprisonment, and in the case of a second or subsequentconviction, to double the amount of a such fine or term ofimprisonment or both.

(3) Any person knowingly or having reasons to believethat he is in possession or has access to a computer programinfringing the rights of another person, and wilfully makesuse of such program for commercial gain, shall be guilty ofan offence and shall be liable on conviction by a Magistratefor a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand or toimprisonment for a period of six months or to both such fineand imprisonment.

(4) The Magistrate may, whether the alleged offender isconvicted or not, order that all copies of the work and allimplements used for the infringement, or all plates in thepossession of the alleged offender, which appear to him tobe infringing copies, or plates or implements used for thepurpose of making infringing copies, shall be destroyed ordelivered up to the owner of the right, or otherwise dealtwith in such manner as the Magistrate may think fit.

179.Any person who wilfully infringes the rights ofany registered owner, assignee or licensee of an IndustrialDesign shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable onconviction after trial before a Magistrate to a fine not

Infringement ofIndustrialDesigns.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003139

exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine andsuch imprisonment, and in the case of a second or subsequentconviction to double the amount of such fine or term ofimprisonment or both.

180.(1) Any person who, for industrial or commercialpurposes, makes a representation

(a) with respect to an Industrial Design not being aregistered Industrial Design to the effect that it is aregistered Industrial Design ;

(b) to the effect that a registered Industrial Design isregistered in respect of any product, regardingwhich registration has not been carried out ;

(c) to the effect that the registration of an IndustrialDesign gives an exclusive right to the use thereofin any circumstances in which, having regard tolimitations recorded in the register, the registrationdoes not give that right,

shall be guilty of an offence, and shall on conviction aftertrial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceedingfive hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a termnot exceeding six months or to both such fine and suchimprisonment.

(2) A person shall be deemed to represent that anIndustrial Design is registered if he uses in connection withthe Industrial Design the word registered, or any word orwords expressing or implying that registration has beenobtained for the Industrial Design.

181.Any person who wilfully infringes the rights of anyregistered owner, assignee or licensee of a patent shall be guiltyof an offence, and shall be liable on conviction after trial beforea Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousandrupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six monthsor to both such fine and such imprisonment, and in the case

Falserepresentationsregardingindustrial Designs.

Infringement ofPatents.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003140

of a second or subsequent conviction to double the amountof such fine or term of imprisonment or both.

182.(1) Any person who, for industrial or commercialpurposes, makes a representation

(a) with respect to a patent not being a registered patentto the effect that it is a registered Patent ;

(b) to the effect that a registered Patent is registered inrespect of any product or process regarding whichregistration has not been carried out ; or

(c) to the effect that the registration of a Patent givesan exclusive right to the use thereof in anycircumstances in which, having regard to limitationsrecorded in the register, the registration does notgive that right,

shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be liable on convictionafter trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding fivehundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding six months or to both such fine and suchimprisonment.

(2) A person shall be deemed to represent a Patent asregistered if he uses in connection with the Patent the wordregistered, or any word or words expressing or implyingthat registration has been obtained for the Patent.

183.Any person who being or having been employed inor at the office, communicates any information relating toPatents or matters connected therewith obtained by him duringthe course of his employment in or at the office to any personnot entitled or authorized to receive such information, ordiscloses such information to the public or makes any otherunlawful use of such information shall be guilty of an offence,and shall on conviction after trial before a Magistrate be liableto a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months or toboth such fine and such imprisonment.

Falserepresentationsregarding Patents.

Unlawfuldisclosure ofinformationrelating to Patents.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003141

184.Any person who wilfully infringes the rights ofany registered owner, assignee or licensee of a Mark, shallbe guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after trialbefore a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding fivehundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding six months or to both such fine and suchimprisonment and in the case of a second or subsequentconviction to double the amount of such fine or term ofimprisonment or both such fine and imprisonment.

185.(1) Any person who, for industrial or commercialpurposes, makes a representation

(a) with respect to a Mark not being a registered Markto the effect that it is a registered Mark ;

(b) to the effect that a registered mark is registered inrespect of any goods or services regarding whichregistration has not been carried out ; or

(c) to the effect that the registration of a mark gives anexclusive right to the use thereof in anycircumstances, in which having regard to limitationsrecorded in the register, the registration does notgive that right,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after trialbefore a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding fivehundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) A person shall be deemed to represent a Mark asregistered if he uses in connection with the Mark the wordregistered, or any word or sign expressing or implyingthat registration has been obtained for the mark.

186.(1) Any person who

(a) forges any Mark ; or

(b) falsely applies to goods any Mark or Marks so nearlyresembling a registered Mark as to be likely tomislead ; or

Other offences asto marks and tradedescriptions.

Falserepresentationsregarding marks.

Infringement ofMarks.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003142

(c) makes any die, seal block, machine, or otherinstrument for the purpose of forging, or to be usedfor forging, a Mark ; or

(d) applies any false trade description to goods ; or

(e) disposes of, or has in his possession, any die, sealblock, machine, or other instrument for the purposeof forging a Mark ; or

(f) causes any of the things referred to in this subsectionto be done,

shall, subject to the provisions of this Part, and unless he provesthat he acted without intent to defraud, be guilty of an offence.

(2) Any person who sells or exposes for sale, or has in hispossession for sale, or any purpose of trade or manufacture,any goods or things to which any forged Mark or false tradedescription is applied, or to which any Mark so nearlyresembling a registered Mark so as to be likely to mislead, isfalsely applied, as the case may be, shall, unless he proves

(a) that having taken all reasonable precautions againstcommitting an offence he had at the time of thecommission of the alleged offence no reason tosuspect the genuineness of the Mark, or tradedescription ; and

(b) that on demand made by or on behalf of theprosecutor he gave all the information in his powerwith respect to the persons from whom he obtainedsuch goods or things ; or

(c) that otherwise he had acted innocently,

be guilty of an offence.

(3) Any person who imports any piece-goods ordinarilysold by length or by the piece, manufactured outsideSri Lanka, or who sells or exposes for, or has in his possessionfor sale or any purpose of trade, any piece-goods ordinarily

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003143

sold by length or by piece, whether manufactured within oroutside the territory of Sri Lanka, which do not haveconspicuously stamped in English numerals on each piece,the length thereof in standard metres, or in standard metresand a fraction of such a metre, according to the real lengthof the piece, shall be guilty of an offence :

Provided that nothing contained in this subsection shallapply to any piece-goods manufactured within the limits ofSri Lanka by hand labour only.

(4) Any person found guilty of an offence under thissection shall on conviction after trial before a Magistrate beliable to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousandor to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or toboth such fine and such imprisonment, and in the case of asecond or subsequent conviction such fine or term ofimprisonment or both such fine and imprisonment may bedoubled.

(5) The Magistrate may, whether the alleged offender isconvicted or not, order that every chattel, article, instrumentor thing by means of or in relation to which the offence has ormight have been committed shall be destroyed or declaredforfeit to the State or otherwise dealt with as he may think fit.

187.Where an offence under this Act has beencommitted by a body corporate, every person who at thetime of the commission of the offence was a Director-General, Manager, Secretary or other similar officer of thatbody shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence, unlesshe proves that the offence was committed without his consentor connivance and that he exercised all due diligence toprevent the commission of the offence.

188.For the purposes of this Part, the definitionscontained in section 101 shall apply, unless the contextotherwise requires.

Offences bybodies corporate.

Interpretation.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003144

189.(1) The provisions of this Part respecting theapplication of a false trade description to goods, or respectinggoods to which a false trade description is applied, shallextend to the application to goods

(a) of any such figures, words, marks or arrangementor combination thereof, whether including aregistered Mark or not, as are likely to lead personsto believe that the goods are the manufacture ormerchandise of some person other than the personwhose manufacture or merchandise they really are ;

(b) of any false name or initials of a person and to goodswith the false name or initials of a person applied,in like manner as if such name or initials were atrade description.

(2) For the purposes of this Part the expression falsename or initials means, as applied to any goods, any nameor initials of a person which

(i) are not a Mark, or part of a Mark ; and

(ii) are identical with, or are a colourable imitation of,the name or initials of a person carrying on businessin connection with goods of the same description,and not having been authorized the use of such nameor initials ; and

(iii) are either those of a fictitious person or of someperson not, bona fide, carrying on business inconnection with such goods.

(3) A trade description which denotes or implies that inany goods to which it is applied which contains more metresor standard metres than contained therein, is a false tradedescription.

False name orinitials.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003145

190.A person shall be deemed to forge a Mark whoeither

(a) without the assent of the owner of the Mark makethat Mark, or a Mark so nearly resembling that markas to be likely to mislead ; or

(b) falsifies any genuine Mark, whether by alteration,addition, effacement or otherwise,

and any Mark so made or falsified is in this Part referred toas a forged Mark :

Provided that in any prosecution for forging a Mark theburden of proving the assent of the owner shall lie on theaccused.

191.Any person who

(a) Makes a false declaration to the Director-General ;

(b) Makes a false declaration in respect of geographicalindication inclusive of Ceylon Tea and CeylonCinnamon,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on convictionby a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousandrupees.

192.(1) Any person shall be deemed to apply a Markor trade description to goods who

(a) applies it to the goods itself ; or

(b) applies it to any covering, label, reel or other thingin or with which the goods are sold or exposed, orhad in possession for any purpose of sale, trade, ormanufacture ; or

(c) places, encloses, or annexes any goods which aresold or exposed, or had in possession for the purposeof sale, trade, or manufacture, in, with, or to anycovering, label, reel, or other thing to which a markor trade description has been applied ; or

Forging marks.

False declarationto be an offence.

Applying Marksand descriptions.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003146

(d) uses a Mark, or trade description in any mannerlikely to lead to the belief that the goods inconnection with which it is used are designated ordescribed by that Mark, or trade description.

(2) The expression covering includes any stopper, cask,bottle, vessel, box, cover capsule, case, frame, or wrapper ;and the expression label includes any band or ticket.

(3) A Mark or trade description shall be deemed to beapplied whether it is woven, impressed, stamped, branded,or otherwise worked into or annexed, or affixed to the goods,or any covering, label, reel, or other thing.

(4) A person shall be deemed to falsely apply to goods amark who, without the assent of the owner of a Mark, appliessuch Mark or any Mark so nearly resembling it as to belikely to mislead, but in any prosecution for falsely applyinga Mark to goods the burden of proving the assent of theowner shall lie on the accused.

193.Where a person is charged with of making any die,stamp block, machine, or other instrument for the purpose offorging or being used for forging, a Mark, or with falselyapplying to goods any Mark or any Mark so nearly resemblinga mark as to be likely to mislead, or with applying to goodsany false trade description or causing any of the things in thissection mentioned to be done, and such person proves

(a) that in the ordinary course of his business he isemployed, on behalf of other persons, to make dies,stamps blocks, machines, or other instruments formaking, or to be used in making, Marks, or as thecase may be, to apply Marks or descriptions to goodsand that in the case which is the subject of the chargehe was so employed by some person resident inSri Lanka, and was not interested in the goods byway of profit or commission dependent on the saleof such goods ; and

Exemption certainpersons employedin ordinary courseof business.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003147

(b) that he took reasonable precautions againstcommitting the offence charged with ; and

(c) that he had, at the time of the commission of thealleged offence, no reason to suspect the geniunnessof the Mark or trade description ; and

(d) that he gave to the prosecutor all the information inhis power with respect to the person on whose behalfthe Mark or description was applied,

he shall be discharged from the prosecution, but shall beliable to pay the costs incurred by the prosecutor unless hegives due notice to the prosecutor regarding his intention torely on defence specified in this section.

194.In any indictment, charge, proceeding, or documentin which any mark or forged mark is required to bementioned, it shall be sufficient, without further descriptionand without any copy or facsimile, to state that Mark orforged Mark to be a Mark or forged Mark.

195.In any prosecution for and offence under this Part

(a) an accused, and his or her spouse as the case maybe, may, if the accused thinks fit, be called as awitness, and if called, shall be sworn and examinedand may be cross-examined and re-examined in likemanner as any other witness ;

(b) in the case of imported goods evidence of the portof shipment shall be, prima facie, evidence of theplace or country in which the goods were made orproduced.

196.Any person who, being within Sri Lanka, abetsthe commission out side Sri Lanka of any act which, ifcommitted within Sri Lanka, would under this Part be anoffence, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, and beliable to be indicted, proceeded against, tried and convictedin any district or place in Sri Lanka in which he may be as ifthe offence had been committed therein.

Mark howdescribed inpleading.

Rules as toevidence.

Punishment ofaccessories.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003148

For the purpose of this section abet shall have the samemeaning as in section 101 of the Penal Code.

197.(1) (a) Upon receipt of information of an offencebeing committed under this Part, a Magistrate may issueeither a summons requiring the person alleged to havecommitted such offence to appear in court and show causeor where such person fails to appear issue a warrant for thearrest of such person ;

(b) The Magistrate may upon being satisfied byinformation on oath that there are reasonable grounds tobelieve that any goods or things by means of, or in relationto, which such alleged offence has been committed are inany house or premises of the person charged on the basis ofsuch information, or in his possession or under his control,in any place, such Magistrate may issue a warrant under hishand ;

(c) It shall be lawful for any police officer, or other personnamed or referred to in the warrant, to enter such house,premises, or place at any reasonable time of the day, and tosearch therefore and seize such goods or things ; andany goods or things seized under any such warrant shall bebrought before the Magistrates Court for the purpose ofdetermining whether such goods are liable to forfeiture underthis Part.

(2) (a) If the owner of any goods or things which, if theowner thereof had been convicted, would be liable toforfeiture under this Part, is unknown or cannot be found,any information or complaint may be led for the purposeonly of enforcing such forfeiture, and a Magistrate may causenotice to be published requiring reasons to be shown to thecontrary at the time and place named in the notice, as towhy such goods or things should not be forfeited.

Search warrant.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003149

(b) If the owner or any person on his behalf, or otherperson interested in the goods or things, fails to showsufficient cause to the contrary at the time and place namedin the notice, Magistrate may order such goods or things orany of them to be forfeited. Every such order shall be subjectto an appeal.

(3) Any goods or things forfeited under this section, orunder any other provisions of this Part, may be destroyed orotherwise disposed of, in such manner as the Magistrate whoordered the forfeiture may direct, and the Magistrate out ofany proceeds which may be realized by the disposition ofsuch goods (all marks and trade descriptions being firstobliterated), may make an award to an innocent party forany loss he may have sustained in dealing with such goods.

198.In any prosecution under this Part the Court mayorder costs to be paid to the accused by the prosecutor or tothe prosecutor by the accused, having regard to theinformation given by, and the conduct of, the accused andprosecutor respectively, and the sum so awarded as costsshall be recoverable as if it were a fine.

199.Where, at the commencement of this Act, a tradedescription is lawfully and generally applied to goods of aparticular class, or manufactured by a particular method, toindicate the particular class or method of manufacture ofsuch goods, the provisions of this Part with respect to falsetrade descriptions shall not apply to such trade descriptionwhen so applied :

Provided that where such trade description includes thename of a place or country, which is likely to mislead as tothe place or country where the goods to which it is appliedwere actually made or produced, and the goods are not actually

Provisions as tofalse descriptionnot to apply incertain cases.

Costs of defenceand ofprosecution.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003150

made or produced in that place or country, the provisions ofthis section shall not apply unless there is added to the tradedescription, immediately before or after the name of thatplace or country, in an equally conspicuous manner, the nameof the place or country in which the goods were actuallymade or produced, with a statement that they were made orproduced there.

200.(1) The Provisions of this Part shall not exempt anyperson from any action, suit, or other proceeding which might,but for the provisions of this Part, be brought against him.

(2) Nothing in this Part shall entitle any person to refuseto make a complete discovery, or to answer any question orinterrogatory in any action, but such discovery or answershall not be admissible in evidence against such person inany prosecution for an offence under this Part.

(3) Nothing in this Part shall be construed so as to makeany servant of a master resident in Sri Lanka liable to a suitor prosecution due to disclosure of information regardingthe servant of a master, when required by or on behalf of theprosecutor who, bona fide, acts in compliance with theinstructions of such master.

201.All offences under this Part shall be cognizableand bailable, within the meaning of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979. The provisions of the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act shall apply to any offencecommitted under this Part.

202.No prosecution for an offence under this Act shallbe commenced after the expiration of three years after thecommission of the offence charged or two years after thediscovery thereof by the prosecutor, which ever expirationfirst occurs.

Limitation ofprosecution.

Cognizable andbailable offences.

Savings.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003151

203.On the sale, or in the contract for the sale, of anygoods to which a Mark, or trade description has been applied,the vendor shall be deemed to warrant that the Mark is agenuine Mark, and not forged or falsely applied, or that thetrade description is not a false trade description within themeaning of this Part, unless the contrary is expressed in writingsigned by or on behalf of the vendor and delivered at the timeof the sale or contract to, and accepted by, the vendee.

CHAPTER XXXIX

REGULATIONS

204.(1) The Minister may from time to time makeregulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect tothe principles and provisions of this Act and in particular inrespect of any matter required under this Act to be prescribed.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1) the Minister may makeregulations in respect of any or all of the following matters :

(a) the procedure of registration ;

(b) the classification of goods and services for thepurposes of registration ;

(c) the fees payable in respect of registration and othermatters ;

(d) the forms to be used for any purpose under the Act ;

(e) the setting up of organizations to administer rightsspecified in Part II on behalf of the owners of suchrights and the conditions under which suchorganizations are required to work ;

(f) the admission, registration, cancellation, removaland any other matter relating to agents specified inChapter XXXVI of the Act ;

(g) The manner of the administration of the PatentCo-operation Treaty in Sri Lanka ;

Regulations.

Implied warrantyon sale of markedgoods.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003152

(h) all matters which under this Act have beenplaced under the direction or control of theDirector-General.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore the Parliament for approval. Any such regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of its disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette.

CHAPTER XL

AMENDMENT OF HIGH COURT OF THE PROVINCES(SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 10 OF 1996

205.High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions)Act, No. 10 of 1996 is hereby amended as follows :

(1) by the repeal of item 3 of the First Schedule to thatAct and substitution therefore of the following :

All proceedings required to be taken under theIntellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 in the HighCourt established under Article 154 P of theConstitution.

(2) by the repeal of item 2 of the Second Schedule tothe Act.

Amendment ofAct No. 10 of1996.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003153

CHAPTER XLI

AMENDMENT OF THE CUSTOMS ORDINANCE

206.Section 101 of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter235) is hereby amended by the insertion immediatelyafter paragraph (e) of that section of the following newparagraph :

(ee) for prohibiting of importation and exportaion ofcounterfeit trade mark goods or pirated copyrightgoods or any other goods in contravention of theprovisions of the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36of 2003.

207.The Customs Ordinance hereinafter referred to asthe Ordinance is hereby amended in P art XIII of thatOrdinance by the insertion immediately after section 125thereof of the following new sections :

125A. (1) The importation of counterfeittrade mark goods or pirated copyright goodsor any other goods in contravention of theprovisions of the Intellectual Property Act,No. 36 of 2003 (hereinafter referred to as theAct) shall be prohibited and such goods shallbe included among the goods the importationof which, are prohibited under section 43 ofthe Ordinance and included in Schedule B ofthe Ordinance as prohibited goods.

(2) The exportation of the goods referredto in subsection (1) of this section shall beprohibited and such goods shall be includedamong the goods the exportation of which, areprohibited as if they were referred to in section44 of the Ordinance and included in ScheduleB of the Ordinance as prohibited goods.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other law, prohibited goods referred to insubsections (1) and (2) of this section, shall bedisposed of outside the channels of commerce

Inclusion ofprohibitedgoods inSchedule B ofCustomsOrdinance.

Amendment ofsection 101 of theCustomsOrdinance.(Chapter 235)

Insertion of newsections in theCustomsOrdinance.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003154

or if such disposal damages the interests of theowner of any right protected under the Act, bedestroyed.

(4) Counterfeit trade mark goods meanany goods including packaging, bearingwithout authorization a trade mark which isidentical to a trade mark validly registered inrespect of such goods or which cannot bedistinguished in its essential aspects from sucha trade mark, and which thereby infringes therights of the owner of the trade mark recognisedby the Act.

(5) Pirated copyright goods mean anygoods which are made without the consent ofthe copyright holder or person duly authorisedby the copyright holder in the country ofproduction and which are made directly orindirectly from an article where the making ofthat copy would have constituted aninfringement of a copyright or a related rightby the Act.

125B.(1) A right holder, who has validgrounds to believe that the importation ofcounterfeit trade mark or pirated copyrightgoods or of any other goods in contraventionof the right holders rights under the Act istaking place, may make an application inwriting to the Director-General, of customsrequiring him to suspend of the release of suchgoods into free circulation.

(2) A right holder who makes an applicationunder subsection (1) shall provide adequateevidence to satisfy the Director-General ofCustoms that there is a, prima facie, case ofinfringement of the right holders rights underthe Act and supply a sufficiently detaileddescription of the goods to make them readilyrecognisable by any officer of the Customs.

Suspension ofcertain goodsby CustomsAuthorities.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003155

(3) (a) The Director-General of customsshall have the power to require an applicant toprovide a security or equivalent assurancesufficient to protect the defendant and toprevent any abuse ;

(b) Where pursuant to an application madeunder subsection (1), the Director-General ofcustoms suspends the release of any goods intofree circulation, he shall forthwith cause theimporter and the applicant to be promptlynotified the the suspension.

(4) If the Director-General of customs failsto receive any notice regarding the institutionof proceedings in respect of the of release ofany goods suspended under subsection (3),within a period not exceeding ten working daysafter the applicant has been informed of thesuspension as provided for in subsection (3),he shall cause the goods to be released,provided all other conditions for importationor exportation have been complied with.

(5) Where pursuant to an application madeunder subsection (1), the Director-General ofcustoms has suspended the release of any goodsinto free circulation and the period referred toin subsection (4) has expired without thegranting of any provisional relief by a Court,and provided that all other conditions forimportation have been complied with, theowner, importer or consignee of such goodsshall be entitled to have such goods released.

(6) Notwithstanding anything contained inthe preceding provisions of this section, wherethe suspension of the release of any goods iscarried out or continued in accordance with an

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003156

order of court, the provisions of subsection 4of section 170 of Intellectual Property Act,No. 36 of 2003, shall apply.

(7) The court shall have the power to orderthe applicant to pay the importer, the consigneeand the owner of the goods, appropriatecompensation for any harm caused to themthrough the wrongful detention of goods orthrough the detention of goods released pursuantto the preceding provisions of this section.

(8) Without prejudice to the protection ofconfidential information, the Court shall havepower to give the right holder sufficientopportunity to have any goods detained by thecustoms authorities inspected in order tosubstantiate the right holders claims. TheCourt shall in addition have power to give theimporter an equivalent opportunity to have anysuch goods inspected.

(9) Without prejudice to other rights ofaction open to the right holder and the defendant,the Court shall have the power to order thedestruction or disposal of any infringing goodsin accordance with the principals set out insection 170 of Intellectual Property Act, No. 36of 2003. In regard to counterfeit trade markgoods, the Court shall not other than inexceptional circumstances allow the re-exportation of the infringing goods in anunrelated state or subject them to a differentcustoms procedure.

(10) The provisions of sections 125A and125B shall not apply to small quantities ofgoods of a non-commercial nature containedin a travellers personal luggage or forwardedin small consignments.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003157

(11) In this section, the expressionscounterfeit trade mark goods and piratedcopyright goods shall have the same meaningsas are assigned to them in section 125A..

CHAPTER XLII

REPEALS AND SAVINGS

208.(1) The Code of Intellectual Property Act, No. 52of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as the Code) is herebyrepealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Code the NationalIntellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka established underthe Code, and the officials appointed under the Code shallcontinue and shall be deemed to have been established andappointed respectively under this Act.

(3) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Code everyregulation made thereunder as in force on the date ofcommencement of this Act, in so far as such regulation isnot inconsistent, with the provisions of this Act shall bedeemed to be made under this Act, and such regulations maybe amended, rescinded or altered by regulations made underthis Act.

(4) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Code

(a) Every application for registration of an IndustrialDesign, Patent or Mark made to the Director-General under the provision of the code and pendingon the date immediately preceeding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed to bean application made to the Director-General underPart III, IV or V respectively of this Act, and shallbe dealt with in accordance with the provisions ofthis Act ;

Repeals andsavings.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003158

(b) any right specified in Part II of this Act, which wasgranted on the date of coming into operation of therepealed Code shall for all purposes except for thepurpose of imposing punishment, continue to be validand effectual as if herein granted provided that theterm of protection previously granted has not expiredunder the Code or under the laws of the country oforigin of such work, performance, sound recordingor broadcast that are to be protected under anyinternational treaty to which Sri Lanka is a party ;

(c) every action, proceeding or other matter relating toCopyright, Industrial Desingns, Patents, Marks andunfair competition pending on the day immediatelypreceeding the date of the commencement of thisAct, shall be deemed to have been instituted underthe provision of this Act and shall be continued andproceeded with under the provisions of this Act ;

(d) nothing in Part III, IV, V or VI of this Act shall affectany order or requirement made, table of fees orcertificates issued, notice, decision, determination,direction or approval given, application made, orthing done, under the Code, and every such order,requirement, table of fees, certificate, notice,decision, determination, direction, approval,application or thing shall, if in force on the dateimmediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be deemed to have been made underthe provisions of this Act and shall continue in forceand shall, so far as it could have been made, issued,given or done under this Act have effect as if made,issued, given or done under the correspondingprovisions of this Act ;

(e) all contracts, leases and agreements subsisting onthe day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act shall be deemed for allpurposes to be contracts, leases or agreements madeor entered into by or with or for the office, underthe provisions of this Act.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003159

(f) all interests, rights, obligations, debts and liabilitiesof the office subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be deemed to be the interest, rights,obligations, debts and to liabilities of the office,under the provisions of this Act.

209.The validity of the original entry of a Design onthe register of Designs existing on the day immediatelypreceeding the date of commencement of this Act or anyregister of Designs which was kept under any previous lawand was incorporated with and declared to form Part of theRegister of Designs, shall be deemed to have been registeredunder Part III of this Act. Every such Design shall howeverretain its original date.

210.The validity of the original entry of a Patent onthe register of Patents existing on the day immediatelypreceeding the date of commencement of this Act or anyRegister of Patents which was kept under the previous lawsand was incorporated with and declared to form Part of theRegister of Patent shall be deemed to have been registeredunder Part IV of this Act. Every such Patent shall howeverretain its Original date.

211.(a) The validity of the original entry of a Mark onthe Register of Marks existing on the day immediatelypreceeding the date of commencement of this Act or anyregister of Marks which was kept under any previous lawand was incorrporated with and declared to form Part of theRegister of Marks shall be deemed to have been registeredunder Part V of this Act. Every such Mark shall howeverretain its original date.

(b) No mark which was on the Register on the dayimmediately after the date of commencement of the Code andwhich under the Code was then a registrable mark shall beremoved from the Register on the ground that it was notregistrable under the law in force at the date of its registration.

Saving ofDesigns.

Savings ofPatents.

Savings of Marks.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003160

(c) No mark which was on the Register on the dayimmediately preceeding the date of commencement of theAct and which under Part V is a registrable mark shall beremoved from the register on the ground that it was notregistrable, under the law in force at the date of itsregistration.

(d)Nothing in Part V shall

(i) invalidate the original registration of amark which had validity on the registerimmediately before the date of commencementof this Act ; or

(ii) subject any person to any liability in respect toany act or thing done before the date ofcommencement of this Act, to which he wouldnot have been subject under the law in force atthe time such act or thing was done.

CHAPTER XLIII

INTERPRETATION

212.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

Central Bank of Sri Lanka means the Central Bankof Sri Lanka established under the Monetary LawAct (Chapter 422) ;

convention country means any country that hasacceded to or ratified or that may hereafter accedeto or ratify the Paris Convention for the protectionof Industrial Property, as well as all members ofthe World Trade Organisation or States that mayhere after become members of the World TradeOrganisation, and includes any country which has

Interpretation.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003161

entered into or which may hereafter enter into anytreaty, convention or arrangement with Sri Lankacreating reciprocal rights and obligations betweensuch country and Sri Lanka in regard to IndustrialDesigns, Patents and Marks and any othermatter provided for by the Act and the registrationthereof ;

convention means the Paris Convention for theprotection of Industrial Property, World TradeOrganisation or any other international or regionalconvention, treaty or arrangement to which SriLanka is party creating reciprocal rights andobligations between such country and Sri Lanka inregard to Industrial Designs, Patents. Marks and anyother matter provided for by the Act and theregistration there of ;

Court means a High Court established under Article154P of the Constitution for a Province empoweredwith civil jursidiction by Order published in theGazette under section 2 of the High Court of Provinces(Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 1996 when theparty or parties defendant to such action resides orreside or the cause of action has arisen or the contractsought to be enforced was made within the Provincefor which such High Court is established, or where nosuch High Court is established for any Province orvested with such civil jurisdiction the High Courtestablished for the Western Province ;

Transgenic means an organism that expresses acharacteristic not attainable normally by the speciesunder natural circumstances, but which has beenadded by means of direct human intervention in itsgenetic composition..

213.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003162

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNM ENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.