PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION, REGISTRATION ANDENFORCEMENT OF FOREIGN JUDGMENTSACT, No. 49 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 13th of September, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 36.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 20, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024[Certified on 13th of September, 2024]

L.D.O. 19/2022

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION,REGISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT IN SRI LANKA OF JUDGMENTS OFCOURTS OF OTHER COUNTRIES; AND TO REPEAL THE ENFORCEMENT OFFOREIGN JUDGMENTS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 93) AND THERECIPROCAL ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER94); AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Reciprocal Recognition,Registration and Enforcement of Foreign Judgments Act,No. 49 of 2024.

(2) The provisions of this Act, other than the provisionsof this section shall come into operation on such date as theMinister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette (inthis Act referred to as the appointed date).

(3) The provisions of this section shall come intooperation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act ofParliament.

PART I

APPLICATION OF THE ACT

2. (1) Where-

(a)(i) the Government of Sri Lanka and theGovernment of any foreign country enterinto any treaty as respects the reciprocal

Short title anddate ofoperation

Application ofthe Act

Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

2

recognition, registration and enforcementof judgments of the courts of Sri Lankaand of such foreign country; or

(ii) any written law in force on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed dateprovides for the reciprocal recognition,registration and enforcement in Sri Lankaof judgments of the courts of a foreigncountry; and

(b)the Minister is satisfied that by extending theprovisions of this Part of this Act to judgmentsof the courts of such foreign country a substantialreciprocity of treatment will be assured asrespects the recognition, registration andenforcement in such foreign country ofjudgments of the courts of Sri Lanka,

the Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette, declarethat the provisions of this Part of this Act shall extend to thejudgments of such courts of that foreign country as arespecified in such Order.

(2) The Minister may, if he considers it appropriate, seekthe views of the Minister assigned the subject of ForeignAffairs and the Attorney-General in making an Order undersubsection (1).

(3) An Order made under subsection (1) shall-

(a)come into operation on the date of publicationof such Order in the Gazette or on such later dateas may be specified therein; and

3Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

(b)subject to the provisions of subsection (4), remainin force so long as may be specified in such Orderor for such period as the treaty or the written lawreferred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (1)remains in force.

(4) The Minister may, having regard to the provisions ofparagraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1), by a subsequentOrder amend, vary or revoke any Order previously madeunder that subsection.

(5) (a) Every Order made by the Minister shall, withinthree months after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval.

(b) Any Order which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval,but without prejudice to anything duly done thereunder.

(6) A notification of the date on which an Order is deemedto be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

3. (1) The provisions of this Act shall apply to a judgmentof a court of a foreign country specified in the Order publishedunder section 2, only if such judgment is final and conclusiveas between the parties to such judgment, and-

(a)any one or more of the following conditions aresatisfied by the applicant: -

(i)the judgment-creditor or the judgment-debtorwas a resident of the country of the originalcourt at the time such judgment-creditor orthe judgment-debtor, as the case may be,became a party to the proceedings in theoriginal court;

Judgments towhich this Actshall apply

Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

4

(ii)the judgment-debtor, if he is a natural person,had his principal place of business in thecountry of the original court at the time thatjudgment-debtor became a party to theproceedings in the original court;

(iii)the judgment-creditor is the person who hasobtained the judgment based on his claim orclaim in reconvention in an action;

(iv)the judgment-debtor has maintained abranch, agency or other establishment withor without separate legal personality in thecountry of the original court at the time suchjudgment-debtor became a party to theproceedings in the original court;

(v)the judgment-debtor has agreed to submit orsubmitted to the jurisdiction of the originalcourt;

(vi)the property relating to the judgment, whethermovable or immovable is situated in SriLanka or in the country of the original courtat the time of the proceedings in the originalcourt;

(vii)the applicant has derived any right, interest,benefit, title, status or entitlement under thejudgment of the original court, as at the dateof the judgment or thereafter; or

(b)in the case of a judgment for the dissolution orannulment of a marriage or separation of the partiesto a marriage, only if such judgment is obtained inrespect of a marriage registered under the Marriage

5Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

Registration Ordinance (Chapter 112), whether suchmarriage had been contracted prior to or after theappointed date or such judgment had been enteredprior to or after the appointed date, and

(i)either party to the marriage was domiciled insuch country as at the date of the judgment;

(ii)either party to the marriage was habituallyresident in such country for a period not lessthan one year immediately before the date ofthe judgment;

(iii)either party to the marriage was a national ofsuch country as at the date of the judgment;or

(iv)both parties have submitted to the jurisdictionof such court.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall not apply to any tax,charge, fine or other penalty payable under a judgment of acourt of a foreign country.

PART II

RECOGNITION, REGISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFOREIGN JUDGMENTS

4. An applicant may make an application in such formand manner accompanied by such information anddocuments as may be prescribed by rules made under thisAct, to the registering court for recognition, registrationand enforcement of a foreign judgment

Application forrecognition,registration andenforcement of aforeignjudgment

Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

6

(a)within ten years from the date of the final judgmentalong with a certificate issued by the relevantauthority of the original court authenticating suchjudgment; and

(b)by way of summary procedure in accordance withthe provisions of Chapter XXIV of Part II of theCivil Procedure Code:

Provided however, the registering court may entertain anapplication made after ten years from the date of the finaljudgment if the applicant proves to the satisfaction of thecourt that the reasons for such delay are valid:

Provided further, the registering court shall not allow theparties to adduce any oral evidence, and shall conclude theproceedings on the petitions, statements of objections,affidavits and any other documents tendered by such partieswithin a period of six months from the date of applicationfor the recognition, registration and enforcement of theforeign judgment.

5. (1) Upon receipt of an application for recognition,registration and enforcement of a foreign judgment undersection 4, if the registering court is prima facie satisfiedthat, as at the date of the application

(a)such judgment is a judgment to which this Actapplies;

(b)the applicant has derived any right, interest, benefit,title, status or entitlement under the judgment givenby the original court; and

Registration of aforeignjudgment

7Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

(c)the application has been made within the periodspecified in section 4,

the registering court shall proceed to register such judgment.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, where a judgmentis registered in terms of this Act, such registered judgmentshall be deemed to have the same force and effect and thesame control over the execution of such judgment as if ithad been a judgment originally given in the registering courtand entered on the date of registration.

(3) Where, as at the date of application for recognitionand registration of a foreign judgment, a part of the reliefawarded by the original court has been satisfied, theregistering court may enforce the judgment only in respectof the unsatisfied part of the judgment.

6. (1) Where, upon registration of a foreign judgment forthe dissolution or annulment of a marriage or separation ofthe parties to a marriage under section 5, it appears to theregistering court that

(a)such foreign judgment was given inter parte, theregistering court shall pronounce a declarationrecognising such judgment in Sri Lanka; or

(b)such foreign judgment was obtained ex parte, theregistering court shall issue a notice to the otherparty to the marriage.

(2) For the purpose of paragraph (b) of subsection (1), theprovisions of sections 59 to 71 of the Civil Procedure Codeshall, mutatis mutandis, apply in relation to the service ofnotice.

Recognition of aforeignjudgment for thedissolution orannulment of amarriage orseparation of theparties to amarriage inSri Lanka

Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

8

(3) Where there is no objection made under section 7within the period specified in the notice issued underparagraph (b) of subsection (1) and upon the registeringcourt being satisfied of the proper service of notice underparagraph (b) of subsection (1), the registering court maypronounce a declaration recognising such foreign judgment.

7. A respondent to an application for the recognition andregistration of a foreign judgment for the dissolution orannulment of a marriage or separation of the parties to amarriage, upon receipt of a notice issued under paragraph(b) of subsection (1) of section 6, may appear before theregistering court and object to such application on theground that-

(a)the applicant has failed to satisfy any of therequirements set out in section 4;

(b)there is fraud; or

(c)there is a misrepresentation of facts relevant to theapplication and the affidavit made under section 4.

8. (1) Where the party who made an objection undersection 7, fails to satisfy the registering court of the existenceof any ground for the refusal of an application specified insection 7, the court may reject such objection by an ordermade in that behalf and shall pronounce a declarationrecognising such foreign judgment for the dissolution orannulment of a marriage or separation of the parties to amarriage in respect of which such application is made.

(2) Such declaration shall have the effect of such foreignjudgment for the dissolution or annulment of a marriage orseparation of the parties to a marriage being recognised as ifit had been issued by a competent court of Sri Lanka.

Objectionsagainstrecognition of aforeignjudgment forthe dissolutionor annulment ofa marriage orseparation ofthe parties to amarriage inSri Lanka

Refusal ofobjections andrecognition andregistration of aforeignjudgment for thedissolution orannulment of amarriage orseparation of theparties to amarriage

9Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

9. The court may grant and apportion costs for anyapplication made under section 4, as the court deems fit.

10. Where the registering court pronounces a declarationin the case of a foreign judgment for the dissolution orannulment of a marriage or separation of the parties to amarriage, recognising such judgment in Sri Lanka, theRegistrar of the registering court shall send a copy of suchdeclaration certified by such Registrar as true copy, to theRegistrar-General for the purposes of the MarriageRegistration Ordinance (Chapter 112).

11. (1) The registering court shall, at any time afterregistration of a foreign judgment, upon application in thatbehalf duly made by the judgment-debtor or any party whoserights, interests, benefits, title, status or entitlements havebeen adversely affected, or on its own motion, set aside theregistration of the judgment, if the registering court issatisfied that

(a)the judgment was registered in contravention ofthe provisions of subsection (1) of section 5;

(b)notice or sufficient notice has not been given tothe judgment-debtor in accordance with the law ofthe country of the original court to enable him todefend the proceedings;

(c)the registered judgment was obtained by fraud;

(d)the person by whom the application for recognition,registration and enforcement of the judgment wasmade, has not derived any right, interest, benefit,title, status or entitlement under the judgment ofthe original court; or

Court may grantcosts

Registration offoreignjudgments forthe dissolutionof marriages,&c. with theRegistrar-General

Setting aside of aregisteredjudgment

Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

10

(e)the judgment has been reversed or set aside inappeal by the original court or a higher court of thecountry of the original court in terms of the law ofthe country of the original court.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherprovisions of this Act, the registering court may, if itconsiders appropriate, allow the parties to lead evidence inrespect of an application to set aside the registration of ajudgment under this Act.

(3) The provisions of section 389 of the Civil ProcedureCode shall, mutatis mutandis, apply in respect of anapplication to set aside the registration of a judgment underthis Act.

(4) The setting aside of the registration of a judgmentunder this section shall not prevent a fresh application forregistration of a judgment being filed in compliance withthe provisions of this Act.

12. (1) No appeal shall lie against any order made by theregistering court under the provisions of this Act in respectof an application made for the recognition, registration andenforcement of a foreign judgment, other than a judgmentfor the dissolution or annulment of a marriage or separationof the parties to a marriage.

(2) Any party who is dissatisfied with any recognitionawarded or any order made by the registering court underthe provisions of this Act in respect of an application madefor the recognition, registration and enforcement of a foreignjudgment for the dissolution or annulment of a marriage orseparation of the parties to a marriage, may appeal to therelevant High Court established by Article 154P of theConstitution, with leave first had and obtained from therelevant High Court.

Appeals

11Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

13. Where both parties to a foreign judgment for thedissolution or annulment of a marriage or separation of theparties to a marriage have made separate applications for therecognition and registration of the same judgment, theregistering court shall consolidate both such applicationsand make an order in the same proceedings.

PART III

GENERAL PROVISIONS

14. From and after the date on which an Order undersubsection (1) of section 2 is published in the Gazette, anyproceedings for the recognition, registration andenforcement of a judgment of a court of such foreign countryshall not be entertained by any court in Sri Lanka, except inaccordance with the provisions of this Act.

15. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary containedin any other written law-

(a)in the case of an application for the recognition,registration and enforcement of a foreign judgmentto which the provisions of this Act apply, otherthan a judgment for the dissolution or annulmentof a marriage or separation of the parties to amarriage, the District Court of Colombo or any othercourt as may be designated by the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette; and

(b)in the case of an application for the recognitionand registration of a foreign judgment for thedissolution or annulment of a marriage or separation

Making separateapplications inrespect ofrecognition andregistration of aforeignjudgment forthe dissolutionof a marriage,&c

Foreignjudgmentswhich may beregistered, not tobe enforceableotherwise

Jurisdiction inrespect ofapplications forrecognition,registration andenforcement offoreignjudgments

Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

12

of the parties to a marriage to which the provisionsof this Act apply, the District Court of Colombo orthe District Court within the local limits of whosejurisdiction any party to such judgment resides,

shall have the jurisdiction, cognizance of, and full power, inthe manner provided for by this Act and the rules made undersection 20 to hear and determine such application.

16. Service of summons, notices or any other documentsrelating to recognition, registration and enforcement, as thecase may be, of foreign judgments under this Act shall bemade in the manner provided for in Chapters VIII and XXIIof the Civil Procedure Code.

17. (1) Where the language of a judgment of a court of aforeign country specified in the Order made under section 2is in a language other than the English language, suchjudgment shall be accompanied by a translation thereof inthe language used by the registering court as the languageof such court and made and signed by an interpreter of theSupreme Court, the Court of Appeal or the High Court, or bya sworn translator or an interpreter of any District Court,Family Court, Magistrates Court or Primary Court, or by asworn translator.

(2) For the purposes of this section, sworn translatormeans a translator who has taken and subscribed the oath ormade and subscribed the affirmation before a District Judgeof a District Court of Sri Lanka.

18. Any person who willfully and dishonestly makes anyfalse statement of facts in an affidavit made under this Actcommits an offence and shall, on conviction by theMagistrates Court, be liable to a fine not less than twohundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a periodnot less than one year, or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Application ofthe CivilProcedure Code

Language of thedocumentsproduced to thecourt

Making falsestatement offacts inaffidavits

13Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 202419. In any matter or question of procedure not providedfor in this Act, the procedure laid down in the Civil ProcedureCode in respect of a like matter or question shall be followedby the court if such procedure is not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act.

20. (1) The Minister may, from time to time, make rulesunder this Act, in respect of all matters for which rules areauthorised or required to be made for the purpose of givingeffect to the provisions of this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the provisions of subsection (1), rules may be made inrespect of the following matters: -

(a)filing of an application for the recognition,registration and enforcement of a foreign judgment,and setting aside of a registered judgment and formsto be used for such purposes;

(b)statement of facts that the affidavits made underthis Act shall contain;

(c)prescribing the documents that shall accompanyan application filed under this Act;

(d)tendering of security when applying for therecognition, registration and enforcement of aforeign judgment;

(e)the manner of serving the notice of registration andthe content of such notice;

(f)subject to the time limits expressly provided for inthis Act, the time limits for performing any actrequired to be performed under this Act;

(g)prescribing the method by which any interestpayable under a foreign judgment under the law ofthe country of the original court is to be determined;

(h)the matters relating to the award of costs; and

Casus omissus

Rules

Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

14

(i)any other matter which is required to be prescribedunder this Act in order to achieve the objectives ofthis Act.

(3) Every rule made by the Minister under this sectionshall be published in the Gazette and shall come intooperation from the date of such publication or on anotherdate as may be specified in such rule.

21. With effect from the appointed date-

(a)the Enforcement of Foreign Judgments Ordinance(Chapter 93); and

(b)the Reciprocal Enforcement of JudgmentsOrdinance (Chapter 94),

shall stand repealed.

22. Notwithstanding the repeal of the ReciprocalEnforcement of Judgments Ordinance (Chapter 94) (in thissection referred to as the repealed Ordinance)-

(a)every Order made under section 6 of the repealedOrdinance and in force on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall be valid andeffectual in respect of the judgments of the courtsdeclared in such Order, until an Order is made undersection 2 of this Act extending the provisions ofthis Act to the judgments of the correspondingcourts;

(b)all applications filed and proceedings institutedunder the repealed Ordinance and pending on theday immediately preceding the appointed date shallbe proceeded with and concluded under theprovisions of the repealed Ordinance; and

Repeals

Savings andtransitionalprovisions

15Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

(c)all judgments, decrees or orders entered into ormade under the repealed Ordinance and remainingunsatisfied either wholly or partially on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date shall beproceeded with and concluded under the provisionsof the repealed Ordinance.

23. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

applicant for the purposes of this Act, includes ajudgment-creditor or any person who hasderived any right, interest, benefit, title, statusor entitlement under the judgment of theoriginal court, as at the date of the judgment orthereafter;

Civil Procedure Code means the Civil ProcedureCode (Chapter 101);

country of the original court means the country inwhich the original court is situated;

dissolution or annulment of a marriage or separationof the parties to a marriage means any divorce,annulment of a marriage or judicial separationof the parties to a marriage obtained by meansof proceedings in a competent court of law of acountry specified by the Minister under section2 of this Act;

domiciled in a country means domiciled in termsof the law of that country;

judgment means a judgment, decree or order givenor made by a competent court of a foreigncountry which has been specified by the

Interpretation

Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

16

Minister by Order published in the Gazette interms of section 2 of this Act, but does notinclude a judgment, decree or order given ormade-

(a)against any foreign countryspecified in an Order made undersection 2;

(b)in relation to property settlementin any matrimonial matter;

(c)in proceedings relating toinsolvency;

(d)in proceedings relating towinding-up of companies;

(e)in proceedings relating tounsoundness of mind;

(f)in proceedings relating toguardianship, custody ormaintenance of a minor, orcuratorship of the estate of aminor; or

(g)in proceedings relating toguardianship and management ofthe estate of a person of unsoundmind;

judgment-creditor means the person in whosefavour the judgment was given and includesany person who has derived any right, interest,benefit, title, status or entitlement under thejudgment sought to be registered in Sri Lanka;

17Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

judgment-debtor means the person against whomthe judgment was given and includes anyperson against whom the judgment isenforceable;

Minister means the Minister assigned the subjectof Justice in terms of Article 44 or 45 of theConstitution;

original court in relation to any judgment, meansthe court by which the judgment was given or ahigher court which has affirmed or entered ajudgment in the exercise of appellatejurisdiction;

prescribed means prescribed by rules made underthis Act; and

registering court-

(a)in relation to a judgment otherthan a judgment for thedissolution or annulment of amarriage or separation of theparties to a marriage, means theDistrict Court of Colombo or anyother court as may be specifiedby the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette; and

(b)in relation to a judgment for thedissolution or annulment of amarriage or separation of theparties to a marriage, means theDistrict Court of Colombo or theDistrict Court within the locallimits of whose jurisdiction anyparty to such judgment resides.

Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

18

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

24. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

19Reciprocal Recognition, Registration andEnforcement of Foreign JudgmentsAct, No. 49 of 2024

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTINGEnglish Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.