PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SHRAMA VASANA FUND ACT, No. 12 OF 1998

[Certified on 31st March, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of April 03, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 2.50



Shrama Vasana Fund Act, No. 12 of 1998

[Certified on 31st March, 1998]
L. D.—O. 38/96.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FUND CALLED
AND KNOWN AS “SHRAMA VASANA FUND” FOR THE PROVISION
OF MONEYS FOR THE WELFARE OF EMPLOYEES ; AND TO PROVIDE
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Shrama Vasana Fund
Act, No. 12 of 1998.

2. (1) There shall be established a Fund which shall be
called the Shrama Vasana Fund (hereinafter referred to as
“the Fund”).

(2) The Fund shall by the name assigned to it by subsection
(1) be a body corporate, and shall have perpetual succession
anda common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3. (1) The administration, management and control of
the Fund shall be vested in a Board of Trustees (hereinafter
referred to as the “Board”) constituted as hereinafter provided.

(2) The Board shall, for the purposes of administering the
_ affairs of the Fund, exercise, discharge and perform, the
powers, and functions conferred on or assigned to the Fund
by this Act.

(3) Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Board shall
have the power to make rules to regulate the procedure relating
to its meetings and the transaction of business at such
meetings.

4. (1) The Board shall consist of the following :—

(a) Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Labour who shall
be the Chairman of the Board (hereinafter
referred to as the “Chairman”) :

2—D 047288—8,550 (01/98)

Short Title.

Establishment of
Shrama Vasara
Fund.

Board of Trustees
of the Fund.

Constitution of the
Board.


2 Shrama Vasana Fund Act, No. 12 of 1998

(b) a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
nominated by the Minister, in consultation
with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance ; and

(c). four persons appointed by the Minister,
(hereinafter referred to as “appointed
members”).

(2) (a) every appointed member shall unless he vacates »
office earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office for
a period of three years from the date of his appointment to
such office.

(b).every appointed member may resign his office by. a
letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister and such
resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted by the
Minister.

(c) the Minister may, without assigning any reason
therefor, remove any appointed member from office.

(d) where any appointed member is, by reason of illness
or other infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the Minister may
appoint another person to act in his place.

(e) where any appointed member dies or resigns or is
removed from office, the Minister shal! appoint another person
in his place and the person so appointed shall hold office for
the unexpired period of the term of office of the member whom
he succeeds.

(f) an appointed, member vacating office by effluxion of
time shall be eligible for reappointment.

(3) (a) the Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the
Board. In the absence of the Chairman from any meeting of
the Board, a member chosen by the majority of the members
present at such.meeting shall preside at such meeting.

(b) the quorum for'any meetihg of the Board shall be three
members.


Shrama Vasana Fund Act, No. 12 of 1998 3

{c) the Board shalt have the power to act notwithstanding
any vacancy in its membership. Any act or proceeding of the
Board shall not be deemed to be invalid by reason only of
such vacancy or any defect in the appointment of member.

(4) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or from continuing, in office as a member of the Board if
he—

(a) is or becomes a member of Parliament or a member
of Provincial Council or a local authority ; or

(b) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other

country found or declared to be of unsound mind ; or

—

is a person having been declared an insolvent or a
bankrupt, under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any
other country, is an undischarged insolvent or
bankrupt ; or

{c

—

(d) is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonment
imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any other
country.

5. (1) The seal of the Fund (hereinafter referred to as the
“seal”) shall be in the custody of such persons as the Board
may from time to time determine.

(2) The seal shall not be affixed to any instrument or
document except with the sanction of the Board and in the
presence of two members of the Board who shall sign the
instrument or documents in token of their presence.

(3) The seal may be altered in such manner as may be
determined by the Board.

Seal of the Fund.


Objects of the
Fund.

Powers and
functions of the
Board.

4

Shrama Vasana Fund Act, No. 12 of 1998

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instruments
or documents to which the seal has been affixed.

6.
(a)
(b)

{ec

—

(d)

(e)

/

7.

The objects of the Fund shall be—
to promote the welfare of employees ;

to provide financial and other assistance to employees
when the institutions they were working in, are closed
down without prior notice ;

to provide medical and other facilities to employees
in times of emergency ;

to provide temporary assistance to employees when
inquiries are instituted against them ;

to provide financial and other benefits to employees
or their dependants, in times of distress ;

to give awards to persons who have rendered out
standing service to employee welfare.

(1) The Board shall, in the name of the Fund, have the

power to do all things necessary for or conducive or incidental
to the carrying out the objects of the Fund.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Board shall have following
powers :—

(a)

(6)

(ce)

to arrange for the conduct of a Lottery called and
known as “Shrama Vasana” by the National Lotteries
Board, to raise moneys for the purpose of carrying
out the objects of the Fund ;

to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind,
whether from local or foreign sources ;

to acquire and hold any property, movable or
immovable, by way of purchase, grant, gift, donation,
bequest, or otherwise ;


Shrama Vasana Fund Act, No. 12 of 1998 5

(d) to sell, mortgage, lease, grant, convey, devise, assign,
exchange or otherwise dispose of, any such property ;

(e) to enter into and perform, any such contracts as may
be necessary for the proper exercise of its powers and
the discharge of its functions or for carrying out the
objects of the Fund ;

(f) to appoint, terminate the appointment of, remunerate,
and exercise disciplinary control 1 over, and its officers
and servants ;

(g) to errect, or cause to be erected, any building or
structure on any land belonging t to or held by the
Fund ;

(h) to invest money belonging to the Fund at the discretion
of the Board and to collect the i income accruing from
such investment ;

(i) to open, operate and close bank accounts and to borrow
or raise money, with or without security, for the
purposes of the Fund ;

(j) todo all such other acts and things as are incidental or
conducive to the carrying out of the objects of the
Fund.

8. The Minister may give such general directions in
writing to the Board as to the exercise of powers and the
discharge of the functions of the Board and the Board shall
give effect to every such direction.

9. The Minister may from time to time order in writing
all or any of the activities of the Fund to be investigated or
inquired into and reported upon by such person or persons as
he may specify within such time specified in such order and
upon such order being made, the Board shall afford all such
facilities and furnish all such information as such person or
persons may require to give effect to such direction.

Directions of the
Minister to the
Board.

Power of the
Minister to
investigate in to
activities of the
Fund.



Payment to
the Fund.

Payments out of
the Fund.

Accounts and
Audit.

6 Shrama Vasana Fund Act, No. 12 of 1998
10. There shall be paid into the Fund—
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time to
time by Parliament for the purpose of carrying out the

objects of the Fund ;

(b) all sums of money received as grants, gifts or
donations, from local or foreign sources ;

(c) all sums of money received as income from
investments made by the Fund ; and

(d) all sums of money derived by the Fund in the exercise
of its powers, and the discharge of its functions, under

this Act, including the proceeds of the lotteries referred
to in section 13.

11. There shall be paid out of the Fund— _

(a

—

all such sums as are necessary for meeting expenses,
incurred in the working, establishment and.
maintenance of the Fund ;

(b) all such sums as are necessary for the payment of
salaries to officers and servants of the Fund ;

(c) all such sums as are necessary for meeting such
payments as are approved by the Board as being
necessary for the purpose of carrying out the objects,
of the Fund.

12. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Fund.

(2) The income and expenditure accounts and the balance
sheet shall be signed by two members of the Board authorised "
to do so by a resolution passed by the Board.


Shrama Vasana Fund Act, No. 12 of 1998 7

(3) The financial year of the Board shall be the calender
year.

(4) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shall
apply to the audit of the accounts of the Fund.

13. (1) The National Lotteries Board established by the
Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963 (hereinafter referred to as “the
Lotteries Board”) shall conduct for the Fund such number of
and any type of lotteries in each year as may be agreed between
the Fund. and the Lotteries Board.

(2) Every such lottery shall be called a Shrma Vasana and
shall be conducted in such manner as may be agreed between
the Fund and the Lotteries Board. The agreement between
the Fund and the Lotteries Board shall include provision, inter
alia, as regards the prizes to be awarded in the lotteries so
conducted and the manner in which unclaimed prizes at such
lotteries are to be dealt with.

(3) The proceeds of every lottery conducted by the
Lotteries Board for the Fund shall be paid by the Lotteries
Board to the Consolidated Fund, after deducting therefrom,
such sums as may be agreed between the Lotteries Board and
the Fund in consultation with the Minister in Charge of the
subject of Finance as expenses for conducting such lottery,
including the value of the prizes to be awarded at such lottery.

(4) The Fund shall be exempt from the payment of any
tax under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 on any
income or profit received by it from any lottery conducted by
the Lotteries Board for the Fund.

(5) The Lotteries Ordinance shall not apply to any lottery .

conducted by the Lotteries Board for the Fund. - +

14. The Board may make such rules as it may consider
necessary in relation to any matter affecting or connected with
or incidental to, the exercise, discharge and performances of
its powers, duties and functions.

Lotteries to be
conducted for the
Fund by the -
Lotteries Board.

Power of the
Board to make
tules.


Exemption of
the Fund from
certain taxes.

Protection of
members of the
Board for action
under the Act.

No writ to issue
against person or
property of a
member of the
Board.

8 Shrama Vasana Fund Act, No. 12 of 1998

15. (1) A donation made in money or otherwise by any
person to the Fund shall be deemed, for the purposes of
paragraph (b) of subsections 2 of section 31 of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, to be a donation made in money
or otherwise to a Fund established by the Government.

(2) From and after the inclusion of the Fund under section
8 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, the profits and
income of the Fund shall be exempt from income tax payable
under Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979.

(3) The provisions of this section shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 28 of 1978.

16. (1) No suit or prosecution shall be instituted against
any member of the Board or officer or servant of the Fund for
any act which in good faith is done, or purported to be done
by him under this Act or on the direction of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Fund in any suit or
prosecution brought by or against the Fund before any court
shall be paid out of the Fund, and any costs paid to or received
by, the Fund in any such suit or prosecution shall be credited
to the Fund.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referred
to in subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought against
him before any court in respect of any act which is done or
purported to be, done, by him under this Act, or on the
direction of the Board shall, if the court hold that such act,
was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund, unless such
expense is recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

17. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against any member of the Board in any action brought against
the Fund.


Shrama Vasana Fund Act, No. 12 of 1998 9

18. The Fund shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provistons of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

19. All officers and servants of the Fund shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning, and for the purposes,
of the Penal Code.

20. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

21. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“employee” means any person who has entered into or
works under a contract with an employer in any
capacity, whether the contract is in writing or
otherwise or whether it is a contract of service or of
apprenticeship or a contract personally to execute
any work of labour and includes any person
employed under any such contract whether such
person is or is not in employment at any particular
time ;

“Local Authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
Authority created or established by or under any law
to exercise, perform, or discharge, powers, duties and
functions corresponding to or similar to the powers,
duties and functions exercised, performed and
discharged by any such Council or Sabha :

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council
established by Chapter XVIIA of the Constitution.

Fund deemed to
be a Scheduled
Institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Officers and,
servants of the
Fund deemed to
be public servants.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.



Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1, 180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PuBLICATIONS Bureau, No. 32, TRANSworKs House,
Lotus Roap, CoLomso 0} before 15th December each year in respect of the year fotlowing.

