PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

SRI LANKA TEA BOARD (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 29 OF 2003

[Certified on 15th October, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 17, 2003

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs. 4.50

1 Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2003

[Certified on 15th October, 2003]

L.D.O. 15/99.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE SRI LANKA TEA BOARD LAW, NO. 14 OF 1975

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2003.

Short title.

Amendment of section 4 of Law, No. 14 of 1975.

2. Section 4 of the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of 1975, (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is hereby amended as follows :

(1) in paragraph (l) of that section by the substitution for the words marketing of tea ; and of the words marketing of tea ;;

(2) in paragraph (m) of that section by the substitution for the words of the tea industry in Sri Lanka of the words of the tea industry in Sri Lanka ;; and

(3) by the addition immediately after paragraph (m) of that section of the following new paragraphs :

(n) to prepare manuals containing information relating to the various schemes provided for under this Law ;

(o) to enter into agreements for co-operation with other institutions, whether in Sri Lanka or abroad, having objects wholly or partly similar to those of the Board, for the furtherance of their common objects ;

(p) to advise the Minister on policies relating to the tea industry ;

2H 0191545,650 (07/2003)

2 Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2003

(q) to promote investment in the tea industry ; and

(r) to collect and disseminate data on the tea industry..

Amendment of section 6 of the principal enactment.

3. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amended as follows :-

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and the substitution therefor, of the following subsection :

(1) The Board shall consist of

(a) a person appointed by the Minister, who shall be the Chairman (hereinafter referred to as the Chairman) ;

(b) the following nominated members appointed by the Minister, namely :

(i) a representative of the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, nominated by that Minister ;

(ii) a representative of the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Trade, nominated by that Minister ;

(iii) two representatives of the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Plantation Industries, nominated by that Minister ;

(iv) a representative of the Tea Small Holding Development Authority, nominated by that Authority ;

3 Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2003

(v) a representative of the Private Tea Factory Owners Association, nominated by that Association in consultation with the Tea Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;

(vi) a representative of the Planters Association of Ceylon established by the Planters Association of Ceylon Ordinance (Chapter 291), nominated by that Association in consultation with the Tea Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;

(vii) a representative of the Sri Lanka Federation of Tea Small Holdings Development Societies, nominated by that Federation in consultation with the Tea Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;

(viii) a representative of the Tea Exporters Association, nominated by that Association in consultation with the Tea Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;

(ix) a representative of the Colombo Tea Traders Association, nominated by that Association in consultation with the Tea Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;

(x) a representative of the Colombo Brokers Association, nominated by that Association in consultation with the Tea Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;

4 Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2003

(xi) two members representing Trade Unions, which shall be selected on such criteria as may be determined by the Minister in charge of the subject of Plantation Industries .

For the purposes of this paragraph Trade Union shall have the same meaning as in the Trade Unions Ordinance (Chapter 138). ;

(2) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and the substitution therefor, of the following subsection :

(3) The Chairman and the nominated members of the Board shall hold office for a term of five years, but shall be eligible for renomination.;

(3) in subsection (4) of that section, by the omission of the words with the concurrence of the Prime Minister;

(4) in subsection (5) of that section, by the omission of the words with the concurrence of the Prime Minister; and

(5) in subsection (6) of that section, by the omission of the words with the concurrence of the Prime Minister..

4. The members of the Board holding office on the day immediately preceeding the date of commencement of this Act, shall continue to hold office as such until such time the Board is re-constituted under section 6 of the principal enactment as amended by this Act.

Transitional provision.

5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text to prevail in case of inconsistency.

5 Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2003

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.