PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 25.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 18, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th of November, 2022]

CHILDREN AND YOUNG PERSONS (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 39 OF 2022

1Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

Short title anddate ofoperation

[Certified on 17th of November, 2022]

L.D.O. 26/2019

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CHILDREN AND YOUNG PERSONSORDINANCE (CHAPTER 23)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Children and YoungPersons (Amendment) Act, No. 39 of 2022.

(2) The provisions of this Act other than this sectionshall come into operation on such date as the Minister mayby Order published in the Gazette appoint.

(3) Different dates may be appointed for bringing intooperation of different provisions of this Act.

(4) The provisions of this section shall come intooperation on the date on which this Bill becomes an Act ofParliament.

2.(1) In the Children and Young Persons Ordinance(Chapter 23) (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) there shall be substituted

(a) for the words Children and Young PersonsOrdinance, the words Childrens Ordinance;

(b) for the words children and young persons, the wordchildren;

(c) for the words child or young person, the wordchild; and

(d) for the words age of sixteen years, the words ageof eighteen years,

wherever such words appear in the principal enactment.

(2) In any other written law, there shall be substituted forthe words Children and Young Persons Ordinance,children and young persons and child or young person,the words Childrens Ordinance, children and child,respectively, wherever those words occur in relation to theprincipal enactment.

Amendment ofChapter 23 andwritten law &etc.

2Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

(3) Every reference to Children and Young PersonsOrdinance, children and young persons, child or youngperson and age of sixteen years in any regulation or rulemade under the principal enactment or notice, notification,contract, communication or other document issued underthe principal enactment shall be read and construed as areference respectively, to Childrens Ordinance,children, child and age of eighteen years.

3.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section; and

(2) in subsection (4) of that section-

(a) by the substitution, for the words Where ayoung person is brought, of the words Wherea child who is above the age of fourteen yearsis brought; and

(b) by the substitution, for the words the youngperson, of the words such child, whereverthose words appear in that subsection.

4.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the marginal note to that section, by thesubstitution for the words children and young offenders,of the word children.

5.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) in subsection (1) of that section-

(a) by the substitution for the words in due courseof law: of the words in due course.; and

(b) by the repeal of the proviso to that subsection;and

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment

3Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

(2) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that section,for the words in the case of a young person andthe young person may be committed to prison., ofthe words in the case of a child who is above the ageof sixteen years and such child who is above theage of sixteen years shall be placed in a remandhome, respectively.

6.The sub-heading appearing immediately beforesection 22 of Part II of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following sub-heading is substitutedtherefor:

CHILD OFFENDERS.

7.Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

23. (1) A child shall not be ordered to beimprisoned for any offence or be committed toprison in default of payment of a fine.

(2) In the case of a child who has attainedthe age of sixteen years or above, where theprobation officer is of the opinion that suchchild is so unruly a character and cannot bedetained in a remand home or certified schoolor if such child is of so depraved a characterthat such child is not a fit person to be sodetained, the court shall direct the probationofficer to cause a psychological assessment tobe made of such child by the medical expertsand report to court.

(3) Where the report of a psychologicalassessment referred to in subsection (2)confirms that the child is not fit to be detainedin a remand home, the court shall order suchchild to be detained in a training school for

Amendment ofsub-heading ofPart II of theprincipalenactment

Replacement ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactmentRestrictionso npunishmentof children.

4Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

youthful offenders, notwithstanding theprovisions relating to age and the period ofdetention specified in the Youthful Offenders(Training Schools) Ordinance (Chapter 25)..

8.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

(1) Where in lieu of sentence of death, a sentenceof detention has been passed by any courtunder section 53 of the Penal Code in respectof a person who is under the age of eighteenyears at the time of the commission of an offenceby such person, the court may order such personto be detained in a remand home for such periodas may be specified in the sentence.; and

(2) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

(3) A person detained pursuant to an order madeby a court under section 53 of the Penal Codeas referred to in subsection (1) or a directionmade by the Minister under subsection (2) shall,while so detained be deemed to be in legalcustody..

9.Section 25 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the substitution, in subsection (1) of that section,for all the words from may be specified in the order,to the words exceeding one month., of thefollowing words:-

may be specified in the Order:

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment

5Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

Provided however, in the case of a child who hasattained the age of sixteen years or above, theprovisions of subsection (2) and (3) of section 23shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation tosuch child.; and

(2) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that section,for the words and figures under section 28(1) orsection 29(1)., of the words and figures undersection 28(1)..

10.Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the substitution, in subsection (1) of that section,for the words a child who has attained the age oftwelve years or a young person, of the words achild who has attained the age of twelve years;

(2) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that section,for the words and figures under section 28(1) orsection 29(1)., of the words and figures undersection 28(1).; and

(3) by the substitution, in the marginal note to thatsection, for the words a child or young offender ofthe words a child offender.

11.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that section,for the words and figures under section 28(1) orsection 29(1)., of the words and figures undersection 28(1).; and

(2) by the substitution, in the marginal note to thatsection, for the words child or young offender ofthe words child offender.

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment

6Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

12.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section.

13.Section 29 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

14.Section 30 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words and figuressections 25 to 29, of the words and figures sections 25 to28,.

15.Section 31 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the marginal note to that section, by thesubstitution for the words child or young offender of thewords child offender.

16.Section 32 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (b) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraph:-

(b) a child who has attained the age of sixteenyears or above who has been ordered to bedetained in a training school for youthfuloffenders and pardoned by the President oncondition of his agreeing to undergo trainingin a school,;

(2) in the proviso to that section-

(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (a) of thatproviso, for the word person, of the wordchild; and

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment

Repeal ofsection 29 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 30 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 31 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 32 of theprincipalenactment

7Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

(b) by the substitution, in paragraph (b) of thatproviso, for the words a young person, of thewords a child; and

(3) in the marginal note to that section, by thesubstitution for the words children and youngoffenders, of the words child offenders.

17.Section 42 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

42. Where a court orders a child to be sentto an approved or certified school, the ordershall specify the duration of stay which shallnot be more than three years and be anauthority for such childs detention in suchapproved or certified school, as the case maybe, until the expiration of such period as isspecified in such order..

18.Section 43 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the marginal note to that section, by thesubstitution for the words children or young persons, ofthe word children.

19.Section 44 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words age of nineteenyears:, of the words age of twenty one years:.

20.Section 45 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words not attained the age of fourteen years, until heattains the age of sixteen years., of the words not attainedthe age of eighteen years, until he attains the age of twentyyears..

Replacement ofsection 42 of theprincipalenactmentDuration ofapproved orcertifiedschool orders

Amendment ofsection 44 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 43 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 45 of theprincipalenactment

8Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

21.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 51 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 51A of the principal enactment:-

51A. (1) In every approved or certifiedschool, there shall be-

(a) a primary section in which childrenwho have not attained the age of fifteenyears shall be detained; and

(b) a secondary section in which childrenwho have attained the age of fifteenyears but not attained the age ofeighteen years shall be detained.

(2) Where-

(a) a Magistrate makes an order undersection 26; or

(b) the Minister makes an Order undersection 32,

committing a child to an approved or certifiedschool, such order under section 26 or orderunder section 32 shall, at the time ofcommitment, specify whether the child shouldbe committed to the primary section or thesecondary section of such school, dependingon the age of the child:

Provided however, the manager of suchschool shall transfer a child who is in theprimary section, to the secondary section uponsuch child reaching the age of fifteen years..

Insertion of newsection 51A inthe principalenactment

Every newapproved orcertifiedschool tohave primaryandsecondarysections

9Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

22.Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows:-

(1) by the substitution, in paragraph (a) of thatsubsection, for the words (a) if he is, of the words(i) if he is; and

(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (b) of thatsubsection, for the words (b) if he has, of the words(ii) if he has.

23.Section 57 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words the expressionschild and young person mean, of the words theexpression child means.

24.Section 71 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the repeal of subsection (6) of that section.

25.Section 72 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the substitution, in subsection (1) of that section,for all the words from of a young person to thewords Penal Code,, of the words of a child, causesor encourages the commission in respect of such childof any offence under section 345, 360A, 363, 364,364A, 365 or 365B of the Penal Code or any offenceunder the Obscene Publications Ordinance (Chapter30),;

(2) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that section,for the words in respect of a child or young personbeing a female, a person shall, if he has knowinglyallowed her to consort with, of the words in respectof a child, a person shall, if he has knowingly allowedsuch child to consort with,; and

Amendment ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 57 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 71 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 72 of theprincipalenactment

10Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

(3) by the substitution, in the marginal note to thatsection, for the words of girl under sixteen., of thewords of a child..

26.Section 73 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the substitution for all the words from care of achild to the words to reside, of the words care ofa child allows that child to reside; and

(2) by the repeal of the marginal note to that section andthe substitution therefor, of the following marginalnote: -

Allowing childrento be in brothels..

27.Section 74 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the marginal note to that sectionand the substitution therefor, of the following marginal note:-

Causing or procuringchildren to beg..

28.Section 76 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

29.Section 80 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section.

30.Section 88 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of the definition of the expressionchild and the substitution therefor of the followingdefinition: -

child means a person under the age of eighteenyears;;

Amendment ofsection 73 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 74 of theprincipalenactment

Repeal ofsection 76 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 88 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 80 of theprincipalenactment

11Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

(2) by the insertion, immediately after the definition ofthe expression scheduled offence, of the followingdefinition: -

training school for youthful offenders means atraining school established under theYouthful Offenders (Training Schools)Ordinance (Chapter 25);; and

(3) by the repeal of the definition of the expressionyoung person.

31.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

12Children and Young Persons (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.