PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SIGIRIYA HERITAGE FOUNDATION
ACT, No. 62 OF 1998

[Certified on 28th December, 1998]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part Il of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of December 31, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF OVERNMENT PRINTING, SRILANKA

‘TORE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01.

Price: Rs. 12.50 Postage : Rs. 5.25


Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998
[Certified on 28th December, 1998)
L.D.—0. 82/96.

AN ACT To ESTABLISH A FOUNDATION CALLED THE SIGIRIYA
HERITAGE FOUNDATION TO PRESERVE AND PROMOTE THE
CULTURAL AND ARCHAEOLOGICAL HERITAGE OF SIGIRIYA
Worp HERITAGE SITE AND ITS ENVIRONS ; AND TO PROVIDE
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Sigiriya Heritage
Foundation Act, No. 62 of 1998.

PARTI
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SiGiRryA HERITAGE FOUNDATION

2 (1) There shall be established a foundation which shall
be called the Sigiriya Heritage Foundation (hereinafter
Teferred to as the “Foundation”.

(2) The Foundation shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3. The objects of the Foundation shall be —

(@) to promote the preservation, conservation, and
development, of the cultural, archaeological and
natural heritage of the Sigiriya World Heritage Site
and it’s environs ; :

(6) to promote interest among the people of Sri Lanka
and abroad, in Sigiriya and to educate the people on
the conservation and preservation of the Sigiriya World
Heritage Site and it’s environs ;

(©) toprovide access to, and facilities for, the appreciation
of, the Sigiriya World Heritage Site and its environs ;

2D 019788 8,550 (0898)

‘bor title.

Objects of the



2 Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998

(@) to promote the general welfare of the people residing
if the environs of the Sigiriya World Heritage Site,
by the development of, education, accommodation,
and medical facilities ;

(© to co-ordinate and collaborate with international
professional organisations such as UNESCO,
ICCORM, ICOMOS, ICOM AND IUCN ;

(D toorganise and facilitate the holding of study courses,
‘workshops and seminars to educate people about the
Sigiriya World Heritage Site and its environs ;

(g) to establish and maintain, educational institutions,
museums, research centres, libraries and places
providing information services, to facilitate the study
of the cultural, archaeological and natural heritage of
the Sigiriya World Heritage Site and it’s environs ;

(h) to undertake and to fund, research on various facets
of the Sigiriya World Heritage Site and to publish the
results of such research ;

(@ to publish journals, books, pamphlets, and newsletters,
with a view to promoting the objects of the
Foundation ; and

(@ to do such other acts or things as may be necessary
for the attainment of all or any of the above objects of
the Foundation.

Powers ofthe 4. (1) The Foundation shall subject to the provisions of
Foendation, this Act, have the following powers :-—

(@ to acquire and hold property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it under this Act or by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and subject to any trust
attaching to such property, to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same :


Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998 3

Provided however that no immovable property of
the Foundation shall be sold without the prior written
approval of the Minister ;

(®) to enter into and perform, all such contracts as may
be necessary for carrying out the objects of the
Foundation ;

(©) tolevy such charges as the Foundation may from time
to time determine, in consultation with the Central
Cultural Fund, for the admission of the visitors to the
property of the Foundation or any part thereof or for
the use by such visitors, of any such property ;

(d) toreceive or collect, gifts, grants or donations, in cash
or kind from persons or organisations for the
development of Sigiriya World Heritage Site and its
environs ;

(€) toestablish, maintain, and develop, places forreligious
observances and places of accommodation and public
amenities in the Sigiriya World Heritage Site and its
environs, subject to the directions of Department of
Archaeology, the Urban Development Authority, local
authorities and of the Ceylon Tourist Board ;

(P to make, draw, accept, endorse, negotiate, buy, sell
and issue bills of exchange, cheques, promissory notes
and other negotiable instruments and to open and
maintain, current, savings, and deposit accounts in any
bank or banks ;

(8) toborrow, with or without security, moneys necessary
for carrying out its objects ;

(h) to invest any moneys belonging to the Foundation
including any unapplied income, in any security which
under the provisions of section 20 of the Trusts
Ordinance (Chapter 87), or of any other written law,
it is lawful to invest trust moneys, or to invest any


4 Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998

such moneys in the purchase of immovable property
in Sri Lanka, ot vary such investment or place in fixed
deposits in any bank, any portion of such moneys not
required for immediate expenditure ; and

(® toappoint professional and other staff on such schemes
of recruitment as may be determined by the Board of
‘Management established under section 6.

Constitution of the §. The Foundation shalll consist of the following :—
Foundation,

(@) ex- officio members namely—

(® the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
incharge of the subject of Cultural Affairs or any
other person nominated by him in writing;

Gi) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
incharge of the subject of Tourism or any other
person nominated by him in writing;

Gii) the Director General of Archaeology;
(iv) the Director General of the Central Cultural Fund;

(v) the Director of the Postgraduate Institute of
Archaeology;

(vi) the Chairman of the Urban Development
Authority or any other person nominated by him
in writing;

(vil) the District Secretary appointed for the
‘Administrative District of Matale or any other
person nominated by him in writing;

(viii) the Chief Secretary of the Central Province or
any other person nominated by him in writing;

(ix) the Chief Administrative Officer appointed under
section 9;


Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998 5
(®) other members namely—

(@ two members appointed by the Minister
(hereinafter referred to “‘as the appointed members”)
from among persons who have distinguished
themselves in the field of archaeology;

Gi) two members elected by the ex-officio members
referred to in paragraph (a), from among persons
who have shown interest in the field of
archaeology (hereinafter referred to as “elected
members”);

(iii) the institutional members who have subscribed
one million rupees each to the fund of the
Foundation and who have undertaken to further
the objects of the Foundation; and

(iv) ordinary members and a life members who have
obtained their membership of the Foundation in
accordance with rules made under this Act.

(©) Atleast one member appointed or elected under sub-
paragraphs (i) and (ii) of paragraph (b) of this section
shall be from the administrative District of Matale.

6. (1) The administration, management and control of
the affairs of the Foundation shall be vested in the Board of
Management of the Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the
“Board”).

(2) The Board shall for the purpose of administering the
affairs of the Foundation exercise, discharge and perform the
Powers, functions and duties conferred, or imposed on, or
assigned to, the Foundation by this Act.

(3) It shall be the duty of the Board to prepare in
accordance with rules made in that behalf, the annual
Programme and plan of work and the annual budget and submit
such plan, programme, and the annual budget for the approval

by the Minister. :

‘Administration of
the Foundation,


6 Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998

Constitution of 7. (1) The Board shall consist of the following:—

the Board.

(@ the ex-officio members of the Foundation referred to
in paragraph (a) of section 5;

(©) other members, namely—

@

Gi)

(iii)

iy)

()

the two appointed members of the Foundation
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (b)
of section 5;

the two elected members of the Foundation
referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b)
of section 5;

‘one life member of the Foundation elected by the
life members of the Foundation from among
themselves;

‘one ordinary member of the Foundation elected
by the ordinary members of the Foundation from
among themselves;

eight institutional members of the Foundation
elected by the ex-officio members of the
Foundation from among the Institutional
members of the Foundation.

(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or from continuing as a member of the Board, if he is or
becomes, a member of Parliament, a member of a Provincial
‘Council or a member of a local authority.

(3) The Board shall have the power to make rules

regulating

the procedure relating to its meetings and the

transaction of business at such meetings.

(4) The Board shall hold at least two meetings a year.


Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998 7

(5) (@) The members of the Board shall elect from among
themselves three members to be Chairman, Vice Chairman
and Secretary, respectively, of the Board.

(6) Notwithstanding anything in paragraph (a) the first
Chairman of the Board shall be the Director General of
Archaeology.

(©) The First Chairman appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office for a period of five years calculated from the
date of commencement of this Act.

(d) Where the Chairman or Vice Chairman is by reason
Of illness or other infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, the
members of the Board may elect another member of the Board
in his place. i

(© The Chairman, (other than the first Ex-officio
Chairman, appointed under paragraph (6) or the Vice
Chairman may resign from their respective offices by letter
addressed to the Board.

(PD Subject to the provisions of paragraph (6), (c), (d) and
(Ce) the terms of office of Chairman and Vice Chairman shall
be their respective periods of membership of the Board.

(6) A member of the Board elected under subparagraph
ii) oF (iv) oF (v) of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this
section may resign from office by letter in that behalf
addressed to the Board.

(7) A member of the Board elected under sub-paragraph
(iii) oF Giv) oF (v) of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this
section may be removed from office by the body of persons
electing such member.


8  Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998

(8) Subject to the provisions of subsections (6) and (7),
the term of office of a member elected under sub-paragraph
ii) of (iv) or (v) of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this
section shall be three years,

(9) Where any member of the Board elected under
subparagraph (iii) or (iv) or (v) of paragraph (6) of subsection
(1) of this section dies or resigns or is removed from office,
the body of persons electing such member may elect another
peison to be a member in place of the member who dies,
resigns or is removed from office.

(10) Where any member of the Board elected under
subparagraph (iii) or (iv) or (v) of paragraph (6) of subsection
(1) of this section is by reason of illness or other infirmity or
absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily unable to perform the
duties of his office, the body of persons electing such member
may elect another person to act in his place.

(11) A member elected under subsection (9) or (10) shall,
unless he earlier resigns or vacates his office by death or
removal, hold office for the unexpired part of the term of office
of the member whom he succeeds.

(12) Any member of the Board elected under sub-
paragraph (iii) or (iv) or (v) of paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) of this section who vacates his office shall be eligible for
re-election, unless he has been removed from office.

(13) Every ex-officio member of the Board shall hold office
as long as he holds the post by virtue of which he is amember
of the Board.

(14) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed
to be invalid by reason of any vacancy in the membership of
the Board or any defect in the appointment or election of any
member thereof.


Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998 9

(15) The Chairman or in his absence the Vice-Chairman
shall preside at meetings of the Board. In the absence of both
the Chairman and the Vice - Chairman from any meeting of
the Board a member elected by the members present shall
preside at such meeting.

(16) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Board
shall be decided by the vote of a majority of the members
Present. In the case of an equality of votes, the Chairman or
any other member presiding at any meeting of the Board shall
in addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.

8. The seal of the Foundation—

@ shall be in the custody of such persons as the Board
may determine from time to time ;

(®) may be altered in such manner as may be determined
by the Board ; and

(©) shall not be affixed to any instrument or document
without the sanction of the Board and in the presence
of the Administrative Officer appointed under section
9 and a member of the Board who shall sign the
document in token of their presence,

PARTI

APPOINTMENT OF THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER AND
‘STAFF OF THE FOUNDATION

9. (1) The Board may appoint a person to the staff of
the Foundation to be Chief Administrative Officer (hereinafter
referred to as “the Administrative Officer”) who shall be the
Principal Administrative Officer of the Foundation and who
shall be a full-time officer of the Foundation. The
Administrative Officer shall be employed on such terms and
conditions as shall be determined by the Board.

Seal of the
Foundation.


Officers and
servants of the
Foundation,

10 Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998

(2) Ifany vacancy occurs in the office of the Administrative
Officer appointed under subsection (1) or if the administrative
officer by reason of illness, leave or infirmity is temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the Board shall
‘make such arrangement as it may think fit for the carrying on
the duties of the office.

(3) The Administrative Officer shall, subject to be direction

+ of the Board, be charged with the administration of the affairs,

and the control of the staff, of the Foundation. He shall
also be responsible for the execution of all decisions of the
Board.

(4) The administrative Officer shall be entitled to the
present, and speak, at any meeting of the Board or any
committee thereof.

(5) The Board may remove the Administrative Officer
from office—

(@) if he becomes permanently incapable of performing
his duties ; or

(©) if he has done any act or thing which in the opinion of
the Board is of a fraudulent or illegal character or is
prejudicial to the interests of the Foundation ; or

(©) if he acts contrary to the directions of the Board.

(©) The office of the Administrative Officer shall become
vacant upon the death, removal from office under subsection
(S) or resignation by letter in that behalf addressed to the
Board, by the holder of that office.

10. (1) Subjectto the provisions of this Act and any rules
made thereunder, the Board shall have the power to appoint
the officers and servants of the Foundation.

(2) Every appointment of the officers and servants of the
Foundation shall be made by the Board in accordande-with
the schemes of recruitment and procedure for appointment,
prescribed by rules.


Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998 11

(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any rules made
thereunder, the Board shall determine the terms and conditions
of services of the officers and servants of the Foundation
including their wages, salaries and other remuneration.

(4) The officers and servants of the Foundation shall be
Subject to the disciplinary control, including power of
dismissal, of the Board. The Board may make rules in regard
to matters of discipline.

(5) The Board may establish and regulate provident funds
and schemes for the benefit of the officers and servants of the
Foundation and may make contributions to any such fund or
‘scheme.

11, Where the Foundation employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period any
Period of service to the Foundation by that person shall be
Tegarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such contract.

12, (1) At the request of the Board, any officer in the
public service serving in any institution or Department coming
under the Ministry of the Minister may, with the consent of
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister given with the
concurrence of the Secretary to the Ministry of Minister in
charge of the subject of Public Administration, and of that
officer, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Foundation
for such period as may be determined by the Board with like
consent or with like consent be permanently appointed to the
staff of the Foundation.

(2) At the request of the Board, any officer in the public
service other than an officer referred to in subsection (1) may,
with the consent of that officer and of the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Public
‘Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Foundation for such period as may be determined by the Board
with like consent or with like consent be permanently
appointed to the staff of the Foundation.

Service to the
Foundation
deemed to be
service to the
Government for
the purpose of
certain contracts.

Appointment of
public officers to
the staff of the
Foundation,


Fond of the

12. Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998

(3) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily,
appointed to the staff of the Foundation, the provisions
of section 14(2) of the National Transport Commission
Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and
in relation to, him.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Foundation, the provisions of
section 14(3) of the National Transport Commission
Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and
in relation to, him.

(5) At the request of the Board, any officer or servant of
any Higher Educational Institution establistied under the
Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, may, with the consent of
that officer or servant, the University Grants Commission and
the principal executive officer of that Higher Educational
Institution, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Foundation for such period as may be determined by the Board
with like consent, or with like consent be permanently
appointed to the staff of the Foundation,

(©) In this section, the expressions “Higher Educational
Institution” and “principal executive officer” have the same
meanings as in the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978; and the
“University Grants Commission” means the University Grants
Commission established by the Universities Act, No. 16 of
1978,

PART I
FINANCE

13. (1) The Foundation shall have its own fund
(hereinafter called and referred to as the “Fund”).

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund —

@) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Foundation in the exercise, discharge and performance
of its powers, functions and duties under this Act; and


Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998 13

(6) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Foundation, by way of loans, donations, gifts or grants
from any source, whether in Sri Lanka or abroad;

(©) all such sums of money as may be voted from time to
time by Parliament to meet the annual maintenance
cost of the Sigiriya World Heritage Site;

(d) all such sums of money transferred to the Fund by the
Central Cultural Fund and consisting of —

@

()

ii)

@v)

the entire income derived by the Central Cultural
Fund from the levy of charges from local visitors
for admission to the Sigiriya World Heritage Site;

twenty-five per-centum of the income derived by
the Central Cultural Fund, for the period
commencing on the date of Commencement of
this Act and ending on the last day of the fifth
year calculated from the date of commencement
of this Act, from the levy of charges from tourists
for admission to the Sigiriya World Heritage Site;

thirty-five per-centum of the income derived by
the Central Cultural Fund, during the period of
five years commencing of the first day of the sixth
year calculated from the date of commencement
of this Act and ending on the last day of the tenth
year calculated from the date of commencement
of this Act, from the levy of charges from tourists
for admission to the Sigiriya World Heritage

Site; and

fifty per-centum of the income derived by the
Central Cultural Fund for any period after the end
of the tenth year calculated from the date of
commencement of this Act, from the levy of
charges from tourists for admission to the Sigiriya
World Heritage Site.


‘Amendment to
Central Cultrual
Fund Act, No. 57
of 1980.

‘The Board to

‘cause proper
‘books of accounts

tobe kept.

Minister to
‘exempt the
Foundation from
payment of Tax.

14 Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998

(4) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the
Foundation:—

(@) all such sums of money as are required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Foundation in the exercise,
discharge and performance of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act ; and

(6) all such sums of money as are required to be paid out
of such Fund, by or under, this Act.

14, Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in section
6 of the Central Cultural Fund Act, No. 57 of 1980 the income
derived by the Central Cultural Fund from the levy of charges
from visitors and tourists to the Sigiriya World Heritage Site
shall in terms of paragraph (d) of subsection (2) of section
13, be paid to the Fund.

15. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts
tobe kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Foundation.

(2) Article 154 of the Constitution shall apply to the audit
of the accounts of the Foundation.

(3) The financial year of the Foundation shall be the
calendar year.

16. (1) The Minister may with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, exempt the
Foundation from payment of any customs duty on any goods
imported by the Foundation if the import of such goods is
considered to be conducive to the advancement of the objects
of the Foundation.

(2) The Foundation shall be exempt from any income tax
under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979.

(3) A donation made in money or otherwise by any person
to the Foundation shall be deemed, for the purposes of
paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 31 of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, to be a donation made in money
or otherwise to a Fund established by the Government.


Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998 15

(4) The Foundation shall be exempt from payment of any
entertainment tax imposed under the Entertainment Tax
Ordinance

PART IV
(GENERAL,

17. The Minister may from time to time give such general
special directions in writing to the Board as to the exercise
of the powers, and the discharge of the functions of the
Foundation.

18. (1) The Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette, transfer to the Foundation such movable or
immovable property of the Ministry of the Minister as is
Tequired for the purposes of the Foundation and any property
so transferred shall, with effect from the date of the Order
vest in, and become the property of, the Foundation.

(2) Any state land may, subject to such conditions as may
be determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister for the time being in charge of the subject of state
lands, be made available for the use of, or be alienated to, the
Foundation for any purpose of the Foundation,

(3) Where any movable property of the State is required
for the purpose of the Foundation, the Minister may, by
Order published in the Gazette, transfer to, and vest in,
the Foundation, the possession and use of such movable
Property : f

Provided however, that no Order affecting any movable
Property, of the State shall be made by the Minister under the

Preceding provisions of this subsection, without the
Concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of such

Property.

Powers of
Minister in
relation to the
Board,

State property
both movable and
immovable to be
made available to
the Foundation.


Board’s report to
‘be placed before
Parliament.

Foundation
deemed to be a
‘Scheduled
Institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Members of the
Board and officers.
and servants of the
Foundation
deemed to be
public servants,

Protection of
action taken under
this Act.

16 Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998

19. ‘The Board shall, within a period of six months after
the closure of each financial year submit a report giving a full
account of the activites of the Foundation during that year to
the Minister who shall cause such report to be placed before
Parliament, prior to the end of the year next following the
‘year to which such report relate.

20. The Foundation shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

21. All members, of the Board and officers and servants
of the Foundation shall be deemed to be public servants within
the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

22, (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie against any
member of the Board, officer or servant of the Foundation for
any act which in good faith is done or purported to be done
by him under this Act, or on the direction of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Foundation in any suit
or prosecution brought by or against the Foundation before
any court, shall be paid out of the fund of the Foundation, and
any costs paid to, or recovered by, the Foundation in any such
suit or prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the
Foundation

(3) Any expense incurred by diny such person as is referred
to in subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought against
him before any court in respect of any act which is done or
purported to be done, by him under this Act, or on the direction
of the Board shall, if the court holds that such act was done in
‘g00d faith, be paid out of the Fund of the Foundation, unless
such expense is recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.


Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998 17

23. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board
may make rules for, and in respect of, all or any of the
following matters

(@) the terms and conditions of service, including
remuneration, of the officers and servants of the
Foundation ;

(®) the schemes of recruitment and procedures for
appointment, of the officers and servants of the
Foundation ;

(©) the annual programme and plan of work, the annual
budget, the annual report and accounts of the
Foundation and the manner in which such programe
and plan of work budget, report and accounts are to
be prepared ; and

(d) the manner in which ordinary and the life members
of the Foundation are to be enrolled ;

(©) such other matters required by this Act to be presented
or in respect of which rules are authorised by this Act
to be made. -

2A. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

25. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Central Cultrual Fund” means the Central Cultural Fund
established by the Central Cultural Fund Act,
No. 57 of 1980 ;

“Ceylon Tourist Board” means the Ceylon Tourist Board
established by the Ceylon Tourist Board Act, No. 10
of 1966 ;

“ICCROM” means the International Centre for the study
of Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property,
Rome;

‘Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation,


18 Sigiriya Heritage Foundation Act No. 62 of 1998

“ICOMOS"means the International Council on
‘Monuments and Sites ;

“ICOM” means the International Council of Museums ;

“Institutional Member” means a person or institution who
has contributed one million rupees as a lump sum to
the Fund of the Foundation ;

“IUCN” means the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature ;

“local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority created or established by or under any law
to exercise, perform and discharge, powers, duties
and functions corresponding or similar to, the
powers, duties and functions exercised, performed
and discharged by any such Council or Sabha ;

“Provincial Council” means a provincial Council
established by Chapter XVII A of the Constitution ;

“Sigiriya World Heritage Site” means the area declared to
be an archaeological reserve by Notification made
under section 33 of the Antiquities Ordinance and
published in Gazette No. 10,370 of March 21, 1952
and the area declared as a development area by Order
made under section 3 of Urban Development
Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 and published in
Gazette No. 542/10 of January 27,1998;

“UNESCO” means the United Natioas Education,
Scientific and Cultural Organisation;

“Urban Development Authority” means the Urban
Development Authority established by the Urban
Development Authority Law, No. 41 Of 1978.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts ofthe Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
‘payable to the Surexnrepexr, Govennaart PusticaTions BurEAU, No. 32, TrANswonxs HOUSE,
‘Lotus Roab, Couomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect ofthe year following.
