PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ond Session 1957

Bank Debits Tax Act, No. 42
of 1957

Date of Assent: September 6, 1957

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOVERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post OrricE Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 25 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Bank Debits Tax Act, No. 42 of 1957 3

L. D.—O. 39/57.

An Act TO IMPOSE A TAX ON DEBITS MADE AGAINST
CURRENT ACCOUNTS IN COMMERCIAL BANKS AND TO
PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

Pgs [Date of Assent: September 6, 1957]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this,present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Bank Debits Tax  Sbort title
Act, No. 42 of 1957, and shall be deemed to have come operation.
into operation on the fifth day of July, 1957.

2. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 3, a tax Charge of tax
on the total amount of the debits made during cach | Seaisct current
calendar month against each current account shall be accounts.
charged at the rate of one-tenth of one per centum of
such amount or at such other rate as may from time to
time be determined by resolution passed by the House

of Representatives.
"* (2) A tax imposed by or under sub-section (1) is
hereafter in this Act referred to as the tax.

8. The following debits made against current Pxemptions
accounts shall be exempt from the tax : —

(a) debits made against any current account of
the Government of Ceylon, any foreign
Government, the United Nations Organisa-
tion, any Specialised Agency of that Orga-
nisation, the Council for Technical Co-
operation in South and South-East Asia, or
any international or foreign organisation
approved by the Minister by Order
published in the Gazette;

(b) debits made against any such current account
of the head office in Ceylon of a commercial
bank as is maintained in a branch in Ceylon
of that bank;

(c) debits made against any such current account
of a branch in Ceylon of a commercial bank
as is maintained in the head office in Ceylon
of that bank;

(d) debits made against any such current account
of a branch in Ceylon of a commercial bank
as is maintained in any other branch in
Ceylon of that bank;

1——J.N. B 18746-4,025 (8/57)


4 Bank Debits Tax Act, No. 42 of 1957

(e) debits made against a current account in
respect of sums withdrawn from that
account for the payment of the tax;

(f) debits made against a current account in
respect of any sums that are withdrawn
from that account for the purpose of open- ..
ing a special current account and are
credited to such special current account;

— (g) — made against a special current account;
| an

(2) such other debits or classes of debits made
against current accounts as may from time
to time be determined by the Minister of
Finance by Order published in the Gazette.

Liability to pay 4. The liability to pay the tax on the debits made

the tax. during any calendar month against the current account
of any person shall commence at the end of that month,

- and he shall be liable to pay the tax.
Collection and §. (1) Within fourteen days after the end of each
remittance of the calendar month every commercial bank shall, accord-

ing to the funds in each current account maintained in
that bank, withdraw from that account a sum equal to,
the tax or part of the tax on the debits made against
that account during that month, and shall, after
deducting from the total of the sums withdrawn in
pursuance of this sub-section the amount of the fee
referred to in section 6, remit the balance of such total,
with a statement relating thereto in the prescribed
form, to the Chief Accountant of the Central Bank of
Ceylon to be credited to the Consolidated Fund of
Ceylon:

Provided that the collection and remittance of the
tax in respect of the period commencing on the fifth
day of July, 1957, and ending on the date of enactment
of this Act shall be made within twenty-one days after
such date of enactment or within such further time as
may be allowed by the Minister of Finance.

(2) Where any sum is withdrawn and remitted
under sub-section (1) from a current account in pay-
ment of the tax, such payment shall be deemed to be
with the authority of the person for whom such ~
account is maintained and shall be a valid discharge
of his liability to pay the amount of the tax so
remitted.

(3) Where owing to no funds or inadequacy of funds
in a current account the commercial bank in which that
account is maintained is unable to collect the tax or


Bank Debits Tax Act, No. 42 of 1957 5

any part of the tax on the debits made against that
account during any calendar month, that bank shall,
when transmitting the statement under sub-section (1),
report in the prescribed form to the Chief Accountant
of the Central Bank of Ceylon the name and address
of the person for whom that account is maintained,
,the amount of the tax not collected in respect of that
account, and the amount of the debits on which the
amount of the tax not collected is due.

(4) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this
section shall be deemed to authorise a commercial bank
to refuse to pay out of the funds in a current account
the whole or a part of an amount of which payment is
demanded by cheque, draft, order or other instruction
by the person for whom such account is maintained on
the ground that the tax or any part of the tax on the
debits made against such account has to be paid.

'6. Every commercial bank may, as expenses of the Expenses of
collection and remittance of the tax, deduct and retain collection and
from the total amount collected in payment of the tax tax.
in respect of any calendar month such fee as may be

prescribed.

«7. Where a commercial bank reports under sub- when the tax
section (8) of section 5 that it is unable to collect any due from —
amount of the tax due on the debits made during any fo'te in default
calendar month against the current account of any Bod 16 0 bee
person, an officer of the Central Bank of Ceylon whois {sss
authorised in that behalf by the Governor of such Bank
shall in writing order such person to pay, within
fourteen days after the date of the order, such amount
to the Central Bank of Ceylon to be credited to the
Consolidated Fund of Ceylon. If such person fails
to pay such amount to the Central Bank of Ceylon
within such fourteen days, such amount shall be deemed

to be in default and shall be a charge on all his assets.

8. Where the tax is in default in respect of any Proceedings
amount, the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury may  {2t recovery of
issue a certificate containing particulars of such default.
amount and the name and last-known place of residence
or place of business of the defaulter to a Magistrate

: having jurisdiction in the division in which such
place is situate. The Magistrate shall thereupon
summon such defaulter before him to show cause why
proceedings for the recovery of the amount of the tax
in default should not be taken against him, and, if
sufficient cause is not shown, the amount of the tax
in default shall by order of the Magistrate be recovered


Refund of sums
paid or recovered
as the tax on
debits that are
exempted from
the tax._

¥
&

Powers
conferred on
the Central
Bank of Ceylon
for the purposes
of this Act.

Procedure for
opening a special
current account.

Punishment

for false
declaration made
for opening a
special current
account, and
recovery of the
tax on debits
made against
that account.

6 Bank Debits Taz Act, No. 42 of 1957

as if it were a fine imposed by the Magistrate on such
defaulter, and shall, when recovered, be remitted to the
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury to be credited to
the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

9. (1) Where any sum is paid by or on behalf of,

or recovered from, any person as the tax on any such-~

debits as are exempted from the tax by or under section
3, such person shall, upon a claim made by him in
writing in that behalf to the Deputy Secretary to the
Treasury, be entitled to a refund of such sum.

(2) Any sum payable to any person under sub-section

(1) shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund of
Ceylon.

40. (1) Any officer of the Central Bank of Ceylon
authorised in that behalf by the Governor of that Bank
may direct the commercial banks to furnish such
returns as may be necessary for the purposes of this
Act, and may inspect, and make copies of any entries
in, the books, records and all other documents of such
banks in order to ascertain whether such banks are
complying with the provisions of this Act.

(2) Every commercial bank shall comply with any

direction given under sub-section (1) and shall permit

and assist any person empowered to do so by sub-section
(1) to inspect, and make copies of any entries in, any
books, records or other documents of such bank.

(3) Section 45 of the Monetary Law Act, No. 58

of 1949, relating to the duty to maintain secrecy shall _

apply in regard to matters coming within the know-
ledge of any such officer of the Central Bank of Ceylon
as is referred to in sub-section (1) in the exercise of
his powers under that sub-section.

41. A commercial bank may open a special current
account for a person if he declares in writing that such
account is needed by him for the purpose for which
alone a current account should be maintained if it 1s

to be a special current account within the meaning of
this Act.

42, (1) Any person who makes a false declaration
to a commercial bank for the purpose of opening 2
special current account shall be guilty of an offence
and shall, on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding five
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either descrip-
tion for a term not exceeding one year or to both such
fine and imprisonment.

“A,


_—_

r

Bank Debits Tax Act, No. 42 of 1957 7

(2) On the conviction of any person under sub-
section (1) for making a false declaration for opening
a special current account, the court shall, in addition
to any other sentence, order him to pay such sum as
may be found by the court to represent the tax that
would have been payable on the debits made against
such account if atch account had been a current account
and not a special current account, and shall order the
commercial bank in which such account is maintained

to close such account and such bank shall comply with |

such order. Any sum ordered to be paid under this
sub-section may be recovered by order of the court as
if it were a fine imposed by the court and shall, when
recovered, be remitted to the Deputy Secretary to the
Treasury to be credited to the Consolidated Fund of
Ceylon.

' 43. Where the Minister of Finance is satisfied
that: any special current account maintained in any
commercial bank is not in fact such an account; he
May in writing order that bank to close that account,
and.that bank shall comply with such order.

44. Where any commercial bank fails to comply
with or contravenes any provisions of this Act, the

manager or other chief executive officer of such bank

‘shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a
fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or to imprison-
ment of either description for a term not exceeding six
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

45. After the end of every three calendar months
an officer of the Central Bank of Ceylon. authorised in
that behalf by the Governor of such Bank shall, in
respect of each commercial bank, in writing certify
to. such Governor the total amount of such debits made
during those months against the current accounts in
that commercial bank as are subject to the tax, the
total amount of the tax payable on those debits, the
amount remitted by that commercial bank in payment
of the tax, the amount retained by that commercial
bank as its fee for collecting and remitting the tax,
and ‘the amount of the tax, if any, that has not been
collected. Such certificate. shall be transmitted by
such Governor to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury
within thirty days after the end of the three calendar
months to which such certificate relates.

46. (1) The Minister of Finance may make regula-
tions for the purpose of giving effect to the principles
and provisions of this Act.

Closure of &
special current
account on
Minister's
order.

Punishment for
non-compliance
with provisions
of this Act by a
commercial
bank.

Certificate
from the
Central Bank |
of Ceylon to
the Deputy
Secretary to
the Treasury.

Regulations,


Amendment of
the Schedule
to this Act.

Interpretation.

8 Bank Debits Tax Act, No. 42 of 1957

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the
powers conferred by sub-section (1), regulations may
be made in respect of any matter which is stated or
required by this Act to be prescribed.

(3) Any regulations made under this section shall
be published in the Gazette and shall come into

operation on such date as may be specified in those~

regulations as the date of operation, and, if no such
date is so specified, shall come into operation on the
date of such publication.

(4) Every regulation made and published under this
section shall be laid, as soon as conveniently may be,
on the table of the Senate and.the House of
Representatives at two successive meetings of the
Senate and the House of Representatives and shall be
brought before the Senate and the House of

Representatives at the next subsequent meeting by a

motion that such regulation shall not be disapproved.
If such regulation is disapproved by the Senate or the
House of Representatives, such regulation shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval but without prejudice to anything already

done under such regulation. Every such disapproval,

shall be published in the Gazette.

47. The Minister of Finance may by Order
published in the Gazette amend the Schedule to this
Act.

18. In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires—

“* commercial bank ’’ means the head office in
Ceylon, and every branch in Ceylon, of
any bank specified in the Schedule to this
Act;

** current account ’’ means—

(a).an account (other than a savings
account), whether in credit or other-
wise, which is maintained in a
commercial bank for any person and
from which payments are made on
demand made by him by cheque,
draft, order or other instruction,
and

co]


Bank Debits Tax Act, No. 42 of 1957 9

(6) any internal account of a commercial
bank from which payments are made
for defraying any expenses of that
bank, including expenses of a
capital nature such as the cost of
purchasing any immovable property
or constructing any building;

‘‘ debits ’’ mean entries made against a current
account of any person in respect of the
withdrawals of funds from that account by
cheque, draft, order or other instruction of
that person, and include the charges made
by a commercial bank in the course of
business to a current account maintained in ©
that bank;

““ savings account ’? means an account which is
maintained in a commercial bank and the
funds deposited in which earn interest and
the withdrawals of funds from which can
be made only after such intervals as are
specified, or subject to such rules as are
made, by that bank; and

““ special current account ’’ means a current
account of any person maintained solely for
the purpose of—

(a) depositing in that account funds
received by him, in the course of his
business, for and on behalf of any
other persons for payment to those
persons, and

(6) making payments from the funds in
that account to those persons.

Schedule.

Bank of Ceylon.

Chartered Bank.

Co-operative Federal Bank of Ceylon Limited.
Eastern Bank Limited.

Grindlays Bank Limited.

Habib Bank (Overseas) Limited.

Hatton Bank Limited.

Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
Indian Bank Limited.

Indian Overseas Bank Limited.

Mercantile Bank of India Limited.

National Bank of India, Limited.

Oriental Bank of Malaya Limited.

State Bank of India.
