PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 17 OF 2013

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th April, 2013]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 17.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 26, 2013

1Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

[Certified on 24th April, 2013]

L.D.O. 2/2013.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAXACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1. This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 17 of 2013 and shall be deemed tohave come into operation on January 1, 2013 unless differentdates of operation are specified therefor, in the relevantsections.

2. Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment ) as lastamended by the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.7 of2012 is hereby further amended as follows:

(1) in paragraph (a) of the first proviso to subsection (1)of that section, by the substitution for the words anygarments of the words any garments or fabric;

(2) in subsection (2) of that section:-

(a) by the substitution for the words shall beadministrated by the Commissioner-General inthe proviso to paragraph (c) thereof, of the wordsshall be administrated by the Commissioner-General as stipulated in paragraph (e) of thissubsection;

(b) by the substitution for the words shall beadministrated by the Commissioner-General inthe proviso to paragraph (d) thereof, of the wordsshall be administrated by the Commissioner-General as stipulated in paragraph (e) of thissubsection;

Short Titleand date ofoperation.

Amendmentof section 2of the ValueAdded TaxAct, No. 14 of2002.

2PL 0070694,090 (03/2013)

2Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(c) by the repeal of paragraph (e) of subsection (2)and the substitution therefor of the following :

(e) on the supply of goods or services by anyregistered person, who is registered in theSimplified Value Added Tax Schemeadministrated by the Commissioner-Generalto -

(i) any exporter or provider of zero ratedservices specified in terms ofsection 7;

(ii) any registered person who suppliesgoods or services to any StrategicDevelopment Project in terms ofsubsection (4) of section 3 of theStrategic Development Projects Act,No. 14 of 2008, as is referred to insub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (f) ofPart II of the First Schedule, duringthe project implementation period sofar as such supplies are project relatedsupplies;

(iii) any registered person engaged inany specific project referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (f) ofPART II of the First Schedule(effective from April 1, 2011);

(iv) any manufacturer who suppliesgoods manufactured in Sri Lanka toany exporter;

(v) any supplier who provides valueadded services to an exporter whichresults in the improvement of thequality, character or value of anygoods manufactured for export;

(vi) any person registered under theprovisions of subsection (7) ofsection 22 of the Act, during the

3Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

project implementation period so faras such supplies are project relatedsupplies;

(vii) any registered person who suppliesany goods or services, to anyregistered person referred to in sub-paragraph (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (vi)above, provided that, theCommissioner-General is, on theinformation available, is satisfied thatthe value of such supplies exceedsfifty per-centum of the total suppliesof such registered person whosupplies such goods or services,

until such time as the activities of suchregistered person is carried out to thesatisfaction of the Commissioner-Generalin the manner stipulated by theCommissioner-General in the guidelinesissued for such purpose and which arespecified in the Order published in theGazette.

(3) in subsection (3) of that section:

(a) the first proviso to that subsection is amendedas follows:-

(i) in paragraph (a), by the substitution forthe words customs bonded area; of thewords and figures customs bonded areaor a free port referred to in PART IV of theFinance Act, No. 12 of 2012;;

(ii) in paragraph (f), by the substitution for thewords and figures who has registered withthe Textile Quota Board established underthe Textile Quota Board Act, No.33 of 1996,with the approval of the Textile Quota Board

4Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

or the Board of Investment, as the case maybe. of the words and figures who hasregistered with the Simplified Value AddedScheme administrated by theCommissioner-General with the approval ofthe Commissioner -General.;

(b) the second proviso to that subsection is amendedas follows:

(i) by the repeal of item (vi) of paragraph (a)and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:

(vi) any goods imported, including anygoods received from customsbonded area by a person registeredwith the Simplified Value AddedScheme administrated by theCommissioner-General who importsor receives such goods for themanufacture of goods or theprovision of services to amanufacturer of goods for exportreferred to in item (i) of paragraph (e)of subsection (2) of section 2;

(ii) by the repeal of item (vii) of paragraph (a)and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:-

(vii) any plant or machinery imported,including any plant or machineryreceived from a customs bonded areaby a person registered with theSimplified Value Added Tax Schemeadministrated by the Commissioner-General who imports or receives suchplant or machinery for the usage bysuch person for the manufacture ofgoods or provision of servicesreferred to in item (i) of paragraph (e)of subsection (2) of section 2, for themanufacture of goods to beexported;

5Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(iii) by the repeal of subparagraph (viii) and (ix)of paragraph (a);

(iv) in the end of that proviso, by thesubstitution for the words commencingfrom The deferment of the payment of taxto the end of that paragraph of thefollowing:

The deferment of the payment of taxshall be subject to a furnishing of :

(a) a bank guarantee in a case where thetax deferred is less than rupees tenthousand; or

(b) a Treasury Bill as a guarantee in acase where the tax deferred is not lessthan rupees ten thousand ; or

(c) a corporate guarantee which coversthe amount of tax due subject to theconditions specified in the agreementin which the deferment is considered,

on the goods imported, received orpurchased:

Provided that, in the case of suchdeferment under paragraph (b) no guaranteeshall be required where such goods havebeen imported by a Government institutionto be re-exported within one month fromthe date of importation..

3. Section 3 of the principal enactment as last amended bythe Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.8 of 2006 is herebyfurther amended as follows:-

(1) in paragraph (e) of that section by the substitution forthe words under any tender agreement, of thefollowing:-

under any tender agreement;

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

6Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(f) any person or a partnership having a totalsupplies for any three months period in anycalendar year not less than rupees five hundredmillion including the supplies under precedingparagraphs of this section and any suppliesexcluded under section 2 or exempted under PARTII of the First Schedule,;

(2) by the repeal of the proviso to that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

Provided that, such tax shall be charged on suchwholesale or retail supply of goods made prior toJanuary 1, 2013, if

(i) any registered person makes an application tothat effect to the Commissioner-General;

(ii) any other person makes an appeal to that effectto the Commissioner-General,

and obtains a registration as provided for in section 10or section 12.;

(3) by the addition immediately at the end of that provisoof the following new proviso:

Provided further, the chargeability to tax referredto any registered person specified in paragraph (f)shall be other than the supplies exempted from tax asspecified in PART II of the First Schedule to the Act..

4. Section 5 of the principal enactment as last amended bythe Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.14 of 2007 ishereby further amended in subparagraph (12) thereof by thesubstitution for the words a separate supply by suchAssessor: of the following

a separate supply by such Assessor;

(13) Notwithstanding the provisions of ConsumerAffairs Authority Act, No.9 of 2003, the maximumretail price quoted for the goods to be sold in awholesale or retail business may be adjustedwhere necessary for the chargeability to tax whereliability to tax is specified in paragraph (f) ofsection 3 of this Act:.

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

7Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

5. Section 10 of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.15 of 2009 ishereby further amended as follows:

(1) in item (ii) of subsection (1) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words and figures on or afterJanuary 1, 2009 carries on or carries out of the wordsand figures on or after January 1, 2009, but prior toJanuary 1, 2013 carries on or carries out;

(2) immediately after paragraph (c) of item (ii) of subsection(1) of that section , by the insertion of the followingnew item :

(iii) on or after January 1,2013 carries on or carriesout any taxable activity in Sri Lanka shall berequired to be registered under this Act, if

(a) at the end of any taxable period of onemonth or three months, as the case maybe, the total value of the taxable suppliesof goods or services or goods and servicesof such person, made in Sri Lanka in thattaxable period of one month or threemonths, as the case may be, has threemillion rupees ; or

(b) in the twelve months period then ending,the total value of the taxable supplies ofgoods or services or goods and servicesof such person, made in Sri Lanka hasexceeded twelve million rupees; or

(c) at any time, there are reasonable groundsto believe that the total value of the taxablesupplies of goods or services or goodsand services of such person in Sri Lanka,in the succeeding one month or threemonths taxable period, as the case may be,is likely to exceed three million rupees or inthe succeeding twelve months period islikely to exceed twelve million rupees: .

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

8Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(3) In subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures shall not include thesupplies of any wholesale or retail trading activityexcluded from the payment of tax under section 3. ofthe words and figures shall not include the value ofsupply of goods purchased locally without anyprocess in a wholesale or retail trading activity unlessthe value of total supplies for a period of three monthsin one calendar year including the supplies excludedunder section 2 or exempted under PART II of theFirst Schedule to the Act, is not less than rupees fivehundred million..

6. Section 11 of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.7 of 2003 ishereby further amended in the proviso to subsection (1)thereof, by the substitution for the words shall not be liableto notify the Commissioner-General. of the following:-

shall not be liable to notify the Commissioner-General:

Provided further, with effect from January 1, 2013, anyperson registered under section 12, subsection (2) of section80 or subsection (1) of section 75, as the case may be, of theGoods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 shall be deemedto have obtained an identification number for the clearing ofgoods where such registered person fulfils the criteriaspecified in item (iii) of subsection (1) of section 10 or aregistered person during the project implementation periodas specified in subsection (7) of section 22 of this Act..

7. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words may make an application inthe specified form to the Commissioner-General for registrationunder this Act: of the words and figures may make anapplication for any taxable period prior to January 1, 2013, inthe specified form to the Commissioner-General for registrationunder this Act:.

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

9Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

8. Section 14 of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.7 of 2003 ishereby further amended by the repeal of subsection (2) thereofand the substitution therefor of the following:-

(2) Any person

(a) registered under subsection (1) of this section ; or

(b) deemed to be registered under section 75 orsubsection (2) of section 80 of the Goods andServices Tax Act, No.34 of 1996 on August 1, 2002and carrying on or carrying out a taxable activitysubject to the conditions specified in section 3for the registration of wholesale and retail tradeor fulfilling the requirements specified in item (iii)of subsection (1) of section 10 of this Act,

shall be a registered person for the purposes of thisAct..

9. Section 16 of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.9 of 2011 ishereby further amended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures does not exceed the valueset out in section 10. of the following:-

does not exceed the value set out in section 10:

Provided that, any registered person who hadhad a total value of taxable supplies not exceedingrupees three million for a period of three monthsand rupees twelve million for a period of twelvemonths in the year ending as at December 31,2012, shall request for the cancellation of hisregistration with effect from January 1, 2013, unlesssuch registered person has reasons to believethat the taxable supplies of such registered personis likely to exceed the value of supplies specifiedin sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (c) ofsubsection (1) of section 10.;

Amendment ofsection 16of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.

10Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(2) in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures, by another person who isa registered person. of the following:-

by another person who is a registered person:

Provided that, in the case of a registered personwhose registration is cancelled as specified in theproviso to subsection (1) -

(a) where the assets (other than stock in trade)are not transferred to another registeredperson at the time immediately prior to thedate of cancellation, the Commissioner-General shall taking into consideration thevalue of the acquisition of the assets andthe period of use of such assets based onthe rates of depreciation applied for incometax purposes on such assets and othermatters as may be relevant, determine thevalue of assets which are not so transferred.

(b) the liability to stock in trade shall not exceedthe unabsorbed input tax as at December31, 2012..

10. Section 21 of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.14 of 2007 ishereby amended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitutionfor all the words commencing from (1) Every registered personshall to the words to be set out in such form: of thefollowing:

(1) Every registered person shall furnish to theCommissioner-General

(a) for any taxable period ending prior to January 1,2013, not later than the twentieth day of the monthafter the expiry of each taxable period ;

(b) for any taxable period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2013 not later than the last day of themonth after the expiry of each taxable period

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

11Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

a return either in writing or by electronic means of hissupplies during that taxable period. Every such returnshall be in the specified form and shall contain all suchparticulars as may be required to be set out in such form..

11. Section 22 of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.7 of 2012 ishereby further amended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal of thefirst proviso to that subsection and the substitutiontherefor of the following :-

Provided that, the amount of tax due on the supplyof

(a) garments within such percentage as ispermitted to sell locally by the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka, established by theBoard of Investments of Sri Lanka Law, No.4 of 1978 under any agreement entered intoby the manufacturer of garments for exportunder section 17 of the aforesaid law asapproved by the Board of Investment ofSri Lanka or the Director-General ofCustoms , shall be rupees twenty five for eachsuch garment so supplied within Sri Lanka;

(b) fabric including any product as specified inthe following sub-paragraphs made out offabric within such percentage as ispermitted to sell locally by the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka, established by theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No.4 of 1978, under any agreement entered intoby the manufacturer of fabric for exportunder section 17 of the aforesaid law, asapproved by the Board of Investment ofSri Lanka or the Director-General ofCustoms shall be at the following rates:

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

12Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(i) linen or curtains at rupees forty perkilogram;

(ii) towels at rupees twenty five per item;

(iii) bags made out of fabric at rupeesforty per item ;

(iv) excess fabric as cut pieces not morethan two metres in length of eachpiece at rupees twenty five perkilogram;

(v) any other fabric at rupees forty perkilogram..

(2) in subsection (5) of that section

(a) in paragraph (e) of the second proviso, by therepeal of all the words commencing from (e) thereis an excess of input tax to the words more thanfifty per centumand the substitution therefor ofthe following:-

(e) there is an excess of input tax including taxdeferred under section 2, of any registeredperson who is registered with the SimplifiedValue Added Tax Scheme administrated bythe Commissioner -General referred to inparagraph (e) of subsection (2) of section 2with effect from April 1, 2011, being asupplier of goods to exporters of goods,referred to in that paragraph for the taxableperiod was more than fifty per centum.;

(b) in the third proviso, by the substitution for thewords and figures, in items (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) ofparagraph (e) of subsection (2), of the wordsand figures in items (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (vi ) ofparagraph (e) of subsection (2);

13Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(3) in subsection (6) of that section, by the additionimmediately after sub-paragraph (iv) of that subsection,the following new sub- paragraph:-

(v) on any tax invoice issued prior to thecommencement of the liability to tax unless suchtax invoice is connected to any businessapproved under subsection (7) of this section;

(4) by the repeal of paragraph (ii) of the second provisoto subsection (10), and the substitution therefor ofthe following new paragraph:-

(ii) supplies on which the tax is differed under thisAct, being supplies made to exporters by a supplierso far as both are registered persons with theSimplified Value Added Tax Scheme administratedby the Commissioner-General referred to inparagraph (e) of subsection (2) of section 2 subjectto the conditions specified in the guidelinesspecified by the Commissioner-General; and

(5) by the insertion immediately after subsection (10), thefollowing new subsection:-

(11) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5) ofsection 16, any unabsorbed balance of theallowable input tax, calculated in terms of theprovisions of this section, as at December 31,2012, not claimable after January 1, 2013, due tothe cancelation of the registration of anyregistered person whose total supplies doesnot exceed rupees three million for a period ofthree months and rupees twelve million per yearin the year commencing from January 1, 2012and ending on December 31, 2012, may be setoff against the taxes administrated by theCommissioner-General on a request made inwriting to the Commissioner-General for suchpurpose:

14Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

Provided that, the tax under this subsectionshall be set off after the finalization of the liabilityon the cancellation of the registration with theapproval of the Commissioner-General..

12. Section 25A of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.7 of 2012 ishereby further amended as follows:-

(1) in paragraph (iv) of subsection (1) of that section, bythe substitution for the words and figurescommencing on or after January 1, 2009: of the wordscommencing on or after January 1, 2009, or the CentralBank of Sri Lanka established by the Monetary LawAct, (Chapter 422) (with effect from July 1, 2003):

(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

(2) Every specified Institution or other person,carrying on the business of supplying of any financialservices in Sri Lanka, shall be required to beregistered :-

(a) where the value of such supply for a period ofthree months exceeds five hundred thousandrupees or for a period of twelve months one millioneight hundred thousand rupees, as the case maybe, if such registration has taken place for anyperiod prior to January 1, 2013;

(b) where the value of such supply for a period ofthree months exceeds three million rupees or for aperiod of twelve months exceeds twelve millionrupees, as the case may be, if such registrationhas taken place for any period on or after January1, 2013..

(3) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

Amendment ofsection 25A oftheprincipalenactment.

15Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(3) Every specified institution or other personrequired to be registered under subsection (2), shallmake an application for registration in the specifiedform to the Commissioner-General not later than thirtydays from the date of completion of the requirementsspecified in subsection (2):

Provided that, any institution registered under thisAct and which is also a specified institution within themeaning of this Chapter, shall be deemed for allpurposes to be a specified institution registered underthis Chapter:

Provided further, the Commissioner-General shallregister any person who has not made an applicationfor registration under this Chapter if the Commissioner-General having regard to the nature of the activitiescarried on or carried out by such person, is of opinionthat such person is required to be registered underthis Chapter. In the circumstances such person shallbe afforded an opportunity of being heard prior tobeing registered under this Chapter and register suchperson accordingly with effect from such date as maybe determined by the Commissioner-General..

(4) by the addition immediately after subsection (4) thereof,of the following new subsection:-

(5) Every registered person shall notify theCommissioner-General in writing of any change

(a) in the name, address and place at whichany taxable activity is carried on or carriedout by such person;

(b) in the nature of the taxable activity carriedon or carried out by such person;

(c) in the person authorized to sign returns andother documents; and

16Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(d) in ownership of the taxable activity,

not later than fourteen days after the occurrence ofsuch change..

13. Section 25B of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof by the repeal of paragraph(b) and the substitution therefor of the following:-

(b) six months for any taxable period commencing on orafter January 1, 2011:

Provided that, in the case of a specified institutionor any other person whose accounts are made up for atwelve months period ending on the 31st day of Marchthe six months period may be commenced on the 1stdayof April and the 1st day of September for that period oftwelve months. In such event a separate return for theperiod commencing from the 1stday of January to the31st day of March shall be submitted at the time ofsuch change with the approval of the Commissioner-General..

14. Section 25C of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.9 of 2011 ishereby further amended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1) of that section -

(a) by the substitution in the proviso to thatsubsection, for the words The estimated amountsshall be adjusted to reflect the actual amount onhalf yearly basis. of the words The estimatedamounts shall be adjusted to reflect the actualamounts with the audited statement of accountson yearly basis and such adjustment shall besubmitted within six months after the closing dateof the relevant accounting period.

Amendment ofsection 25B of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 25C of theprincipalenactment.

17Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(b) by the repeal of paragraph (a) and substitute thefollowing :

(a) in the case of specified employees underChapter XIV of the Inland Revenue Act, No.10 of 2006, the gross remuneration payableto such employees and reflected in the paysheet maintained under section 119 of theInland Revenue Act, No.10 of 2006; and

(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures under section 110 of theInland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000. of the words andfigures under section 119 of the Inland Revenue Act,No. 10 of 2006..

(3) in subsection (5) of that section

(a) by the substitution in paragraph (a) thereof, forthe words and figures under item (xi) of the FirstSchedule but taxable under this Chapter; of thewords and figures under item (x) of paragraph(b) of PART II of the First Schedule but taxableunder this Chapter;;

(b) by the substitution in paragraph (d) thereof, forthe words (d) the profit or income on interestarising or accrued from inter-companytransactions of the words (d) the profit orincome (not being profit from a business) oninterest arising or accrued from inter-companytransactions;

(c) by the substitution in paragraph (f) thereof, forthe words (f) the dividend income arising to anyperson, of the words (f) the dividend income(not being profit from a business) arising to aperson,;

18Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(d) by the repeal of paragraph (h) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following :

(h)the profits or income (not being profits froma business) from the exchange of currencyother than such profits or income arising oraccruing to any person primarily engagedin the business or exchange of currency orany specified institution within themeaning of this Chapter or a person notregistered with the Central Bank of Sri Lanka,but providing services similar to suchservices provided by a finance company,

included in the profit calculated as specified insubsection (1) of this section shall be treated aszero.;

(4) by the repeal of subsection (8) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following:-

(8) Every specified institution or any other personshall for the purpose of the calculation of tax,submission of returns and information to be furnishedrelating to such return, payments of tax, issue ofassessments, imposition of penalty for non-submission of the returns or the information requiredfor the purpose of this Chapter, follow

(a) the guidelines specified by the Commissioner-General; and

(b) the relevant guidelines specified in the Orderpublished in the Gazette,

having considered the uniform application of thecalculation of the liability and any other matterspecified in the guideline provisions of this Chapter..

19Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

15. Section 25D of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax Act, No.8 of 2006 is hereby furtheramended by the substitution for the words any registeredspecified institution of the words any registered specifiedinstitution or other person.

16. Section 25H of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), by the substitutionfor the words and figures every quarter commencing onJanuary 1, 2011. of the words and figures every quartercommencing on January 1, 2011 and ending on December 31,2012,.

17. Section 25I of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No.9 of 2011 ishereby further amended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1) of that section :

(a) by the substitution for the words, referred to insubsection (2), may apply for registration , ofthe words and figures referred to in subsection(2), may prior to December 31, 2012 apply forregistration;

(b) in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), by thesubstitution for the words and figures shall bevalid for a period of twelve years from the date ofcommencement of the quarter of the words andfigures shall be valid for any quarter endingprior to January 1, 2013 from the date ofcommencement of the quarter;

(c) by the addition immediately after paragraph(b) of that subsection, the following newparagraph :-

(c) Any registration obtained under thisChapter shall be treated as cancelled witheffect from the period commencing fromJanuary 1, 2013:

Amendment ofsection 25I of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 25D oftheprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 25H oftheprincipalenactment.

20Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

Provided that, any person or partnershipregistered under this Chapter whoseturnover exceeds rupees twelve million peryear and fulfils the criteria for registrationunder section 10 shall obtain a registrationaccordingly..

18. Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords and figures (1) (1) The tax in respect of anyof the words and figures (1) The tax in respect ofany;

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section of the following:-

(1A) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1) of this section, in the case of aregistered person whose taxable suppliesconsist of any supplies other than the supplyof goods manufactured in Sri Lanka by suchmanufacturer, the tax in respect of any taxableperiod on or after January 1, 2013 shall bepaid :

(i) for the period from the 1st day to the 15th

day of any month on or before the end ofthat month; and

(ii) for the period from the 16th day to the endof the month on or before the 15th day ofthe subsequent month,

subject to the making of any final adjustments,if any , with the submission of the return .

Any tax not paid as set out above shall be deemed tobe in default and the person by whom such tax ispayable or where any tax is payable by more than oneperson, each such person shall be deemed to be adefaulter for the purposes of this Act..

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment

21Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

19. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the addition immediately after subsection (4) of that sectionof the following:-

(5) Where any person whose turnover from everytrade or business carried on by such person for anyperiod of twelve months ending prior to April 1, 2011,does not exceed three hundred million and who hasnot complied with any law relating to tax asadministrated by the Commissioner-General, requeststhat he be registered under section 10 of this Act,notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) ofthis section and subsection (2) of section 33 of thisAct, the turnover of that person for the above periodshall not be assessed if such person undertakes to-

(a) invest his past earnings from that trade orbusiness in any business prior to March 31, 2014;and

(b) comply with the requirements of this Act for anysubsequent period..

20. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 64 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 64A of that enactment:-

64A. Where the assessor is of the opinionthat any transaction which reduces or wouldhave the effect of reducing the amount of taxpayable by any person is artificial or fictitiousor that any disposition is not in fact given effectto, he may disregard any such transaction ordisposition and the parties to the transaction ordisposition shall be assessable accordingly.

In this section disposition includes anytrust, grant, covenant, or arrangement..

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion ofsection 64A inthe principalenactment.

Certaintransactionsanddispositionsto bedisregarded.

22Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

21. Section 67 of the principal enactment as last amendedby the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No.9 of 2011 ishereby further amended as follows:-

(1) in paragraph (a), by the substitution for the words andfigures under section 10; or of the words and figuresunder section 10 or section 25A; or;

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (aa) thereof;

(3) in paragraph (b), by the substitution for the wordsand figures under section 19; or of the words andfigures under section 19 or subsection (5) of section25A; or;

(4) in paragraph (f), by the substitution for the words andfigures under section 21; or of the words and figuresunder section 21 or section 25B ; or;

(5) in paragraph (g), by the substitution for the wordsand figures under section 21 or; of the words andfigures under section 21 or section 25B or;

(6) by the substitution in paragraph (l) of that section forthe words issues a tax invoice, of the following:-

issues a tax invoice; or

(m) fails to comply with the requirements specifiedby order published in the Gazette or theguidelines issued by the Commissioner-Generalunder sections 2 or 25C, as the case may be ; or

(n) fails to furnish an annual adjustment under subsection (1) of section 25C,.

Amendment ofsection 67 of theprincipalenactment.

23Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

22. The First Schedule of the principal enactment is herebyamended in PART II thereof as follows:-

(1) in paragraph (a) of that PART

(i) by the repeal of item (viii) and the substitutiontherefor of the following item:-

(viii) agricultural tractors or road tractors forsemi-trailers;;

(ii) In item (xxii)

(a) by the substitution for the words in sub-item (i) moulding (steel, glass, rubber orplastic), of the words, moulding (steel,glass, mineral material, rubber or plastic),;

(b) by the substitution for the words andfigures under the Sri Lanka ExportDevelopment Act, No. 40 of 1979, of thefollowing:-

under the Sri Lanka ExportDevelopment Act, No. 40 of 1979;

(vi) bowsers, bulldozers, graders,levelers, excavators, fire fightingvehicles;

(vii) raw materials for the manufactureof energy saving bulbs,.

(2) in paragraph (b) of that PART

(i) in sub-paragraph (A) of paragraph (b) of item (ii),by the substitution for the words and figurers inrespect of any rental falling due for payment onor after April 1, 2012. of the following:-

in respect of any rental falling due forpayment on or after April 1, 2012;

Amendment ofthe first scheduleof theprincipalenactment.

24Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(iii) bowsers, bulldozers, graders, levelers,excavators, fire fighting vehicles or roadtractors for semi-trailers as exempted forCustom purposes under HarmonizeCommodity Description and CodingSystem Numbers in respect of any rentalfalling due for payment on or afterJanuary 1, 2013,.

(ii) by the repeal of item (xx) and the substitutiontherefor of the following:-

(xx) locally manufactured coconut oil or cocopeat, coir fiber, grow pellets, grow bags,twist fiber or coconut husk made out ofcoconut waste;.

(iii) by the repeal of item (xLiii) and the substitutiontherefor of the following:-

(xLiii) services which result in the improvementof quality, character or value of any yarn,fabric or garment so far as such servicesare provided to persons other thanexporters of such products;.

(iv) by the addition immediately after item (xLiv) ofthe following:-

(xLv) services by a Unit Trust Managementcompany so far as such services areprovided to any Unit Trust ;

(xLvi) services being hotel accommodation toany sportsman, organizer of any sportevent or sponsor arriving in Sri Lankafor participating in any sport event oractivity connected with sports, as maybe approved by the Minister who is incharge of the subject of Sports.

25Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(3) in paragraph (c) of that PART

(i) by the repeal of item (xxvii) and the substitutiontherefor of the following:-

(xxvii) packing materials exclusively for the useof packing of pharmaceuticals orayurvedic medicines manufactured in SriLanka and which are imported by themanufacturer of such pharmaceuticalsor ayurvedic medicines, so far as suchpacking materials are not manufacturedin Sri Lanka as approved by the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister to whomthe subject of Health is assigned or theCommissioner of the Department ofAyurveda, as the case may be, for thispurpose..

(ii) in item (xxxvi), by the substitution for the wordssubject to the chargeability of a Cess of rupeesseventy five per kilogram on importation of thewords subject to the chargeability of a Cess at aspecific rate referred to in sub-item (ii) of item(xxxvii) of paragraph (b) of PART II of the FirstSchedule..

(iii) by the addition immediately after item (xxxvi) ofthat paragraph, the following new item:-

(xxxvii) gully bowsers, semi-trailers for roadtractors, any machinery or equipmentused for garbage disposal activitiescarried out by any local authority, forthe purpose of provision of suchservices to the public, as approved bythe Secretary to the relevantMinistry..(4) by the addition immediately after paragraph (h) of thatPART, the following new paragraphs:-(i) the supply of goods or services by the CentralBank of Sri Lanka established by the MonetaryLaw Act (Chapter 422);

26Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

(j) the supply of any services by any publiccorporation to the extent of provision of suchservices on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka,free of charge out of the funds voted by Parliamentfrom the Consolidated Fund or out of any loanarranged through the Government.

(k) the supply of goods or services by any individualwho is a citizen of Sri Lanka and who carries onany business of manufacturing of any article otherthan any liquor or tobacco product or supply ofany services after returning from a foreignemployment for a period of five years reckonedfrom the beginning of the year of assessment inwhich such business commences if suchindividual-

(i) returns from such foreign employment onor after January 1, 2013; and

(ii) invests his earnings from such foreignemployment to commence such business..

23. Any person who collects the Value Added Tax asprovided for in this Act during any period commencing fromJanuary 1, 2013 and ending on the date on which the Certificateof the Speaker in endorsed in respect of this Act, shall bedeemed to have acted with due authority and such collectionof tax shall be deemed to have been, and to be, validly made:

Provided that, the aforesaid provisions shall not affectany decision or Order made by any Court or any proceedingspending in any Court in respect of any tax collected as providedfor in this Act during such period.

24. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Validation.

Sinhala text toprevail incase ofinconsistency.

27Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2013

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.