~ PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
- SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

ee ere eres ate ae renieen &

~ SAARC REGIONAL CONVENTION —
ON SUPPRESSION OF TERRORISM
. ACT, No. 70 OF 1988 ©

: [ Certified on 17th December,1988 J

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
. Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988

—

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THS GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 69 cents. - poe Pestage : 75 cents —


SAARC Regional Convention on Suppression
of Terrorism Act, No. 70 of 1988

[Certified on lth December, 1988].
L.D.—O. 3/88

An Act TO MAKE PROVISION TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE SOUTH
Asian ASSOCATION FOR REGIONAL CO %FERATION REGICGNAL
CONVENTION ON SUPPRESSION OF ‘TERRORISM; AND FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS A Regional Convention for the Suppression of
Terrorism was signed on behalf the Government of Sri
Lanka and the other member states of the South Asian
Association for Regional Co-operation at Kathmandu, on
the fcurth day of November, Nineteen Hundred anc Eighty-
Seven, and came into force on August 22nd, 1988, upon the
deposit of instruments of ratification in accordance with
the provisions of the aforesaid Convention :

AND WHEREAS it is necessary to make legal provision to
give effect to the provisions of the aforesaid Convention :

NOW THEREFORE, BE it enacted by the Parliament of
the Democratic Socialist Republic: of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the SAARC Regional Con-
vention on Suppression of Terrerism Act, No, 70 of 1988.

. PART I
| AMENDMENTS TO THE a Law, No. 8 oF 1977

2. The Schedule to'the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977,
is hereby amended by the addition, at the end of the
Schedule thereto, of the following Part :—

“Part B

(a) An offence within the scope of the Convention for the
Suppression on Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft,
signed at Hague on December 16, 1970;

(b) An offence within the scope of the Convention for

the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the
Safety of Civil Aviation, signed at Montreal on
September 23, 1971 ; .
(c) An offence within the scope of the Convention on
the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against
Internationally Protected Persons, including
Diplomatic Agents, signed at New York on Dece-
ber 14,1973; |

Short
title.

Amend-
rnents

to the
Schedule

to the
Extradition
Law.


Interpre-
tation.

Existing *
- extradition
arrangements

‘ with

certain .
SAARC
States
deemed to
provide
for
‘offences

in the
Schedule. |

Minister
may treat
Convention
as an
extradition «
arrangement
between Sri
Lanka and
eertain .
SAARC
States, in
respect of
offences in
the Schedule.

2 SAARC Regional Convention of Suppression
of Terrorism Act, No. 70 of 1988

(d) An. offence within the scope of any Convention to
which the SAARC member States are parties and

which obliged the DATES to prosecute or igtagt
extradition ;

(e) Murder, culpable homicide nit amounting to muréer,
assault causing bodily harm, kidnapping, hostage-
taking and offences relating to firearms, weapons,
explosives and dangerous substances when used as
a-means to perpetrate indiscriminate violence
involving death or serious bodily injury. to pergons
os serious damage to property. ”

3. Notwithstanding anything in the Extradition Law, No.
8 of 1977, an offence specified in Part B of the Schedule to
that Law and the First Schedule to this Act shall for the
‘purpose of that Law, be deemed not to be an offence of a
political character or an offence connected with a political
offence or an offence inspired by political’ motives, for the
purposes only of extradition of any person accused or

_ convicted of any such offence, as between the Government
_ of Sri Lanka and.any state specified in the Second Schedule

to “bats Act.

_ . PART I
Provision REGARDING ExTRADITION ARRANGEMENTS ©

4. Where there js an extradition arrangement made by
the Government of Sri Lanka with any State specitied in
the Second Schedule to this Act, in force on the date of
commencement of this Act, such arrangement shall be
deemed, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of

_ 1977, to include provision for extradition in respect of the

offences specified in the First Schedule to this Act.

5. Where there is ne extradition arrangement made by

the Government of Sri Lanka with any. State specified in

the Second Schedule to this Act, in force on the date of

commencement of this Act; the Minister may, by: Order

published in the Gazette, treat the Convention, - for the

purposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, -as an
extradition arrangement made, by the Government of Sri
Lanka with that State providing for extradition: in respect
of the offences sperified in the First Schedule to this Act


SAARC Regional Convention on Suppression 3
of Terrorism Act, No. 70 of 1988

6. (1) Where-a request is made to the Government of
Sri Lana, by or'on behalf of the Government of a State
specified in the Second Schedule to this Act for the extradi-
‘tion of any person accused or convicted of an offence
specified in the First Schedule to this Act the Minister
‘shall, on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka,
_ forthwith notify ‘the. Government of the requesting
‘State of the measures which the Government of Sri

Lanka has taken, or proposes to take, for the prosecution or -

_ extradition of thet person for that offence.

(2) Where it is decided that no order should be made
under the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, for the extradition
of any person accused or convicted of an offence specified’
in the First Schedule to this Act, pursuant to a request for
his extradition under that Law by the Government of a
State specified in the Second Schedule to this Act, the case
shall be submitted to the relevant authorities so that prosecu-.
tion for the offence which such person is accused of, or other
appropriate action may be considered.

PART III |
JURISDICTION FOR PURPOSES OF CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS

%7.. If any person, whether a citizen of Sri Lanka or not,

does in a convention country any act, which if done in Sri .

Lanka, would have constituted an offence specified in the
First Schedule to this Act, such person shall be guilty in
Sri Lanka, of the offence constituted by the commission
of that act in Sri Lanka.

8. (1) If-a person who is a national of a convention
‘country but not a citizen of Sri Lanka, does outside Sri
Lanka and that convention country, any act which makes
him guilty of an offence in that convention country and
which, had he been a citizen of Sri Lanka, would have made
him guilty of an offence specified in the First Schedule to
‘this Act, he shall be guilty of the offences aforesaid, of
which the act would have made him guilty, 3 if he had been
such a citizen of Sri Lanka..

(2) If a citizen of Sri Lanka does outside Sri Tianka or:

any convention country any act which, if such act had been
committed in Sri Lanka, would have made him guilty of an

Offence specified in the First Schedule to this Act, he shall

‘be guilty of an offence aforesaid of which the act would
‘have made him guilty had it been committed in Sri Lanka.

Duty of
Minister to
notify
requesting
country, of
measures
taker against
persons for
whose extra-
dition request
is made.

Jurisdiction.

Jurisdiction
for offences
committed
outside Sri
Lanka,


Jurisdiction
of High
Court.

(4 SAARC Regional Convention on Suppression

of Terrorism Act, No. 70 of 1988

in this section “convention country” means any State
referred to in the Second Schedule to this Act.

9, (1) The High Court of Sri Lanka is hereby vested

-with jurisdiction to try the offences referred to in sections 7

and 8.

(2) The jurisdiction vested in the High Court by sub-
section (1) shall be exercised by the High Court of Sri
Lanka holden at Colombo.

FIRST SCHEDULE (Sections 4 and 5)

Last OF OFFENCES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE [ OF THE |
CONVENTION |

(a) An offence within the scope of the Convention for the
Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft, signed at
the Hague on December 16, 1970.

(vo) An offence within the‘scope of the Convention for the
’ Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil
Aviation, signed at Montreal on September 23, 1971.

fe) An offence within the scope of the Convention on the
Prevention of Crimes against Internationally Protected
Persons, including Diplomatic Agents, signed at New York
on December 14, 1973. ,

~ (G@) An offence within the scope of any Convention to which
the SAARC member States concerned are parties and
which obliges the parties to prosecute or grant
extradition.

(e) Murder, nanslangliter, assault causing bodily harm,

kidnapping, hostage taking and. offences relating to
firearms, weapons, explosives and dangerous substances
when used as a means to perpetrate indiscriminate
violence involving death, or serious bodily injury to
persons or serious damage to property. . :

(f) an attempt or conspiracy to commit an offence described in

sub-paragraphs (a) to (e), aiding, abetting or counselling

' the commission of such an offence, participating as an
accomplice in the offences so described. ©

SECOND SCHEDULE ~~ (Section 6)

MEMBER STATES OF THE SOUTH ASIAN AssocraTIon
; ; FOR REGIONAL CO-OPERATION
Peoples’ Republic of Bangladesh.
Kingdom of Bhutan,
Republic of India.
Republic of Maldives.
Kingdom of Nepal.
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
