PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC -
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

INSTITUTE OF POLICY STUDIES
OF SRI LANKA
ACT, No. 53 OF 1988

[Certified on 7th December, 1988]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 09, 1988

ERINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

YO BE PURCIIASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUFPLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : Re 1.20 Postagé : 75 cents.”


Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka
Act, No, 53 of 1988
[Certified on 7th December, 1988]

L..D.—0O.52/86

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR 1HE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INSTITUTE
OF Pouicy STUDIES ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Institute of Policy
Studies of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1988 and shall come
into operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by
Order published in the Gazette.

PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INSTITUTE OF PoLicy STUDIES

2. There shall be established in accordance with the
provisions of this Act an Institute which shall be called the
Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referr-
ed to as “ the Institute”).

3. The Institute shall, by the name assigned to it by
section 2, be a body corpcrate having perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

4. The seal of the Institute—
{a)

shall be in the custody of the Executive Director of
the Institute ;

{b) shall be of such design as shal! be approved by the
Board and may be altered in such manner as may

be determined by the Board ; and

shall not be affixed to any document except with the
sanction of the Board or in accordance with such
rules as may be determined by the Board.

(c)

5. The aims and objects of the Institute shall be to
engage in, and to encourage, foster and facilitate socic-
economic research and in particular—

(a) to initiate, promote and conduct studies ic relation to
national development plans ard policies ;

2—A 104489 (88/08)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Establish-
ment of the
Institute

of Policy
Studies

of Sri
Lanka.

Institute
to bea
body
corporate.

Seal
of the
Institute.

Aims and
objects

of the
Institute.


2: Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 53 of 1988

(b) to establish and maintain liaison with Government
institutions, universities and research institutions
concerned with development studies and to provide,
for this purpose, 2 forum for the discussion and
evaluation of research work and studies ;

(c) to undertake and conduct socio-economic . research
requested by Government, Government institutions.
or by any international institution ;

(d) to arrange for the conduct of socio-economic research
by research institutions or individuals, either
locally or abroad ;

(e) to conduct joint studies, seminars or symposia with
foreign research institutions and nesearel institu-
tions in Sri Lanka ;

(f) to disseminate the results of policy research and to
take steps to maximise their impact on the formula-
tion and evalution of public policy ;

.(g) to establish a repository for economic and_ social
- research information and other related materials ;

(h) to establish and maintain relations with research
institutions in Sri Lanka or abroad with objects
similar to the objects of the Institute and to facili-
tate co-operation and .. collaporation with such

institutions.
Powers - 6. ‘The Institute shall have such powers as may be neces-
ne sary ior the attainment of its aims and objects and in
u

_| particular, shall have the power to do the following: :—

(a) to make ‘rules in respect of the management of the
affairs of the Institute ;

-(b).to' accept and ‘receivé. grants, donations, gifts,

bequests, both. movable and immovable, from
domestic and foreign sources, and to apply them to
the promotion of its aims and objects ;

(¢) to acquire and held property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any
purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition or
otherwise and subject to the rules of the Institute,

to sell, assign, exchange or otherwise dispose of the |
same ;

(d) to enter into such contracts as are deemed necessaty
for the attainment of its aims and objects;


Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka 3
Act, No, 53 of 1988

(e) to appoint, employ, remunerate and _ exercise
disciplinary control over such officers, servants or
agents as are necessary or useful for the attainment
of the aims and objects of the Institute ;

(f) to enter into agreements for co-operation with educa-
_. tional and other institutions, whether in Sri Lanka
or abroad, having objects wholly or partly similar
to those of the Institute, for the exchange of
personnel, advisory services, research, the training
of personnel or generally, for such purposés as may

be conducive to their common objects; and

(g) to open and maintain current, savings of deposit
accounts in any bank or banks ;

(h) to invest its funds in such securities as may be
approved by the Board ;

{i) to establish provident funds or pension schemes for
the benefit of officers and servants of the Institute
and to make contributions tc any such fund or
scheme ;

{j) to borrow such sums of money as may be “necessary
for the discharge of its functions ;

(k\ to erect, equip and maintain libraries ;

(l) to take such action as may be necessary to adyanse thie
skills of its officers and servants ;

(m) .to issue publications ;

(n) to undertake all such activities in the opinion of the
Institute are necessary to facilitate the attainment
-of its objects and the discharge of its functions.

PART II

ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE INSTITUTE

7. The administration and management of the affairs of
the Institute shall be vested in a Board of Governors consis-
ting of the following members :—

(a) the Chairman of the Board appointed under section
9; bs |

(b) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
in charge.of the subject of planning ;

(c) the Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka ;

The Board
of
Govern¢rs
of the
Institute.


Term of
office. .

Chairman
of the
Board,

4 Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka
Act, No, 53 of 1988

(d) the Director of National Planning ; and

(e) three members drawn from the academic and
research community of Sri Lanka to be appointed
by the President in consultation with the Minister
in charge of the subject of planning (hereinafter
referred to as “appointed members”) of whom two
shall be from the discipline of economics and the
other from a discipline within the social sciences
other than economics.

8. (1) An appointed member shall hold office for a
period of three years and shall be eligible for re-
appcintment.

(2) A person shall be disqualified from: being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Board if he is—

(a) adjudged by a competent court to be of unsound
mind ; or
(b) declared by a competent court to be insolvent.

(3) A vacancy occuring in the Board as a result of an
appointed member vacating office by death, resignation or
removal shall be filled by the President in consultation with
the Minister in charge of the subject of planning having
regard to the provisions of section 7 (e) and the member so
appointed shall hold office for the unexpired period of the
term of office of his predecessor.

(4) Where an appointed member is by reason of illness,
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period of not
less than three months, temporarily unable to perform his
duties, the President may in consultation with the Minister

in charge of the subject of planning appoint another person
to act in his place.

(5) Any member of the Board may, at any time, resign
his office by letter addressed to the President.

9. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by
the President in consultation with the Minister in charge
of the subject of planning.

(2) The Chairman may at any time resign from the office
of Chairman by a letter addressed to the President.


Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka 5
Act, No, 53 of 1988

(3) 1f£ the Chairman is by reason of illness or absence
from Sri Lanka, temporarily unable to perform the duties
of his office, the President may in consultation with the
Minister in charge of the subject of planning appoint another
member of the Board to act in his place.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3)
the term of office of the Chairman shall be three. years.

10. (1)-The Chairman shall preside at the meetings of

the Board. In the absence of the Chairman, a member

chosen by the members of the Board present at any meeting
shall preside at such meeting.

(2) The Chairman or the member presiding at any meet-

ing shall not be entitled to vote, except in the case of an
equality of votes.

(3) The Board may, delegate to the Chairman any power,
duty or function conferred or imposed on or assigned to
the Institute by the Act.

(4) The Board shall meet at least once in every period of
six calendar months. é

(5) The quorum for a meeting shall be four members,
inclusive of the Chairman.

(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board shall
make rules regulating the procedure in regard to its meet-
ings and the transactions of business of such meetings in-
cludii:g honoraria and reimbursement of expenses, for

attendance at meetings, payable to its members.

11. The Board shall have the power to act notwith-
Standing any vacancy in its membership and any act or pro-
ceeding of the Board shall not be or deemed to be invalid
by reason only of any such vacancy or any defect in the
appointment of a member.

Proceedings
of the
Board,

Acts or
proceedings
of the
Board
deemed

not to be
invalid

by reason
of any
vacancy

or

defect

in the
appointment


Research
Advisory
Committees.

~

Functions
and
responsibilic
ties of the
Committee.

The
appointment
of the
Director.

Opportunity

for non-staff
members to

contract with
the Institute.

6 Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka
Act, No, 53 of 1988

12. (1) The Board may appoint a Research Advisory
Committee to advise the Board, on the programme of policy
studies, to be undertaken with the support and assistance
of the Institute.

(2) Such Committee shall consist of persons in the field
of research relevant to development studies drawn from
Government, academic or research communities in Sr
Lanka or abroad.

.13. Subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules of
the Institute, the functions and responsibilities of the Com-
initi= shall be to advise the Board on the—

(a) general direction and emphasis of the Institute’s re-
search programme ;

(b) selection, design and methodology of research ;

(c) evaluation, dissemination and publication of research
findings ; and :

(2) such other matters on which its advice is sought.

PART III °
FuNcriows ANN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

14. (1) The Minister in charge of the subject of plan-
ning shall, on the advice of the Board, appoint the Execu-
tive Director of the Institute, (hereinafter referred to as
“the Director ”) who shall also be a member of the research
staff of the Institute. The Director shall be a full-time officer
of the Institute and shall receive such remuneration and
other benefits as may be determined by the Board.

(2) The Director shall be responsible to the Board. He
shall attend the meetings of the Board in an advisory capa-
city but shall not be entitled to vote at such meetings.

(3) The Director shall exercise, discharge and perform
any such powers, functions and duties as may be delegated
to him by the Board.

15. (1) The Institute shall be entitled to enter into con-
tracts with researchers and professionals not being members
of the Board or of the staff of the Institute to carry out
specialised studies or research.

(2) Every person with whom the Institute has entered
into a contract under subsection (1) shall be deemed to be
a Research Associate and shall be paid such fees as may be
determined by the Board.


Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka (i
Act, No, 53 of 1988

PART IV
FINANCE
16. (1) The Institute shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be put into the Fund of the Institute—

(a) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Institute in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions ;

(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Institute by way of fees, grants, donations, gifts,
bequests from any source whatsoever, whether do-
mestic or foreign ; and

(c) all sums of money borrowed by the Institute.

’ (3) There shall be paid out cf the Fund, all such sums of
money as may be required to defray any expenditure
incurred. by the Institute in the exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions.

'17, The Financial year of the Institute shall be the
caiendar year.

18. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and
liabilities and all other trarisactions of the Institute.

(2) The Board shall cause its books to be balanced as on
the thirty-first day of December in each year and shall
before the thirty-first day of March next, cause to be
prepared an income and expenditure account and a balance
sheet containing a summary of the assets and liabilities of
the Institute made upto the first-mentioned date.

(3) The income and expenditure account and the balance
sheet shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board and the
Director of the Institute.

(4) The Board may employ the services of any qualified
auditor (hereinafter. referred to as “ auditor”) for the
purpose of auditing the accounts of the Institute.

(5) For the purpose of meeting the expenses incurred
by any auditor in the audit of accounts of the Institute,
such auditor shall be paid by the Institute such remunera-
tion as the Board may determine.

Institute,

Financial
year.

Audit of
accounts,


8 Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka
Act, No, 53 of 1988

(6) The auditor shall inspect the accounts, the finances,
the management of the finances and the property of the
Institute. The auditor shali as far as possible, and as far as
it is necessary, examine—

(a) whether the organization, systems, procedures, books,
records and other documents have been properly
and adequately designed from the point of view of
the presentation of information to enable  con-

. tinuous evaluation of the activities of the Institute,
and whether such systems, procedures, books,
records and other documents are in EECINE opera-
tion ; ~

(b) whether the financial conduct of the Institute has
been in accordance with the law, rules and regula-
tions relevant to the Institute and whether there
has been fairnees in the financial administration of
the Institute ; |

(c) whether there has been economy and efficiency in the
commitment of funds and utilization of such funds ;

(d) whether system of keeping moneys and the  safe-
guarding of property are satisfactory ;

(e) whether the accounts audited have been so designed
as to present a true and fair view of the affairs of
the Institute in repect of the period under

- consideration, due regard being paid to principles
of accountancy, financing and valuation ; and

(f) any such other matter as he may deem necessary.

(7) The auditor shall determine the nature and extent
of the audit that shall be carried out in any particular
period and may dispense with any particular aspect.

(8) The auditor shall have—

(a) the right of access to any books, records, documents
and any type of information which is directly or
indirectly related to the activities of the Institute ;

(b) the right to call for such information, documents,
explanation reports or other material at any time

as in his opinion is necessary for the purposes of
the audit ;

(c) the right to summon any person for examination and
for the production of any document, where such
examination or production is considered necessary
for the purposes of the audit.

a


Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka i)
Act, No, 53 of 1988

(3) The Institute or any person of the Institute shall
comply with any request made by the auditor in the
exercise of the above-mentioned process.

(10) The accounts of the Institute for each financial year
shall be submitted to the auditor for audit within four
months after the close of that year along with any report
on the accounts which the auditor may require to be
submitted in the manner specified by him. Any person who
contravenes or fails to comply with the preceding provisions
of this subsection shall be guilty of an offence under this
Act and shall on conviction after a summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand
rupees.

(11) The auditor shall submit a report to the
Chairman of the Institute within eight months after the
close of the financial year, to which the report relates
dealing with the results of the audit including a report on
the accounts examined in the year. Copies of such report
shall be forwarded by him where—

(a) the Minister is the Minister in charge of the subject
of finance, to that Minister ; or

(b) the Minister is not the Minister in charge of the
subject of finance, to both the Minister, and the
Minister in charge of the subject of finance.

(12) For the purposes of this section the expression
“ qualified auditor” means—

(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Acccuntants of Sri Lanka possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the council of that Institute ; or

(b) a firm of Chartered Accountants each of the partners
of which being a member of that Institute, possess
a certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by

the Council of that Institute.

19. (1) The Institute shall be exempt from the payment
of any rates imposed by any local authority.

(2) The Minister may in consultation with the Minister
in charge of the subject of finance waive any charges levia-
ble on an import licence for goods imported by the Institute.

Exemption
from
taxes,


Appointment
of

officers
and
servants,

10 Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka
Act, No, 53 of 1988

(3) From and after the inclusion of the Institute under
paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of section 31 of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, a person shall, subject to the
other provisions of that Act, be entitled to the relief speci-
fied in that section in respect of donations made by him,
in money, to the Institute.

(4) From and after the inclusion of the Institute under
sections 8 and 42 respectively of the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 28 of 1979, the profits and income of the Institute shall
be exempt from income tax and the Institute shall be
exempt from the payment. of wealth tax.

(5) From and after the inclusion of the Institute under
section 9 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, the
emoluments of every officer and servant of the Institute
shall be exempt from income tax.

PART V

GENERAL

20. (1) The Board may eppoint such officers, servants
and consultants as may be necessary for the administration
and management of the affairs of the Institute and shall
determine the remuneration payable to, and the conditions
of service of the officers, servants and consultants so appoin-
ted.

(2) At the request of the Board, any officer in the public
service may, with the consent of that officer and the Secre-
tary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject
of public administration, be temporarily appointed to the
staff of the Institute for such period as may be determined
by the Board with like consent or with like consent be
permanently appointed to such staff.

(3) Where any officer of the public service is temporarily
zppointed to the staff of the Institute the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 13 of the Transport Board Law,
No. 19 of 1978, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in
relation to him.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 13 of the Transport Board Law,
No. 19 of 1978, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in.
relation to him.


Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka 11
Act, No. 53 of 1988

(5) At the request of the Board, any officer or servant of
a Higher Sducational Institution established under the Uni-
versities Act, No. 16 of 1978 may, with the consent of such
officer or servant and the principal executive officer of that
Higher Educational Institution be temporarily appointed to
the staff of the Institute for such period as may be deter-
mined by the Board with like consent or be permanently
appo:nted to such staff, on such conditions including those
relating to pension and yrovident fund rights, as may be
agreed upon by the Board and such principal executive
officer.

21. The Board shall at the end of each financial year,
submit to the President, through the Minister, a published
report «f the activities of the Institute for that year.

Rep-rt
of thy
institute.
