PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 16, 2007

[Certified on 16th November, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

INTERNATIONAL COVENANT ON CIVILAND POLITICAL RIGHTS (ICCPR)ACT, No. 56 0F 2007

International Covenant on Civil and PoliticalRights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 20071

Short title.

Preamble.

2PL 0025024,350 (10/2007)

[Certified on 16th November, 2007]

L. D. O. 30/2007.

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO CERTAIN ARTICLES IN THEINTERNATIONAL COVENANT ON CIVIL AND POLITICAL RIGHTS(ICCPR) RELATING TO HUMAN RIGHTS WHICH HAVE NOT BEEN

GIVEN RECOGNITION THROUGH LEGISLATIVE MEASURES AND

TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS Sri Lanka is a State Party to the InternationalCovenant on Civil and Political Rights which was adoptedby the General Assembly of the United Nations on 16thDecember, 1966 and entered into force on 23rd March,1976:

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka has acceded to the aforesaidCovenant on 11th June, 1980:

AND WHEREAS a substantial part of the civil and politicalrights referred to in that Covenant have been givenlegislative recognition in the Constitution of Sri Lanka,as well as in other legislation enacted by Parliament:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary for theGovernment of Sri Lanka to enact appropriate legislationto give effect to those civil and political rights referred toin the aforesaid Covenant, for which no adequatelegislative recognition has yet been granted:

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the International Covenanton Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 2007.

2.Every person shall have the right to recognition asa person before the law.

3.(1) No person shall propagate war or advocatenational, racial or religious hatred that constitutesincitement to discrimination, hostility or violence.

Right to berecognized as aperson beforethe law.No personshould propagatewar.

International Covenant on Civil and PoliticalRights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 20072

(2) Every person who

(a)attempts to commit;

(b)aids or abets in the commission of; or

(c)threatens to commit,

an offence referred to in subsection (1), shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act.

(3) A person found guilty of committing an offence undersubsection (1) or subsection (2) of this section shall onconviction by the High Court, be punished with rigorousimprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years.

(4) An offence under this section shall be cognizable andnon-bailable, and no person suspected or accused of such anoffence shall be enlarged on bail, except by the High Courtin exceptional circumstances.

(5) A trial in the High Court against any person for thecommission of an offence under this section shall be takenup before any other business of that Court and shall be heldon a day to day basis and shall not be postponed, unless dueto any unavoidable circumstances, which shall be recorded.

(6) For the purpose of subsection (2) of this section abetshall have the same meaning as in section 100 of the PenalCode.

4.(1) A person charged of a criminal offence under anywritten law, shall be entitled

(a)to be afforded an opportunity of being tried in hispresence;

(b)to defend himself in person or through legalassistance of his own choosing and where he doesnot have any such assistance, to be informed of thatright;

Entitlementof an allegedoffender.

International Covenant on Civil and PoliticalRights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 20073

(c)to have legal assistance assigned to him inappropriate cases where the interest of justice sorequires and without any payment by him, where hedoes not have sufficient means to pay for suchassistance:

(d)to examine or to have examined the witnesses againsthim and to obtain the attendance of witnesses onhis behalf, under the same conditions as witnessescalled against him;

(e)to have the assistance of an interpreter where suchperson cannot understand or speak the language inwhich the trial is being conducted; and

(f)not to be compelled to testify against himself or toconfess guilt.

(2) Every person convicted of a criminal offence underany written law, shall have the right to appeal to a highercourt against such conviction and any sentence imposed.

(3) No person shall be tried or punished for any criminaloffence for which such person has already been convicted oracquitted according to law.

5.(1) Every child has the right to

(a)have his or her birth registered and to have a namefrom his or her date of birth;

(b)acquire nationality;

(c)be protected from maltreatment, neglect, abuse ordegradation; and

(d)have legal assistance provided by the State at Statesexpense in criminal proceedings affecting thechild, if substantial injustice would otherwiseresult.

Rights of a child.

International Covenant on Civil and PoliticalRights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 20074

(2) In all matters concerning children, whetherundertaken by public or private social welfare institutions,courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, thebest interest of the child shall be of paramount importance.

6.(1) Every citizen shall have the right and theopportunity to

(a)take part in the conduct of public affairs, eitherdirectly or through any representative; and

(b)have access to services provided to the public bythe State.

(2) For the purpose of this section, the expressionconduct of public affairs shall not include the conduct ofany affairs which are entrusted exclusively to any particularauthority, by or under any written law.

7.(1) A person shall be entitled to apply by way ofpetition addressed to the High Court, against the infringementor imminent infringement by executive or administrativeaction, of any human right to which such person is entitled tounder sections 2, 4, 5 and 6 of this Act and plead for suchrelief or redress as shall be prayed for in such petition.

(2) The jurisdiction of the High Court may be invokedunder subsection (1) by a person, who alleges that any of thehuman rights provided for by the sections referred to insubsection (1) is infringed or is about to be infringed, byhimself or through any other person on his behalf, withinthree months of the alleged infringement or imminentinfringement, as the case may be :

Provided however, the jurisdiction of the High Court shallnot extend to the adjudication upon an infringement or animminent infringement of any human right which comeswithin the ambit of the fundamental rights or language rightsdeclared or recognized by Chapter III or Chapter IV of theConstitution.

Right of accessto benefitsprovided.

High Court toexercisejurisdiction overthe enforcementof the humanrights recognizedunder this Act.

International Covenant on Civil and PoliticalRights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 20075

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law tothe contrary, the High Court may where it considers itappropriate at any stage of the proceeding relating to apetition made to it under subsection (1) of this section, refersuch matter to the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lankafor an inquiry and report and request such Commission tosubmit its report to the High Court within such time as shallbe stipulated by the Court for that purpose.

(4) The High Court shall have the power to grant therelief prayed for in a petition made to it under subsection (1)or grant such other relief or make such direction as it mayconsider just and equitable, in the circumstances of the case.

(5) For the purpose of subsection (1) of this section, aperson includes a child.

8.Any person aggrieved by an order made by the HighCourt in any petition filed under seciton 7 of this Act, shallhave a right of appeal to the Supreme Court against suchorder.

9.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of giving effect to the principles and provisions ofthis Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, bebrought before Parliament for approval, Any regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescindedas from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudiceto anything previously done thereunder.

Right of appealto the SupremeCourt.

Regulations.

International Covenant on Civil and PoliticalRights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 20076

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isso deemed to be rescinded, shall be published in theGazette.

10.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

child means a person under the age of eighteen years;

High Court means the High Court of the Republicof Sri Lanka;

Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka means theHuman Rights Commission of Sri Lanka,established by the Human Rights Commission ofSri Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

International Covenant on Civil and PoliticalRights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 20077

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.