PARLIAMENT. OF CEYLON

2nd Session 1957

Servicemen (Collection and Disposal
of Specified Property) Act, |
No. 41 of 1957

Date of Assent : September 6, 1957

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the Government Press, Czyton. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SvuPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price; 20 cents, Postage; 10 cents,


Servicemen: (Collection and Disposal of 3
Specified Property) Act, No. 41 of 1957

L. D.—O. 42/54.

|An Act TO PROVIDE FOR THE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

OF CERTAIN PROPERTY BELONGING TO DECEASED
SERVICEMEN AND FOR THE APPLICATION, SUBJECT TO
MODIFICATIONS, OF THE PROVISIONS OF THIS Act

~ _ RELATING TO SUCH SERVICEMEN TO SERVICEMEN WHO
HAVE DESERTED, ABSENTED THEMSELVES OR BECOME
OF UNSOUND MIND.

[Date of Assent: September 6, 1957]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,

by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present

Parliament assembled, and by the authority of tte
same, as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Servicemen (Col-

lection and Disposal of Specified Property) <Act,
No. 41 of 1957.

2. On the death of a serviceman a committee (here-
inafter referred to as ‘‘ the committee ’’) consisting of
the prescribed number of persons appointed by the

‘prescribed authority shall, as soon as may be and in
adeordance with regulations made under this Act,—

(2) take charge and make an inventory of movable

| property belonging to such serviceman
which is in the care, control or custody of
the naval, military or air force authorities
at the time of his death or which came into
such care, control or custody after his
death; :

(5) collect any money due to such serviceman as
salary, batta or other allowance; and

(c) ascertain the amount of, and, subject to the

provisions of sections 6 and 7, ee for
the payment of, the preferential charges.

8. The expenses and debts specified hereunder shall
be the preferential charges on the property and money
of the deceased serviceman which are referred to in
section 2, and shall, except so far as other provision
may be made for the payment of those charges: be
| payable out of such property and money in pre
to all other debts and liabilities, and, as among
themselves, in the following order :—

(a) Expenses of the last illness and funeral of
such serviceman. : i
| J.N. R 18168-2,776 (7/57)

f

erence —

Short title,

Committee to
take charge
of movable
property of

a deceased
serviceman - ud
to pay -
pratcrenbnl a
charges.-,

Preferential
charges.


Ceylon estate

of a deceased

serviceman.
Cap. 187,

Decision of
questions as
to preferential
charges and
the amount

- thereof.

Payment of
preferential
charges by
other persons.

Powers and
duties of the
committee
where
preferential
charges are
not paid or
secured,

4 Sérvicemen (Collection and Disposal of
Specified Property) Act, No. 41 of 1957

(b) Sums due by such serviceman in respect of—-
(i) quarters,

(ii) mess, band and other debts due to
military, naval or air force institu-
tions, and |

(iii) military, naval or air force clothing,"
appointments and equipments.

4. The Ceylon estate of a deceased serviceman, for
the purpose of the calculation of estate duty payable
under the Estate Duty Ordinance, shall be his Ceylon
estate within the meaning of that Ordinance less any
amount paid as preferential charges under this Act.

5. Where in the case of any deceased serviceman
the committee is unable to determine the question as
to what are the preferential charges or the amount
payable in respect of such charges, the Permanent
Secretary to the Ministry of Defence and External
Affairs or such officer as may be authorised by him in
that behalf in writing shall decide that question and
such decision shall be final.

6. (1) Any person may, within one month after the
death of a serviceman or within such further time ndt
exceeding the prescribed time as the committee may
allow, pay the preferential charges on such property
and money of that serviceman as are referred to in
section 2, or secure the payment of those charges to
the satisfaction of the committee.

(2) If the payment of the preferential charges on
such property and money as are referred to in sub-
section (1) is made or secured as provided ia that sub-
section, the committee shall deliver that property and
money to the prescribed person (hereinafter referred
to as “‘ the paymaster ’’). ,

7. (1) If within one month after the death of a
serviceman or such further time not exceeding the
prescribed time as the committee may allow, the pre-
ferential charges on such property and money of a
deceased serviceman as are referred to in section 2 are
not paid or secured to the satisfaction of the com-
mittee, the committee shall proceed to pay those
charges out of that property and money, and may sell
and convert into money such part of that property as
does not consist of money for the purpose of paying
those charges and any expenses incurred by the com-
mittee in effecting the sale and conversion.


uF

Servicemen (Collection and Disposal of 5
Specified Property) Act, No. 41 of 1957 |

(2) For the purpose of the exercise of its powers and
the performance of its duties under this Act, the com-
mittee shall, to the exclusion of all other authorities
and persons, have the same powers and duties as an
executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased
serviceman would have; and any receipt given by the

“s.committee shall have the same efiect as if it had been

given by such executor or administrator.

(3) The committee shall deliver to the paymaster
such part of the property and money of a deceased
serviceman as remains in its hands after payment of
the charges and expenses referred to in sub-section (1),

together with such inventory, accounts, vouchers and

information as may be prescribed.

8. Subject to the prescribed provisions and
exceptions, the paymaster shall—

(2) where any property and money of a deceased
serviceman of not less than two thousand
five hundred rupees in value is received by
the paymaster from the committee, deliver

that property and money to the executor or’

administrator of the estate of that service-

ie man to be included in that estate, and

(b) where any property and money of a deceased
serviceman of less than two thousand five
hundred rupees in value is received by the
paymaster from the committee, deliver that
property and money to the person in the
opinion of the paymaster to be entitled by
law thereto.

9. Medals and decorations shall not be considered
to be comprised in the movable property referred to in
section 2 and shall be taken charge of, and held and
disposed of, by the committee according to regulations
made under this Act.

10. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in Chapter XX XVIII of the Civil Pro-
cedure Code, any property of a deceased serviceman
which is in the custody of the committee or the pay-
master under this Act shall be deemed not to be part
of the estate of that serviceman for the purpose of the
application for, or grant of, probate of the will, or
letters of administration of the estate, of that
serviceman.

Disposal of
property and
money delivered
to paymaster,

Disposal of
medals and
decorations.

Property in
custody of
committee not
to be property
for application
for, or grant of,
probate or
letters of
administration.
Cap. 86


Application of
section 547 of
the Civil
Procedure Code.

Cap. 86.

Validity of
payments,
sales, &c.,
under this Act.

Saving for
rights of
executor or
administrator.

Application of
Act to
deserters, &c.

Application of
Act to persons
of unsound
mind.

6 Servicemen (Collection and Disposal of
Specified Property) Act, No. 41 of 1957

11. Section 547 of the Civil Procedure Code shall
not apply in relation to any property received under
this Act by the committee or the paymaster or delivered
under this Act by the paymaster to any person.

12. Every payment, application, sale or other dis- .
position of property made by the committee or the pay-
master, when acting in execution or supposed execu-
tion of this Act, shall be valid as against all persons
whomsoever; and every member of the committee and
the paymaster shall be discharged from all liability in
respect of any money paid, or any property applied,
sold or disposed of, under this Act.

13. After the committee has delivered to the pay-
master any property or money of a deceased service-
man, the executor or administrator of the estate of
that serviceman shall, in respect of any property or
money referred to in section 2 which has not. been
taken charge of or collected by the committee, have the

same rights and duties as if this Act had not been
passed. |

14. Where a serviceman deserts or is absent with--
out leave for twenty-one days; the provisions of this .
Act shall apply as if such serviceman were dead,
subject to the modification that the committee shall
dispose of any property and money of that serviceman
remaining in its hands after the payment of the pre-
ferential charges and expenses referred to in section 7
(1) in the prescribed manner, and that property and
money when so disposed of shall be free from all claim

on the part of that serviceman or any person claiming
through him.

15. Where a serviceman is ascertained in the
prescribed manner to be of unsound mind, the provi-
sions of this Act shall apply as if he had died at the
time he was ascertained to be of unsound mind, subject
to the prescribed exceptions and the modification that
the committee shall dispose of any property and money
of that serviceman remaining in its hands after the
payment of the preferential charges and expenses
referred to in section 7 (1) in the prescribed manner
with a view to their being applied to the benefit of
that serviceman.


Servicemen (Collection and Disposal of 7
Specified Property) Act, No. 41 of 1957

16. (1) The Minister may make regulations— Regulations.

(a) in respect of all matters stated in this Act to
be prescribed ;

(5) for all matters in respect of which regulations
s are required or authorised by this Act to

be made; and

(c) for the purpose of carrying out the provisions
or giving effect to the principles of this

Act.

(2) No regulation shall have effect until that regula-

tion has been approved by the Senate and the House of

\ Representatives and notification of such approval is
published in the Gazette.

3

17. In this Act, ‘‘ serviceman ’’ means— Interpretation.
(a2) any person who, under the Army Act, No. 17
of 1949, is subject to military law, or

(b) any person who, under the Navy Act, No. 34
of 1950, is subject to naval law, or

(c) any person subject to the Air Force Act,
No. 41 of 1949.

18. The provisions of this Act shall have effect Act to prevail
notwithstanding anything contained in any other i case of
written law, and in case of any conflict or inconsistency other written
between the provisions of this Act and such other law, *”-

the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

™

ys
