PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MEDIATION BOARD (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 2 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd of January, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 26, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Mediation Board (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2024

[Certified on 23rd of January, 2024]

L.D.-O. 78 /2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MEDIATION BOARDACT, NO. 72 OF 1988

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Mediation Board(Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2024.

2. Section 2 of the Mediation Board Act, No. 72 of 1988(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyrepealed and the following new section substituted therefor:-

2.(1) The President shall appoint aCommission consisting of five persons(hereinafter referred to as the Commission),two of whom shall be from among persons whohave held judicial office in the Supreme Courtor the Court of Appeal or the High Courtestablished by Article 154P of the Constitutionand three of whom shall be from among personswho

(a)have not less than fifteen years ofprofessional experience asAttorneys-at-law ;

(b)have held posts of Class 1 officersin the Sri Lanka AdministrativeService or in an All Island Service;

(c)are retired staff officers in the PublicService; or

(d)have held managerial level officesin the private sector possessingprofessional qualifications andexperience in mediation or any otheralternate dispute resolution process:

Short title

Replacement ofsection 2 ofAct, No. 72 of1988

"Appointmentof Commission

2Mediation Board (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2024

Provided however, in appointing membersto the Commission the President shall ensurethat the membership of the Commission shallreflect the pluralistic character of Sri Lankansociety.

(2) No person who has reached the age ofseventy years as at the date of appointmentshall be appointed to the Commission.

(3) The President shall nominate asChairman of the Commission one of themembers who has held judicial office asreferred to in subsection (1).

(4) The Chairman and Commissioners shallhold office for a period of three years unlessany one of them earlier dies, resigns or isremoved from office:

Provided however, that, if at the expirationof the period of office of the Chairman or theCommissioners the new members of theCommission have not been appointed, theChairman and Commissioners holding officeon the day immediately prior to suchexpiration, shall continue in office until thenew members are appointed.

(5) The Chairman or any Commissionervacating office upon the expiration of his termof office shall be eligible for re-appointmentsubject to subsection (2).

(6) (a) The Chairman or any Commissionermay resign from office by letter addressed tothe President.

(b) The Chairman or any Commissioner whois absent without reasonable cause for threeconsecutive meetings of the Commission, the

3Mediation Board (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2024

Commission may by resolution of suchCommission at a meeting endorsed by thePresident of which due notice has been givento such Chairman or Commissioner, beremoved from office.

(c) The President may without assigning areason remove the Chairman or anyCommissioner from office.

(7) The Chairman or any Commissionerwho has resigned or has been removed fromoffice shall not be eligible for re-appointment.

(8) (a) Where any vacancy arises in theCommission, by reason of death, resignationor removal of the Chairman or anyCommissioner, the President shall fill suchvacancy having regard to the provisions ofsubsections (1), (2) and (3).

(b) Any person appointed to fill a vacancyarising from the death, resignation or removalof the Chairman or any Commissioner, shallhold office for the unexpired period of the termof office of his predecessor.

(9) Where a Commissioner becomes, byreason of illness or other infirmity or absencefrom Sri Lanka temporarily unable to performthe duties of his office, the President mayappoint a fit person to act in his place for theperiod of such incapacity or absence, andwhere the Commissioner who is soincapacitated or absent from Sri Lanka is theChairman of the Commission, the Presidentshall appoint the other Commissioner who hasheld judicial office as referred to in subsection(1), to act in his place until the resumption ofduties by the Chairman of the Commission.

4Mediation Board (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2024

(10) The Chairman and the Commissionersshall be remunerated in such manner and atsuch rates as may be determined by theMinister with the concurrence of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance.

(11) Three members of the Commissionincluding a member who has held judicialoffice as referred to in subsection (1) shallconstitute the quorum for any meeting of theCommission and the Chairman or in theabsence of the Chairman, the otherCommissioner who has held judicial office asreferred to in subsection (1), elected at themeeting from among themselves shall presideat such meetings of the Commission. TheCommission may regulate its own procedurein regard to meetings of such Commission andthe transaction of business at such meetings.

(12) No act or proceeding of theCommission shall be deemed invalid by reasononly of any defect in the appointment of theChairman or any Commissioner..

3. Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)thereof, of the following new subsections: -

(1A) There shall be an officer assigned to eachMediation Board area who shall be attached to theDivisional Secretariat of the respective DivisionalSecretarys Division. Such officer shall accept anyapplication made to the Chairman of the Panel ofMediators appointed for any Mediation Board Areasituated within such Divisional Secretarys Division:

Provided however, for the purposes of maintainingthe secrecy, such officer shall not open any suchapplication unless he is authorized in writing to do soby the Chairman of the Panel.

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment

5Mediation Board (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2024

(1B) (a) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1), an application with regard to a disputereferred to in subsection (1), which has been made tothe Chairman of the Panel of Mediators appointed forany Special Mediation Board Area under the provisionsof the Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes) Act,No. 21 of 2003, may, if such Chairman so decides, bereferred to the Chairman of the Panel of Mediators,appointed for the same area under this Act.

(b)An application referred to in paragraph (a) shallbe deemed to be an application made in terms ofsubsection (1)..

4. Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of thatsection, by the substitution for the words fivehundred thousand rupees in value; of thewords one million rupees in value;;

(2) in paragraph (d) of subsection (1) of thatsection, by the substitution for the wordsrupees five thousand, of the words rupeesone hundred thousand,;

(3) in subsection (1) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words and figures thecertificate of non-settlement referred to insection 14A, of the words and figures a reportreferred to in subsection (2) of section 12 or acertificate of non-settlement referred to insection 14A.;

(4) by the insertion immediately after subsection(1) of that section, of the following newsubsection:-

(1A) The Minister may, from time to time,by regulations made under section 23 ofthis Act, amend the monetary value of thesubject matter referred to in paragraphs (a)and (d) of subsection (1) ..

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment

6Mediation Board (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2024

5. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 9 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 9A of that enactment: -

9A. (1) Where an application withregard to a dispute falling under anycategory of disputes specified in anOrder made under section 2 of theMediation (Special Categories ofDisputes) Act, No. 21 of 2003, has beenreferred to a Mediation Boardconstituted under section 9 of this Act,such Mediation Board shall ex meromotu, refer such application to theChairman of the Panel of Mediatorsappointed for the same area under theprovisions of the Mediation (SpecialCategories of Disputes) Act, No. 21 of2003.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1), where-

(a) the Panel of Mediators has notbeen appointed under section 4of the Mediation (SpecialCategories of Disputes) Act, No.21 of 2003; or

(b) a Mediation Board constitutedunder section 9 fails to refer theapplication within a period ofthree months to the Chairman ofthe Panel appointed under theprovisions of the Mediation(Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003, for the sameSpecial Mediation Board Area ,

such applicant shall be entitled to obtaina document to that effect from theCommission or to make an application tothe Chairman of the Panel referred to inparagraph (b) of this subsection.

Insertion ofsection 9A in theprincipalenactment

Reference ofan applicationto the Chairmanof the Panelappointed forany SpecialMediation BoardArea

7Mediation Board (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2024

(3) The document obtained undersubsection (2) shall be deemed to be acertificate of non-settlement issuedunder section 14A.

(4) Where the parties to the disputehave not objected in arriving at asettlement by initiating proceedings ofthe Mediation Board constituted undersection 9, a certificate of non-settlementreferred to in subsection (3) or asettlement reached in the proceedingsunder this Act, shall not be deemed tobe invalid, only due to not making theapplication to the proper Panel ofMediators in terms of Mediation (SpecialCategories of Disputes) Act, No. 21 of2003..

6. Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section substituted therefor:-

12. (1) The Chairman or the ChiefMediator, shall issue to the disputants acertificate of non-settlement in theprescribed form signed by the Chairmanor the Chief Mediator, in the case of anapplication made under section 6, asprovided for in section 14A statingtherein any of the following reasons fornon-settlement:-

(a)where it is not possible toconstitute a Board undersection 9, due to the non-appearance by one of thedisputants for two consecutivedates, after due notification orafter the expiry of three monthsfrom the date of making theapplication, whichever occursfirst; or

Replacement ofsection 12 ofthe principalenactmentWhere nosettlement ispossible

8Mediation Board (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2024

(b) upon a Board having beenconstituted under section 9,where-

(i) the disputants do not agreeto a settlement;

(ii) it is not possible to arrive at asettlement due to the absenceof one of the disputants afterdue notification; or

(iii) one of the disputants requeststhe issuance of a certificateunder section 14A after theexpiry of three months fromthe date of making theapplication.

(2) The Chairman or the ChiefMediator, shall issue a report in theprescribed form signed by the Chairmanor the Chief Mediator, in the case of adispute referred by any court undersection 7 or 8, to such court stating thatit has not been possible to settle thedispute by mediation and stating thereinany of the following reasons for non-settlement:-

(a)where it is not possible toconstitute a Board undersection 9, due to the non-appearance by one of thedisputants for two consecutivedates, after due notification orafter the expiry of three monthsfrom the date of making theapplication, whichever occursfirst; or

(b)upon a Board having beenconstituted under section 9,where-

9Mediation Board (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2024

(i) the disputants do not agree toa settlement; or

(ii) it is not possible to arrive at asettlement due to the absenceof one of the disputants afterdue notification..

7. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared thatthe persons holding office as the Chairman andCommissioners of the Commission on the day immediatelypreceding the date of operation of this Act shall continue toexercise and perform the powers and duties under thatenactment until a Commission is appointed under section 2of the principal enactment and shall from and after the dateon which such Commission is appointed cease to hold officeas such Chairman and Commissioners.

8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Avoidance ofdoubt

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

10Mediation Board (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.