PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MAINTENANCE ACT, No. 37 OF 1999

[Certified on 22nd October, 1999]

printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of October 22,1999

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 11.25Postage : Rs. 5.25

(internet version)

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19991

H-022545

[Certified on 22nd October, 1999]

L.D.O35/98.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF CHILDREN, ADULTOFFSPRING, DISABLED OFFSPRING AND SPOUSES UNABLE TOMAINTAIN THEMSELVES ; TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAWRELATING TO MAINTENANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THEUNITED NATIONS CONVENTION ON THE RIGHTS OF THE CHILD;

AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Maintenance Act, No. 371999PART I

APPLICATION FOR MAINTENANCE

2.(1)Where any person having sufficient means,neglects or unreasonably refuses to maintain such personsspouse who is unable to maintain himself or herself, theMagistrate may, upon an application being made formaintenance and upon proof of such neglect or unreasonablerefusal, order such person to make a monthly allowance forthe maintenance of such spouse at such monthly rate as theMagistrate thinks fit, having regard to the income of suchperson and the means and circumstances of such spouse :

Provided however, that no such order shall be made if theapplicant spouse is living in adultery or both the spouses areliving separately by mutual consent.

(2)Where a parent having sufficient means neglects orrefuses to maintain his or her child who is unable to maintainhimself or herself, the Magistrate may upon an applicationbeing made for maintenance and upon proof of such neglector refusal, order such parent to make a monthly allowance forthe maintenance of such child at such monthly rate as theMagistrate thinks fit, having regard to the income of the parentsand the means and circumstances of the child :

Short title.

Order forMaintenance of aspouse or child oradult offspring ordisabledoffspring.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19992

Provided however, that no such order shall be made in thecase of a non-marital child unless parentage is established bycogent evidence to the satisfaction of the Magistrate.

(3) Where a parent having sufficient means neglects orrefuses to maintain his or her adult offspring who is unable tomaintain himself or herself, the Magistrate may upon anapplication being made for maintenance and upon proof ofsuch neglect or refusal, order such parent to make a monthlyallowance for the Maintenance of such adult offspring at suchmonthly rate as the Magistrate thinks fit, having regard to theincome of the parents and the means and circumstances of theadult offspring :

Provided however, that no such order shall be made in thecase of an non-marital adult offspring unless parentage isestablished by cogent evidence to the satisfaction of theMagistrate.

(4) where a parent having sufficient means neglects orrefuses to maintain his or her disabled offspring who is unableto maintain himself or herself, the Magistrate may upon anapplication being made for maintenance and upon proof ofsuch neglect or refusal, order such parent to make a monthlyallowance for the maintenance of such disabled off spring atsuch monthly rate as the Magistrate thinks fit, having regardto the income of the parents and the means and circumstancesof the disabled offspring :

Provided however, that no such order shall be made in thecase of a disabled non-marital offspring unless parentage isestablished by cogent evidence to the satisfaction of theMagistrate.

(5) Where an order is made by a Magistrate for thepayment of an allowance pursuant to an application madeunder subsection (1) or (2) or (3) or (4), such allowance shallbe payable from the date on which the application formaintenance was made to such court, unless the Magistrate,for good reasons to be recorded, orders payment from anyother date.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19993

(6) Where an application is made for the maintenance ofa child, adult offspring or disabled offspring, as thecase may be under subsection (2), (3) or (4), as thecase may be, the court may, either on the applicationof the parties or of its own motion, add the other parentas a party to such application and make such order asis appropriate against one or both such parents.

3.No Order for an allowance for the maintenance of anychild, adult offspring or disabled offspring made underthis Act shall, except for the purpose of recoveringmoney previously due under such Order, be of anyforce or validity after the person in respect of whomthe order is made ceases to be a child, adult offspringor disabled offspring, as the case may be, within themeaning of this Act.

4.(1) An application for maintenance may be made

(a) where such application is for the maintenance of a childor disabled offspring, by such child or disabledoffspring or by any person who has custody of suchchild or disabled offspring ;

(b) where such application is for the maintenance of anadult offspring, by such adult offspring or where suchadult offspring is incapable of making such application,by any person on his or her behalf ; and

(c) where such application is for the maintenance of aspouse, by such spouse or where such spouse isincapable of making such application, by any personon his or her behalf ;

(2) An application for maintenance may be made tothe Magistrates Court within whose jurisdiction the applicantor the person in respect of whom the application is made orthe person against whom such application is made, resides.

Application formaintenance.

Period of validityof Order.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19994

PART II

ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER FOR MAINTENANCE

5.(1) Subject to the provisions contained in section 10,where any person against whom an order is made under section2 or the proviso to section 11 (1) (hereinafter called therespondent ) neglects to comply with such order, theMagistrate may, for every breach of the order, sentence suchrespondent for the whole or any part of each months allowancein default, to simple or rigorous imprisonment for a term whichmay extend to one month.

(2) The Magistrate may, if an application is made in thatbehalf by any person entitled to receive any payment underan order of maintenance, before passing a sentence ofimprisonment on the respondent, issue a warrant directing theamount in default to be levied in the manner provided by lawfor levying fines imposed by Magistrates in the MagistrateCourts.

6.(1) If on the application of a person entitled to receiveany payment under an order of maintenance, it appears to theMagistrate that the respondent has defaulted in the paymentof maintenance due for a period exceeding two months, theMagistrate may, after inquiry, by an order,(hereinafter referredto as an attachment of salary order) require the person towhom the order is directed, being a person appearing to theMagistrate to be the respondents employer, to deduct, forsuch period as may be specified in the order, such amountfrom the respondents salary as may be specified in the orderand forthwith to remit that amount to the applicant in themanner directed by Court.

(2) (a) Before an order is made under subsection (1) ofthis section, the Magistrate shall notice the person on whomhe proposes to serve such order, to show cause, if any, why anorder should not be made under that subsection, and to requirehim to furnish to the court, within such period as may bespecified in such order, the salary particulars of the respondent.

Attachment ofsalary ofrespondent.

Enforcement ofOrders.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19995

Any order made under subsection (1) of this section may bethe subject of an appeal to a High Court established by Artical154P of the Constitution by any person aggrieved by suchorder, but notwithstanding such appeal, the Magistrate maydecide to continue proceedings under this Act. The provisionsof section 14 of this Act shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to,and in relation to, every such appeal.

(b) The Magistrate may also by an order served on therespondent, require him to furnish to the Court within suchperiod as may be specified in such order,a statementspecifying

(i)the name and address of his employer oremployers as the case may be, if he has more thanone employer ;

(ii) such particulars as to his salary, inclusive ofdeductions, as may be within his knowledge ; and

(iii) any other particulars as are required or necessaryto enable his employer or employers to identifyhim.

(3) A statement furnished in compliance with an ordermade under paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of this sectionshall, in any proceedings any court, be received as evidenceand be deemed to be prima facie proof of the particularsreferred to in the said paragraph, unless the contrary is shown.

(4) The Magistrate shall not make an attachment of salaryorder, if it appears to him, that the failure of the respondent tomake any payment in accordance with the order ofmaintenance in question, was not due to his wilful refusal orculpable neglect.

(5) In determining the amount to be deducted from therespondents salary in terms of subsection (1) of this section,the Magistrate shall have regard to the resources and needs ofthe respondent, and the needs of the person, the payment ofwhose maintenance is in default.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19996

(6) An attachment of salary order shall not come into forceuntil the expiration of fourteen days from the date on which acopy of the order is served on the person to whom the order isdirected.

(7) An attachment of salary order may on the applicationof the respondent or the person entitled to receive paymentunder the order of maintenance, be discharged or varied.

(8) A person to whom an attachment of salary order isdirected shall subject to the provisions of this Act, complywith the order or, if the order is subsequently varied undersubsection (7), with the order as varied.

(9) Where, on any occasion on which any deductions haveto be made from the salary of a respondent in pursuance of anattachment of salary order, there are in force, two or moreorders for attachment of salary, relating to such salary, madeunder this Act or other written law, then , for the purposes ofcomplying with this section, the employer shall,notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other writtenlaw, first give effect to an order of attachment made underthis Act and deal with any other order in respect of the residueof the respondents salary according to the respective dateson which they came into force.

(10)An employer who in pursuance of an attachment ofsalary order makes any payment shall forthwith give to therespondent a statement in writing specifying the amountdeducted from his salary in pursuance of such order.

(11)Any employer who fails or neglects to comply with anattachment of salary order shall be liable on conviction by aMagistrates Court to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupeesand in the case of a second or subsequent conviction in respectof the same attachment of salary order, to a fine not exceedingone thousand rupees :

Provided however, it shall be a defence for an employercharged with failing or neglecting to comply with anattachment of salary order, to prove that he took all reasonablesteps to comply with such order.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19997

(12)The provisions of this section shall, notwithstandinganything to the contrary in any other written law, have effectin relation to an attachment of salary that may be made by aMagistrate under this Act.

(13)For the purposes of this section

(a) where the respondent is a public officer or an officerof a provincial public service, the head of thedepartment to which he is for the time being attachedshall be deemed to be his employer ;

(b) where the respondent is a member of the LocalGovernment Service and employed in any localauthority, the Commissioner if it be a MunicipalCouncil or the Chairman if it be an Urban Council ora Pradeshiya Sabha, as the case may be, shall bedeemed to be his employer ;

(c) where the respondent is a person employed in anyCorporation, Statutory Board or Company, theprincipal officer of such Corporation, Statutory Boardor Company, as the case may be, shall be deemed tobe his employer ;

(d) where the respondent is a person employed in anypartnership, the Managing partner or the Manager ofsuch partnership shall be deemed to be his employer ;and

(e) where the respondent is a member of the armed forces,the commander of the unit to which he is attached shallbe deemed to be his employer.

7.(1) Where an order for maintenance is made underthe provisions of this Act, the Magistrate may direct therespondent, that the amount of the payment due under suchorder, shall be deposited each month on or before suchdate as may be specified in such order in favour of the personentitled to such payment, at such post office or a bank as maybe specified in such order, and the amount so deposited may

Payment ofmaintenancethrough PostOffice or Bank.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19998

be drawn by such person from such post office or bank. Itshall be the duty of such officer for the time being in chargeof such post office or bank to pay that amount to the personentitled thereto upon application made in that behalf.

(2) Where a direction has been made under subsection(1) of this section and there has been default in the deposit ofpayments as specified in such direction, the person entitled toreceive payment may report such default to the Court, and theMagistrate may in such event, notice the respondent to showcause why he should not be dealt with for such default, and ifsatisfied after due inquiry that there has been any default,impose such punishment as is provided for by this Act forsuch default.

8.On the application of any person receiving or orderedto pay a monthly allowance under the provisions of this Actand on proof of a change in the circumstances of any personfor whose benifit or against whome an order for maintenancehas been made under this Act, the Magistrate may either cancelsuch order or make such alteration in the allowance orderedas he deems fit :

Provided that such cancellation or alteration shall take effectfrom the date on which the application for cancellation oralteration was made to such Court, unless the Magistrate forgood reasons to be recorded, orders otherwise.

9. A copy of the order of maintenance certified under thehand of the Magistrate shall be given without payment to theperson in whose favour it is made, or to his or her guardian ora person having actual custody of such person, if any, or tothe person to whom the allowance is to be paid, and the Courtmaking such order or any Magistrate having jurisdiction overthe place where any such person or the respondent may be,shall, on the production of such order and on being satisfiedas to the identity of the parties and the non-payment of theallowance due, proceed under section 5 or section 6.

Application forcancellation oforder or alterationin amount ofallowance.

Copy of order tobe given to party,and where orderenforceable.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19999

10. Every application for an order of maintenance or toenforce such an order, shall be in writing and shall be signedby the applicant or the person making the application on hisbehalf and shall be free of any stamp duty. Every summons toa respondent or a witness shall also be free of stamp duty.

11. (1) Every application for an order of maintenance orto enforce an order of maintenance shall be supported by anaffidavit stating the facts in support of the application, andthe Magistrate shall, if satisfied that the facts set out in theaffidavit are sufficient, issue a summons together with a copyof such affidavit, on the person against whom the appicationis made to appear and to show cause why the application shouldnot be granted :

Provided however the Magistrate may in his discretion atany time make an interim order for the payment of monthlyallowance which shall remain operative until an order on theapplication is made, unless such interim order is earlier variedor revoked, and such interim order shall have effect from thedate of the application or from such later date as the Magistratemay fix.

(2) The Magistrate shall, after such inquiry as he mayconsider necessary, make order allowing or refusing theapplication, and if necessary, may make an order under section5 or section 6 :

Provided however, and application under this Act shall notbe rejected on account of any error, omission or irregularityin the application, or affidavit required to be field in terms ofsubsection (1) of this section, or in the summons issuedtherunder, or in other proceedings before, or during, an inquiryunder this Act, unless such error, omission or irregularity hascaused material prejudice to a party.

12. (1) The Magistrate may proceed in the mannerprovided in Chapter V and VI of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No, 15 of 1979 to compel the attendance ofthe person against whom the application is made and of anyperson required by the applicant or the person against whomthe application is made or by the Magistrate to give evedence,and the production of any document necessary, for the purposesof the inquiry.

Commencementof Inquiry.

Application to bein writing andprocess to be freeof stamp duty.

Attendance ofrespondent andwitnesses.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 199910

(2) When the person against whom the application is madeis absent, the provisions of section 192 of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply.

13.Subject to subsection (2) of section 12 all evidencetaken by a Magistrate under this Act shall be taken in thepresence of the person against whom the application is madeor, when his personal attendance is not required by theMagistrate, in the presence of his attorney-at-law, if any, andshall be recorded in the manner prescribed for trials in theMagistrates Court :

Provided however, it shall not be necessary to frame acharge or to record the statement of the person aginst whomthe application is made in the manner prescribed in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979 :

Provided further, that in any proceedings under this Act itshall be competent for the person against whom the applicationis made to give evidence upon oath or affirmation as anordinary witness, and each spouse shall be a competent witnessagainst the other spouse.

14. (1) Any person who shall be dissatisfied with anyorder made by a Magistrate under section 2 or section 11 mayprefer an appeal to the relevant High Court established byArticle 154P of the Constitution in like manner as if the orderwas a final order pronounced by Magistrates Court in acriminal case or matter, and sections 320 to 330 (bothinclusive) and sections 357 and 358 of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No, 15 of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis,applyto such appeal :

Provided however, notwithstanding anything to the contraryin section 323 of the Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of1979 such order under section 2 shall not be stayed by reasonof such appeal, unless the High Court directs otherwise forreasons to be recorded :

Provided futher that the Magistrate in forwarding the recordto the High Court shall retain a copy of his order for purposesof enforcement.

Proceedings inabsence ofrespondent.

Form ofproceedings.

Right of Appeal.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 199911

(2) Any person dissatisfied with an order made by a HighCourt in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction under thissection, may prefer an appeal therefrom to the Supreme Court,on a question of law, with the leave of the High Court, andwhere such leave is refused, with the special leave of theSupreme Court, first had an obtained.

15. The forms specified in the Schedule to this Act, withsuch variations as the circumstances of any case may require,shall be used for the respective purposes therein mentioned.

16. When disposing of any application or appeal underthis Act, a court may order either party to pay all or any partof the costs of such application or the costs of such applicationand appeal, as the case may be, and the amount due under anysuch order shall be recoverable as if it were a fine and indefault of payment, simple imprisonment may be imposed fora period not exceeding one month.

17. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as depriving aperson including a child, adult offspring,disabled offspringspouse or parent of the right, if any to maintain a civil actionfor maintenance.

18. The Married Women Property Ordinance is herebyamended by the repeal of section 26 and section 27 of thatOrdinance.

19. The Maintenance Ordinance is hereby repealed.

20. (1) Notwithstanding the repeal of the MaintenanceOrdinance

(a) all proceedings instituted under that Ordinance; and

(b) all appeals from orders made under that ordinance,

and pending on the day preceeding the date of commecementof this Act, shall be heard and disposed of , in all respects, asthough such Ordinance had not been repealed.

Forms.

Costs.

Other actions notbarred.

Amendment ofChapter 56.

Repeal of Chapter91.

Transitionalprovision.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 199912

(2) Every order made under the Maintenance Ordinanceand pending on the day preceeding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be deemed to be an order made under thisAct and may be enforced accordingly.

21.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

22. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

adopted when used in relation to a child or offspringmeans a child or offspring adopted under theprovisions of the Adoption of Children Ordinanceor the Kandyan Law Declaration and AmendmentOrdinance ;

adult offspring means any marital or non-marital oradopted offspring, who is eighteen years of age or isover eighteen years of age and under twentyfive yearsof age ;

child means any marital or non-marital or adoptedoffspring, who has not reached eighteen years ofage ;

disabled offspring means any marital or non-marital orasopted offspring of whatever age, who is or becomesphysically or mentally disabled so as to render suchoffspring incapable of earning a livelihood or ofadequately supporting himself or herself ;

marital when used in relation to a child or offspringmeans a child or offspring born to parents who arenot married ;

non-marital when used in ralation to a child or offspringmeans a child or offspring born to parents who arenot married ;

parent includes an adoptive parent ;

salary includes all allowances and wages.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 199913

SCHEDULE

FORM No. 1

MAINTENANCE ACT, NO. 37 OF 1999

SUMMONS TO A RESPONDENT

To...................................... of................................................

Whereas your attendance is necessary to answer to a chargeof not maintaining your spouse (name) (or child/adultoffspring/disabled offspring) (name, or say child by............................................... ,giving mothers name) :

or

Whereas your attendance is necessary to answer to a chargeof having committed a breach of an order of maintenance madeagainst you under the Maintenance Act, No...........................of .................... ,by non-payment of the allowance due to yourchild/ adult offspring/disabled offspring/spouse ................................ (give name or describe as above)for ................................................ (state period) :

You are hereby required to appear in person (or by anAttorney-at-Law,as the case may be) before the MagistratesCourt of ...................... , on the ....................................... dayof........................., 20 ........................... Herein fail not.

Dated this .................... day of ................... , 20.................

...................................................Signature.

FORM No. 2

MAINTENANCE ACT, NO. 37 OF 1999

WARRANT OF IMPRISONMENT ON FAILURE TO PAY MAINTENANCE

To the Fiscal of the ........................ Province.

Whereas (name, description, and address) has been provedto be possessed of sufficient means to maintain his/her spouse(name) (or his or her child/adult offspring/disabled offspring)(name, or describe as in summons), who is unable to maintain

[Section 15]

[Section 15]

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 199914

herself (or himself), and to have neglected (or refused) to doso, and an order has been duly made requiring the said(name)to allow to his/her spouse (or child/adult offspring/disabled offspring) for maintenance the monthly sum of............. rupees ; and whereas it has been further proved thatthe said (name), in wilful disregard of the said order, has failedto pay............. rupees, being the amount of the allowance for themonth (or months) of ......... and thereupon an order was madeadjudging him to undergo simple (or rigorous) imprisonmentfor the period of ...................... :

This is to authorize and require you, the said Fiscal, toreceive the said (name) into your custody in the prison at.............. , together with this warrant, and there carry the saidorder into execution according to law ; returning this warrantwith an endorsement certifying the manner of its execution.

Given under my hand this ...........................................dayof ....................................... , 20 ................. .

...................................................Signature.

FORM No. 3

MAINTENANCE ACT, NO. 37 OF 1999

WARRANT TO ENFORCE THE PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE BY

DISTRESS AND SALE

To the Fiscal of the .............................................................. .

Whereas an order has been duly made requiring (name)toallow to his/her spouse (or child/adult offspring/disabledoffspring) for maintenance the monthly sum of .....................rupees ; and whereas the said (name), in wilful disregard ofthe said order, has failed to pay ................................. rupees,being the amount of the allowance for the month (or months)of ................. .

[Section 15]

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 199915

This is to authorize and require you to make distress byseizure of any movable property belonging to the said (name)which may be found within the district of ................... , and ifwithin (state the number of days or hours allowed) next aftersuch distress the said sum shall not be paid (or forthwith), tosell the movable property distrained, or so much thereof asshall be sufficient to satisfy the said sum returning this warrantwith an endorsement certifying what you have done under it,immediately upon its execution.

Given under my hand this ........................................... dayof ......................... , 20 ................. .

...................................................Signature.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign).Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15 th December each year in respect of the year following.