PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON.
LE, L,
he
d ‘ a
3rd Session 1958-5: 2 12 FERED =)
cl Bi
) ‘s)
Sig asd
KGilld>,
Sag)
Om OY
Local Authorities (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 7 of 1959
Date of Assent: February 9, 1959
Printed on the Orders of Government .
Printed at the Govmoenr Press, Cevton. ‘Tobe
Purchased at the Covimmrmns Pumacamoas Boras Commune
nnual Subscription including ‘Bils) Ro. 25, peyeble,
are en
Boma, Post’ Once ‘Bor 500, ‘Secrari, ‘Colombe t
* Price: 20 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Local Authorities (Special Provisions) 3
Act, No. 7 of 1959
L. D.—O. 2/58.
Aw Acr 10 AMEND THE LAW RELATING TO CERTAIN LOCAL
AUTHORITIES FOR THE PURPOSE OF MAKING SPECIAL
PROVISION FOR THE GRANT OF PENSIONS, GRATUITIES
OR RETIRING ALLOWANCES TO THE OFFICERS AND
SERVANTS OF SUCH LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND FOR TAE
GRANT OF PENSIONS, ANNUITIES OR GRATUITIES TO
‘THE WIDOWS, CHILDREN, NEXT OF KIN OR DEPEND-
ANTS OF DECEASED OFFICERS AND SERVANTS OF SUCH
LOCAL AUTHORITIES,
(Date of Assent: February 9, 1959.]
BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows:—

4. This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities — shox tite.
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 7 of 1959.

2. The Urban Councils Ordinance, No. 61 of 1939, Tesertion ot
is hereby amended by the insertion, immediately after 17% and 1728
section 172 of that Ordinance, of the following new iz the Uiben
sections which shall have effect as sections 1724 and Oniinancs,
1728 of that Ordinance: — ia
© Bx gratia 172s. (1) An Urban Council may,

Perms °! with the approval of the Minister given

aannity, after consultation with the Minister of

kun’ Finance, grant, out of the local fund

sliowasee. established by that Council, to any
person—

(a) who retires or has retired from
service as an officer or servant
of that Council, or

(®) who is or was transferred from
such service to, and retires or
has retired from, the service
of the Government,

a pension, gratuitv, or retiring allow-

ance in respect of any period of his

service as such officer or servant

for which no pension, gratuity,

or retiring allowance or no adequate

pension, gratuity, or retiring allowauce
2x meer 3ou asin.


4 Local. Authorities (Special Provisions)
det, No. %of 1959
is payable under any by-laws o¥-rules'of
that Council or under any pension
scheme established under the Local
Government Service Ordinance, No. 43,
of 1945.

(2) Where no pension, annuity, or
gratuity, or no adequate pension,
annuity, or gratuity is payable to the
widow, children, next of kin or depend-
ants of any deceased officer or servant of
an Urban Council under any by-laws or
rules of that Council or under any scheme
or fund established under the Local
Government Service Ordinance, No. 43
of 1945, that Council may, with the
approval of the Minister given after
consultation with the Minister of
Finance, grant to such widow, children,
next of kin or dependants a pension, an
annuity or a gratuity out of the local
fund established by that Council.

(3) Nothing in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) of this section shall be
construed to confer on any person any
right to any pension, annuity, gratuity or
retiring allowance under either of those
sub-sections.

© Power 'o 172s. (1) An Urban Council’ may,
establish with the approval of the Minister given
‘ecaeme. with the concurrence of the Minister of
Finance, make by-laws providing for the
establishment of, and may establish in
accordance with such by-laws, a scheme
for the payment of gratuities to tempo-
rary officers and servants of that Council
upon: their discontinuance from the

service of that Council.

(2) By-laws made under sub-section (1)
may be so made by'an Urban Council as
to be applicable to temporary officers and
servants of that Council who have been
discontinued from the service of that
Council before the coming into operation
of the by-laws. ””.,.-


Local: Authorities’ (Special Provisions)
Act, No-.7of. 1959.
2B:e: The Town: Councils Ordinance, No. 3 of 1946, Iovertion ot
isshereby amended by the insertion, immediately after 365,"*C49" ro,
section 172 of that Ordinance, of the following new ia the Towa
sections. which shall have effect as sections 1724 and $aneit,
-172p of that Ordinance: — * ars No." of 1916,
be gratia 172a. (1) A Town Council may, with
Parmest of ” “the approval of the Minister given after
Enooity, consultation with the Minister of
gam °. Finance, Fe out of the local fund i
tiomasee, established by’ that Council, to any
ES person—
(a) who retires or has retired from
service as an officer or servant
of that Council, or
(®) who is or was transferred from
such service to, and retires or
has retired from, the service
of the Government,
a pension, gratuity, or retiring allowance
in respect of any period of his service as
such officer or servant for which no
pension, gratuity, or retiring allowance
or no adequate pension, gratuity, or
retiring’ allowance is payable under any
by-laws or rules of that Council or under
any pension scheme established under
the Local Government Service Ordi-
nance, No. 43 of 1945.

(2) Where’ no pension; ‘annuity, or
gratuity,’ or no adequate pension,
annuity, or gratuity is payable to the
: Widow, children, next of kin or depend-
ants of any deceased officer or servant of
a Town Council under. any by-laws or
rules of.that Council. or’ under any

_ scheme. or fund established under the
Local Government Service Ordinance,
No. 43 of 1945, that Council ‘may, with
the approval of the Minister given after
consultation with the Minister of
Finance, grant to such widow, children,
next of kin or dependants a pension, an
annuity or a gratuity out of the local
fund established by that Council

(3) Nothing in stb-section (1) or sub-
section (2) of this section shall be

<sonstrued:.toconfer on any person any


6 — Local Authorities (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 7 of 1959
right to any pension, annuity, gratuity
oF veliring Uivwance andar either af
those sub-sections,
Power to 1728. (1) A Town Council may, with:
ests the approval of the Minister given with
heme’ «tthe “concurrence of the Minister of
Finance, make by-laws providing for the

: establishment. of, and may establish in
accordance with such by-laws, a scheme
for the payment of gratuities to tempo-
rary officers and servants of that Council
upon their discontinuance from the
service of that Council.

(2) By-laws made under sub-section (1)
may be so made by a Town Council as to
be applicable to temporary officers and
servants of that Council who have been
discontinued from the service of that
Council before the coming into operation
of the by-laws. ””.

Aperiment ot 4, The Village Communities Ordinance is hereby

tbe wulags amended as follows: —

neon, (1) in section 49 of that Ordinance, by the
insertion in sub-section (2) of that section.
immediately after sub-paragraph (c) of
paragraph (ii) of that sub-section, of the
following new sub-paragraph :—

“ (ce) the provision of pensions or gratui-
ties to the widows. children. next of
kin or dependants of deceased
officers or servants; ”; and

(2) by the insertion. immediately after section 55
of that Ordinance, of the following new
sections which shall have effect as sections
55a and 55x of that Ordinance: —

“Ex gris 55a. (1) A Village Committee may,
pension, - With the approval of the Minister given
tnnviy. | after consultation with the Minister of
ferring Finance, grant, out of the communal
allowance. fund of the village area for which that

Committee has been constituted, to any
person—
(@) who retires or has retired from
service as an officer or servant
of that Committee, or


Local. Authorities (Special Provisions) 7
Act, No. 7 of 1959
(0) who is or was transferred from
such service to, and retires or
has retired from, the service
of the Government,
a pension, gratuity, or retiring allow-
ance in respect of any period of his
service as such officer or servant for
which no pension, gratuity, or retiring
allowance, or no adequate pension,
gratuity, or retiring allowance is
payable under any by-laws or rules of
that Committee or under any pension
scheme established under the Local
Government Service Ordinance, No. 43
of 1945.

(2) Where no pension, annuity, or
gratuity, or no adequate pension,
annuity, or gratuity is payable to the
widow, children. next of kin or depend-
ants of any deceased officer or servant of
a Village Committee under any by-laws
or rules of that Committee or under any
scheme or fund established under the
Local Government Service Ordinance,
No. 43 of 1945, that Committee may,
with the approval of the Minister given
after consultation with the Minister of
Finance, grant to such widow, children,
next of kin or dependants a pension, an
annuity or a gratuity out of the
communal fund of the village area for
which that Committee has been
constituted.

(8), Nothing in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) of this section shall be
construed to confer on any person any
right to.any. pension, annuity, gratuity
or retiring allowance under either of
those sub-sections.

Bower to 55x. (1) A Village Committee may;
fucis with the approval of the Minister given
eateates with the concurrence of the Minister of
Finance, make by-laws providing for the
establishment of, and may establish in

* accordance with such by-laws, a scheme


8 Local Authorities. (Spediak. Provisiars)
Act, No. 70f 1959

for the bape of gratuities to pace
rary officers and “servants of that
Committee upon their discontinuance
from the service of that Committee.

(2) The « by-laws made under sub-
section (1) may be so made by a Village
Committee as to be applicable to tempo-
rary officers and servants of that
Committee who have been discontinued
from the service of that Committee
before the coming into operation of the
by-laws. ””.
