PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 01st of November, 2023]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 03, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

BALAPITIYA SRI RAHULARAMA PURANA VIHARASTHASAMANERA AKALPA SANGWARDENA BIKSHUVIDYALAYA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 25 OF 2023

1Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

[Certified on 01st of November, 2023]

L.D.O. (Inc.) 3/2021

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BALAPITIYA SRI RAHULARAMAPURANA VIHARASTHA SAMANERA AKALPASANGWARDENA BIKSHU VIDYALAYA

WHEREAS a Vidyalaya called and known as theBalapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha SamaneraAkalpa Sangwardena Bikshu Vidyalaya has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout its objects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Vidyalaya according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Vidyalaya has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Balapitiya SriRahularama Purana Viharastha Samanera AkalpaSangwardena Bikshu Vidyalaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 25of 2023.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theBalapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha SamaneraAkalpa Sangwardena Bikshu Vidyalaya (hereinafter referredto as the Vidyalaya) and shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the body corporate hereby constituted shall haveperpetual succession under the name and style of theBalapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha SamaneraAkalpa Sangwardena Bikshu Vidyalaya (hereinafter referredto as the body corporate), and by that name may sue and besued with full power and authority to have, and use a commonseal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

WS 4PL - 02357

Short title

Preamble

Incorporationof theBalapitiya SriRahularamaPuranaViharasthaSamaneraAkalpaSangwardenaBikshuVidyalaya

2Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Services Organization within the meaning and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

3.The general objects for which the body corporate isconstituted are hereby declared to be to assist the relevantauthorities to

(a)embed the desired course of conduct of a noviceSamanera Bhikku in to the lives of SamaneraBhikku, as a life practice;

(b)provide knowledge to the Samanera Bhikku inrelation to

(i)the basic elements of the life of a noviceSamanera Bhikku;

(ii)the customs of partaking alms, pindapatha,(gathering alms by visiting households),bathing and sleeping; and

(iii)the life of Lord Buddha and selected storiesof the Buddha Sasana;

(c)train the Samanera Bhikku of the correct way ofworshiping Buddha, performing Bodhi Puja anduttering Pin Wakya; and

(d)provide basic knowledge on the subjects of SinhalaPali, Sanskrit, Tamil and English languages andMathematics to the Samanera Bhikku.

General objectsof the bodyCorporate

3Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout in such manner so as not to create any conflict betweenthe work of the body corporate and any work being carriedout simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rulesmade under section 7, the management and administrationof the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by aCommittee of Management (hereinafter referred to as theCommittee) consisting of such number of office bearers asmay be specified by the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The Committee of the Vidyalaya holding office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act shall, subject to the rules made under paragraph(b), function as an Interim Committee of the body corporateuntil the first Committee is appointed or elected in the mannerprovided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the InterimCommittee of the body corporate shall have the power tomake rules for the interim administration of the body corporateand for election or appointment of the members of the firstCommittee of the body corporate, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Committee shall be takenby the majority of its members present at such meeting.

(d) The first Committee of the body corporate shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee including the

Management ofaffairs of thebody corporate

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor ProvincialCouncil

4Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

patrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a periodof three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisorshall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapseof the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of thebody corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor disrable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects ofthe body corporate or any one of them, including the power

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate and to dealwith or dispose of the same as may be deemedexpedient with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(b)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the body corporate, all suchcontracts or agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of the powersof the body corporate;

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind :

Powers of thebody corporate

5Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

Provided that, the Committee shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accouts inany bank;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the body corporate, insuch manner as the Committee may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto the body corporate or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servents of the body corporate andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the body corporate;

(h)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the body corporate; and

(i)generally to do all such acts and things for theachievement of the objects of the body corporate.

6Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Committee orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appoinment, powers,functions and duties of various officers and servantsof the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate andof the Committee or notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Committee and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

Rules of thebody corporate

7Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

(3) The rules made under subsection (1), shall bepublished in the Gazette within three months upon makingof such rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Committee shall maintain a register of membersin which name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants forand on account of the body corporate shall, subject to theprovisions of section 6(c), be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Committee to the credit of the bodycorporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe body corporate in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by the Auditor General in terms of provisions ofArticle 154 of the Constitution and be certified by theAuditor General or a qualified auditor appointed by theAuditor General.

Register ofmembers

Fund of thebody corporate

Accounts andAuditing

8Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

(4) For the purposes of this section qualified auditormeans

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners ofwhich, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practice asan Accountant, issued by the Council of such Institute.

11.(1) The Committee shall prepare a report of theactivities of the body corporate for each financial year andsubmit such report together with the audited statement ofaccounts certified by the Auditor-General or qualified auditorappointed by the Auditor-General, to the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister assigned the subject of Educationunder Article 43 or 44 of the Constitution, as the case maybe, and to the Registrar of Voluntary Social ServiceOrganizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of theyear succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Vidyalaya existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate hereby

Annual Report

Debts due byand payable tothe vidyalaya

9Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Vidyalaya on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the body corporate for the purposeof this Act and subject to the rules of the body corporatemade under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise howsoever tothe members of the body corporate.

15.(1) The Seal of the body corporate shall not beaffixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presenceof two members of the Committee, who shall sign their namesto the instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Committee as may be decided bythe Committee.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporatethere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the body corporate,

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Application ofmoneyes andproperty

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Seal of the bodycorporate

10Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

but shall be given or transferred to any other appropriateinstitution having objects similar to those of the bodycorporate, and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

11Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana ViharasthaSamanera Akalpa Sangwardena BikshuVidyalaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 25 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.