PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

TRUSTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 6 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 28th of March, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 29, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2018

2PL 0106032,977 (01/2018)

Short title.

[Certified on 28th of March, 2018]

L.D.O. 24/2016

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TRUSTS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 87)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Trusts (Amendment)Act, No. 6 of 2018.

2.Section 3 of the Trusts Ordinance (Chapter 87)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (e) of that section andthe substitution therefor, of the followingparagraph:

(e) beneficiary means a person, or a defined ordefinitely ascertainable class of persons, forwhose benefit the confidence is accepted;;

(2)by the addition immediately after paragraph (o) ofthat section, of the following paragraphs:

(p) express trust means a trust that is createdby the author of the trust generally in theform of an instrument in writing with certaintyindicating the intention of the trust, but doesnot include a constructive trust or a de factotrust, whether charitable or not;

(q) prescribed means prescribed by regulationsmade under this Act..

Amendment ofsection 3 ofChapter 87.

Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20182

3.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 6 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 6A and 6B of that enactment:-

6A. (1) The Registrar-General shall prepareand maintain a register containing suchinformation as may be prescribed in respect ofevery express trust created in compliance withsection 5.

(2) The trustee of any immovable ormovable property in respect of an express trust,shall forward to the Registrar-General for thepurpose of subsection (1), all such informationrelating to the trust, as may be prescribed.

6B. (1) The Registrar-General shall, on arequest made by the Financial IntelligenceUnit, or by any other authority with the writtensanction of the Financial Intelligence Unit,provide to the Financial Intelligence Unit orsuch other authority any information relatingto any express trust, kept in the registermaintained under section 6A.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), theFinancial Intelligence Unit shall be theFinancial Intelligence Unit that may bedesignated under the Financial TransactionsReporting Act, No. 6 of 2006..

4.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 19 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 19A, 19B and 19C of thatenactment:

Insertion of newsections 19A,19Band 19C in theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsections 6A and6B in theprincipalenactment.

Duty of theRegistrar-General toprovideinformationof trusts.

Registrar-General tomaintain aregister oftrusts.

3Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2018

19A. (1) A trustee shall keep records of allsuch information as may be prescribed, on theidentity of the following persons at the time ofcreation of an express trust under section 6:

(a)the trustee himself;

(b)the co-trustees, if any;

(c)the author of the trust;

(d)the beneficiary, to the greatestextent possible; and

(e)any other person engaged in theexecution of the trust in the capacityof an agent, a legal representative, amanager, an investment advisor or atax advisor, an accountant orotherwise.

(2) The information under subsection (1)shall be verified and updated every threemonths, to the greatest extent possible.

(3) Where an express trust has been createdfor the benefit of a class of persons, all suchinformation as may be prescribed, on theidentity of every person belonging to such classof persons, to the greatest extent possible, shallbe kept in record under subsection (1).

(4) Where an express trust has been createdfor the benefit of a person other than a naturalperson, the information on the identity of thenatural person who is the beneficial owner ofthe trust, shall be kept in record undersubsection (1).

Trustee tokeep updatedinformationon identity inrecord.

Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20184

(5) A trustee shall maintain records ofinformation of any person referred to insubsections (1), (2), (3) and (4), at least for aperiod of six years from the date on which suchpersons involvement with the trust ceases toexist.

(6) For the purposes of this section,beneficial owner means a natural person orpersons who ultimately own the benefits of anexpress trust or control the trust property or theperson or persons on whose behalf an expresstrust is being created and includes the personor persons who exercise ultimate effectivecontrol over a person or a body of persons,whether incorporated or unincorporated.

19B. (1) (a) A trustee and a co-trustee, if any,of an express trust shall provide to any relevantauthority, any information in the recordmaintained under section 19A, in respect ofany person referred to in that section wheneversuch trustee is required to provide suchinformation by such authority.

(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a), therelevant authority means

(i)any public authority assigned withthe responsibility of preventingmoney laundering and suppressionof terrorist financing; or

(ii)any authority that performs thefunction of investigating andprosecuting money laundering andterrorist financing associatedoffences and seizing or freezing andconfiscating assets relating to suchoffences.

Trustee toprovideupdatedinformationof identity torelevantauthorities.

5Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2018

Penalty forcontraventionof sections6A, 19, 19Aand 19B.

(2) (a) A trustee of an express trust shall,when entering into a continuing businessrelationship or conducting any transaction orcarrying out any occasional transaction,exceeding a financial limit as may beprescribed, with any institution carrying outfinancial business or designated non-financebusiness, provide updated information on theidentity of any person referred to in section19A or of the trust property which is subject tothe business relationship, as is required by suchinstitution.

(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a),the expressions designated non-financebusiness, finance business and occasionaltransaction, shall have the same meanings asin the Financial Transactions ReportingAct, No. 6 of 2006.

19C. A trustee who acts in contravention ofthe provisions of sections 6A, 19, 19A and 19Bshall be guilty of an offence under this Act andshall, on conviction by a Magistrate, be liableto a fine not exceeding two hundred thousandrupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years or to both such fine andimprisonment..

5.Section 72 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words by his dischargefrom his office., of the words and figure by his dischargefrom his office or on such trustee being convicted of anoffence under section 19C..

6.Section 75 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words or accepts an inconsistent trust,, of the wordsand figure or accepts an inconsistent trust, or is convictedof an offence under section 19C,.

Amendment ofsection 72 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 75 of theprincipalenactment.

Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20186

7.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 115 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 115A of that enactment:-

115A. (1) The Minister may make regulationsin respect of all matters required by this Act tobe prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare authorized by this Act to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Ministerunder subsection (1) shall be published in theGazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication or on such later dateas may be specified therein.

(3) Every regulation made by the Ministershall, as soon as convenient, be brought beforeParliament for approval. Every regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed tobe rescinded from the date of disapproval butwithout prejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which anyregulation is deemed to be rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette..

8.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Insertion of newsection 115A inthe principalenactment.

Regulations.

7Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.