Price : Rs. 10.75 Postage : Rs. 4.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 21, 2003

EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN, YOUNGPERSONS AND CHILDREN (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 8 OF 2003

[Certified on 17th March, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20031

[Certified on 17th March, 2003]

L. D. O. 29/99

AN ACT TO AMEND THE EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN, YOUNGPERSONS AND CHILDREN ACT, NO. 47 OF 1956

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Employment of Women,Young Persons and Children (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2003.

2.Section 2 of the Employment of Women, YoungPersons and Children Act, No. 47 of 1956 (hereinafter referredto as the principal enactment) is hereby amended insubsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for all the wordsfrom be liable to the end of that subsection of the words,be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees orimprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingtwelve months or to both such fine and imprisonment and inaddition to the above punishment, the employer shall beordered to pay compensation of such amount as may bedetermined by the court, to the person in respect of whom theoffence was committed..

3.Section 2A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition at the end of that section of thefollowing new subsections :

(3)Where a person is employed at night in contraventionof the conditions set out in subsection (2) the employer andany other person (other than the person employed) to whoseact or default the contravention is attributable shall be guiltyof an offence under this Act and shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not exceeding twelve months or toboth such fine and imprisonment and in the case of a youngperson only, where such young person is below the age ofeighteen years, in addition to the above punishment the

2H 17137 5,650 (2002/11)

Amendment ofsection 2A of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 2 of Act,No. 47 of 1956.

Short title.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20032

employer shall be ordered to pay compensation of suchamount as may be determined by court, to the person in respectof whom the offence was committed.

(4)In this section the Commissioner of Labourincludes the Additional Commissioner of Labour, a DeputyCommissioner of Labour and an Assistant Commissioner ofLabour..

4.Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (2) of that section by the substitution for all thewords from be liable to the end of that subsection of thewords, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupeesor imprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingtwelve months or to both such fine and imprisonment..

5.Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (2) of that section by the substitution for all thewords frombe liable to the end of that subsection of thewords, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupeesor , in the case of a second or subsequent offence, to a finenot exceeding ten thousand rupees..

6.Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (2) of that section by the substitution for all thewords from be liable to the end of that subsection of thewords, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupeesand in the case of a second or subsequent offence to a fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees..

7.Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows :

(a)in subsection (2) of that section by the repeal ofparagraph (a) thereof ; and

(b)in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution for allthe words from be liable to the end of thatsubsection of the words, be liable to a fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees or imprisonment ofeither description for a period not exceeding twelvemonths or to both such fine and imprisonment and

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20033

be ordered to pay compensation of an amountdetermined by court to the child in respect of whomthe offence was committed..

8.Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (2) of that section by the substitution for all thewords from be liable to the end of that subsection of thewords be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupeesor, in the case of a second or subsequent offence to a fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees..

9.The following new section is inserted immediatelyafter section 8, and shall have effect as section 8A of theprincipal enactment :

8A.(1) The employer of any young personemployed in any industrial undertaking and theparent or guardian of that young person shall ifrequired by an authorized officer, furnish to thatofficer such information regarding theemployment of that young person as that officermay require.

(2)Any employer, parent or guardian whofails to comply with the provisions of subsection(1) of this section or willfully gives falseinformation to an authorized officer regardingthe employment of any young person in anindustrial undertaking, shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act, and shall on convictionafter summary trial before a Magistrate be liableto a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees orto imprisonment of either description for aperiod not exceeding twelve months or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment..

10.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)in subsection (2) of that section by the repeal ofparagraph (a) thereof ; and

Furnishing ofinformationregardingemploymentof youngpersons inindustrialundertakings.

Insertion of newsection 8A in theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20034

Replacement ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

(b)in subsection (4) of that section by the substitutionfor all the words from be liable to the end of thatsubsection of the words be liable to a fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees or imprisonment ofeither description for a period not exceeding twelvemonths or to both such fine and imprisonment andin a addition to the above be ordered to paycompensation of such amount as may be determinedby court, to the person in respect of whom the offencewas committed..

11.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor all the words from be liable to the end of that subsectionof the words, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousandrupees or in the case of a second or subsequent offence to afine not exceeding ten thousand rupees..

12.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from be liable to the end of that subsection,of the words be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees or imprisonment of either decription for a period notexceeding twelve months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

13.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

13. (1) No child shall be employed exceptin accordance with the provisions of this Partof this Act.

(2)Where a child is employed incontravention of the provisions of subsection(1) the employer or the person (other than thechild employed) to whose act or default thecontravention is attributable shall be guilty of

Restrictiononemploymentof children.

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20035

Replacement ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.

an offence and shall, on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable to afine not exceeding ten thousand rupees orimprisonment of either description for a periodnot exceeding twelve months or to both suchfine and imprisonment and in addition beordered to pay compensation of such amountas may be determined by the court, to the childin respect of whom the offence wascommitted..

14.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

14. (1) A child may not be employedexcept

(a) by his parents or guardian in lightagricultural or horticultural work or similarwork carried on by members of the samefamily before the commencement ofregular school hours or after the close ofschool hours ;

(b) in any school or other institution supervisedby a public authority and impartingtechnical education or other training for thepurpose of any trade or occupation.

(2)If a child is employed in contraventionof the provisions of subsection (1) the employeror the person (other than the child employed)to whose act or default the contravention isattributable shall be guilty of an offence underthis Act and shall on conviction after summarytrial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees or imprisonmentof either description for a period not exceedingtwelve months or to both such fine and

employmentof children byparents orguardians.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20036

imprisonment and in addition be ordered to paycompensation of such amount as may bedetermined by the court, to the child in respectof whom the offence was committed..

15.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for all the words commencingfrom notwithstanding to the end of that section of the wordsnotwithstanding that the employment may be authorized bythe provisions of this Part of the Act..

16.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words the employer of any child and theparent or guardian of that child of the words.theemployer of any child and the parent, custodian orguardian of that child;

(b) in subsection (2) of that section

(i)by the substitution for the words Any employer,parent or guardian of the words. Anyemployer, parent, custodian or guardian; and

(ii)by the substitution for all the words from beliable to the end of that subsection of the words,be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees or imprisonment of either description fora period not exceeding twelve months or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment..

17.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from be liable to the end of that subsection,of the words, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees or imprisonment of either description for a period notexceeding twelve moths or to both such fine and imprisonment,and shall in addition be ordered to pay compensation of suchamount as may be determined by the court, to the child inrespect of whom the offence was committed..

Amendment ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20037

18.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from be liable to the end of that subsection,of the words, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees or imprisonment of either description for a period notexceeding twelve months or to both such fine andimprisonment, and shall in addition be ordered to paycompensation of such amount as may be determined by thecourt, to the child in respect of whom the offence wascommitted..

19.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words age of sixteen years of the wordsage of eighteen years;

(b)in subsection (2) of that section

(i)by the substitution for the words age of sixteenyears, of the words age of eighteen years;

(ii)by the substitution for all the words from beliable to the end of that subsection of thewords. be liable to a fine not exceeding tenthousand rupees or imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not exceeding twelvemonths or to both such fine and imprisonmentand shall be ordered to pay compensation ofan amount determined by the court ,to theperson in respect of whom the offence wascommitted.; and

(c)in the marginal note to that section, by thesubstitution for the words sixteen years of age ofthe words eighteen years of age.

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20038

20.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andsubstitution therefor of the following subsection :

(1)No child or young person who has not attainedthe age of 16 years shall be trained to take partin performances of a dangerous nature..

(b)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words under the age of sixteen years, ofthe words under the age of eighteen years;

(c)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor, all the words commencing from be liable tothe end of that subsection, of the words, be liableto a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a period notexceeding twelve months or to both such fine andimprisonment, and shall in addition be ordered topay compensation of such amount as may bedetermined by the court, to the person in respect ofwhom the offence was committed. ; and

(d)in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words age of fourteen years, of the wordsage of sixteen years and by the substitution forthe words age of sixteen years, of the words ageof eighteen years.

21.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from be liable to the end of that subsection,of the words, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees or imprisonment of either description for a period notexceeding twelve months or to both such fine andimprisonment, and shall in addition be ordered to paycompensation of such amount as may be determined by thecourt, to the person in respect of whom the offence wascommitted..

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20039

22.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words The employer, parent or guardianof the words, The employer, parent, custodian orguardian ;

(b)in subsection (2) of that section,

(a)by the substitution for the words any employerparent or guardian, of the words, anyemployer, parent, custodian or guardian ; and

(b)by the substitution for all the words from beliable to the end of that subsection, of thewords, be liable to a fine not exceeding tenthousand rupees or imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not exceeding twelvemonths or to both such fine andimprisonment..

23.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from be liable to the end of that subsection,of the words, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees or imprisonment of either description for a period notexceeding twelve months or to both such fine andimprisonment..

24. Section 25 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)by the repeal of the marginal note to that sectionand substitution therefor of the following marginalnote :

Powers of entry and search ;

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 200310

(b)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words may enter, of the words, may enterand search ; and

(c)in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution for allthe words from be liable to the end of thatsubsection, of the words, be liable to a fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees or imprisonment ofeither description for a period not exceeding twelvemonths or to both such fine and imprisonment..

25.Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from be liable to the end of that subsection,of the words, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees or imprisonment of either description for a period notexceeding twelve months or to both such fine andimprisonment..

26.Section 30 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)of that section of the following subsection :

(1A) Where any Government Medical Officerexamines any person under preceding subsection(1), it shall be the duty of such Medical Officer toissue a certificate as regards the age of such youngperson or child and such certificate shall beadmissible in evidence and shall be, prima facie,evidence of the facts stated therein. ;

(b)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(2) Every employer who contravenes theprovisions of subsection (1) of this section shallbe guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendmentof section 30 ofthe principalenactment.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 200311

after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liableto a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees orimprisonment of either description for a periodnot exceeding twelve months or to both such fineand imprisonment..

27.Section 34 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution for thedefinition of the expressionauthorized officer andthe substitution therefor of the following newdefinition :

authorized officer means the Commissioner ofLabour, Additional Commissioner of Labour,a Deputy Commissioner of Labour and anAssistant Commissioner of Labour andincludes any Medical Officer, the ChiefFactory Inspecting Engineer, any FactoryInspecting Engineer, any Labour Officer orany Statistical Officer or any Statisticianattached to the Department of Labour;;

(b)by the insertion of the following definition,immediately after the definition of theexpressionchild :

custodian means any person appointed by acourt of law, who shall have the custody ofthe child, and on behalf of the child, managethe affairs of such child ;;

(c)by the ommission of the definition of theexpressionstreet trading.

28.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment ofsection 34 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 200312

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.