PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF OCCUPATIONAL

SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, No. 38 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd July, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 10.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 24, 2009

1 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

2PL 003679 4,250 (2/2009)

[Certified on 23rd July, 2009]

L.D.O. 24/2007

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL

INSTITUTE OF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH FOR THE

FORMULATION OF A POLICY ON OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH

STANDARDS; TO CREATE AN ENVIRONMENT FOR OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY

AND HEALTH AT ALL WORKPLACES TO PROTECT BOTH THE EMPLOYERS

AND EMPLOYEES; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the National Institute ofOccupational Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009 andshall come into operation on such date as the Minister mayappoint by Order published in the Gazette (hereinafterreferred to as the appointed date).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF OCCUPATIONAL

SAFETY AND HEALTH

2.(1) There shall be established an Institute which shallbe called the National Institute of Occupational Safety andHealth (hereinafter referred to as the Institute).

(2) The Institute shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3.(1) The general objects of the Institute shall be

(a)to advise the Government in the formulation of anational policy on occupational safety and healthand on the working environment both for employersand employees taking into consideration the natureof the occupation and the safety of the employersand employees;

Short title.

Establishment ofthe NationalInstitute ofOccupationalSafety andHealth.

General objectsof the Institute.

2 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

(b)to advise the Government on measures required forthe prevention of accidents and injuries relating, tooccupation at work places;

(c)to conduct, undertake and assist in investigations,study programmes, surveys and research in the fieldof occupational safety and health;

(d)to provide advisory services to any institution orperson on the correct use of equipment, hazardoussubstances, physical, chemical or biological agentsor products or any other hazards;

(e)to educate and provide necessary training toemployees, occupiers, workers or any other personrequired of knowledge and training in occupationalsafety and health and related subjects either incollaboration with any other institution oruniversity in Sri Lanka or abroad, or by the Instituteand award certificates or diplomas on completionof such education or training;

(f)to provide required services on the correct use ofequipment, hazardous substances, physical,chemical, biological agents or products andpsychosocial hazards and avoidance of knownhazards;

(g)(i)to advise the Minister on legislativerequirements with regard to standards, codes,practices and guidelines in matters relating tooccupational safety and health;

(ii)to evaluate and determine the work process,the substances and agents, the exposure towhich is be prohibited, limited or made subjectto supervision ;

(h)to undertake or collaborate in the collection,preparation, dissemination and publishing ofinformation relating to occupational safety andhealth;

3 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

(i)to organize or to sponsor conferences, seminars,workshops, symposiums or such other similarprogrammes and publish papers in connection withoccupational safety and health;

(j)to co-ordinate inter-ministerial projects,programmes and activities on occupational safetyand health;

(k)to establish and maintain libraries and laboratoriesfor the purpose of promoting and furthering of thepractice of occupational safety and health;

(l)to develop research and special laboratories;

(m)to liaise and establish links and networks withrelevant National and International Institutions,Universities or any other organizations in the fieldof occupational safety and health; and

(n)to establish national standards in the field ofoccupational safety and health.

(2) The Institute shall advise the Minister in addition toadvise relating to the matter specified in paragraph (g) ofsubsection (1), on all or any of the matters specified insubsection (1), and on any other matter that may be referredto the Institution, from time to time, by the Minister.

4.(1) The Institute shall have the power to do all suchacts as may be necessary for the discharge of any or all of itsfunctions specified in section 3 of this Act.

(2) The Institute without prejudice to the generality ofthe powers conferred on it by subsection (1), may

(a)assess and evaluate, from time to time, the standardsto be maintained in workplaces or workingenvironments and advise the Minister on thelegislative requirements relating to such standards,and to provide advisory services to occupiers,

Powers of theInstitute.

4 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

workers or any other persons, when requested to doso, on all matters relating to occupational safetyand health and working environment;

(b)levy and charge a fee for services rendered orfacilities or equipments provided by the Instituteto any other institution, organization or any otherperson;

(c)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of anymovable or immovable property for the purpose ofdischarging the functions of the Institute; and

(d)to enter into and execute, by the Institute or anyother officer or agent authorized in that behalf bythe Institute, all such contracts or agreements asmay be necessary for the discharge of the functionsof the Institute.

PART II

THE GOVERNING COUNCIL OF THE INSTITUTE

5.(1) The Institute shall have a Governing Council(hereinafter referred to as the Council) in which the powersand duties of the Institute shall subject to the provisions ofthis Act, be vested in.

(2) The Council shall consist of

(a)seven members appointed by the Minister(hereinafter referred to as the appointedmembers)

(i)two of whom shall be representatives ofemployers organizations;

(ii)two of whom are representing the workersorganization;

(iii)three persons distinguished in the fields ofoccupational safety and health and who shallbe members of any Institution established

Constitution ofthe GoverningCouncil.

5 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

under the provisions of an Act, the functionsof which include safety or health.

(b)the following ex-officio members:

(i)the person for the time being holding officeas the Secretary to the Minister of theMinistry in charge of the subject of Labour,who shall be the Chairman of the Council;

(ii)the person for the time being holding officeas the Commissioner-General of Labur, whoshall be the Vice Chairman of the Council;

(iii)the person for the time being holding officeas the Commissioner of Labour (IndustrialSafety);

(iv)the person for the time being holding officeas the Commissioner of Labour(Occupational Hygiene);

(v)one member, being an officer not below therank of a Senior Assistant Secretarynominated by the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance;

(vi)one member, being an officer not below therank of a Senior Assistant Secretarynominated by the Minister in charge of thesubject of Health;

(vii)one member, being an officer not below therank of a Senior Assistant Secretarynominated by the Minister in charge of thesubject of Industries;

(viii)one member, being an officer not below therank of a Senior Assistant Secretarynominated by the Minister in charge of thesubject of Agriculture; and

6 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

(ix)the person for the time being holding officeas the Director-General of the Institute.

6. There shall be a Secretary to the Council who shallkeep and maintain records of the Council. The Council shallappoint a Director of the Institute as the Secretary.

7.(1) Every appointed member of the Council shall,unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a term of three years from the date ofhis appointment and unless he has been removed from officeshall be eligible for reappointment.

(2) Any appointed member may, at any time resign fromoffice by a letter addressed to that effect to the Minister.Such resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted bythe Minister, in writing.

(3) Where an appointed member is temporarily unable todischarge the functions of his office by reason of ill health,absence from Sri Lanka or any other reason, the Ministermay appoint another person to act in his place.

(4) The Minister, in consultation with the relevantMinister in charge of the subject, when required, may, if hethinks it expedient to do so, remove from office, anyappointed member for reasons assigned therefor, andthereupon such member shall deemed to have vacated hisoffice.

(5) In the event of vacation of office, resignation orremoval of any member, the Minister may appoint a suitableperson to act in his place. Any member so appointed shallhold office for the unexpired period of the term of office ofthe member whom he succeeds.

8.A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as an appointed member of the Council

(1)if he is or becomes a Member of Parliament,Provincial Council or any local authority; or

The term ofoffice of themembers of theCouncil.

Disqualificationfor membershipof Council.

Secretary to theCouncil.

7 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

(2)if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in anyother country, found or declared to be of unsoundmind; or

(3)is a person who, having being declared an insolvent,or a bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka orin another country, is an undischarged insolvent orbankrupt; or

(4) if he is serving or has served a sentence ofimprisonment imposed by any court of law in SriLanka or in any other country.

9.(1) The Chairman of the Council shall summon ameeting of the Council at least once in every three months.

(2) The Chairman shall summon a special meeting of theCouncil within fourteen days after being requested in writingto do so by seven members of the Council and shall specifyin such notice the business to be dealt with at such meeting.

(3) The Chairman shall give at least seven days notice inwriting of every meeting of the Council to each of themembers and shall specify in such notice the business to bedealt with at such meeting.

(4) The Chairman or in his absence the Vice-Chairmanshall preside at all meetings of the Council.

(5) The quorum at any meeting of the Council shall beseven members.

(6) All questions for decision by the Council shall bedecided by a vote of majority of members present and voting.In case of an equality of votes, the presiding officer shallhave a casting vote.

(7) The proceedings at every meeting of the Council shallbe recorded.

(8) Subject to the provisions herein, the Council maymake rules determining the procedure to be followed atmeetings of the Council.

Meetings.

8 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

(9) No act, decision or proceedings of the Board shall bedeemed to be invalid by reason of the existence of anyvacancy in the Council or any defect in the appointment ornomination of election of a member thereof.

10.(1) There shall be appointed by the Council a personto be the Director-General of the Institute (hereinafterreferred to as the Director- General) who possessessufficient knowledge and at least ten years experience in thepractice of occupational safety and health.

(2) The Director-General shall be a full time officer of theInstitute and shall subject to the direction of the Council, beresponsible for the implementation of the decisions of theCouncil and shall discharge such other duties as may beassigned to him.

(3) The Council may, for reasons assigned therefor,remove from office the Director-General appointed undersubsection (1).

11.There shall be appointed by the Council such numberof persons to be Directors of the Institute, as shall be necessaryfor the efficient administration of the Institute. The personsso appointed shall possess seven years experience in aposition with similar function as such Director and possesssufficient knowledge as is relevant to such position.

12.(1) The Institute may appoint to the staff of theInstitute such officers and servants as it may deem necessaryfor the efficient exercise, perform and discharge of its powers,duties and functions under this Act.

(2) The Institute may subject to the other provisions ofthis Act

(a)exercise disciplinary control of officers and servantsof the Institute;

Director-Generalof the Institute.

Directors of theInstitute.

Appointment ofstaff.

9 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

(b)fix the wages, salaries or other remuneration of thestaff; and

(c)determine the terms and conditions of service ofthe officers and servants of the Institute.

13.(1) At the request of the Council, any officer in thepublic service may with the consent of that officer and theChairman of the public Service Commission, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Institute for such period as maybe determined by the Council or, with like consent, bepermanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall mutatis mutandisapply to, and in relation to, such officer.

(3) Where any officer in public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandisapply to, and in relation to such officer.

(4) Where the Institute employs an person who hasentered into a contract with Government by which he hasagreed to serve the Government for a specific period, anyperiod of service to the Institute by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of that person under suchcontract.

(5) At the request of the Council, a member of the LocalGovernment Service or any officer of any Local Authoritymay with the consent of that member, officer or employee betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Institute for suchperiod as may be determined by the Institute, or with like

Appointment ofPublic officersto the Institute.

10 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

consent be permanently appointed to such staff on such termsand conditions including those relating to pension orprovident fund rights as may be agreed upon by the Instituteand the Local Government Service Advisory Board or theLocal Authority, as the case may be.

(6) Where a person is temporarily appointed to the staffof the Institute under subsection (5) of this section, thatperson shall be subject to the same disciplinary control asany other member of the staff.

14.(1) The Director-General may with the approval ofthe Council, and whenever he considers it necessary to doso, delegate in writing to any officer of the Institute anypower of function conferred or assigned to him under thisAct and such officer shall exercise and discharge any poweror function subject to the direction and control of theDirector-General.

(2) Notwithstanding any such delegation, the Institutemay continue to exercise or perform or discharge any suchpower, duty or function.

15.The Director-General may by notice in writingrequire any occupier or head of Institution in Governmentor private sector to furnish to the Institute, within such timeas may be specified in that notice, all such informationrelating to the functions of the Institution concerningoccupational safety and health within the purview of suchInstitution to enable to exercise and discharge of his powersand functions of the Institute under this Act.

PART III

FUND AND THE FINANCES OF THE INSTITUTE

16.(1) The Institute shall have its own fund (hereinafterreferred to as the Fund).

Delegation ofpowers.

Collection ofInformation.

Fund of theInstitute.

11 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund

(a)all sums of money as may be voted from time totime by Parliament for the use of the Institute andany funds provided to the Institute by theGovernment by way of grant, loan or otherwise;

(b)the proceeds of any cess levied and collectedunder this Act;

(c)all sums that may be received by the Institute byway of fees and charges;

(d)all sums that may be received by the Institute asincome from any investments made by theInstitute;

(e)all sums that may be received by the Institute inexercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions; and

(f)all sums as may be received by the Institute byway of loans, donations, gifts or grants from anysource whatsoever whether from Sri Lanka oroutside Sri Lanka.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund

(a)the remuneration payable to the members of theGoverning Council as may be determined by theMinister with the concurrence of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance;

(b)the salaries, allowances and such other fees orpayments payable to lecturers, consultants, experts,officers, servants and employees of the Institute;and

(c)all sums as are required to defray any expenditureincurred by the Institute in the exercise, performanceand discharge of its powers, duties and functionsunder this Act.

12 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

17.(1) The financial year of the Institute shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Institute shall cause to be prepared in respectof each financial year a statement of receipts and payments,a statement of income and expenditure, a statement ofassets and liabilities and a statement of investments showingthe face value, purchase price and market value of eachof the investments. A copy of each of the statementsprepared under this subsection shall be transmitted to theMinister before the thirtieth day of September of thesucceeding year.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to and in relation to the audit of accounts of theInstitute.

18.The Institute shall prepare an annual report of thework of the Institute and forward such report before the lapseof the year succeeding the year to which such report relates,to the Minister who shall table such report in Parliament.

PART IV

GENERAL

19.The Institute may make rules in respect of theadministration of the affairs of the Institute and in relationto its officers and servants, including their appointments,promotions, remuneration, disciplinary control and of grantof leave to them. Every such rule shall be published in theGazette.

20.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofmatters which are required to be prescribed or in respect ofwhich regulations are authorized to be made or where it isnecessary for giving effect to the principles of this Act.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts.

Report to betabled inParliament.

Rules of theInstitute.

Power to makeregulations.

13 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1), shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation shall, as soon as practicable, after itspublication in the Gazette, be brought before Parliamentfor approval. Any regulation which is not so approved shallbe deemed to be rescinded from the date of its disapprovalbut without prejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(4) The Notification of the date on which any regulationis so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

21.The seal of the Institute shall be in the custody ofsuch person as the Council may decide from time to timeand may be altered in such manner as may be determined bythe Council. It shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument except in the presence of two members of theInstitute both of whom shall sign the instrument or documentin token of their presence. The Council shall maintain aregister of all documents to which the seal of the Institute isaffixed.

22.It shall be lawful for the Director-General or anofficer or agent authorized in that behalf by theDirector-General to enter any work place at all reasonablehours and to do all such acts as may be required to performall or any of the functions and duties of the Institute. Everyofficer or agent so authorized shall be issued with such acertificate of appointment, or authorization as may beprescribed, and, when visiting any workplace or premises inorder to perform any function or act under this Act, shall if sorequired produce such certificate or authority to the occupieror to the person holding responsibility of the workplace orpremises.

Seal of theInstitute.

Power of entryand inspection.

14 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

23.Where any immovable property is required to beacquired for any specific purpose of the Institute and theMinister by order published in the Gazette approves of theproposed acquisition for that purpose, that property shall bedeemed to be required for a public purpose and mayaccordingly be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act(Chapter 420).

24.(1) Any expenses incurred by the Institute in anysuit or prosecution brought against the Institute, shall bepaid out of the Fund of the Institute and any costs paid to orrecovered by the Institute in any such suit or prosecution,shall be credited to the Fund of the Institute.

(2) Any expenses incurred by any member of the Councilor any officer or servant of the Institute in any suit orprosecution brought against him before any Court in respectof any act which is done or purported to be done by suchperson under this Act or on the direction of the Councilshall, if the Court holds that such act was done in good faith,be paid out of the Fund of the Institute, unless such expensesare recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

25.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

26.For the purposes of this Act unless the contextotherwise requires the occupier means any person whomanages or administers the affairs of the government or anyprivate establishment, institution, public corporation orstatutory body, factory or any industry and includes anyAuthority to whom the function of management oradministration is delegated.

Expenses to bepaid out of Fundof the Institute.

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Acquisition ofimmovableproperty underthe LandAcquisition Act.

15 National Institute of OccupationalSafety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.