PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 62.00 Postage : Rs. 70.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 07, 2014.

[Certified on 04th November, 2014]

Printed on the Order of Government

SRI LANKA ATOMIC ENERGYACT, No. 40 OF 2014

1Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

[Certified on 04th November, 2014]

L.D.O 39/2011

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA ATOMICENERGY BOARD; FOR THE PROMOTION AND ENCOURAGEMENT OF THE

USE OF NUCLEAR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY FOR NATIONAL

DEVELOPMENT PURPOSES; FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA

ATOMIC ENERGY REGULATORY COUNCIL ; FOR THE REGULATION OF

PRACTICES INVOLVING IONIZING RADIATION AND THE SAFETY AND

SECURITY OF SOURCES; FOR THE PROHIBITION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

AND ENSURING SAFEGUARDS; AND TO REPEAL THE ATOMIC ENERGY

AUTHORITY ACT, NO.19 OF 1969 AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS it has become necessary to permit the beneficialand peaceful applications of nuclear science and technologyin health, industry, environment and agriculture, for nationaldevelopment within Sri Lanka:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to provide foradequate protection of individuals, society and theenvironment now and in the future, against the potentiallyharmful effects of ionizing radiation and for the safety andsecurity of radiation sources, by the establishment andmaintenance of a regulatory control system, including theadoption of standards, licensing system, inspection andenforcement to govern all practices involving ionizingradiation:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary for theGovernment of Sri Lanka to fulfill its obligations underrelevant international instruments in the field of nuclearenergy entered into by Sri Lanka and in particular the Treatyon the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and theSafeguards Agreements:

Now Therefore be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

Preamble.

2Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka AtomicEnergy Act, No. 40 of 2014 and shall come in to operationon such date as the Minister may appoint by Order publishedin the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

PART I

CHAPTER I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA ATOMIC ENERGY BOARD

2.(1) There shall be established an authority to becalled and known as the Sri Lanka Atomic Energy Board(hereinafter referred to as the Board) which shall consistof the members referred to in section 6.

(2) The Board shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3.The objectives of the Board shall be to

(a)promote and encourage the peaceful applicationof nuclear technology and provide services usingsuch technology;

(b)conduct research on nuclear science and ondeveloping peaceful application of nucleartechnology, for the purpose of achieving nationalobjectives;

(c)promote and support innovations to ensure safetyand security systems and quality in the peacefuluses of nuclear technology;

(d)provide radiation protection services to meetregulatory requirements relating to nuclearapplications; and

Short Title anddate ofoperation.

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaAtomic EnergyBoard .

Objectives of theBoard.

3Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(e)engage in activities involving ionizing radiationand complementary techniques, for commercial orother purposes.

4. The duties and functions of the Board shallbe to :-

(a)utilize radioactive materials and ionizing radiationwhether along with complementary techniques orotherwise, for medical, environmental, agricultural,industrial and other peaceful purposes and forscientific and technological advancement as maybe required for national development;

(b)carry out research relating to the application ofionizing radiation, whether along withcomplementary techniques or otherwise;

(c)ensure that adequate facilities and arrangementsare made available for the appropriate training ofthe staff of the Board and of the officers of anyother relevant institutions;

(d)provide on request and where it considers itappropriate, to any relevant government institutionor any non-governmental institution whethernational or international, and to the general public,information relating to the utilization of nucleartechnology or other radioactive materials, whereavailable;

(e)promote the establishment of professionalorganizations and societies to assist in theapplication of ionizing radiation, whether alongwith complementary methods or otherwise andprovide where available any connected services;

(f)construct and operate research centers, laboratoriesand pilot plants in the field of nuclear technology,radiological applications and other related areas;

Duties andfunctions of theBoard.

4Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(g)build and operate installations or facilities for theproduction and distribution of radioisotopes andfor the management and disposal of radioactivewastes;

(h)assist in the sustainable development of the peacefulapplication of nuclear technology;

(i)explore the availability of radioactive mineralresources within Sri Lanka;

(j)establish, maintain and develop scientific andtechnical cooperation with such local orinternational institutions or organizations as theBoard deems conducive, for the attainment of itsobjectives;

(k)enter into commercial and other ventures involvingionizing radiation or other complementarytechniques;

(l)furnish the Minister with information relating tothe performance and discharge of its duties andfunctions; and

(m)perform and discharge such other duties andfunctions as in the opinion of the Board, arenecessary in achieving the objectives of the Board.

5.In addition to any powers that are expressly conferredon the Board by this Act, the Board shall for the effectivedischarge of its functions, have the power to

(a)erect, equip and maintain laboratories, libraries,workshops and any other buildings as are necessaryfor the effective discharge of its functions;

Powers of theBoard.

5Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(b)collect, print and publish reports, periodicals andpapers on any subject relevant to or connected withthe functions of the Board;

(c)enter into agreements with the approval of theMinister, for cooperation with institutions withinor outside Sri Lanka, having objectives wholly orpartly similar to those of the Board;

(d)provide testing services to ascertain levels ofradioactive contamination and ionizing radiationin any material, commodity or object;

(e)provide calibration services and services forradiation measuring equipment and dosimetryservices;

(f)manufacture, buy, import or acquire, store, sell,transport or export any article which in the opinionof the Board is or is likely to be required inconnection with the production or use of ionizingradiation or any research and to dispose of any sucharticle;

(g)make available for use in connection with anyresearch or production conducted or carried out byany institution or person other than the Board, anyequipment or facilities belonging to the Board insuch manner as it may determine;

(h)take adequate measures to ensure the safety andsecurity of any radioactive sources or radioactivewaste for which no licence has been issued underthis Act or for which no owner can be found, onreceipt of information regarding the same;

(i)disseminate information and train persons in mattersrelating to nuclear science and technology,radioactive materials and related matters;

6Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(j)make arrangements with Universities, GovernmentDepartments and any other institutions or personsboth within and outside Sri Lanka, for the conductof research and development activities into mattersconnected with nuclear science andtechnology,ionizing radiation or radioactivematerial and other related matters;

(k)award in accordance with such schemes formulatedwith the concurrence of the Minister assigned thesubject of Finance, incentives based onperformance, to the scientists, engineers, technicalpersonnel and other employees of the Board;

(l)delegate any of the duties and functions of the Boardto the Chairman or any member of the Board or tothe Director-General of the Board;

(m)acquire and hold property both movable andimmovable and sell, lease, mortgage, exchange orotherwise dispose of the same;

(n)open, operate and maintain bank accounts anddeposit its monies in any bank and invest such ofits funds as are not immediately required for thepurposes of the Board, in such securities as the Boardmay determine;

(o)borrow such money as may become necessary forthe purposes of the exercise and performance of itspowers and functions;

(p)enter into any contracts or agreements as maybecome necessary for the effective exercise andperformance of its powers and functions;

(q)charge and receive fees for any services renderedby the Board;

7Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(r)engage in commercial activities to achieve theobjectives of the Board; and

(s)accept and receive in compliance with relevantgovernment procedures, grants and donations ofproperty both movable and immovable from sourceswithin and outside Sri Lanka and utilize the samefor the purposes of the exercise and performance ofthe powers and functions of the Board.

6.(1) The Board shall consist of seven members whoshall be appointed by the Minister, of whom not less thanthree shall be from among persons who have had experienceand proven capacity in the field of nuclear energy and itsapplications and not less than one each shall be from thefields of finance, law, health and industry.

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the membersappointed under subsection (1) as the Chairman of the Board.

(3) The members of the Board shall hold office for a periodof three years and unless removed from office, be eligible forre-appointment.

(4) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall applyto and in respect of the members of the Board and the conductof its meetings.

7.(1) The Board may appoint such committees andexperts as it considers necessary or expedient to assist it inthe performance and discharge of its duties and functions.

(2) A committee appointed under subsection (1), shallregulate the procedures for the transaction of its businessand of their meetings.

Constitution ofthe Board.

Appointment ofcommittees andexperts.

8Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(3) The members of any committee and an expert,appointed under subsection (1), shall be paid such allowancesand be reimbursed for any expenses incurred in connectionwith the carrying out of any duties assigned, as the Boardmay determine.

8.(a)The Minister may issue to the Board suchguidelines or directions as are not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act, relating to the policy to be followedin the performance and exercise of the functions and powersof the Board.

(b) The Board shall comply with any guidelines ordirections issued by the Minister.

PART II

CHAPTER II

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA ATOMIC ENERGY REGULATORYCOUNCIL

9.(1) There shall be established a regulatory authorityto be called and known as the Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyRegulatory Council (in this Act referred to as Council),for the regulation and control of practices involving ionizingradiation.

(2) The Council shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

10.The objectives of the Council shall be to-

(a)establish requirements for the protection of personsand the environment against risks associated withexposure to ionizing radiation and for the safetyand security of sources and facilities, asappropriate;

Powers of theMinister to issueguidelines anddirections.

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaAtomic EnergyRegulatoryCouncil.

Objectives of theCouncils.

9Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(b)take all appropriate steps to ensure the protectionof persons and the environment from harmful effectsdue to any source, nuclear material and otherradioactive material and ensure the security of suchmaterial and facilities; and

(c)ensure compliance with International Standards andobligations in the field of nuclear energy,which arerequired to be complied with by Sri Lanka.

11. The functions of the Council shall be to

(a)issue licences required to be issued under this Actand renew, modify, suspend or revoke the same;

(b)formulate an inspection programme to ensurecompliance with the requirements imposed underthis Act and conditions specified in licences issuedunder this Act;

(c)take appropriate measures to ensure due compliancewith the provisions of this Act, proper enforcementof regulations or rules made thereunder andconditions specified in licences issued;

(d)maintain a national register containing informationon all sources available within Sri Lanka;

(e)provide information regarding the regulatoryactivities of the Council to the general public, themedia and any other relevant stakeholders;

(f)make recommendations to the Minister on theformulation of a national policy and strategy onprotection against ionizing radiation, the safety andsecurity of sources and nuclear and otherradioactive material and on radioactive wastemanagement;

Functions of theCouncil.

10Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(g)formulate and review rules, codes and standardsrelating to radiation protection and the applicationof ionizing radiation,which reflects best practicesenunciated by the International Atomic EnergyAgency and any other similar InternationalOrganizations;

(h)advice the Minister on any matter referred to theCouncil and on matters which the Council considersappropriate to give its advice on; and

(i)perform and discharge such other duties andfunctions as in the opinion of the Council, arenecessary in achieving the objectives of theCouncil.

12.In addition to any powers that are expressly conferredon the Council by this Act, the Council shall for the effectivedischarge and performance of its functions have the powerto -

(a)take measures for the prevention of radiologicalemergencies;

(b)establish mechanisms and procedures for informingand consulting the public and other stakeholdersabout the regulatory process and the safety, healthand environmental aspects of regulated practices,including incidents, accidents and abnormaloccurrences;

(c)co-operate with local and international organizationsto promote safety and security against risk of injuryor damage, arising from ionizing radiation;

(d)provide training for the staff of the Council andany other relevant person or body of persons, forthe purpose of achieving its objectives;

Powers of theCouncil.

11Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(e)take necessary steps to fulfill the obligations of SriLanka under international treaties, conventions,relevant protocols and agreements to which SriLanka is a party, relating to safety and security ofsources;

(f)make where available to any person both nationaland international and to the public, as determinedby the Council, information relating to theutilization of sources and incidents and abnormaloccurrences, which may cause an impact on humanlife or the environment;

(g)liaise with government agencies and non-governmental organizations or individuals havingcompetence in areas such as health, safety,environmental protection, security, emergency,transport or import and export of nuclear andradioactive materials, including radioactive waste;

(h)inspect, review and assess practices and facilitiesfor the purpose of verifying compliance with theprovisions of this Act and any regulations or rulesmade thereunder and the conditions of any licences;

(i)issue directives relating to corrective measuresrequired to be taken if unsafe or potentially unsafeconditions are detected at any location where alicenced practice is being conducted;

(j)take all steps as are necessary to give effect toobligations under the Safeguards Agreement,including the establishment and maintenance of astate system of accounting for and control of nuclearmaterial;

(k)implement regulatory measures for the security ofnuclear or radioactive materials, related equipmentand associated facilities, including measures for

12Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

physical protection, to detect, prevent and respondto unauthorized acts involving such materials,equipment or facilities;

(l)establish procedures and mechanisms to grantapproval to institutes or individuals involved inissuing certification on radiation measurement andcalibration of radiation measuring equipment;

(m)conduct public awareness programmes in relationto nuclear science and technology and to take anyprecautionary steps required to be taken upon theoccurrence of any accident involving radioactiveor nuclear materials;

(n)inspect any articles or commodities imported intoSri Lanka and which are available locally, and totake samples for the purpose of testing ofradioactivity and where the Council deems itnecessary and appropriate, to publish results of suchtest for the information of the general public, andall relevant authorities:

For the purpose of this paragraph articles andcommodities include the container in which thearticles or commodities are imported and anyvessels or aircrafts carrying such containers;

(o)acquire and hold any property, both movable orimmovable and to sell, lease, mortgage, exchangeor otherwise dispose of the same;

(p)collect and publish reports and papers onany subject connected with the functions of theCouncil;

(q)open and maintain bank accounts whether current,savings or deposit, in any bank approved by theCouncil; and

13Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(r)erect, equip and maintain buildings includinglaboratories, libraries, workshops and offices as arenecessary for the performance of its functions.

13.In the exercise and performance of its powers andfunctions, the Council shall be guided by the followinggeneral principles:-

(a)the safety and protection of human life, propertyand the environment from harmful effects ofionizing radiation;

(b)that there is sufficient justification for permittingthe conduct of a practice for which a licence isapplied for;

(c)that the normal exposure of individuals arerestricted, so that neither the effective dose nor theequivalent dose caused by a possible combinationof exposures from licenced practices, exceeds thedose limits as determined by the Council; and

(d)that protection is optimized, so that the magnitudeof individual doses, the number of individualexposes and the likelihood of incurring exposureare all kept as low as reasonably achievable, takinginto account economic and social factors.

14.(1) The Council shall consist of the followingmembers appointed by the Minister :-

(a)three persons who are experts in the field of nuclearscience and technology or radiation protection;

(b)one person who has experience in legal aspectsconnected with or relating to the objectives of theCouncil; and

Generalprinciples to beadhered to bythe Council.

Constitution ofthe Council.

14Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(c)a senior officer not below the rank of an AdditionalSecretary or a Director of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject of Environment,nominated by such Minister.

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the members of theCouncil as the Chairman of the Council.

(3) The Chairman and the other appointed members ofthe Council shall hold office for a period of three years andunless removed from office, be eligible for re-appointment.

(4) The provisions of Schedule to this Act shall apply toand in respect of the members of the Council and the conductof its meetings.

15.The Council shall for the purposes of assisting theCouncil in the performance of its functions under this Act,appoint from among its officers such number of persons asinspectors (hereinafter referred to as Authorized Inspectors)and shall furnish them with appropriate credentials.

16.(1)(a) The Council may request the Inspector-General of Police to provide the services of any police officerabove the rank of an Assistant Superintendent of Police, forthe purpose of assisting an Authorized Inspector in theperformance of his functions.

(b) It shall be the duty of the Inspector-General of Policeto ensure the availability of such police officer, where arequest is made by the Council.

(2) (a) A police officer whose services are provided by theInspector-General of Police on a request made undersubsection (1), shall, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any law upon a complaint made by the Council,arrest without a warrant any person who is suspected to havecommitted an offence under this Act.

Appointment ofInspectors.

Appointment ofpolice officers toassist AuthorizedInspectors.

15Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(b) The police officer shall produce such person beforethe Magistrates Court, within whose jurisdiction suchoffence is alleged to have been committed.

17. (1) The Council may

(a)appoint such number of Advisory Committees as itmay consider necessary or appropriate; and

(b)obtain the services of any expert outside itspermanent staff, as advisors or consultants,

to assist the Council in the performance and discharge ofits duties and functions under this Act:

Provided that the appointment of any AdvisoryCommittees or obtaining the services of any expert outsidethe permanent staff, shall in no way relieve the Council ofthe responsibilities and duties cast on the Council underthis Act or any regulations or rules made thereunder.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Council to ensure that noperson who has a conflict of interest or is in a position toexercise improper influence on any decision that the Councilis called upon to make under this Act or any regulations orrules made thereunder, is appointed under subsection (1) asa member of an Advisory Committee or as an expert.

CHAPTER III

ISSUE OF LICENCES

18.(1) No person including the Board, shall conduct apractice involving ionizing radiation (in this Act referred toas a practice) :-

(a)except under the authority of a licence issued bythe Council for the purpose; or

Appointment ofAdvisoryCommittees.

Requirement toobtain a licenceto conduct apractice.

16Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(b)unless it is a practice which has been exemptedfrom the regulatory control of the Council, in termsof the provisions of this Act.

(2) A person who conducts a practice or uses any sourcefor the conduct of a practice without obtaining a licence forthat purpose shall commit an offence and be liable onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a finenot exceeding three million rupees or to an imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding seven years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

19. (1) The Council shall have the authority by Orderpublished in the Gazette, to exempt any practice or anysource within a practice from its regulatory control takinginto consideration the following factors:-

(a)the radiation risk that may be caused to any memberof the public by the conduct of the practice or thesource concerned, is sufficiently low as to be of noregulatory concern of the Council;

(b)the collective radiological impact of the practiceor the source within the practice concerned issufficiently low, as not to warrant the regulatorycontrol of the Council under the prevailingcircumstances;

(c)the practice and the source within the practiceconcerned are inherently safe, with no applicablelikelihood of a situation that could lead to a failureto meet the factors specified in paragraphs (a) or (b)above; and

(d)the practice is one that can be justified on the basisset out in section 22(1)(b).

(2) An Order under subsection (1) shall-

(a) specify the level of the effective dose expectedto be incurred by a member of the public in oneyear from the conduct of the practice;

Council toexempt certainpractices or anysource within apractice fromobtaining alicence.

17Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(b) where the exemption relates to a source within apractice, specify the minimum levels of totalactivity of a given nuclide present on thepremises at any one time and of the activityconcentration in the nuclide used in the practice;or

(c) where it relates to an apparatus used in thepractice, specify the levels of the ambient doseequivalent rate and the directional doseequivalent rate caused by such apparatus innormal operating conditions and the level ofenergy of the radiation produced by suchapparatus.

(3) An Order made under subsection (1) may be amendedfrom time to time in like manner and should specify thecriteria stated in subsection (2).

20.(1) A person who intends to conduct a practice shallforward to the Council a notification in such form as specifiedby the Council by rules made in that behalf, of such intentionto conduct such practice and shall submit the followinginformation along with the notification:-

(a)the purpose for which the practice is sought to beconducted;

(b)where radioactive material is involved, the purposefor which such material is to be used and themaximum radioactivity to be used by suchradioactive material;

(c)where irradiating apparatus is used in the conductof the practice, the maximum energy of ionizingradiation expected to be produced by suchapparatus; and

(d)in the case of nuclear or fissionable material,radioactivity level and the percentage of eachcomponent in the material.

Notification tobe forwarded ofan intention toconduct apractice.

18Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(2) Upon a consideration of the information contained ina notification received under subsection (1), the Councilshall determine:-

(a)whether the practice concerned is one which isexempted by the Council by an Order made undersection 19; or

(b)where the practice is not one which is exempted bythe Council then, considering the nature of thepractice, whether prior to obtaining a licence forthe conduct of the practice-

(i)the approval of the Council is required forthe plan of the building or the constructionin which the practice is to be conducted, inorder to ensure that adequate radiation safetymeasures are included in the design of theplan of the building or of the construction;and

(ii)where the import or export of any radioactivematerial, irradiating apparatus or equipmentcontaining radioactive source is involved,whether the approval of the Council isrequired for such import or export.

(3) (a) Upon making a determination under paragraph (b)of subsection (2) regarding the necessity to obtain anapproval referred to therein, the Council shall forthwithcommunicate such determination to the person whoforwarded the notification; and

(b) Where it determines that an approval is necessary tobe obtained under that paragraph, request the personconcerned to forward such information along with anapproval fee as specified in the communication, for thepurpose of obtaining the Councils approval.

19Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

21.(1) Where the Council:-

(a)determines under section 20(2) that anapproval is not required prior to obtaining alicence for the conduct of the intendedpractice in respect of which the notificationwas forwarded; or

(b)having considered the information receivedunder section 20(3), grants its approval,

the Council shall inform the person concerned tomake an application for an appropriate licence priorto the commencement of the practice.

(2) An application for a licence shall be made in theappropriate form provided for the same by the Council, alongwith an application processing fee as determined by theCouncil.

22. (1) The Council shall issue a licence for the conductof the practice in respect of which such application is madeunder section 21(2), on being satisfied that such applicant:-

(a)has complied with the requirements of the buildingplan which was approved by the Council, if any, inwhich the practice is to be conducted;

(b)is in a position to justify the conduct of the practiceconcerned on the basis that it produces sufficientbenefit to the exposed individuals or to the society,to off-set the radiation harm which such practicemay cause;

(c)has sufficient resources and adequate number oftechnically qualified staff available to enable theconduct of the practice in a manner that ensuressafety and security;

Application fora licence.

Processing ofapplications andthe issue oflicence.

20Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(d)has taken appropriate measures to ensure thatexposures will be below the dose limits prescribedunder this Act;

(e)has taken adequate steps to ensure that protectionhas been optimized so as to provide highest levelof safety that can reasonably be achieved;

(f)has clear understanding of the fundamentalprinciples relating to radiation protection;

(g)has adequate financial resources and technicallyqualified staff available, to meet responsibilitiesinvolved in the event of a decommissioning of thepractice concerned;

(h)has assessed the nature, magnitude and likelihoodof the risk that may be caused due to the conduct ofthe practice;

(i)has taken all necessary steps required to be takenfor the protection and safety of workers, the public,the environment and for the security of theradioactive sources;

(j)has furnished to the Council all informationincluding relevant technical information from itssuppliers or manufacturers which are required inorder to enable compliance with the provisions ofthis Act and any regulations or rules madethereunder; and

(k)has prepared and made available an EmergencyPreparedness and Response Plan.

21Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(2) Where in terms of the criteria set out in subsection (1),the Council:-

(a) is satisfied that the applicant is eligible to begranted a licence to conduct the practice, a licenceshall be issued in the prescribed form, for thatpurpose; or

(b)is of the view that the applicant is not eligible to begranted a licence, refuse to grant the licencerequested for and inform the applicant of suchrefusal and the reasons for the refusal.

23.(1) A licence issued under section 22 shall be :-

(a)subject to such conditions and requirements asspecified in the licence;

(b)subject to the payment of a licence fee as determinedby the Council;

(c)valid for such period as determined by the Councilin accordance with such rules made in that behalf,and specified in the licence; and

(d)non transferable.

(2) The Council shall maintain a register containing arecord of the licences issued and the basis on which suchlicences have been issued, details of conditions andrequirements imposed on each licence and where a licenceis refused, the reasons for such refusal.

24. It shall be the primary duty of the licencee to establishand implement the technical and organizational measuresrequired for the protection of human life and the environmentagainst harmful effects of ionizing radiation and to ensurethe safety and security of radioactive sources authorized tobe used under the licence.

Conditions ofthe licence.

Primary duty ofthe licencee.

22Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

25.Every licencee shall report to the Council-

(a) of any case of over exposure to radiation, notless than twenty four hours after such exposurehas taken place; and

(b) of any loss, theft, radiological emergency ordiversion for unauthorized purposes of anysources or material within twenty four hours aftercoming to know of such event,

and thereafter comply with any directions relating toemergency measures that may be issued by the Councilin respect of the same.

26.Every licencee who is issued with a licence for theconduct of a practice involving the transport of radioactivematerial shall comply with such requirements, includingrequirements pertaining to specifications for the containersor packages used for the purpose of transport of suchradioactive material and radioactive sources, as may bespecified by the Council by rules made in that behalf.

27.(1) A licencee is prohibited from continuing withthe conduct of the practice for which the licence was issuedwithout applying to the Council in writing for themodification of such licence, on the happening of any oneor more of the following circumstances:-

(a)where any source different to that which wasauthorized by the licence, is sought to be used;

(b)where a higher activity of radioactive material thanwhich is authorized by the licence, is sought to beused;

(c)where a modification is sought to be carried out inthe physical infrastructure used for the conduct ofthe practice concerned; or

Reporting ofover exposureand theft, etc.

Compliance withrequirementsestablished fortransport ofredioactivematerial.

Modification ofa licence.

23Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(d)where new employees are sought to be employed inthe conduct of the practice for which the licencewas issued.

(2) The Council shall, having considered thecircumstances, due to which a modification of the licence isbeing applied for, decide upon the modifications that couldbe permitted and modify the licence issued accordingly.

28.(1) A licencee who wishes to have its licencerenewed shall be required to make an application for thesame, not less than three months prior to the date of theexpiry of the licence issued.

(2) Where a licencee fails to make an application withinthe time period specified under subsection (1), the Councilshall direct such licencee to make an application forthwithunless such licencee does not intend to renew its licence,and may issue an interim licence pending the renewal of thelicence.

(3) An application for the renewal of a licence shall bemade in such form as provided for the same by the Councilalong with a renewal fee, and the provisions of section 22 ofthis Act shall, mutatis mutandis apply to and in respect ofthe processing of such application.

(4) Where a licence is renewed, the Council may whereit considers it appropriate, impose further conditions orrequirements in addition to those that the licence was subjectto, when it was issued initially.

29. (1) Where a licencee does not intend to renewits licence, it shall be the duty of such licencee to inform theCouncil of such fact not less than three months prior to thedate of the expiry of the licence, and a failure to so informshall be an offence under this Act, and the person onconviction shall be liable to a fine not exceeding tenthousand rupees.

Renewal of alicence.

Council to beinformedwhere alicence is notrenewed.

24Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(2) The provisions of subsections (3), (4) and (5) of section33 of this Act, shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in respectof a practice the licence for the conduct of which is notrenewed under subsection (1).

30. (1) Where a licencee fails to apply for the renewalof its licence three months prior to the date of its expiry, thelicencee shall be subject to the payment of a surcharge foreach day at such rate as shall be determined by the Councilby rules made in that behalf, until the date of the expiry ofthe licence, in addition to the renewal fee required to bepaid when renewing the licence.

(2) Where a licencee fails to apply for a renewal of thelicence prior to the date of its expiry,the Council shall havethe power immediately upon the expiry of such licence-

(a)to cause the premises in which the practice is beingconducted to be sealed and within seven days ofsuch sealing, to make an application to theMagistrates Court to obtain an order confirmingthe sealing of the premises; and

(b)to issue such directions as it may considerappropriate pertaining to the manner in which thesafety and security of the radioactive source shallbe ensured and for the protection of human life andthe environment, which the licencee shall berequired to strictly adhere to.

(3) The provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of section33 of this Act, shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in respectof a licencee to whom any directions are issued underparagraph (b) of subsection (2).

31. A licence issued by the Council may at any time by anotification sent to the licencee in that behalf, be cancelledwhere-

(a)the licencee has acted in violation of any conditionof the licence or in contravention of any provision

Effect of afailure to renewa licence.

Grounds for thecancellation of alicence.

25Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

of this Act or any regulation or rule made thereunder,which pose an unacceptable threat or risk to publichealth or a danger to the environment;

(b)the licencee has failed without reason, to complywith any directives issued by the Council undersection 39;

(c)the licencee has ceased to conduct or operate thepractice for which the licence was issued;

(d)due to any prevailing circumstances the Councildetermines that the continued conduct of thepractice for which the licence was issued, wouldpose an unacceptable threat or risk to public healthor a danger to the environment; or

(e)the receiving environment has altered or changeddue to certain natural and other causes whichrenders the continued conduct of the practice a riskto public health or a danger to the environment.

32.Any person who continues to conduct a practiceafter the cancellation under section 31of the licence shallcommit an offence and be liable on conviction after summarytrial before a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding three millionrupees or to an imprisonment for a term not exceeding sevenyears or to both such fine and imprisonment.

33.(1) Where a licence is cancelled by the Council, itmay cause seals to be affixed at such required places or toany source, to prevent the continuance of the conduct of thepractice.

(2) The Council shall within seven days of a sealingcarried out under subsection (1), make an application to theMagistrates Court, and obtain an order confirming thesealing that was carried out.

Conducting apractice after thecancellation of alicence to be anoffence.

Causing seals tobe affixed toany source, inthe event of acancellation.

26Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(3) The Council may at the time of the cancellation of alicence or at any time thereafter, issue such directions to thelicencee as to the manner in which the safety and security ofthe radioactive sources may be ensured and for the protectionof human life and the environment, and the licencee shallcomply with any directions so issued.

(4) The Council shall release a licencee to whom anydirections are issued under subsection (3) of all regulatoryobligations imposed under this Act, when the Council issatisfied that the direction issued have been satisfactorilycomplied with and the radioactive material or sources usedin the conduct of the practice concerned has ceased to posea threat to human life and to the environment.

(5) The failure to comply with any directions issued undersubsection (3) shall be an offence under this Act, and beliable on conviction after summary trial before theMagistrate, to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousandrupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding threeyears or to both such fine and imprisonment.

34.(1) A licence may be suspended-

(a) where the licencee has acted in violation ofany condition of the licence or incontravention of any provision of this Act orany regulation or rule made thereunder andsuch violation or contravention does nothowever pose an unacceptable threat or riskto public health or a danger to theenvironment;

(b) where any danger or risk caused or likely tobe caused to public health or the environmentcan be mitigated or remedied through theadoption of corrective measures; or

Suspension of alicence.

27Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(c) where the licencee has failed without reason,to comply with any directives issued by theCouncil under section 39.

(2) Where a decision is taken to suspend a licence, theCouncil shall in a notification sent to the licencee, specifythe period for which the licence is being suspended and thecorrective measures that are required to be taken for thesuspension to be removed.

(3) (a) The licencee shall carry out the correctivemeasures or steps specified in the notification prior to theexpiry of the period of suspension.

(b) Where the licencee is unable to complete the measuresor steps specified before the expiry of the period ofsuspension, the licencee may request in writing for furthertime to carry out the same, and the Council may grant furthertime where it considers it appropriate in the circumstances.

(4) Where the Council is satisfied that the measures orsteps required have been carried out by the licenceesatisfactorily, the Council shall remove the suspensionimposed.

(5) A person who continues to conduct a practice afterthe receipt of a notification issued by the Council undersubsection (1) and prior to the removal of suspension undersubsection (4), shall commit an offence and be liable onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a finenot exceeding three million rupees or to an imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding seven years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

35.(1) A person aggrieved by the refusal to issue alicence or by the suspension or cancellation of a licenceissued or the refusal to renew a licence, may appeal to the

Appeal against asuspension or acancellation of alicence.

28Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister (hereinafter referredto as the Secretary) against the decision of the Council,within one month of the date on which the decision wascommunicated to such person.

(2) An appeal made against a suspension or a cancellationof a licence, shall not in any way have the effect of settingaside such suspension or the cancellation, and the personconcerned shall not conduct the practice which has beensuspended or cancelled, until a determination on such appealis made by the Secretary under section 37.

36.(1) The Secretary shall within one month of thereceipt of any appeal, appoint an Appeals Committee tohear and inquire into such appeal, consisting of the followingmembers :-

(a)one person who possess postgraduate qualificationin nuclear technology, who shall be the Chairmanof the Appeals Committee;

(b)one person having experience in the field ofradiation protection; and

(c)one person with legal qualifications.

(2) A person shall not be qualified to be appointed amember of an Appeals Committee, if such person is-

(a)the holder of a licence issued by the Council; or

(b)has any direct or indirect pecuniary or other interestin the subject matter of the appeal to be inquiredinto by the Appeals Committee.

(3) In the event a member finds that he has any direct orindirect interest in the subject matter of the appeal afterbeing appointed as a member of the Appeals Committee, itshall be the duty of such member to immediately inform theSecretary of such fact and the Secretary shall forthwithappoint another person to replace the member concerned.

Appointment ofan AppealsCommittee tohear an appeal.

29Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(4) (a) The Appeals Committee shall grant the parties tothe appeal an opportunity of being heard and shall be requiredwithin two months of the date of the commencement of thehearing of the appeal, to conclude its hearing and to submita report to the Secretary containing its findings andrecommendations on the appeal.

(b) In the event that the Committee is unable to completeits hearing within the time specified, it may request theSecretary in writing for an extension of time and the Secretarymay grant an extension not exceeding one month.

(5) The members of the Appeals Committee shall be paidsuch allowance as may be determined by the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance.

37. (1) The Secretary shall within two weeks of thereceipt of the report of the Appeals Committee and havingconsidered the recommendations made in the report, make adetermination either allowing or disallowing, the appealconcerned and direct the Council to give effect to thedecision so made.

(2) The Secretary shall communicate forthwith to all theparties to the appeal, the determination made on the appeal.

38.(1) Where a person to whom a licence is issued underthis Chapter-

(a)dies or where the person concerned is a company ora partnership, the company or the partnership,becomes bankrupt;

(b)is adjudged insolvent; or

(c)wishes to discontinue the conduct of the practicein respect of which the licence was issued, prior toits expiry,

the licence so issued shall be deemed to have terminated.

Secretarysdeterminationon an appeal.

Termination of alicence.

30Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(2) Where a licence is deemed to have terminated on theoccurrence of any event specified in subsection (1), it shallbe the duty of the licencee or the next of kin of a licenceewho dies or the partners or the directors of the partnership orthe company, to inform the Council forthwith of such eventand thereafter to take all such action as may becomenecessary to comply with any directions that may be issuedby the Council, relating to the management of the radioactivematerial or sources connected with the practice conductedunder the licence.

(3) The Council shall release a licencee referred to in thissection of all regulatory obligations imposed under this Act,when the Council is satisfied that radioactive material orsources used in the conduct of the practice concerned, ceaseto pose a threat to human life or to the environment.

39.The Council may issue directives to any licenceeregarding measures that should be taken to prevent or abateany damage or detriment being caused to human life and theenvironment or to prevent loss of control of safety and securityof sources. The licencee shall comply with any directives soissued.

40.(1) An Authorized Inspector who is generally orspecially authorized in that behalf, may require a licenceeor any employee of the licencee, to-

(a)make available information or any records on thetypes and quantities of sources or radioactivematerial utilized in the conduct of the practice;

(b)give details of the manner in which and thelocations at which, radioactive or nuclear materialsare stored; or

(c)provide any other information as he or she mayconsider necessary, for the due performance of hisor her duties under this Act.

Council to issuedirectives.

Powers andduties ofAuthorizedInspectors.

31Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(2) An Authorized Inspector may at any reasonable hourof the day, either announced or unannounced, enter uponany premises, building, vessel, vehicle or aircraft :-

(a)where he or she has reasonable grounds to believethat a practice is being conducted or any radioactiveor nuclear material is being stored or transported orcarried, without obtaining a licence as required bythis Act; or

(b)for the purpose of carrying out an inspection,investigation or examination or for obtaining anysamples,

and the persons present in such premises, building, vessel,vehicle or aircraft, shall render all necessary assistance tothe Authorized Inspector in discharging his duties.

(3) A licencee and every employee or agent of suchlicencee shall provide all assistance that may be requestedfor by an Authorized Inspector, to enter and inspect, examineand to take samples or carry out any activity in the course ofthe performance of his functions under this Act.

(4) Any person who willfully obstruct an AuthorizedInspector or refuses to comply with any request made bysuch Inspector in the performance of a duty lawfully entrustedto such person, shall commit an offence and be liable onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a finenot exceeding three hundred thousand rupees or to a term ofimprisonment for a period not exceeding two years or toboth such fine and imprisonment.

(5) The Council shall maintain a record of all inspectionscarried out by an Authorized Inspector under this section.

41.(1) Where an Authorized Inspector has reasonablegrounds to believe that a practice for which a licence hasbeen issued, is being carried out in a manner which poses animmediate risk of injury to persons or substantial damage toproperty or the environment, such Inspector may cause thepremises where such practice is being conducted to be sealed.

Power to directthe removal ofsources.

32Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(2) In the event of the sealing of any premises under thissection, the Authorized Inspector shall forthwith inform theCouncil of such fact.

(3) The Council shall within seven days of a sealingcarried out under subsection (1), make an application to theMagistrates Court, and obtain an order confirming thesealing that was carried out.

(4) Where an Authorized Inspector has reasonablegrounds to believe that any source is insecure and the securityof such source may be affected by external influence, hemay direct the licencee to remove such sources to a moresecure location, as shall be proposed by the Council.

CHAPTER IV

SAFETY AND SECURITY OF SOURCES

42.(1) The Council shall based on internationallyrecognized guidelines, adopt a system of categorization ofradioactive sources depending on the potential injury thatcould be caused to people and to the environment, if suchsources are not safely managed or securely protected.

(2) A Notification of any categorizations carried out undersubsection (1), shall be published in the Gazette.

43.The Council shall take all necessary measures toprotect the information contained in the national register onsources maintained under section 11(d), in order to ensurethe safety and security of such sources.

44.The Council shall prescribe the requirements to becomplied with by licencees for the physical protection ofthe different categories of radioactive sources and themeasures necessary for the safety and security of suchcategories of radioactive sources.

45.(1) Every licencee shall inform the Councilimmediately of the loss of control over its radioactive sourcesor the occurrence of any other incident in connection withits radioactive source, that may pose a significant risk ofinjury to persons or substantial damage to property or to theenvironment.

Categorizationof radioactivesources.

Protection ofinformationcontained in thenational register onsources.

Physical protectionof categories ofradioactive sources.

Duty of licencee toinform the Councilof any loss of aradioactive source.

33Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(2) A licencee who fails to comply with the duty imposedby subsection (1) shall commit an offence and be liable onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a finenot exceeding three hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

46.The Council shall coordinate with national securityauthorities and any other relevant organizations, to developa national strategy for promptly gaining or regaining controlover orphan radioactive sources.

47.(1) Irradiating apparatus shall not be imported intoor exported from Sri Lanka by any person, except with thewritten approval of the Council.

(2) The grant of an approval under subsection (1) for theexport or import of any irradiating apparatus, shall not beconsidered as exempting the person concerned from havingto obtain an appropriate licence, where such irradiatingapparatus is to be used, supplied or sold for the purpose ofconducting a practice, for which a licence is required to beobtained under this Act.

48.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in anyother law, no person or authority vested with the power toissue a licence or any other form of approval for the exportor import of any radioactive source, or any devicescontaining any such source, to or from Sri Lanka or for thetransit of any such source through Sri Lanka, shall issuesuch licence or approval, without obtaining the prior writtenapproval of the Council for the same.

(2) (a) The Council shall, based on internationallyrecognized guidelines specify by rules made in that behalf,the requirements and procedures to be adopted by theCouncil for the grant of an approval under subsection (1).

(b) The rules shall provide for the evaluation ofinformation in order to assess the capacity and ability of theperson requesting for the approval to ensure the safety andsecurity of the radioactive source or other device containingthe source, concerned.

National strategyon orphansources.

Import andexport ofirradiatingapparatus.

Import or exportof radioactivesources.

34Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(3) Before granting its approval for the issue of a licenceor any other form of approval for the export of radioactivesources categorized in terms of section 42(1), the Councilshall satisfy itself insofar as practicable, that the importingcountry has the appropriate technical and administrativecapability, resources and regulatory structure, to ensure thesafe and secure management of the source concerned.

CHAPTER V

EXPORT AND IMPORT CONTROL OF NUCLEAR AND OTHERRADIOACTIVE MATERIAL

49.(1) The Council shall in compliance withinternational obligations and commitments of Sri Lankaincluding those under the Safeguards Agreement, prepare alist of nuclear material, equipment and technologies(hereinafter referred to as the controlled items) the importinto and export from Sri Lanka, which shall be subject tocontrol under this Act.

(2) The Council shall give adequate publicity to the listso prepared, in such manner as shall be determined by theCouncil.

(3) The list shall be published in the Gazette.

50.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any otherlaw, no approval, authority or permission shall be grantedfor the export from or import into Sri Lanka of any controlleditem, without the prior written approval of the Council.

(2) (a) An approval for the purpose of subsection (1) shallbe obtained on application made to the Council for the same,in such form and on the payment of such fee, as determinedby the Council.

(b) An approval granted shall be subject to such conditionsbased on requirements and obligations of Sri Lanka underthe Safeguards Agreement, as may be specified.

Controlleditems.

Prohibition onexport or importof controlleditems withoutapproval of theCouncil.

35Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(3) The grant of an approval under subsection (1) for theexport or import of any controlled items, shall not beconsidered as exempting the person concerned from havingto obtain an appropriate licence, where such controlled itemis to be used, possessed, transported, supplied or sold for thepurpose of conducting a practice, for which a licence isrequired to be obtained under this Act.

(4) Any person who imports into or exports from Sri Lankaany controlled item in contravention of the provisions ofsubsection (1) shall commit an offence and on convictionafter summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable, in additionto any other penalty that may be imposed for committing anoffence under any other law, to a fine not exceeding fivehundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(5) Where any controlled item is seized by a customsofficer under any provision of the Customs Ordinance,notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in thatOrdinance, such customs officer shall be required to informthe Council of such facts forthwith and the Council shallhave the power to take control of the controlled item soseized and keep the same in any premises which is under thecontrol of the Council, to ensure its safety and security.

51.The Council may make such rules as it may deemappropriate, that shall guide the Council in granting approvalfor the export and import of any controlled item.

52.(1) Where any material containing Uranium orThorium which has not reached the stage of the nuclear fuelcycle set out in the Safeguards Agreement, is directly orindirectly exported from Sri Lanka to a Non-Nuclear WeaponState, the Council shall inform the International AtomicEnergy Agency of its quantity, composition and destination,unless such radioactive material is exported for any non-nuclear purpose.

(2) Where any material containing Uranium or Thoriumwhich has not reached the stage of the nuclear fuel cycle setout in the Safeguards Agreement, is imported into Sri Lanka,

Council to makerules for grantingapproval for theexport and importof controlled items.

Councils duty inregard to importand export ofnuclear materials.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201436

the Council shall inform the International Atomic EnergyAgency of its quantity and composition, unless such materialis imported for non-nuclear purposes.

53.(1) Where any nuclear material to which theSafeguards Agreement applies, is transferred internationally,the responsibility for such material shall be regarded as beingthe responsibility of the Council :-

(a)in the case of any import, from the time suchresponsibility ceases to lie with the exporting State,and no later than the time at which the nuclearmaterial reaches Sri Lanka; and

(b)in the case of any export, up to the time at whichthe recipient State assumes such responsibility andno later than the time at which the nuclear materialreaches its destination.

(2) The Council shall not be deemed to have anyresponsibility for nuclear material merely by reason of thefact that such material is in transit on or over its territory orits territorial waters or that such material is being transportedunder its flag or in any of its aircrafts.

(3) For the purpose of subsection (1), the point at whichthe responsibility of the Council shall cease in regard to theimport into or the export from Sri Lanka of any nuclearmaterial, shall be as determined by the Council, incompliance with the Safeguards Agreement.

CHAPTER VI

RADIOACTIVE WASTE

54.The Minister shall formulate a National Policy onRadioactive Waste Management based on internationalnorms.

55.(1) The primary responsibility for ensuring thesafety and security of radioactive waste throughout its life,shall rest with the holder of the relevant licence.

National policyand strategy.

Safety andsecurity ofradioactivewaste.

Transfer ofresponsibility ininternationaltransfers ofnuclear materialsunderSafeguardsAgreement.

37Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(2) A licencee who fails to fulfill the responsibilityimposed by subsection (1), shall commit an offence and beliable on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

56.(1) Radioactive waste generated outside theRepublic of Sri Lanka shall not be imported into the country,unless a determination has been made by the Minister inconsultation with the Council, that the import would be inthe national interest and prior written approval for the samehas been granted by the Council.

(2) Any person who acts in contravention of theprovisions of subsection (1) shall commit an offence and beliable on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding five years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

57.(1) No person shall export radioactive wastegenerated within the Republic of Sri Lanka, without theprior written approval of the Council and the consent of theimporting country.

(2) The Council shall not grant approval for the export ofradioactive waste to a destination South of latitude 60 degree,for storage or disposal purposes.

(3) Any person who acts in contravention of theprovisions of subsection (1) shall commit an offence underthis Act and be liable on conviction after summary trialbefore a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fiveyears or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Import ofradioactivewaste.

Export ofradioactivewaste.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201438

CHAPTER VII

NATIONAL NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLAN

58.(1) The Council shall, in accordance with theprovisions of the Sri Lanka Disaster Management Act,No. 13 of 2005, develop a National Nuclear or RadiologicalEmergency Management Plan (hereinafter referred to as theEmergency Management Plan) for responding to potentialnuclear or radiological emergencies at national level.

(2) The provisions of the Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005 shall apply in regard to the adoption ofthe Emergency Management Plan.

(3) The Council shall assist and advice the DisasterManagement Centre established under section 8 of theSri Lanka Disaster Management Act, No. 13 of 2005, in theimplementation of the Emergency Management Plan, duringany intervention carried out by such Centre, in the event ofany nuclear or radiological emergency.

59.(1) In the event a nuclear or radiological emergencyoccurs within Sri Lanka which poses a risk that radioactivecontamination could spread beyond the boundaries of theRepublic of Sri Lanka, the Council shall immediatelynotify such emergency to the International Atomic EnergyAgency and to any relevant authorities of any Statewhich may be physically affected by such contamination.

(2) The Council shall serve as the point of contact forproviding any information or assistance regarding nuclearor radiological emergencies in terms of any relevantinternational instruments, including the Convention onEarly Notification of a Nuclear Accident and the Conventionon Assistance in the Case of a Nuclear Accident orRadiological Emergency.

National Planfor nuclear orrediologicalemergencies.

Trans boundaryemergencies.

39Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

CHAPTER VIII

SAFEGUARDS

60.The Council shall ensure that Sri Lankasobligations assumed under the Safeguards Agreement, arecomplied with and that all necessary assistance is providedto ensure due compliance of such agreement.

61.All nuclear activities in Sri Lanka shall be carriedout exclusively for peaceful purposes and in compliancewith the relevant international obligations of Sri Lankarelating to the same.

62.(1) Nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosivedevices, the direct or indirect control over such weapons ordevices, the manufacture or acquisition of such weapons ordevices and participating in, seeking, giving or receivingany assistance in their manufacture, is prohibited inSri Lanka.

(2) No person shall :-

(a)carry out research in, develop, acquire, manufacture,possess, store, transport, transfer or use, nuclearweapons;

(b)carry out research in, develop, acquire, manufacture,possess, store, transport, transfer or use, nuclearmaterial for the purpose of making nuclearweapons;

(c)participate in, assist in or finance any of theactivities specified in paragraph (a) or (b) above.

(3) Any person who acts in contravention of subsection(1) or subsection (2) shall commit an offence and onconviction by the High Court, be liable to imprisonment fora term not exceeding twenty years.

Council toensure duecompliance ofSafeguardsAgreement.

Nuclearactivities to beexclusively forpeacefulpurposes.

Prohibition onnuclear weaponsand otherexplosivedevices.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201440

CHAPTER IX

PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF NUCLEAR MATERIAL AND OTHERRADIOACTIVE MATERIAL

63.(1) The Council shall establish requirements for thephysical protection of nuclear material and other radioactivematerial, including :-

(a)a categorization of nuclear material and radioactivematerial based on an assessment of the damage thatcould result from theft or diversion of a certain typeand quantity of material from licensed uses or fromsabotage of a facility in which nuclear material andother radioactive material are produced, processed,used, handled, stored or disposed of;

(b)protection and security measures necessary fordifferent categories of nuclear material and otherradioactive material; and

(c)accounting and control measures for nuclearmaterial and other radioactive material.

(2) The requirements established under subsection (1)shall be published in the Gazette.

64.(1) Where there has been a theft, a robbery or anattempt of a theft or robbery or a loss of nuclear material orother radioactive material belonging to a licencee, suchlicencee shall

(a)notify the Council forthwith of the incident andthe circumstance thereof;

(b)provide a written report to the Council, includingparticulars of nuclear material or other radioactivematerial stolen or lost, as soon as practicable aftergiving the notice;

Requirementsfor physicalprotection ofnuclear materialand otherradioactivematerial.

Physicalprotection,responsibilitiesof the licencee.

41Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(c)provide any additional information as may berequired by the Council; and

(d)take all necessary measures to ensure safety andconfidentiality of sensitive information.

(2) A licencee who fails to comply with the requirementsimposed by subsection (1), shall commit an offence and onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liableto a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or tobe liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two yearsor to both such fine and imprisonment.

65.(1) Where a theft, a robbery or an attempt of a theftor robbery or loss of any nuclear material or other radioactivematerial has taken place within the Republic of Sri Lanka,the Council shall as soon as possible inform other States orinternational organizations, that may be affected as a resultof such incident.

(2) In the event of a theft or a robbery or loss of anynuclear material or other radioactive material, the Councilshall in coordination with other relevant departments andagencies, take all appropriate steps necessary for the recoveryof the same.

(3) The Council shall provide information on incidentsinvolving the theft, robbery or the attempt of a theft orrobbery or loss of any nuclear material or other radioactivematerial, to the International Atomic Energy Agency undersuch arrangements that are established by that Agency.

66.(1) Whoever who:-

(a)commits, aids and abets or attempts to commit atheft or robbery of any nuclear material or otherradioactive material or a device containing nuclearmaterial or other radioactive material;or

Internationalcooperation andassistance.

Unlawful handlingof radioactivematerial or nuclearmaterial or adevice containingradioactivematerial or nulearmaterial to be anoffence.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201442

(b)misappropriates, aids and abets or attempts tomisappropriate any nuclear material or otherradioactive material or a device containing nuclearmaterial or other radioactive material; or

(c)does, aids and abets or attempts to do any act whichconstitutes the carrying, sending or moving ofnuclear material or other radioactive material intoor out of Sri Lanka without lawful authority,

shall commit an offence and be liable on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceedingthree million rupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Whoever receives, possesses, transfers, transports,alters, uses or disposes of nuclear material or other radioactivematerial or possesses a device containing any such material,as the case may be with the intent of causing death or seriousbodily injury to any person or causing substantial damageto property or to the environment, shall commit an offenceand be liable on conviction by the High Court, to a fine notexceeding ten million rupees or to imprisonment for a termnot exceeding twenty years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

(3) Whoever without lawful authority receives, possesses,transfers, transports, alters, uses or disposes of nuclear materialor other radioactive material or possesses a device containingany such material, as the case may be which causes or islikely to cause death or serious injury to any person or causesor likely to cause substantial damage to property or theenvironment, shall commit an offence and on conviction bythe High Court be liable to a fine not exceeding ten millionrupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twentyyears or to both such fine and imprisonment.

43Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(4) Whoever commits or attempts to commit an offencereferred to in subsections (1), (2) or (3) or does so in order tocompel any person, an international organization or a State,either to do or to refrain from doing any act which couldresult in posing a threat to the defence or national securityof the country or cause any detriment to public health orenvironment, shall commit an offence and shall onconviction by the High Court, be liable to a fine notexceeding ten million rupees or to imprisonment for a termnot exceeding twenty years, depending on the gravity of thenature of the offence committed.

(5) Whoever demands any radioactive material or nuclearmaterial or a device containing radioactive material ornuclear material, by threat or by use of force or by any otherform of intimidation, shall commit an offence andon conviction by the High Court be liable to a fine notexceeding one million rupees or to imprisonment of a termnot exceeding two years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

67.Whoever without lawful authority uses or dispersesin any manner any radioactive material or nuclear materialor uses a device containing radioactive material or nuclearmaterial :-

(a)which causes or is likely to cause death or seriousbodily injury to any person or substantial damageto property or to the environment;

(b)in order to compel any person, an internationalorganization or a State to do or refrain from doingany act which could pose a threat to the defence ornational security of the country or cause anydetriment to public health or environment; or

Unlawful use ofradioactivematerial ornuclear materialor devicescontaining suchmaterial to be anoffence.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201444

(c)threatens to commit an act referred to in paragraph(a) or (b),

shall commit an offence and on conviction by the High Courtbe liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twentyyears.

68. (1) Whoever uses or damages an irradiationinstallation, interferes with its operation or commits anyother act directed against an irradiation installation, in amanner which causes the release or risk of a release ofradioactive material, with the intent or knowing that suchact will cause death or serious bodily harm to any person orsubstantial damage to property or to the environment, shallcommit an offence and shall on conviction by the High Courtbe liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twentyyears.

(2) Whoever threatens to commit any act referred to insubsection (1) shall commit an offence and be liable onconviction to the same punishment as specified in subsection(1).

CHAPTER X

MINING AND PROCESSING

69.(1) The Council shall by rules made in that behalf,establish requirements for the protection of workers, thepublic and the environment, that are required to be compliedwith by all persons who are conducting activities related tomining or processing operations which generate radioactivematerial.

(2) A person who is required to comply with anyrequirements established under subsection (1) and who failsto comply with the same, shall commit an offence and shallbe liable on conviction after summary trial before aMagistrate, to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousandrupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two yearsor to both such fine and imprisonment.

Using ordamaging anirradiationInstallationwhich cause arisk of release ofradioactivematerial.

Protection to beprovided inactivities relatingto mining andprocessingoperations.

45Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

PART III

CHAPTER XI

STAFF OF THE BOARD AND OF THE COUNCIL

70.For the purposes of this Part (Chapters XI, XII, XIII)of this Act, the expression relevant authority means theBoard or the Council, as the case may be.

71.(1) The Minister shall, in consultation with therelevant authority, appoint a person who possesses academicqualifications and has wide experience:-

(a)in the field of Nuclear Science and Technology, tobe the Director-General of the Board; and

(b)in the field of atomic energy regulatory matters,radiation safety and security, administration or law,to be the Director-General of the Council,

(in this Chapter referred to as the Director-General) subjectto such terms and conditions as may be determined in thelike manner.

(2) The Director-General who shall be the Chief ExecutiveOfficer of the relevant authority concerned shall subject tothe general directions of such authority be responsible for :-

(a)the administration of the affairs of the relevantauthority, its organization and the exercise andperformance of its powers and functions; and

(b)exercise general control over the officers andemployees of the relevant authority concerned.

(3) The Director-General shall be appointed for such periodas shall be determined by the Minister which shall not exceedfive years from the date of his appointment, and unless

Meaning of theexpressionrelevantauthority usedin this Part.

Appointment ofDirector-General.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201446

removed from office may be re-appointed by the Minister inconsultation with the relevant authority concerned, takinginto consideration his performance as the Director-Generalduring the tenure of such office.

(4) In the event an officer of the relevant authority isappointed as its Director-General, such officer shall bereleased from the post such officer was holding at the time ofbeing appointed as the Director-General, for the period duringwhich he will hold office as the Director-General.

(5) (a) The Director-General may with the written approvalof the relevant authority, delegate in writing to any officerof the relevant authority, such of his powers and functionsas he may, consider necessary.

(b) The officer to whom any such power or function isdelegated shall exercise or perform the same subject to thedirections of the Director-General.

(6) The Director-General shall attend meetings of therelevant authority concerned but shall not have a right tocast a vote at any such meeting.

72.(1) The Minister may, on the recommendation of therelevant authority may after holding an appropriate inquiry,remove the Director-General from his office :

(a)if he becomes permanently incapable of performingthe duties and functions of his office;

(b)if he has done any act which is manifestly opposedto the objectives of the relevant authority concernedor has acted in a manner which is detrimental to theinterests of such authority;

(c)has failed to comply with any directions issued bythe relevant authority.

(2) Where a Director-General is removed from office undersubsection (1), such officer shall not as of right be entitled to

Removal of theDirector-General.

47Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

revert to the post such officer was holding at the time ofbeing appointed as Director-General.

73. (1) The relevant authority may appoint such officersand servants to the staff of the relevant authority, as itconsiders expedient, subject to such terms and conditions ofservice as may be determined by the relevant authority,including disciplinary control over such officers and servants.

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection(1) shall be paid such remunerations and other benefits asshall be determined by the relevant authority, in consultationwith the Minister and with the concurrence of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance.

(3) The relevant authority shall establish and regulateprovident funds or schemes, for the benefit of its officers andemployees and make contributions to such funds or schemes.

74. (1) At the request of the relevant authority, any officerin the public service may, with the consent of such officerand the Public Service Commission, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the relevant authority for such period as may bedetermined by the relevant authority, or with like consent beappointed permanently to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the relevant authority, the provisionof section 14(2) of the National Transport Commission Act,No.37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relationto such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the relevant authority, the provisionof section 14(3) of the National Transport Commission Act,No.37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relationto such officer.

(4) Where the relevant authority, employs a person whohas entered into a contract with the Government for a

Appointment ofpublic officers tothe staff of therelevantauthority.

Appointment ofthe staff of therelevantauthority.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201448

specified period, any period of service to the relevant author-ity shall be regarded as service to the Government for thepurpose of discharging the obligations of such contract.

CHAPTER XII

FINANCES OF THE RELEVANT AUTHORITY

75.(1) The relevant authority shall have its own Fund,to which shall be credited

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted upon byParliament from time to time for the use of therelevant authority concerned;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by therelevant authority in the exercise, discharge andperformance of their powers, functions and dutiesunder this Act;

(c)subject to the provisions of subsection (2), all suchsums of money as may be received by the relevantauthority by way of loans, donations, gifts, bequestsor grants from any source whatsoever, whether withinor outside Sri Lanka:

Provided that, the relevant authority shallobtain the prior written approval of the Departmentof External Resources of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance, in respect of allforeign loans, grants, gifts and donations made andall loans, donations, gifts, bequests and grantsreceived from any source within Sri Lanka shall becredited to the Consolidated Fund and shallthereafter, with the approval of the Parliament, becredited to the fund of the relevant authority; and

(d)all such sums of money as may be received by therelevant authority by way of fees or charges madeunder this Act.

Fund of therelevantauthority.

49Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(2)A relevant authority shall not receive by way of a loan,donation, gift, bequest or grant, any sum of money from alicencee or any other person or a body of persons, which cancompromise the independence of such relevant authority orinterfere with the discharge of any regulatory function or theperformance of any duty under this Act.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the relevantauthority, all such sums of money as are required to defraythe expenditure incurred by the relevant authority in theexercise, discharge and performance of the powers and func-tions of the relevant authority under this Act.

76.(1) A relevant authority shall cause proper books ofaccounts to be kept of its assets and liabilities, income andexpenditure and all other transactions of such relevant au-thority.

(2) The financial year of a relevant authority shall be thecalendar year.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shallapply to and in regard to the audit of accounts of a relevantauthority.

(4) The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of1971, shall mutatis mutandis apply to and respect of thefinancial control and accounts of a relevant authority.

CHAPTER XIII

MISCELLANEOUS

77.(1) A member of the relevant authoritywho is directlyor indirectly interested in any contract made or proposed tobe made by such relevant authority, is required as soon aspossible after such fact comes to his knowledge, to disclosethe nature of the interest at a meeting of the relevant authority.

(2) Any disclosure made by a member of the relevantauthority under subsection (1), shall be recorded in the

Audit ofaccounts of arelevantauthority.

Disclousure ofinterest in anycontract made orproposed to bemade by therelevantauthority.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201450

minutes of the meeting of such relevant authority, and themember concerned shall-

(a)not take part in any deliberation or decision of therelevant authority with respect to the contract towhich such disclosure relates; and

(b)be disregarded for the purpose of constituting a quo-rum for a meeting of the relevant authority, wheresuch deliberation or decision is to be taken.

78.Where any land is required for any purpose of therelevant authority, such purpose shall for the purpose of theLand Acquisition Act (Chapter 460), be deemed to be a publicpurpose and the land may accordingly be acquired underthat Act by the Government for the relevant authority, andthe provisions of that Act shall apply to and in respect ofsuch acquisition.

79.(1) No liability, whether civil or criminal, shall attachto any member or officer of the relevant authority or to anyofficer authorized by such member or officer, for anythingwhich in good faith is done in the performance or exercise ofany function or power imposed or assigned to such relevantauthority under this Act.

(2) Any expenses incurred by the relevant authority inany suit or prosecution brought by or against the relevantauthority before any court, shall be paid out of the Fund ofthe relevant authority and any cost paid to or recovered bythe relevant authority in any such suit or prosecution, shallbe credited to the Fund of the relevant authority.

(3) Any expenses incurred by a member or officer of therelevant authority or by any officer authorized by any suchmember or officer, as the case may be, in any suit orprosecution brought against him before any court in respectof any act which is done by him under this Act shall, if thecourt holds that such act was done in good faith, be paid outof the Fund of the relevant authority, unless such expensesare recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

Acquisition ofland for arelevantauthority.

Protection ofmembers andofficers of therelevantauthority fromsuit orprosecution.

51Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

80.(1)A person shall not, do anything to interfere orobstruct any member or officer of the Council or exercise anyundue influence or coercion on any such member or officer,in the exercise or performance of any power or function bysuch member or officer under this Act.

(2) Any person who-

(a)willfully obstructs or hinders any member or officerof the relevant authority in the performance,discharge or exercise of any duty, function or powerunder this Act or any rule or regulation madethereunder;

(b) provides any information required under this Actor any rule or regulation made thereunder, knowingsuch information to be false or misleading in anymaterial particular; or

(c) acts in contravention or violation of any decisionof the relevant authority or of any provision of thisAct or any rule or regulation made thereunder,

shall commit an offence and shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable, where no penaltyis expressly provided for such offence by this Act or the ruleor regulation concerned, to a fine not exceeding one hundredthousand rupees or to a term of imprisonment not exceedingtwo years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

81.Where an offence under this Act or any rule orregulation made thereunder is committed by a body ofpersons, then if that body of persons is-

(a)a body corporate, every director and officer of suchbody corporate; or

(b)is a partnership, every partner of such partnership,

shall be guilty of that offence:

Offences andpenalties.

Offencescommitted by abody corporateor a partnership.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201452

Provided that a director or an officer of a body corporateor a partner of a partnership, as the case may be, shall not bedeemed to be guilty of such offence, if he or she proves to thesatisfaction of the court that such offence was committedwithout his knowledge or that he or she exercised all duediligence as was necessary, to prevent the commission ofsuch offence.

82.(1) Every member, of the relevant authority, everycommittee, an Advisory Committee and Appeals Committeeestablished under this Act, and every expert, AuthorizedInspector and all officers of the relevant authority, shall,before entering upon his duties, sign a declaration pledginghimself, to observe strict secrecy respecting all mattersconnected with the working of the relevant authority, andshall by such declaration pledge himself not to reveal anyinformation which may come to his knowledge in theperformance or discharge of his duties or functions underthis Act, except-

(a)in order to comply with any provision of this Act orany rule or regulation made thereunder or any otherwritten law; or

(b)when ordered by a court of law.

(2) Nothing in the preceeding provisions of this sectionshall be read and construed as authorizing a member, of therelevant authority, a committee, an Advisory Committee oran Appeals Committee established under this Act, or anexpert, Authorized Inspector or any officer of the relevantauthority, to reveal any information or to do any act incontravention of the rights conferred on any person, by orunder the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003.

83. Every member, of the relevant authority, anycommittee, an Advisory Committee and Appeals Committeeestablished under this Act, and an expert, authorized officeror any officer of the relevant authority, who acts in

Declaration ofsecrecy.

Contraventionof section 82 tobe an offence.

53Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

contravention of section 82(1), shall commit an offence andbe liable on conviction after summary trail before aMagistrate to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousandrupees or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding one yearor to both such fine and imprisonment.

84. All officers and servants of the relevant authority shallbe deemed to be public servants within the meaning and forthe purpose of the Penal Code.

85. The relevant authority shall be deemed to be ascheduled institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act,and the provisions of the Act shall be construed accordingly.

86. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are prescribed under this Act and in respectof which regulations are authorized to be made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality ofthe powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may makeregulations in respect of all or any of the following matters :-

(a)the regulation of the exportation, importation, re-exportation, storage, mining, processing, designing,manufacturing, construction, assembling, acquiring,distribution, selling, leasing, hiring, receiving,siting, locating, commissioning, possessing,decommissioning, disassembling, using ordisposing radioactive material or radioactive sourcesand of designing, manufacturing, selling. locating,possessing, using, exporting or importing ofirradiating apparatus;

(b)the decommissioning of irradiation installations;

(c)the protection of radiation workers against harmfuleffects of ionizing radiation, including medicalsurveillance and occupational exposure of ionizingradiation;

Officers andservants of therelevant authoritydeemed to bepublic servants.

Relevantauthority deemedto be a scheduleinstitution forpurposes ofBribery Act.

Regulations.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201454

(d)the protection of general public and the environ-ment against harmful effects of ionizing radiation;

(e)the regulation of medical practices involving ion-izing radiation, including protection of patients;

(f)the regulation of radioactive waste management,including release of waste into the environment andany practice which may affect public health andsafety;

(g)the security of radioactive sources and controlleditems; and

(h)the formulation of a compensation scheme for thepayment of compensation to radiation workers forany injury, illness or damage caused due toexposure to ionizing radiation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon asconvenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for its approval. Any regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) A notification of the date on which any regulationshall be deemed to be rescinded, shall be published in theGazette.

87.(1) The Council may make rules in respect of all orany matter for which rules are authorized or required to bemade under this Act, and in particular in regard to the followingmatters:-

(a)requirements to be complied with for the transportof radioactive material and radioactive waste to,

Rules.

55Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

from and within the Republic of Sri Lanka, whichshall:-

(i)include a categorization of radioactivematerial that takes into account the potentialhazard posed by types, quantities and activitylevels of such radioactive material;

(ii)conform to the International Atomic EnergyAgency regulations on safe transport ofradioactive material;

(iii) include measures for the physical protectionof radioactive material consistent with thestandards laid down by the InternationalAtomic Energy Agency;

(b)the specification of exclusions recommended by theInternational Atomic Energy Agency;

(c)preparedness and response to nuclear or radiologicalemergency situations;

(d)criteria for qualifications of radiation workers;

(e)the establishment of concentration levels ofradioactivity in food and any other material usedby the general public;

(f)the establishment of concentration levels ofradioactivity above which food and other items usedby the general public shall be prohibited to beimported to or produced or marketed in Sri Lanka;

(g)the development of policies, standards and codes ofconduct in regard to radiation protection, safety andsecurity of sources, including peaceful use of nucleartechnology; and

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201456

(h)requirements deemed necessary to give effect to theSafeguards Agreement, in respect of which nospecific provisions are made by or under this Act.

(2) Every rule made by the Council, shall be published inthe Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of suchpublication or on such later date as may be specified in suchrule.

(3) Every rule made by the Council shall as soon asconvenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for its approval. Any rule which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date ofsuch disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) A notification of the date on which any rule shall bedeemed to be rescinded, shall be published in the Gazette.

88.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires :-

ambient dose equivalent rate H*(d) means thedose equivalent that would be produced bythe corresponding aligned and expanded fieldin the ICUR sphere at a depth d on a radiusopposing the direction of the aligned fieldwith in a given period of time;

accident means any unintended event includingoperating errors, equipment failures and othermishaps, the consequences or potentialconsequences of which are not negligible fromthe point of view of protection and safety;

decommissioning means actions that are taken atthe end of the operating lifetime of anirradiation installation to retire it from service,with due regard to the health and safety of

Interpreation.

57Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

workers and members of the public and theprotection of the environment, including saferemoval and disposition of the sources;

directional dose equivalent rate means the doseequivalent that would be produced by thecorresponding expanded field in the ICRUsphere at a depth d on a radius in a specifieddirection within a given period of time;

effective dose means the quantity E, defined as asummation of all the tissue equivalent doses,each multiplied by the appropriate tissueweighting factor:

E= 3 wT. HT

where HT is the equivalent dose in tissue T and wTis the tissue weighting factor for tissue T;

exposure means the act or condition of beingsubject to irradiation by ionizing radiation,and can be either external exposure(irradiation by ionizing radiation by sourcesoutside the body) or internal exposure(irradiation by ionizing radiation by sourcesinside the body);

facility means any irradiation installation, miningand raw material processing sites such asuranium mines, radioactive wastemanagement sites and any other places whereradioactive material is produced, processed,used, handled, stored or disposed of on sucha scale that consideration of protection andsafety is required;

fissionable material means Uranium-233,Uranium-235, Plutonium-239, Plutonium-241

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201458

or any combination of these radionuclide,other than

(a)natural uranium or depleted Uraniumwhich is unirradiated; and

(b)natural uranium or depleted Uraniumwhich has been irradiated in thermalreactors only;

High Court means the High Court of Sri Lanka,holden in the Judicial Zone of Colombodesignated by the Minister with theconcurrence of the Chief Justice, by Orderpublished in the Gazette;

incident means any unintended event includingoperating errors, equipment failures, initiatingevents, accident precursors, near misses orother mishaps or unauthorized act maliciousor non-malicious, the consequences orpotential consequences of which are not,negligible from the point of view of protectionor safety from ionizing radiation;

ionizing radiation means radiation capable ofproducing ion pairs in biological material;

irradiating apparatus means any system in whichcharged particles are accelerated in a vacuumthrough a potential difference of more thanfive kilovolts (whether in one or more steps),except an apparatus in which the only suchgenerator is a cathode ray tube or visualdisplay device, which under normal operatingconditions, does not cause an instantaneousabsorbed dose rate of more than 5 micro grayper hour at a distance of 50 millimeters fromany accessible surface. All type of X-ray

59Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

machines and charged particle accelerators areconsidered to be irradiating apparatus;

irradiation installation means a structure or aninstallation that houses a particle accelerator,X-ray apparatus or large radioactive sourcesand that can produce high radiation fieldsproperly designed structures providing shield-ing and other protection and are equipped withsafety devices such as inter-locks which pre-vent inadvertent entry into the high radiationfield and includes installations for externalbeam radiation therapy, installation for steril-ization or preservation of commercial prod-ucts and some installations for industrial ra-diography;

licence means a licence issued by the Councilgranting authorization to conduct of apractice, which is not a practice exemptedunder section 19 of this Act;

licencee means the holder of a licence;

Minister means the minister to whom theimplementation of the provisions of this Actis assigned;

nuclear material means any source, material orany special fissionable material;

nuclear or radiological emergency means anemergency in which there is or is perceivedto be a hazard, due to :-

(a)the energy resulting from a nuclearchain reaction or from the decay of theproducts of a chain reaction; or

(b)radiation exposure;

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201460

nuclear weapons means an explosive device thatderives its destructive force from nuclearreaction, either fission or combination offission or fusion;

over exposure means any exposure of a person toionizing radiation so as that the dose receivedby that person is in excess of the relevant doselimits as are prescribed;

practice involving ionizing radiation means anyhuman activity that introduces additionalsources of exposure or exposure pathways orextends exposure to additional people ormodifies the network of exposure pathwaysfrom existing sources, in a way that increasesthe exposure or the likelihood of exposure ofpeople or the number of people exposed;

radiation protection means the protection ofpeople from the effects of exposure to ionizingradiation and the means for achieving this;

radiation worker means any person who isemployed full time or part time or in atemporary capacity, for an employer who isresponsible for ensuring the protection of suchperson from radiation, while being soemployed;

radioactive material means any material emittingionizing radiation which is subject to theregulatory control of the Council;

radioactive source means radioactive material thatis permanently sealed in a capsule or closelybounded in a solid form and which is notexempted from regulatory control and alsomeans any radioactive material released if theradioactive source is leaking or broken;

61Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

radioactive waste means material in whateverphysical form, remaining from practices orinterventions that contains or is contaminatedwith radioactive material and has aradioactivity or radioactivity concentrationhigher than the level set for clearance fromregulatory requirements and for which nofurther use is foreseen;

Safeguards Agreement means the Agreementbetween the Democratic Socialist Republicof Sri Lanka and the International AtomicEnergy Agency for the application ofsafeguards in connection with the Treaty onthe Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,which entered into force on 06th August 1984and any protocol thereto;

safety means the protection of people and theenvironment against ionizing radiation risksand the safety of facilities and activities thatgive rise to radiation risks;

security means the prevention and detection ofand response to, theft, sabotage, unauthorizedaccess, illegal transfer or other malicious actsinvolving nuclear or other radioactivematerial or their facilities;

source means anything that may cause radiationexposure by emitting ionizing radiation orreleasing radioactive material;

source material means uranium containing themixture of isotopes occurring in the nature,uranium depleted in isotope 235, thorium andany of the foregoing in the form of metal,alloy, chemical compound or concentrate, anyother material containing one or more of theforegoing in such concentration asdetermined by the Council from time to time;

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201462

special fissionable material means plutonium-239, uranium-233; uranium enriched in theisotopes 235 or 233, any material containingone or more of the foregoing and such otherfissionable material as the Council shalldetermine from time to time, but shall notinclude source material; and

uranium enriched in the isotopes 235 or 233means uranium containing the isotopes 235or 233 or both in an amount such that theabundance ratio of the sum of these isotopesto the isotope 238 is greater than the ratio ofthe isotope 235 to the isotope 238 occurringin the nature.

89.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

PART IV

CHAPTER XIV

REPEALS AND SAVING

90.(1) The Atomic Energy Authority Act, No.19 of 1969(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the repealed Act) ishereby repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Atomic EnergyAuthority Act, No.19 of 1969 :-

(a)all members of the Atomic Energy Authority holdingoffice on the date preceding the appointed date,shall with effect from the appointed date be deemedto become members of the Board and shall holdoffice as such members during the balance periodleft of the term of office for which they wereappointed as members of the Authority;

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Repeal of ActNo. 19 of 1969and savingprovisions.

63Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(b)all movable and immovable property which on thedate preceding the appointed date belonged to theAtomic Energy Authority shall, with effect from theappointed date, vest in the Board or the Council, asthe case may be, as shall be determined by theMinister;

(c)all contracts and agreements entered into, by or withthe Atomic Energy Authority and subsisting on thedate preceding the appointed date, shall be deemedwith effect from the appointed date, to becomecontracts and agreements entered into, by or withthe Board or the Council, as the case may be, asshall be determined by the Minister;

(d)all such sums of money lying to the credit of thefunds of the Atomic Energy Authority on the datepreceding the appointed date, shall be transferredto the Fund of the Board or the Fund of the Council,as the case may be, as shall be determined by theMinister;

(e)all permits, memoranda of understanding ormemoranda of cooperation issued by the AtomicEnergy Authority and which is in force on the datepreceding the appointed date, shall be deemed witheffect from the appointed date, to be permits,memoranda of understanding or memoranda ofcorporation respectively, issued or entered into bythe Board or the Council, as the case may be, asshall be determined by the Minister;

(f)all actions and proceedings instituted by or againstthe Atomic Energy Authority and pending on thedate preceding the appointed date, shall be deemedwith effect from the appointed date, to be actionsand proceedings instituted by or against the Boardor the Council, as the case may be, and may becontinued and completed accordingly;

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201464

(g)the officers and servants of the Atomic EnergyAuthority holding office on the date preceding theappointed date, shall, with the consent of the officeror servant concerned and the Board or the Council,as the case may be, deemed with effect from theappointed date, to become officers or servants ofthe Board or Council, as the case may be, on termsnot less favourable than their terms of employmentin the Atomic Energy Authority;

(h)all judgments and orders made in favour or againstthe Atomic Energy Authority and remainingunsatisfied on the date preceding the appointed date,shall be deemed with effect from appointed date tobe judgments and orders made in favour or againstthe Board or the Council, as the case may be,depending on to whom the function or dutyconnected with or relating to the subject matter ofsuch judgment or order has been assigned underthis Act and may be enforced accordingly;

(i)all interests, rights, assets, obligations, debts andliabilities of the Atomic Energy Authority exitingon the date preceding the appointed date, shall bedeemed with effect from the appointed date, to beinterests, rights, assets, obligations, debts andliabilities of the Board or the Council, as the casemay be, depending upon to whom the function orduty connected with or relating to the subject matterof such interests, rights, assets, obligations, debtsand liabilities, as the case may be, has been assignedunder this Act; and

(j)all regulations made under the repealed Act and inforce on the date proceeding the appointed dateand which are not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act, shall be deemed with effect from theappointed date to be regulations made under thisAct and may accordingly be amended or rescindedby the regulation made under this Act.

65Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

91.(1) Every licence issued by the Atomic EnergyAuthority under the Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of1969 shall be deemed for a period of six months from theappointed date, to be a valid licence for the purpose of thisAct and where such licencee desires thereafter to continue toconduct a practice under this Act, he shall be required tomake an appropriate application to the Council under thisAct for that purpose, not less than one month prior to the dateof expiry of such six months.

(2) Any person who prior to the appointed date is engagedin an activity or practice on a licence issued by the AtomicEnergy Authority Act, No.19 of 1969 and who wishes tocease or discontinue such activity or practice after theappointed date, shall be required to inform the Council ofsuch fact in such form as may be prescribed prior to the expiryof the six months referred to in subsection (1), and theprovisions of subsections (3) and (4) of section 33 of thisAct, shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in respect of thesame.

Schedule[Sections 6(4) and 14(4)]

Provisions relating to members of the Board and of the Council

(1)A person shall be disqualified from being appointed a memberor continuing as a member of the Board or the Council, if suchperson :-

(a)becomes a member of Parliament, a member of a ProvincialCouncil or a member of any local authority;

(b)ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)has been declared an insolvent or an undischarged bankruptunder any law;

(d)is found or declared to be of unsound mind under any law inforce in Sri Lanka or any other country;

(e)has been convicted by a court of law in Sri Lanka or anyother country;

(f)(i) is already a member of the Board, at the time of beingappointed as a member of the Council; or

Validation oflicence issuedunder Act, No.19 of 1969 andconsequences.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201466

(ii)is already a member of the Council, at the time of beingappointed as a member of the Board; or

(g)in the case of appointment as a member of the Council, ifthere is or likely to be a conflict of interest of the functions,duties of the Council.

(2) The Minister may remove from office a member of the Board orthe Council, where:-

(a)he becomes subject to any of the disqualifications set out inparagraph (1) of this Schedule;

(b)in the opinion of the Minister, such member has becomepermanently incapable of performing his or her duties owingto any physical disability or unsoundness of mind; or

(c)does any act which in the opinion of the Minister, is likely tobring the Board or the Council, as the case may be, todisrepute.

(3) The Chairman or any other member of the Board or the Council,may resign from such office by letter in that behalf addressed to theMinister, and the resignation shall become effective from the date of itsacceptance by the Minister in writing.

(4) The office of a member of the Board or the Council, shallbecome vacant :-

(a)on his or her death;

(b)on the expiry of seven days from the date on which suchmember informs the Minister in writing of his intention ofresigning from such office and upon the acceptance of theresignation by the Minister in writing;

(c)on removal of such member from office;

(d)if such member absents himself or herself from any twoconsecutive meetings of the Board or the Council, as the casemay be, without the prior notification to the Chairman of theBoard or the Council; or

(e)on the termination of his or her term of office as a member.

(5) In the event of the vacation of the office of any appointedmember of the Board or the Council, the Minister shall, in accordancewith the provisions of section 6(1) or section 13(1), appoint anotherperson to hold such office for the unexpired term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

67Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 2014

(6) (a) Where a member of the Board or the Council, is temporarilyunable to discharge his or her duties due to ill health, absence from SriLanka or for any other cause, the Minister may, on the recommendationof the Board or of the Council, appoint another person to act in place ofsuch member during his absence.

(b) Where the Chairman of the Board or the Council, is temporarilyunable to discharge his duties due to ill health, absence from Sri Lankaor for any other cause, the Minister shall appoint another member ofthe Board or of the Council, to act in place of such Chairman during hisabsence.

(7) The Members of the Board or the Council, shall be paid suchremuneration as shall be determined by the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance.

(8) (a) The Board or the Council, as the case may be, shall meet atleast once in every month or as often as may be necessary.

(b) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be five members,while the quorum for any meeting of the Council shall be three members.

(c) The Chairman of the Board or the Council shall preside at allmeetings of the Board or the Council, and in the absence of the Chairmanat any such meeting, the members present shall elect from amongst themembers present, a member to preside at such meeting.

(d) The Chairman or the person presiding at any meeting of theBoard or the Council, shall in addition to his vote, have a casting vote.

(e) The Board or the Council, may regulate the procedure in regardto its meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

(9) The seal of the Board or of the Council :-

(a)shall be as determined from time to time by the Board orthe Council;

(b)shall be in the custody of such person as the Board or theCouncil shall determine;

(c)may be altered in such manner as may be determined bythe Board or the Council; and

(d)shall not be affixed to any document or instrument, exceptwith the sanction of the Board or of the Council, and inthe presence of the Chairman and one other member ofsuch Board or the Council, both of whom shall sign suchdocument or the instrument in token of their presence.

Sri Lanka Atomic EnergyAct, No. 40 of 201468

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.