9Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FINANCE (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 24 OF 1 999

[Certified on 30th August, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 03, 1999

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTNG, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: Rs. 6.75 Postage: Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

1Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999

[Certified on 30th August, 1999.]

L.D. - O. 23/96.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FINANCE ACT, NO.16 OF 1995.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-1.This Act may be cited as the Finance (Amendment)Act, No.24 of 1999 .

2.(Section 2 of the Finance Act, No. 16 of 1995(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment ) is herebyrepealed and the subsitution therefor of the following :-

2. There shall be charged, levied and paid,on every diesel motor vehicle, a diesel motorvehicle levy (in this part referred to as thelevy), for the years commencing respectively,on April 01, 1995 and April 01 1996 of a sumequal to ten thousand rupees, and for every yearcommencing on or after April 01, 1997, of a sumequal to five thousand rupees . The levypayable for every such year shall be paid by theregistered owner of the diesel motor vehicle, onor before the relevant date.

3.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution, for the words There shall becharged, levied and paid, on every luxury motor vehicle (otherthan a semi-luxury dual purpose motor vehicle ) for, of thewords There shall be charged, levied and paid on every luxurymotor vehicle (other than a semi luxury dual purpose motorvehicle or a wagon) for.

4.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution, for the words There shall becharged, levied and paid, on every semi luxury motor vehiclefor, of the words There shall be charged, levied and paid onevery semi luxury motor vehicle (other than a semi luxury dualpurpose motor vehicle or a wagon for.

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofSection 2 of theFinance Act,No.16 of 1995.

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Annualdiesel motorvehiclelevy.

2Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999

5.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution, for the words There shall becharged, levied and paid, on every semi-luxury dual purposemotor vehicle for,of the words There shall be charged,levied and paid, on every semi-luxury dual purpose motorvehicle (other than a wagon) for.

6.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution, for the words semi luxurymotor vehicle levy and semi luxury dual purpose motorvehicle levy and any penalty added thereto, of the wordssemi luxury motor vehicle levy and semi luxury dual purposemotor vehicle levy.

7.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 7 and shall have the effect assection 7A of the principal enactment:-

7A. The Commissioner may exempt theregistered owner of a motor vehicle from thepayment of the whole or any part of the dieselmotor vehicle levy payable by such registeredowner for any year, where he is satisfied that suchregistered owner has given a notice of non-userfor a period exceeding six months in respect ofthat year, under section 37 of the Motor TrafficAct or any corresponding provision in anystatute of a Provincial Council relating to MotorTraffic.

8.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 8 and shall have effect as section 8Aof the principal enactment:-

8A Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1) of section 8, where the registeredowner of any specified motor vehicle is the Stateor a local authority as the case may be, suchregistered owner may pay the levy to any insurer

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Whenregisteredowner is theState,or alocalauthority.

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 7A in theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 8A in theprincipalenactment.

Exemptionfrom dieselmotorvehicle levyfor non user.

3Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999

and the provisions of subsections (2),(3), (4),(5), (6) of section 8 and section 9 shall, mutatismutandis, apply to, and in relation to, suchpayment..

9.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section substituted therefor -

(1) The registered owner of every speci-fied motor vehicle shall produce to the insurerat the time he applies for the issue or renewal ofan insurance policy in respect of such motorvehicle for any year, proof of payment of thelevy in respect of that specified motor vehiclefor that year and the preceding year.

(2) Where the registered owner fails toshow proof of payment of any levy referred toin subsection (1), the insurer shall notify the Commissioner forth with of such non payment.

10.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution, in subsection (3) of thatsection, for the words Ievy in default within.of the words Ievy in default and any penaltyadded thereto within ;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (4) of that sectionand the substitution therefor of the following :-

(4) A notice shall be deemed to have beenduly served on a defaulter where he is -(a) a registered owner of any specified motorvehicle, if such notice was served on himpersonally or was sent by registered postaddressed to him at the address set out inthe Certificate of Registration of thatvehicle ; or

Replacement ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactmentRegisteredowner toprovepayment ofthe levy.

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

4Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999

(b) an insurer, if such notice was served on himpersonally or was sent by registered postaddressed to him at his registered office orprincipal place of business,

and in the case of a notice sent to a defaulter byregistered post, the notice shall be deemed tohave been received by the defaulter on the dateon which it would ordinarily be deliveredto him..

11.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 10, and shall have effect as sections10 A and 10B respectively of the principal enactment:-

10A The Commissioner may waive or reducethe amount of any penalty payable by aregistered owner under subsection (2) ofsection 10, if the Commissioner is satisfied thatthe failure of the registered owner to pay thelevy before the relevant date was due tocircumstances beyond his control and thatwaiver or reduction of such penalty is just andequitable in all the circumstances of the case.10B Where the registered owner of a motorvehicle has paid a penalty in respect of a levywhich is deemed to be in default, theCommissioner may -(a) set off the penalty paid by such registeredowner against the levy payable by him forany succeeding year;

(b) refund the penalty paid by such registeredownerwhere the Commissioner is satisfied that thefailure of the registered owner to pay the levybefore the relevant date was due tocircumstances beyond his control and the setoff or refund of the penalty paid by suchregistered owner is just and equitable in all thecircumstances of the case.

Insertion of newsections 10A and10B in theprincipalenactment.Power ofCommissionerto waive orreducepenalty.

Power ofCommis-sionerto set off orrefundpenalty

5Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999

12.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section substituted therefor:-

11. Where the amount of the levy and anypenalty added thereto, has not been paid beforethe expiry of the date referred to in a notice sentunder section 10, the Commissioner may issue acertificate, containing the amount of such levyand any penalty added thereto and the nameand last known place of residence of thedefaulter to a Magistrate having jurisdiction inthe division in which such place is situated. TheMagistrate shall thereupon summon suchdefaulter before him to show cause why furtherproceedings for the recovery of the levy andany penalty added thereto, should not be takenagainst him, and in default of sufficient causebeing shown the levy in default and anypenalty added therto, shall be deemed to be afine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrateon such defaulter for an offence punishable withfine only, not punishable with imprisonment, andthe provisions of subsection (1) of section 291(except paragraphs (a), (d) and (i) thereof) of theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979,relating to default of payment of a fine imposedfor such an offence shall thereupon apply andthe Magistrate may make any direction which,by the provisions of that subsection, he couldhave made at the time of imposing suchsentence.

13.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

14.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for all the words from if he paysthe levy to the Commissioner within three months of the dateof commencement of this Act to the end of that section, of the following, if he pays the levy to the

Replacement ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

Repeal of section12 of the principalenactiment

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

Recovery oflevy

6Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999

Commissioner on or before September 05, 1996. Where anysuch levy is not so paid such levy shall be deemed to be indefault after the expiration of such date and such registeredowner shall be deemed to be a defaulter within the meaning ofthis Act, with effect from such date..

15.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of all the words from motor cycleto Motor Traffic Act and the substitution ofthe following therefor:-

invalid carriage, motor ambulance, motorcycle, motor hearse, motor tricycleomnibus and private coach shall havethe respective meanings assigned to them bythe Motor Traffic Act;

(2)in the definition of motor vehicle, by thesubstitution for all the words from lorry , tothe end of that definition of the following:-

lorry, omnibus, private coach, tractor, handtractor or trailer, which is constructed oradapted for the carriage of not more than tenpersons (including the driver) andtheireffects;

(3)by the repeal of the definition of semi luxurydual purpose vehicle and the substitution ofthe following definition therefor:-

semi luxury dual purpose motor vehicle meansa luxury motor vehicle or a semi luxury motorvehicle which is registered as a dual purposemotor vehicle;

(4)by the insertion immediately after the definitionof specified motor vehicle , of the followingdefinition therefor:-

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

7Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999

wagon means a motor vehicle designed as asingle unit and constructed or adapted forthe purpose of transporting passengers orgoods or passengers and goods.

16.The amendment made to section 2 of the principalenactment by section 2 of this Act shall be deemed to havecome into force on April 01, 1997.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Retrospectiveeffiect.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

8Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign).Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.