PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA -

FAUNA AND FLORA PROTECTION
(AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 49 OF 1993

{Certified on 20th October, 1993]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 22, 1993

YHINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 7. 3° °

Price: Rs. 4.65 Postage: Rs. 3.10


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

[Certified on 20th October, 1993)
L.D.—O. 91/90,

An AcT TO. AMEND THE FAUNA AND FLORA PROTECTION —

ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socia-
list Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Fauna and Flora
Protection (Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 1993.

2. The long title to the Fauna and Flora Protection
Ordinance (hereinafter referred to as the “ principal

enactment”) is pereby repealed and the following long
title substituted therefor :—~

“An ORDINANCE TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROTECTION,
CONSERVATION AND PRESERVATION OF THE FAUNA AND
FLora OF Sri LANKA; FOR THE PREVENTION OF THES
COMMERCIAL EXPLOITATION OF SUCH FAUNA AND
FLORA; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATYERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO, ”.

3. Section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) in subsection (4) of that section, by the omission of
paragraph (e) thereof, and the substitution there-
for, of the following paragraphs :—

“(e) a Refuge; or
(f) a Marine Reserve ; or
(g) a Buffer Zone.” ;

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (4)
thereof, and the substitution therefor of the
following paragraph :—

“ (a) the limits. of any Strict Natural Reserve,
National Park, Nature Reserve, Jungle
Corridor Refuge, Marine Reserve or Buffer
Zone, shall be altered or varied ;” ;

Amendment
of section 2
of the

principal
enactment,


2 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

(3) in the marginal note to that section, by the substitu-.

tion for the words “Intermediate Zones, and
Sanctuaries”, of the words “Refuges, Marine
Reserves, Buffer Zones and Sanctuaries. ”.

4 The following new section is hereby inserted immedi-
ately after section 2 of the principal enactment and shall
have effect as section 2a of that enactment :—

“ Control 2a. The Director shall administer, control
and manage.

ment ot and manage the facilities or services which
Within are to be provided within any National
National ”

Reserves. Reserve. .

S. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal of
paragraphs (a) and (ec) thereof and the substitution
therefor, of the following paragraphs :—

“(a) no person shall be entitled to enter any
Strict Natural Reserve or Nature Reserve, or
in any way to disturb the fauna and flora
therein ;

(c) no animal shall be hunted, killed or taken, and
no plant shall be damaged, collected or
destroyed in a Strict Natural Reserve,
destroyed, in a Strict Natural Reserve,

(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section ;

(3) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution,
for all the words from “Nature Reserve or Jungle
Corridor” to the end of that subsection, of the
words “Nature Reserve, or in or over any State
jand in any Sanctuary, being a right which was so
acquired by such person prior to the date of the
establishment of such Nature Reserve or Sanc-
tuary.” ; and

(4) in the marginal note to that section, by the substitu-
tion for the words “Jungle Corridors, National
Parks, Sanctuaries and Intermediate Zones.”, of
the words “National Parks and Sanctuaries. ”.

—_—


A SI a TET I = OS Rm ME

ee

mmm De) al

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 2
Act, Na. 49 of 1993 ,

6. The following new section is hereby inserted immedi-

ately after section 3, and shall have effect as section 3a of
the principal enactment :—

Ban on 3a. No person shall, within one mile of
tourist th ; f :

hotels &c., e boundary cf a National Reserve, cons-
within one truct a tourist hotel or provide any services
mile or or facilities similar to the services or
Reserve. facilities provided by a tourist hotel.”.

7. Section 5a of the principal enactment is hereby

repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

“ Restriction 5a. (1) No person shall enter or remain
f i :

arated into within any Nature Reserve except under the

authority and in accordance with the condi-
tions of a permit issued by the prescribed
officer on payment of the prescribed fee.

(2) Lf no fee is prescribed for the issue of

a permit under subsection (1), such permit
shall be issued free of charge. ”.

8. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section—
(i) by the substitution for the words “Nature
Reserve or Jungle Corridor”, of the words

“Nature Reserve, Jungle Corridor, Refuge,
Marine Reserve or Buffer Zone” ;

(ii) by the repeal of paragraph (g) thereof and the
substitution therefor, of the following para-
graph :—
“(g) possess or use any trap or any explosive

or gun or other weapon or poisonous
substance capable of being used for the
purpose of injur®q or destroying any
animal or plant 9y a

(iii) by the substitution for the words “ constructed

by him.” in paragraph (j) of that subsection,
of the words “ constructed by him ; or” ; and

Insertion of
new section
3a in the
principal

Replacement
of section 5a

of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section 6
of the

enactment,


Amendment
of section 7
af the
principal
enactment,

4: Fauna and.Flora Protection (Amendment) -
Act, No. 49 of 1993 .

“({iv) by the insertion, immediately after praagraph

(j) of that subsection, of the- following.

paragraph :—

“ (k) construct or manage any tourist hotel or pro-

vide any services or facilities similar to the .

. Services or facilities provided by a tourist
hotel. ”.

(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “Nature Reserve or Jungle
yo Corridor, ”, of the words “ Nature Reserve, Jungle

Corridor, Refuge, Marine Reserve or Buffer Zone,” ;°

8) by the insertion immediately after subsection (3) of
that section, of the following subsection:— .

“(4) Any person who acts in contravention of

the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to
imprisonment of either description for a term not
less than one year and not exceeding five years. ”;
and .

© in the marginal note to that section, by the substitu-
: ‘tion for the words “Nature Reserves and Jungle

Corridors, Refuges, Marine Reserves and Buffer
Zones.”,

9. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section—

(1) by the omission of paragraph (a) thereof; and

Wii) in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitution for
the words “in any Intermediate Zone or
Sanctuary ”, of the words “ in any Sanctuary”;
and

(iii) in paragraph (c) thereof, by the sukstitution
for the words “in any Intermediate Zone or
on any Crown land”, of the words “on any

State PAY”.
(2) by the repesior subsection (2) of that section; and

@) in the marginal note to that section, by the substitu-
'. tion for the | words “Intermediate Zones and
Sanctuaries”, of the word “Sanctuaries”.

Corridors.”, of he words “ Nature Reserves, Jungle.


o-~ a. @

°

Feuna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 5.

Act, No. 49 of 1993..

10. Section 8 of-the principal enactment is hereby re-
pealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

“ Acts prohi-

bited in

vicinity of
National ©

Reserve.

8: No person shall from any road or land
outside a Strict Natural Reserve, National
Park, Nature Reserve, Jungle Corridor, Re-
fuge, Marine Reserve or Buffer Zone, hunt,
shoot, kill or take any wild animal in such
Strict Natural Reserve, National Park, Na-
ture Reserve, Jungle Corridor, Refuge,
Marine Reserve or Buffer Zone.”.

‘Il. The following new section is hereby inserted imme-
diately after section 8 of the principal enactment and shall
have effect as section 8a of that enactment :—~

“ Nature
trails,

8a. (1) The Director may provide roads
and tracks within a National Reserve to be
nature trails for the use of any person who
desires to travel on foot to study or observe
the fauna and flora therein:

Provided that the State shall not be liable
for any injury or damage sustained or
incurred by any person using such trail.

(2) No person shall use any such nature
trail unless he has obtained a permit issued
by the Director upon the payment of the pre-
scribed fee. -

- (8) Regulations may be made specifying
the manner in which any person may use
such nature trail. ”.: .

12. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follos :—

(1) by the omission of paragraph (a) thereof; and
(2) in paragraph (d), thereof, by the substitution for the

words “to any Intermediate Zone or Sanctuary ”,
of the words “to any Sanctuary”.

13. The following new section is inserted immediately
after section 9 of the principal enactment; and shall have
effect as section 9a of that enactment:—

“ Restriction
on develop-

9A. (1) No person or organisation, whether

ment activity private or State shall within a distance of one

within one

mile of
National

Reserves.

mile of the boundary of any National Reserve
declared by Order made under section 2,

Insertion of
new section
84 in the
principal
enactment,

Insertion of
new section
9a in the
principal
enactment,


t
of section
16 of the
Principal

enactment,

Replacement
of section
11 of the
principal

enactment,

6 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

carry out any development activity of any
description whatsoever, without obtaining
the prior written approval of the Director. ”.

(2) Every application for approval, under
subsection (1) to commence a development
activity shall be accompanied by an Initial
Environmental Examination or Environ-
mental Tmpact Assessment, as the case may
be, in terms of the National Environmental
Act, No. 47 of 1980, relating to such develop-
ment activity. The Director shall have regard
to such environmental impact assessment in
deciding whether or not to grant approval for
the commencement of the development
activity to which that assessment relates. ”.

14. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows: —
(1) by the substitution for paragraph (a) thereof, of the
following new paragraph :—
“(a) any provision of this Part of this Ordinance
other than the provisions of section 6;or” ;

(2) in paragraph (c), thereof by the substitution for the
words “to any Intermediate Zone or Sanctuary ;”,
of the words “to any Sanctuary ;”; and

(3) by the substitution, for all the words from “shall be
guilty” to the end of that section, of the words
“shall be guilty of an offence and shall on convic-
tion be liable to a fine not Jess than ten thousand
rupees and not more than twenty thousand rupees
or to imprisonment of either description for a term
not less than two years and not more than five years
or to both such fine and imprisonment.”.

15. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

pinterpre- 11. In this Part of this Ordinance, unless
Part TL the context otherwise requires—

“animal” means any vertebrate or inver-
tebrate ;
“domestic animal ” means—
(a) any head of cattle, or any sheep,
goat, horse, ass, mule, dog, or
cat;

*


ae A eg et
a a ag ame

rn 2 Pee
ee las. a Ne _ ee RIT weep tery one

es

See ate 7 me,

oo eg ae ne

a Sree ad

°

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) q

Act, No. 49 of 1993
_ (b) any domestic fowl reared by
man as poultry; and
(c) when domesticated by man, any
pig ;
“plant” means a member of the plant
kingdom ;

“wild animal” means any animal which
is not a domestic animal.’.

16. The following heading is substituted for the heading
“ ELEPHANTS, BUFFALOES, DEER, and FowL” occuring in Part IT
of the principal enactment :—

“ELEPHANTS and BUFFALOFS.”.

17. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby re-
pealed and the following section substituted therefor: ~

“ Protection

side National
Reserves and
Sanctuaries.

12. (1) Save as is hereinafter provided, no
person shall in any area outside a National
Reserve or Sanctuary—

(a) hunt, shoot, kill, injure or take any
elephant; or

(b) without a licence, in that behalf from
the Director, capture any buffalo.

(2) Every licence under subsection (1)
shall be issued in the prescribed form on
payment of the prescribed fee and shall
continue in force for such period and within
such limits and may be subject to such con-
ditions as the Director may consider neces-
sary or expedient to insert therein for the
protection and preservation of buffaloes,

(3) The holder of a licence under subsec-
tion (1) (b), shall not later than fifteen
days after the expiry of the licence,
return the expired licence to the Director or
the prescribed officer, and intimate to him
the particulars of any buffalo captured by

abd

him.

of heating *
o

of Part

of the
principal
enactment,

Replacement
of section


Amendment
of section
13 of the
principal
enactment,

Repeal

of section
15 of the
principal
enactmen

principal
enactment,

Amendment
of section
17 of the
principal
enactment,

Insertion of
new section
18a im the
principal
enactment,

8 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

- 18. Section 13 of the principal; enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section
by the substitution, tor the words “ either free or on payment
of”; of the words “on payment of”,

19. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby re-
pealed.

20. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby re-
pealed and the following section substituted therefor: —

“Killing or 16. Any person who in the exercise of any
Go hente right conferred by or under section 13 or
and section 14, kills or takes any elephant or
buffaloes buffalo, shall forthwith report such killing or
reported taking to any police officer entitled to offi-
forthwith ciate in the area within which such killing

or capture took place or to any prescribed
officer and to the Director.”.

- 21. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows: —

(1) in subsection (3) of that section by the omission of
the words “deer or fowl” wherever it occurs in that
subsection ; and

(2) by the substitution for the marginal note to the sec-
tion of the following marginal note :—

“Property in elephants and buffaloes killed or taken
under Part II.”.

22, The following new section is hereby inserted imme-
diately after section 19 of the principal enactment and shall
have effect as section 19a of that enactment :—

“ Prohibi- 19a. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of
Senore of section 40, no person shall export from Sri
any part Lanka—

of an

elephant. (a) any tusk or tush, or any part of a tusk

or tush, or any article made out of a
tusk or tush or part of a tusk or tush
or any article containing ivory from
a tusk or tush; or

(b) any other part of an elephant, or any
article made out of or
any part of an elephant.

containing

ae ee


t
2

4,

* Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) "9
* Act; No. 49 of 1993

(2) Any person who contravenes the pro-
visions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall on conviction be liable
to a fine not less than thirty thousand
rupees and not more than fifty thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either descri-
ption for a term not less than two years and
not exceeding five years or to both such
fine and imprisonment.

(3) This section shall have effect as if it
formed part of the Customs Ordinance and
the provisions of that Ordinance shall apply
accordingly.”.

23. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for all the words from “shall
be guilty” to the end of that section, of the following
words: —

“shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction
be liable to a fine not less than one hundred thousand
rupees and not more than two hundred and fifty thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a
term not less than two years and no'crebpeding five years
er to both such fine and imprisonm©™*°and where any
person who is convicted of an offence mentioned in
paragraph (a) of this section in respect of the killing or
taking of any elephant is found by the court to be in
possession of that elephant or its carcase or tusks or
tushes, the court may make order directing such elephant,
carcase, tusks, or tushes to be delivered to the possession
or custody of any officer of Government to be held by that
officer for and on behalf of the State.”.

24. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitu-
tion for all the words from “the Crown” to the end of that
subsection, of the words “the State shall be guilty of an
offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not less
than one hundred thousand rupees and not more than two
hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either des-
cription for a term not less than twa vears and not ex-
ceeding five years or to both such fine and imprisonment. ”.

a ae

Amendment
of section
20 of the
principal
enactment,


10 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

25. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby re-
peated and the following section substituted therefor p—

“ Offences 22, Any person who in contravention af

Deane te this Part of this Ordinance or contrary to
the terms of any licence issued to him there~
under, hunts, shoots, kills or takes any
buffalo, shall be guilty of an offence and shall
on conviction be liable to a fine not less than
five thousand rupees and not more than ten
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than one year
and not exceeding two years or to both such
fine and imprisonment.”,

26. Secticn 22a of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows: —

(1) by the repeal of subsection (7) of that section, and

the substitution therefor, of the following new
subsection :—

“ (7) Any person who owns, has in his custody
or makes use of an elephant which is not register-
ed, — No” espect of which a licence has not been
obtas- the 2 accordance with the provisions of this
section, snall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not less than one hun-
dred thousand rupees and not more than two hun-
dred thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than two years and
hot exceeding five years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.”;

(2) by the renumbering of subsection (8) of that section
as subsection (9) ; and

(3) by the insertion immediately after subsection (7) of
that section, of the following new subsection:—-

“(8) The Director or any officer authorised by
him may at any time enter any premises where he
has reason to believe that an elephant is being
kept and to make such inquiries and investigations
thereon as may be necessary to ascertain whether
the provisions of this section are being complied

with.”


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) lt
Act, No, 49 of 1993

27. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitu-
tion for all the words from “Any person who” to the words
“fine and imprisonment ;”, of the words “ Any person who
is in unlawful possession of any elephant shall be guilty of
an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not less
than one hundred thousand rupees and not more than two
hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either des-
cription for a term not less than ten years and not exceeding
twenty years or to both such fine and imprisonment ;”.

28. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section,
and the substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—

“ (3) Any person who has in his possession a tusk or
tush which has not keen registered shall be guilty of an
offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not less
than thirty thousand rupees and not exceeding one hundred
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description

’ for a term not less than two years and not exceeding five
years or to both such fine and imprisonment. ”.

29. The following new sections are hereby inserted imme-
diately after section 24 of the principal enactment, and shall
have effect as sections 244 and 248 of that enactment :—~

Tusks jand 24a. (J) Upon registration of a tusk or
USArs : : .
be licenced. tush in accordance with section 24, every

person who has in his possession a tusk or
tush shall obtain a licence in respect of such
tusk or tush.

(2) The licence shall be obtained on appli-
cation made to the prescribed officer, in the
prescribed form, on payment of the prescribed
fee.

(3) Every prescribed officer shall main-
tain a register in respect of the licensing of
tusks and tushes.

(4) Any person who has in his possession
a tusk or tush without obtaining a licence in
respect of the same, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall on conviction be liable to a
fine of not less than thirty thousand rupees
and not exceeding one hundred thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either descrip-

Amendment
of section
23 of the
principal
enactment,

Amendment
of section
24 of the
principal
enactment.

Insertion

of new
sections

24A and 24B
in the
principal
enactment.


Repeal of
section 26 of
the principal
enactment,

Amendment
of section
28 of the
principal
enactment.

Replacement
of section
29 of the
principal
enactment.

Replacement
of the
heading of
Part Ili

of the
principal
enactment.

Replacement
of sections
30 and 31
of the
principal
enactment.

12 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No, 49 of 1993

tion for a term not less than two years and
not exceeding five years, or to both such fine
and imprisonment.

Inspection 24z. The Director or any officer authorised
where tusks - PY him may at any time enter any premises
ane tushes where he has reason to believe that tusks or
are kept.

tushes are being kept, and to make such
inquiries and investigation thereon as may
be necessary to ascertain whether the provi-
sions of this section are being complied
with. ”. ;

30. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.

31. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, by the omission therefrom of the definitions res-
pectively of the expressions “deer” and “fowl”.

32. Section 29 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

Elephant 29. There shall be established and main-

orphansges. tained, within or outside any National Re-
serve or Sanctuary such number of elephant
orphanages or similar establishments provid-
ing for the care and attention of orphaned
elephants as the Director may deem neces-
sary, for the protection and preservation of
elephants. ”.

33. The following new heading is substituted for th
heading “ Birds, Beasts and Reptiles ” occurring in Part Il
of the principal enactment :—

“VERTEBRATES AND INVERTERRATES ”.
24. Sections 30 and 31 of the principal enactment are

hereby repealed and the following sections substituted
therefor :—

“ Offences 30, Any person who in any area outside a
rehiting to National Reserve or a Sanctuary—

and reptiles
not included

(a) kills, wounds, injures or takes any
in Schedule

mammal or reptile not included in
Schedule I; or


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 13
Act, No. 49 of 1993

(b) takes or destroys the eggs or nest of
any such reptile; or

(c) uses any boat or any lime, snare, net,
spear, trap, gun, rod, line or hook
with any accessory or bait, or explo-
sives of any description or other ins-
trument for the purpose of killing,
wounding, injuring or taking any
such mammal or reptile ; or

~

(d) has in his possession or under his con-
s trol, any such mammal or reptile
killed or taken or any part of such
mammal or reptile killed or taken,

ee or the meat or flesh of any such
mammal or reptile killed or taken

or the eggs of any such reptile ; ur

(e) has in his possession or under his con-
trol, the hide or skin of any such
mammal or reptile killed or taken,
or the horns or antlers of such mam-
mal; or

(f) exposes for sale, any such mammal or
reptile or any part of such mammal
or reptile ; or

(g) purchases the hide or skin of any such
mammal or reptile for the purpose
of tanning or preparing such hide or
skin for use,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on con-
viction be liable to a fine not less than ten
thousand rupees and not exceeding thirty
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than two years
and not exceeding five years, or to both such
fine and imprisonment.

The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any domestic animal as defined in

e section 11.
Offences 31. Any person who in any area outside a
® b cic National Reserve or a Sanctuary—

(a) kills, wounds, injures or takes any
bird ; or


14 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Act, No. 49 of 1993

(b) takes or destroys the eggs or nest of
any bird; or

(c) uses any boat, or any lime, snare, net,
Spear, trap, gun, rod, line. or hook
with any accessory or bait or explo-
sives of any description or other ins-
trument for the purpose of killing,
wounding, injuring or taking any
bird ; or

(d) has in his possession or under his con-
trol, any bird killed or taken, or the
Skin of any bird killed or taken, or
the feather or any other part of any
bird killed or taken, or the eggs of
any bird; or

(e) exposes or offers for sale, any bird or
any part of any bird,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on oon-
viction be liable to a fine not less than five
thousand rupees and not exceeding ten
thousand rupees, or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than two years
and not exceeding five years or to both such
fine and imprisonment:

Provided that a person shall be deemed not
to have committed an offence under this sec-
tion in relation to any bird specified in
Schedule II.

The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any Jomestic animal as defined in
section 11.”,

35. The following new sections are hereby inserted imme-
diately after section 31, of the principal enactment and shall
have effect as sections 214 and 31s of that enactment :—

“ Offences
relating to
amphibians
and fishes
included in
Schedules

III and Iv, °

314, Any person who in any area outside
a National Reserve or a Sanctuary—

(a) knowingly kills, wounds, injures, takes
or collects any amphibian or fish in-
ciuded in Schedules III and IV res-
pectively ; or”

co mee ag Bm RI pet


Offences

relating to

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 15
Act, Nu. 49 of 1993

(b) takes or destroys the eggs, spawn, or

nest of any such amphibian or fish;
or

(c) uses any boat, lime, snare, net, spear,
trap, gun, rod, line or hook with any
accessories or bait or explosives ot
any description or any other instru-
ment for the purpose of killing,
wounding, injuring or taking any

‘such amphibian or fish ; or

(a) has in his possession, or under his con-
trol, any such amphibian or fish kill-
ed or taken or any part of any such
amphibian or fish ; or

(e) exposes of offers for sale or transports,
any such amphibian or fish or part
of any such amphibian or fish; or

(f) purchases such amphibian or fish for
the purposes of drying, curing or any
other purpose,

shall be guilty of an cffence and shall on con-
viction be liable to a fine not less than ten
thousand rupees and not more than twenty
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than two years
and not exceeding five years or to both such
fine and imprisonment.

313. Any person who in any area outside

invertebrates 4 National Reserve or Sanctuary—
included in

Schedule
IVA,

(a) knowingly kills, wounds, injures, takes
or collects any invertebrate included

for the time being in Schedule IVa ;
or

(b) takes or destroys the eggs, spawn,

larva or nest of such invertebrate ;
or

(c) uses any boat, lime, snare, net, spear,
trap, gun, rod, line or hook with any
accessories or bait, or explosives of
any description or any other instru-
ment used for the purpose of killing,
wounding, injuring, taking or collec-
ting any such invertebrate: or


16 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

(d) has in his possession, or under his con-
trol, and such invertebrate killed or
taken or any part of such inverte-
brate egg, spawn or larva; or

(e) exposes or offers for sale, or transports,
any such invertebrate or part of such
invertebrate ; or

(f) purchases such invertebrate for the
purpose of drying, curing or for any
other purpose, ~

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on con-
viction be liable to a fine not less than ten
thousand rupees and not more than twenty °
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than two years
and not exceeding five years or to both such
fine and imprisonment. ”.

Repeal of 36. Section 32 cf the principal enactment is hereby

of the repealed.

principal

enactment.

Replacement 37. Section 35 of the principal enactment is hereby

of section repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

principal ;

enactment. species of 35. (1) A certificate purporting to be
mammals, signed by any competent authority to the
irdas, 2
reptiles, effect that any mammal, bird, reptile, amphi-
Aap tibians, bian, fish or invertebrate or a part of any
invertebrates.

mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, fish orf
invertebrate forwarded to such authority for
examination and report is a mammal, bird,
reptile, amphibian, fish or invertebrate, or
part of a mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian,
fish or invertebrate of a species included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, Schedule III,
Schedule IV or Schedule IVa, as the case
may be, shall, on production in any court of
law, be sufficient evidence of the facts stated
in such certificate until the contrary is
proved.

2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the
expression, “competent authority” means—


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 17

Act, No. 49 of 1993

(a) the Director of National Museums ;

(b) the Director of National Zoological
Gardens. ’.

38. Section 36 of the principal enactment is hereoy
amended by the substitution for all the words from “in any
area” to the end of that section, of the following words :—

“or take the eggs or nest or any such birds in any area
outside a National Reserve or a Sanctuary mentioned in
the notification, and any person who in any such area and
during such specified period shoots, kills or takes any bird
or the eggs or nest of any such bird, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not less
than five thousand rupees and not more than ten thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term
not less than one year and not exceeding two years or to
both such fine and imprisonment. ”.

39. Sections 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42 of the principal
enactment are hereby repealed and the following sections
substituted therefor :—

‘ Prohibition
of import
of mammals,

reptiles,
amphibians,
fishes and
invertebrates
without
permits.

37. (1) No person shall import into Sri
Lanka any mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian,
fish, or invertebrate whether dead or alive,
or any part of any such mammal, bird, rep-
tile, amphibian, fish or invertebrate or the
eggs, spawn or larva of any such mammal,
bird, reptile, amphibian, fish or invertebrate
except under the authority of a permit issu-
ed in the prescribed form obtained from the
prescribed officer on payment of the pres-
cribed fee.

(2) This section shall have effect as if it
formed part of the Customs Ordinance and
the provisions of that Ordinance shall apply
accordingly.

(3) The provisions of this section shall
not apply to any domestic animal as defined
in section 11, or to any tropical aquarium
fishes.

“Tropical aquarium fish” means any

species of fresh water fish specified in
Schedule IV.

Amendment
of section
36 of the
principal
enactment,

Replacement
of sections
37, 38, 39,
40, 41 and
42 of the
principal
enactment.


18 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Regulation
relating to
mammals,
birds, rep-
tiles, amphi-
bians, fishes
and inverte-
braies-

Penalties
for unlawful
import or
release of
mammnials,
birds. revti-
les, amphi-
bians, fishes
and inverte-
orates.

Act, Nv. 49 of 1993

(4) In case of doubt or dispute, a certili-
cate purporting to be.s.gned by the Director
to the elfect that any tish beiongs to a spe-
cies of tropical aquarium fish or that any
species of fish is a species of tropical
aquarium fish shall be admissible in eviden-
ce and shall be prima facie proof of the
facts stated therein.

38. Regulations may be made—

(a) requiring any person wno im-
ports any mammal, bird, re-
ptile, amphibian, fish or in-
vertebrate on a permit issued
under section 37, to provide
a certificate from an approved
authority that such mammal,
bird, reptile, amphibian, fish
or invertebrate is free from
disease or infection ;

(b) prohibiting any mammai,
bird, reptile, amphibian, fish
or invertebrate imported
under the authority of a per-
mit issued under section 37,
from being liberated or releas-
ed in any part of Sri Lanka
or prescribing any area or
areas within which any such
mammal, bird, reptile, amphi-
bian, fish, or invertebrate may
be liberated or released.

39. (1) Any person who—

(a) imports into Sri Lanka any
mammal, bird, reptile, amphi-
bian, fish or inverterbrate in
contravention of the provisions
of section 37, or any regula-

“™ tion made under section 38 ;
or
(b) contravenes any regulation

made under section 38,


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 19

Prohibition
of cxport of
mammals,
birds, repti-
les, amphi-
bians, fishes,
corals and
invertcbra-
tes with-

out a permit.

Act, No. 49 of 1993

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not less than
five thousand rupees and not more than ten
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a term not less than
two. years and not exceeding five years or
to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Any person who liberates or releases
any marnmal, bird, reptile, amphibian, fish or
invertebrate which has been imported into
Sri Lanka in contravention of the provisions
of section 37 shall be guilty of an offence
and shall, in addition to any punishment to
which he may be liable under  subsecticn
(1), be liable on conviction to a fine of two
thousand rupees in respect of each mammal,
bird, reptile, amphibian, fish or invertebrate
so liberated or released.

40. (1) No person shall export from Sri
Lanka—

(a) any mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian,
fish, coral or invertebrate whether
dead or alive; or

(b) the eggs, feathers, or plumage of any
bird, the horns, antlers, skin or hide
of any mammal or reptile, or any
part of any mammal, bird, reptile.
amphibian, fish, coral or invertebrate,

<xcept under the authority of a permit issued
in the prescribed form obtained from the
prescribed officer on payment of the prescrib-
ed fee.

(2) Such permit shail not be issued ex-
cept for the promotion of scientific knowledge
including supplies to foreign museums,

foreign zoological gardens in exchange for
supplies to Jocal museums or local zoological
gardens,

(3) This section shall have effect as if it
formed part of the Customs Ordinance, and
the provisions of that Ordinance shall apply
accorainely.


AU

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Act, No. 49 of 1993

(4) The preceding provisions of this
section shall not apply to—

(a) any domestic animal as defined in

section 11 ; or

(b) any mammal, bird, reptile, amphi

bian, fish, coral or invertebrate of a
species which is not indigenous to
Sri Lanka.

(5) In case of doubt or dispute a cer-
tificate purporting to be signed by the
Director of Museums, Director of the National
Zoological Gardens or Director of the
National Acquatic Resources Authority
to the effect that any mammal, bird, reptile,
fish, amphibian, coral or invertebrate be-
longs to a species which is not indigenous
to Sri Lanka, or that any species of any ma-
mmal, bird, reptile, fish, amphibian, coral
or invertebrate is a species not indigenous to
Sri Lanka, or that any part of any mammal,
bird, reptile, fish, amphibian, coral or invei-
tebrate is a part of a mammal, bird, reptile,
fish, amphibian, coral, or invertebrate of a
species which is not indigenous to Sri
Lanka, or that any egg of any reptile, or
bird, is the egg of a reptile or bird of a
species which is not indigenous to Sri
Lanka be admissable in evidence and shall
be prima facie proof of the facts stated
therein.

(6) Regulations may be made—

(a) prescribing the officer who shall
have power to inspect prior
to its export any item referr-
ed to in this section ;

(b) prescribing the officer who
shall have power to seal any
such item after such inspec-
tion ;

(c}) prescribing the documents to
be ¢urnished by the exporter
of any such item, in proof of
the circumstances under
which such exporter obtain-
ed possession of such item.


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 2)

Penalty for
unlawful
export of
mammals,
birds, repti-
les, amphi-
bians, fishes,
and inverie-
brates,

Protection
of plants
included in
Schedule V,

Act, No. 49 of 1993

41. Any person who exports from Sri
Lanka any mammal, bird, reptile, amphi-
bian, fish or invertebrate whether dead or
alive or any part of any mammal, bird, re-
ptile, amphibian, fish or invertebrate, or
any eggs, feathers, plumage, horns, antlers,
skins or hide of any such mammal, bird, rep-
tile, amphibian, fish or invertebrate in con-
travention of the provisions of section 49,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on con-
viction be liable to a fine not less than twenty
thousand rupees and not more than fifty
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than five years
and not exceeding ten years or to both such
fine and imprisonment.

42. No person shall in any area—

(a) remove, uproot or destroy or
cause any damage or injury
to, any plant which is for
the time being included in
Schedule V and—

{i) is growing on the property
of any other person ; or

(ii) is growing in any pub-
lic place ; or

(b) destroy any plant which is for
the time being included in
Schedule V, and growing on
his own property ; or

(c) sell or expose for sale any plant
for the time being included
in Schedule V ; or

(da) remove, uproot or destroy, or
cause any damage or injury
to any tree upon which any
orchid or any other epiphytic
plant is growing. ’.

40. Seetion 45 of the principal enactment is hereby amen-
ded. by the repeal of paragraph (c) of that section.

Amendment
of section

45 of the
principal
enactment.


Replacement
of section

4§ of the
principal
enactment.

Replacement
of section
48 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section
49 of the
principal
enactment.

22 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

41. Section 46 of the principal enactment is hereby re-
pealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

“ Offences 46. Any person who acts in contravention—

Part IV. (2) of the provisions of section 42; or

(o) of the provisions of section 43 ; or
(c) of any regulation made under section
45,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not less than
three thousand rupees and not more than
ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a term not less than
two years and not exceeding five years or to
both such fine and imprisonment.”,

42. Section 48 of the principal enactment is hereby re-
pealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

‘Interpretaton 48. In this Part IV of this Ordinance unless
of Part IV. the context otherwise requires—

“plant” méans a member of the plant
kingdom ;

“public place” means any State land or
land at the disposal of the State or
land belonging to, or vested in, a local
authority or public corporation and
includes any land which is not private
property. ’.

43. Section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section
and the substitution therefor of the following subsection :—

“ (1) No person shall carry on or exercise the business
or trade of a taxidermist, tanner, curer or trophy dealer,
or any other business or trade involving the purchase,
sale or exposure for sale or transport of any animal, whe-
ther dead or alive, or of any part of any dead animal, ex-
cept upon a licence in respect of each such business or
trade, issued in the prescribed form obtained from the
prescribed officer on payment of the prescribed fee. ”.


.. - ane cages tt

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 23
Act, Ne. 49 of 1993

44. The following section is hereby inserted immediately Insertion
after section 49, and shall have effect as section 49, of the fection

aa section 49a
principal enactment: — in the

. principal
eaeeeistre- 49a. (1) No person shall after the date of ‘Smactment.
animals in the coming into force of this section, have in

the posses- his possession or custody or under his con-
individuals. trol, any anirnal in excess of the prescribed
number, except under the authority and in
accordance with the conditions of a permit
issued in the prescribed form, by the

Director on payment of the prescribed fee:

Provided that where any person has in his
possession, or custody or under his control
any animal, in excess of the prescribed
number, prior to the date of the coming into
force of this section, such person shall with-
in a period of three months from the date
of the coming into force of this section
obtain a permit under subsection (1).

(2) The Director or any prescribed officer
shall have the power to—

(a) enter, inspect and search any pre-
mises on which any animal is heing
kept under the authority of a permit
issued under subsection (1) and
satisfy himself that the conditions of
the permit are being complied with ;

(b) seize any animal found in = such
premises, in contravention of the
provisions of the “permit issued
under subsection (1).

(3) The Director may order the confisca-
tion of any animal seized under subsection
(2) after such inquiry as he may deem
necessary Any person aggrieved by the
order of the Director may within fourteen
days of the confiscation, give notice in
writing to the Director that he intends to
institute action in the appropriate court
against such confiscation.

(4) No order of confiscation made under
subsection (3) shall take effect until the
expiry of a period of fourteen days from the


Amendment
of section
50 of the
principal
enactment.

principal
enactment.

24 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

date of such order, or where an action has
been instituted in respect of such order,
until the final determination of such action
by court. ”.

45. Section 50 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the sub-
stitution for all the words from “shall be guilty ” to the end
oi that subsection, of the words “ shall be guilty of an offence
and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not less than
five thousand rupees and not more than ten thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term

’ not less than two years and not exceeding five years or to

both such fine and imprisonment. ”.

46. Section 51 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “bird or
animal”, of the word “animal”.

47. Sections 52, 52a, 53, 53a and 53s of the

principal

enactment are hereby repealed and the following sections
substituted therefor :—

-2rohibi- 52. No person shall use any artificial light,
use at for the purpose of enabling or facilitating
artificial the destruction or the capture of any animal
eht. whether by dazzling the vision of any such
animal, or by attracting any such animal to
such artificial light or otherwise.
Prohibition 52a. No person shall shoot at, injure or
of shooting, . ; Lae .
&e. in kill any animal within a distance of one hun-
vicinity (of dred yards from a water-hole or place where
such animal usually goes to drink water.
Regulation 53. Except in accordance with regulations,
Sorting no person shall, on any State land or any
on Stateland public thoroughfare outside a National
thorough Reserve,~—
tsi .
National © (a} hunt, shoot, kill or take any animal
Reserves.

between sunset and sunrise ;

(b) set, lay or spread any net, pitfall,
trap, snare or other instrument for
the purpose of killing or taking any

animal ; or

ee an MO ale ag


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 25

Prohibition
of the use
of poison
c. on
animals,

Prohibition
on ¢

he.
possession

poison, &c.

Act, Ne. 49 of 1993

(c) construct or use any ambush, or hide
on the ground or on a tree for the
purpose of shooting or injuring any
animal.

98a. No person shall use any poison,

explosive or Stupefying substance for the
purpose of poisoning, killing or stupefying
any animal,

538. No person shall have in his possession,

sell, expose for sale or transport the flesh of
any animal which has been killed or taken

by the use of any poison, explosive or stupe-
fying substance :

Provided that no person shall be
convicted under this section if he proves
that he did not know and had no reasona-
ble cause to believe that the animal whose
flesh he is charged with having in his
possession selling, exposing for sale or
transporting ,had been killed or taken by
the use of any poison, explosive, or
stupefying substance. ”,

48. The following section is hereby inserted immediately
after section 53B of the principal enactment, and shall
have effect as section 58c of that enactment ;—

‘Proof in
case of
identifica.
tion of
flesh of
animals,

53c. (1) In case of doubt or dispute, in a
prosecution for an offence under section OoR,
as to whether any flesh is the flesh of ar
animal taken or killed by the use of any poi-
son, explosive or stupefying substance a certi
ficate purporting to the signed by a competent
authority to the effect that the flesh in ques~
tion is the flesh of an animal, which had
been killed or taken by the use of any
poison, explosive, or stupefying substance,
shall on production in any court of law be
sufficient evidence as to the facts stated in
such certificate, until the contrary is proved.


Amendment
of section
65 of the
principal
enactment.

Insertion of
new section
$54 in the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
ef section
57 of the
principal
enactment.

26 Fauna and Fiora Protection (Amendment)

Act, Nc. 49 of 1993
(2) In this section “competent authority ”
means—
(a) a Government Medical Officer; or
(>) a Government Veterinary Surgeon.

49. Section 54 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

“ Prohibi- 54. (1) No person shall at any restaurant,
Sovving as hotel, rest house or eating house, serve or
food the authorize the serving of any food which
animal, the constitutes or contains the flesh of any
killing ot animal, the killing of which is at that time
wahibited, Prohibited under this Ordinance.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provi-
sions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall on conviction be Hable to a
fine not less than ten thousand rupees and not
more than twenty thousand rupees or to
impriconment of either description for a term
not less than two years and not exceeding five
years or to both such fine and imprisonment. ”.

50. Section 55 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitu-
tion for the words “for a zoo, museum or similar institu-
tion of the fauna and flora of Ceylon.”, of the words “or
a national zoo or national museum or for any university
established or deemed to be established under the
Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, of the fauna and flora of
Sri Lanka. ”.

51. The following section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 55, and shall have effect as
section 55a of that enactment :—

*Interpte- 55a. In this Part of this Ordinance—

tatioa of “animal” means any mammal, b'rd,
reptile, amphibian, fish, coral
or invertebrate and dees not
include a domestic anim! as
defined in section 11, or any
tropical aquarium fish as de--y
fined in section 37.”.

52. Section 57 of the principal enactment is hereby .
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section
and the substitution therefor, of the following subsec-
tion :—


4

Del AAR rs Peal: OI OF ~emee ering eee

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 27

Act, No. 49 of 1993

“(2) Any person who transfers to any
other person any licence or permit issued
to him under this Ordinance or any regula-
tion made thereunder shall be guilty of an
offence und shall on conviction be liable to
a fine not less than one thousand rypees and
not exceeding two thousand rupees 6r to
imprisonment of either description for a
term not less than one year and not exceed-
ing two years or to both such fine and
imprisonment. ”.

53. Sections 58 and 58a of the principal enactment are
hereby repealed and the following sections substituted

* therefor :—

* General
penalty.

Special
penalty for
offences

against
elephants.

58. Any person who does any act ia con-
travention of any of the provisions of this
Ordinance, or of anv regulation, or of any

condition inserted in any licence or permit.

issued under this Ordinance or any regula-
tion, shall be guilty of an offence punishable,
where no other penalty is expressly provided
by this Ordinance, with a fine not less than

ixvo thousand rupees and not more than five -

thousand rupees or with imprisonment cf
either description for a term not less than
one year and not exceeding two years or to
both such fine and imprisonment,

58a, Notwithstanding anything in any other
provisions of this Ordinance, where any
person is convicted of the offence of killing,
hunting, shooting, injuring or taking, or
having in his possession or under his control,
any wild elephant within a Nature Reserve or
Sanctuary, he shall be liable to be punished
with a fine not less than one hundred
thousand rupees and not more than two
hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment
of either description for a term not less than
five years and not exceeding ten years or to
both such fine and imprisonment.”,

54. Section 60 of the principal enactment is hereby

* amended as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of subsections (1) and (2) thereof,
and the substitution therefor of the following

eheanrtinnd *e

Re

i

jacement
sections
£3, FY

t.


28 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Act, No. 49 of 1993

‘(1) An act otherwise prohibited or penalised

under this Ordinance or any

regulation made

thereunder, shall not be an offence, if it is done
for the purpose of protecting any human being
from any immediate danger or from injury by any
wild animal.

(2) In this section “wild animal” means any
wild animal as defined in section 11.’; and

(2) by the repeal of subsection (4) thereof, and the
substitution therefor of the following subsection :—

“ (4) Any person who fails to report the killing
or taking of any wild animal to any police officer
or Grama Niladhari or prescribed officer as required
by paragraph (a) of subsection (3) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to
a fine not less than one hundred thousand rupees
and not more than two hundred thousand rupees
or to imprisonment of either description for a term
not less than. two years and not exceeding five
years or to both such fine and imprisonment.”,

55. Section 62 of the principal enactment is hereby

repealed.

56. Sections 63 and 64 of the principal enactment are
hereby repealed and the following new sections substituted

therefor :—

‘ Offences
be

63. It shall be lawful for a Magistrate
summarily to try ay offence under this
Ordinance or under any regulation made
thereunder, notwithstanding that the
punishment specified for such offence is in
excess of the ordinary jurisdiction of such
Magistrate.

64. (1) Except as hereinbefore expressly
provided in regard to the disposal of any
elephant or of the carcase of any elephant
or the tusks or tushes of any elephant, on
the conviction of any person for an offence
relating to an elephant, any animal or any
part of any animal in respect of which any
offence has been committed and any gun,

s


qewiar meee ae

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 29

Act, No. 49 of 1993

vehicle, boat, artificial light, snare, net, trap,
or other instrument, contrivance, appliance
or thing used in, or for the commission of any
offence, shall by reason of that conviction be
forfeited to the State.

(2) Any property forfeited to the State
under subsection (1) shall—

(a) if no appeal has been preferred to the
Court of Appeal against the relevant
conviction, vest in the State with
effect from the date on which the
period prescribed for preferring an
appeal against such conviction
expires ;

(b) if an appeal has been preferred to the
Court of Appeal against the relevant
conviction, vest in the State with
effect from the date on which such
conviction is affirmed on appeal.

In this subsection, “relevant conviction ”
means the conviction consequent to which
any property is forfeited under subsection
(1). The Director shall take possession, on
behalf of the State, of any property vested
in the State under this section.

(3) In this section “animal” means any
mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, fish or
invertebrate but does not include a domestic
animal as defined in section 11.’.

57. Séction 66 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section—

(i) by the insertion immediately after parayraph

(b), of the following paragraph :—

“(bb) enter and search without warrant

any hut, house, wadi or premises of
any person, and question any person
found in such hut, house, wadi or
premises ;":


30

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

(ii) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph
(c) thereof of the following paragraph :—

“ (cc) seize and take possession of any
animal or the carcase or part of the
carcase of any animal which may be
produced in evidence of the offence ;”;
and

(iii) by the substitution for the words “ any animal
or bird” wherever they occur in that subsec-
tion of the words “any animal”;

(2) in subsection (3) of that section—

(i) by the substitution for the words “of this
Ordinance,” in paragraph (c) thereof of the
words “of this Ordinance; or”;

(ii) by the addition, immediately after paragraph
(c) thereof of the following paragraph :—

“(d) does not allow entry into, or the
search of, any hut, house, wadi or
premises by a police officer or pres-
cribed officer in the exercise of the
powers conferred on such police officer
or prescribed officer by subsection
(1) ,”; and

(iii) by the substitution for all the words from

“shall be guilty” to the end of that sub-

section, of the following words :—

“shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not less than
five thousand rupees and not more than ten
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for aterm not less than
five years and not exceeding ten years or to
both such fine and imprisonment.”; and

(3) by the addition immediately after subsection (3)
thereof, of the following new subsection :—

‘(4) In this section “animal” means any
mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, fish, or inver-
tebrate but does not include any domestic animal
as defined in section 11.’.


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 31
Act, No. 49 of 1993

58. Section 66a of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for all the words from “shall
be guilty” to the end of that section, of the words “shall
be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to
a fine not less than ten thousand rupees and not more than
twenty thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either des-
cription for a term not less than one year and not exceeding
two years or to both stich fine and imprisonment. ”.

59. Section 668 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “not exceeding
twenty rupees.”, of the words “not less than five hundred
rupees and not more than one thousand rupees. ”.

60. The following new sections are hereby inserted

immediately after section 668 of the principal enactment

> and shall have effect as sections 66c and 66p of that enact-
ment :—

66c. (1) It shall be lawful for an officer
of the Department of Wild Life Conserva-
tion or police officer or prescribed officer—

(a) to require any person possessing, car-
rying or using a gun to produce the
licence issued in respect of such gun
under any written law;

(b) to enter and search any premises in
which he has reasonable grounds
for believing, that any person is
manufacturing, selling, repairing or
has in his possession any unlicens-
ed gun ;

(c) to stop and search any boat, vessel or
conveyance in which he suspects
that any unlicensed gun is being
carried ;

(d) to take into custody any unlicensed
gun and produce such gun at the

nearest police station or divisional
secretariat.

(2) Any person who—
e (a) fails to produce a licence in

respect of any gun in his
possession ; or

° (b) refuses to allow the search ui
any premises ; or

Amendment
of section
668 of the
principal
enactment.

Insertion of
new section
66c and 66p

in the

principal


32

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Director to

control roads

within the

boundaries of
any Nati
Dservi

e.

ional

Act, No. 49 of 1993

(c) fails or refuses to stop any boat,
vessel or conveyance when
called upon to do so by an
officer referred to in subsection
(1), in contravention of the
provisions of subsection (1),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not less than
five thousand rupees and not more than ten
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a term not less than >
two years and not exceeding five years or
to both such fine and imprisonment.

66p. (1) Where any road is constructed
within the boundaries of any National
Reserve by any other agency, it shall be
lawful for the Director or any officer of the
Department of Wild Life Conservation to—

(a) erect barriers on any such road or
any part of such road at any point
within such National Reserve, in
order to exercise control over access
to the Reserve ;

(b) make such arrangements as may be
necessary for the opening and closing
of such barriers, to facilitate access
to, and from, such Reserve ;

(c) stop and search, at such barriers, or
on any rcad or part thereof any
vehicle suspected to be connected
with the commission of any offence
under this Ordinance. 9

(2) No person shall, at any barrier erected
under subsection (1) or on any road or part,
thereof within a National Reserve, fail to
stop any vehicle when called upon to do so or
fail to obey any direction lawfully given by


©

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 33
Act, No. 49 of 1993

the Director cr other officer under subsection

(1), and any person who fails to stop when
so called upon or to obey any direction so
given shail be guilty of an offence and shall
on conviction be liable to a fine not less
than five thousand rupees and not exceeding
ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a term not less than
two years and not exceeding five years or to
both such fine and imprisonment. ”.

$1. Section 67 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitu-
tion for the words “Intermediate Zone, Nature Reserve,
Jungle Corridor”, of the words “Nature Reserve, Jungle
Corridor, Refuge, Marine Reserve, Buffer Zone”.

62. Section 67s of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “territorial
Waters of Ceylon”, of the words “territorial sea”.

63. Section 67F of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) by the substitution for the words “the district
director of the district or area”, wherever those
words occur in that section, of the words “the
district director of the district or area, or the
officer of the Department of Wild Life Conservation
in charge of the range”; and

(2) by the substitution for the word “Crown ” wherever
this word occurs in that section of the word
“State”.

64. Section 70 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) by the repeal ef subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following sub-
section :—-

“ (1) The Minister may appoint an Advi-
sory Committee which shall consist of the
Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the
subject of Wild Life Conservation as Chair-
man, the Director and ten other persons for
the purpose of advising the Director and
making recommendations to the Minister on
all matters and questions relating to the
fauna and flora of Sri Lanka.” ; and

67a of the
principal
enac’

Amendment
of section

70 of the
principal
enactment


34 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the sub-
stitution for the word “twice” of the words
“four times”.

Amendment — 65, Section 71 of the principal enactment is hereby
Chico :
Tl of the amended as follows :—

enactment, (1) in subsection (2) of that section—

(i) by the substitution in paragraph (d) thereof,
for the words “the use of any head-gear ”, of
the words “the use of any speargun or of
any head-gear” ;

(ii) by the omission of paragraph (f) of that sub-
ection ; and
(2) by the repeal of subsections (3) and (4) thereof,

and the substitution therefor, of the following sub- o
‘ sections :—

“(3) Every regulation made by the
Minister shall be published in the Gazette
and shall come into operation on the date
of such publica‘ion cr on such later date as
may be specified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister
shall, as soon as convenient after its publica-
tion, be brought before Parliament for
approval. Any regulation which is not so

approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of disapproval but without
prejudice to anything previously done there-
under, Notification of the date on which a
regulation is deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.”.

66. Section 72 of the principal enactment is hereby
of section amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :—

enactment. (1) by the insertion immediately before the definition
of the expression “Ceylon” of the following
definition :—

‘“ Buffer Zone” means a Buffer Zone constituted
by Order under section 2 (1) ;’;

(2) by the omission of the definitions respectively, of the
expressions “Ceylon”, “close season” and ,
“Crown land”;


Hauna aad Flora Protection (Amendment) 39
Act, Ne. 49 of 1993

(3) by the insertion immediately before the definition of
the expression “ cultivated land” of the following
definition :—

“coast” means the border of land which is
adjacent, to the sea and not covered by sea
water 3’;

(4) by the omission of the definition of the expression
“Intermediate Zone” and the substitution therefor,
of the following definition :—

“Invertebrate” means a member of the phyla,
protozoa, porifera (Sponges), coelentreata,
arthropoda, mollusca, annelida ;

(8) by the omission of the definition of the expression
“gun” and the substitution therefor, of the follow-
ing definition :—

‘*“ gun” has the same meaning as in the Firearms
Ordinance and includes a speargun or &
“cap-chur” gun ;’;

(6) by the emission of the definition of the expression
“Joca, authority ” and the substitution therefor, of
the following definition :—

‘“Jocal authority” means Municipal Council,
Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and
includes any authority created and establish-
ed by, or under, any law to exercise, perform
or discharge powers, duties and functions
corresponding to, or similar to powers, duties
and functions exercised, performed and
discharged by any such Council or Sabha ;’;

(7) by the insertion, immediately after the definition of
the expression “ local authority”, of the following
new definition :—

‘Marine Reserve” means a Marine Reserve
constituted by Order under section 2 (1) 33

(8) by the omission of the definition of the expression
“open season” ;


36

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

(9) by the repeal of the definition of the expression
“police officer” and the substitution therefor, of
the following definition :—

& be

police officer” means a member of an establish-
ed police force and includes a police
reservist ;’;

(10) by the insertion, immediately after the definition of
the expression “ prescribed”, of the following
definitions :—

‘“public corporation” means_ any corporation,
board or other body which was, or is estab-
lished, by or under any written law other
than the Companies Act, with funds or
capital wholly or partly provided by the
Government by way of grant, loan or other-
wise ;’;

‘“Refuge” means a Refuge, constituted by
Order under section 2 (1) 3’;

(11) by the insertion, immediately after the definition of
the expression “ Sanctuary”, of the following
definition :—

?
> 3

‘“Sri Lanka” includes the territorial sea of Sri

(12) by the insertion immediately before the definition of
the expression “Strict Natural Reserve” of the
folowing definition :—

“State land” means land to which the State is
lawfully entitled or which may he disposed
of by the State together with any building
Standing therein, and with ail rights,
interests and privileges attached or
appertaining thereto, and shall be deemed to
include land vested in, or under the contro}
of the River Valley Development Board and
the Mahaweli Development Board or any
other authority charged with the function of

developing State land, or in any local
authority ;’; and


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) 37
Act, No. 49 of 1993

(13) by the substitution for the definition of the expres-
sion “territorial waters”, of the following defini-
tions ;—

‘“ territorial sea” means the area declared as the
territorial sea of Sri Lanka by Proclamation,
made under the Maritime Zones Law, No.
22 of 1976;

“tourist? means any local or foreign visitor who
enters any national park ;

“tourist hotel” means an organization, institu-
tion or an enterprise which provides not less
than ten rooms for accomodation ;

“vertebrate”, means a member of the class of
pisces, amphibia, reptilia, aves or mammalia ;
and

“wild life” means, plants and animals which owe
their existence to natural phenomena or
processes that occur autonomously. ’,

67. In the principal enactment for the word “Ceylon ”,
wherever that word occurs in that enactment there shall
be substituted the words “Sri Lanka”.

68. In the principal enactment for the words “Crown
land’ wherever those words occur in thet enactment there
shall be substituted the words “State land”.

69. The Minister or any person authorised by the
President by instrument under his hand may sign, on
behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, any international
agreement or convention relating to wild life.

70. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text
shall prevail

Tl. Schedules I, Il, IMI, and IV to the principal enact-
ment are hereby repealed, and the following Schedules
substituted therefor :—

Substitution
of the words
“Sri Lanka”
for the

word
“Ceylon”.

Substitution
of the wo
“ State land”

Signing of
interna-
tional agree-
ments or
convention
relating te
wild life,

Sinhala text
to prevail

in case af
snconsistency.

Replacemenet
of Schedules
I, II, Ill and
TV to tha
principal
enactment


38 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

“Sonunvurel {8eotion 36}

List of Mammals and Reptiles that are not protected
rt rn

English Sctentific Sinhala Pomtit
Name Name Name Name
Ee ih ee nearer
Wild Boar -» Sue oristatus -. Wal Ura «+ Pandi or
Katiu Pandt
Blacknaped Hare Lepus nigricollis .. Hawa «. Mussal = or
Muyal
Indian crestedPoreupine Hystrix Indica -- Ittewa or Pandoru Mullam-pandi o¢
lttewa Mullup-pandi

Rats and Mice (except the Ratus ratus and Nor- Miya. Kossetamiya.. Elli, Sund-elli
endemic species) wigicua

Togne Monkey or Red Macacasinicasinica.. Rilawa -» Kurangu
onkey (other than
hiil monkey)
Grey langur +. Presbytis entellus -. Vandura or Mundi
Reode vandora
Cobra -» Naja Naja Naya Neaham,
Naha Pambu
Indian Krait ++ Bungarus caereulus Karawala -- Pudayan pambyu
Sr iLanka Krait »» BungarusCeylonicua .. Ksrawale ». Pudayan pamba
Russsta Viper -- Vipera russelli -- Polonga «. Virian,Virisn pam
bu, Suratti
penbu
Saw sealed Viper +» Echis carinata «. WeliPotonga .. Virian, Virian
pambu, suratti
pambu
Scuspvure I (Section 31]

LIST OF BIRDS THAT ARE NOT PROTECTED

——————$—— i Pp

Bnglish Scientific Sinhala Tamil
Name Nome Name Nams
eT Pry Ra rar Ua
Black{Crow ++ Corvus mecrorhynchos Kakke Kaputa _.. Kake, Kakam
culminatus
House Crow +» Corvus splendens Kakka, Oor-Kaka
protegatus Kolamba Kakks
House Sparrow -- Pagserdomesticusoror Ge-Kurulla «» Adaikalam Kyruv
Oer-kuravi
Spotted Munia +» Uroloncha punctulata Wee Kuralla ++ Nellu-kuruvi
lineoventor
White-backed Munia .. Uroloncha striata Wee Kurulla ++ Nella kuruvi
; striata
Striated Weaver «. Ploceus manyar Vadr Kurulia «+ Thekenen-kurovi
flaviceps Manjal kuruvi

Roseringed Parakeet .. Psittacula Krameri Rana girawa «. Payithenbilj
meniloneia


Pauna end Flara Protection (Amendment)

Act, No. 49 of 1993

SouEepouLe IM [Seotion 8) A}

LIST OF AMPHIBIANS THAT ARE PROTEOTSD

tt

Soientifio Nae

2

Bufonidae es

Rhacophoridae, .

Mierchylidae .. oe

Caecilidae . +e

Bufo atukoralii
Bufo Kelaartii

Rana corrugata

Rana gravilis

Rana greenii
Nannophrys ceylonensis
Nannophrys guentheri
Nannophrys marmorate

Rhacophorus cruciger
Rhacophorus eques
Rhacophorus microtympanun
Rhacophorus nasutus
Philautus schinardanus

Ramanellas paimata
Ramanella obscura
Microhyla zeylanics

Ichthyophis glutinosus

Iohthyophis pseudeangularis
Ichthyophis orthoplicatus

SouxrDuUuLE iv

LIST OF FISH THAT ARF RROTECTED [Section 3! A]
tlc. a Pa a
English Scienttfic Sinhala Tamih
Name Name Name ‘ame

TT

Two Spined Angel Fish
Regal Ange! Fish
Clown Coris

Bicolor wrasses
Loinfish

Batfish we
Green Labseo

Orange fin labeo
Asoka barb
Martenstyn‘s barb
Blotched filamented barb
Bandula barb

Wilpita Rasbora
Redneck goby ..

Red tailed goby ..

Lipstick goby ..

Smooth breasted snake head
Jonklazas’s loach ..

Golden Butterfly Fish

Centropyge bispinosus
Pgyoplites diacenthus
Coris Ayguia
Labroides bicolor
Pterois radiata
.. Platax pinnatus o
Labeo Fisheri
Labeo porcellus é
Puntius asoka Asoka Pethiya
Puntius Martenstyni .. Maratansyn Pethiya
.. Puntius srilankensis
.. Puntiusa bandula
Rasbora wilpita
Schismatogobius derani-
yagalai
Sicyopterus halei
.. Sicyopus jonklaasi
.. Channa orientalis
Lepidocephalichthys
jonklaasi
.. Chaetodon Semeion’’.

Kola Kanays
Jonklaas Ehirava


40 Faune end Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

72. The following new Schedule is hereby inserted Insertion of
immediately after Schedule IV to the principal enactment "*™, schedule

IVA
and shall have effect as Schedule IVA of that enactment:— in the
principal
enactment.
“3cuRDuLE IVA {Section 31B}
List of Invertebrates that are protected
Scientific Name English Name Sinhala Name Tamil Name

Order Lepidoptera .. Butterflies/Moths .. samanalayo/sala-
bayo

Aneuretus simoni .. Sri Lanka relict ant

Order Claddocera

Ghardaglaia ambigua
Stonocypris fernandoi
Chrissa csylonica
Chrigsa halyi
Centrocypris viridia
Darwinula tundi

Order Crustacea

Caridina singhalensis
Caridins pristis
Caridina fernandoi
Caridina zeylanica
Caridina costai
Macrobrachium, srilankanse
Ceylonthelphusa rugosa
Ceylonthciphusa soror
Ceylonthelphuss
inflatissima
Oziothelphusa
minueriyansis

Hymnocera elegans -. Painted shrimp
Enoplometopus spp

Dardanus magistos -- Red hermit crab

Order Mollusca
Bulimus inconspicua
Paiudomus chilincides
Paludomus tauschauricus nasuts

Oe ee


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

Maludomus bicinctus
Paludomus decussatus
Paludomus nigricans
Paludomua regalis
Paludomus suleatua
Paludomus boricatus
Paludomus neritoides
Paludomns solidus
Paludomus palustria
Chaonia tritonis
Tridachna spp

Tibia insulae
Strombus listeri
Lambis lambis
Lambis chiraga
Cyprea tigria
Cyprea talpa

Cyprea mapps
Cyprea argus
Cypracassis rufa
Cassis cornata

Chicoreus Palmsrosse a

Order Annelida

Order Bchinodermnata

Heterocentretua mamriliatus

Order Ceolenterata
Cerianthus spp -°
Class Anthozoa
Order Scleractinia
Family Pootllopordiae
Pocillopora spp

8tylopora spp
Seriatoporsa spp

Family Acroporidae
Acroporas pp
Montipora spr

Astexzora spr

.Clama

Palmrora murex ..

Tobe worms

Fan worms

Slate pencil Urebin
Roya! sea cucumber

Sandanemone


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Act, No, 49 of 1993

Family Agartciidae

Family Fungiidae ». Mnashrocm Coral

Cyoloseri spp
Fungia spp
Herpolithsa limax
Polyphyliila talpina
Sandalolitha robusta
Zoopilus echinatua
Diaseria fragilis
Diaseris distorta ‘
Family Faviidae
Favia spp
Favites spp
Montastrea spp
Cyphastrea chelcidioum
Cyphastrea serilia
Gulophyllia orispa

Platygyra spp ‘

Leptoria phrygia

Diploastrea heliopora Brain Coral
Echinipora lamellora

Clesiastree, versipora j

Goniastrea spp 3

Pamtly-Merulinidae
Hydnophora spp
Merulina spp
Pamily -Musstdae
Symbyllia spp.
Labophyliia app. rain coralc
Lobophyllia homphrichi
Family - Pectinudae
Echinophyltia spp.
Peotinia spp
Mycedium elephantosus
Aocgnthastres spp.
Family « Caryophyltiiidaes
Euphyllie epp 4
Plerogyra sinuosa j Bubble corais
Physogyra spp.
Catalaphyllia jardinei » Combanemone
Family - DendrophyHiidas
Tubastrea spp. Coral Palepe
Dendrophyllia micranths
Dendrophyliia peltata
Turbinaria spp.
Hetoropsammia cochlea

Bealannnhalliica «=*


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) bad
Act, No. 49 ef 1993

Family - Poritidae
Porites app.
Goniopora stokeri - Ball coral
Goniopora fruticosa
Goniopora astreata
Clase . Hydrozoa
Order - Milliporina
Family - Milleporidae
Millepora spp. Fire coral
Pamily-Stylasteritdae
Distichopora violacea
Stylaster spp.
Order. Antipatharia
Black corala
Ovder-Gorgonacea

Gorgonians (Sea fans, Sea whiper}
Soft corals

Order-Aleyonacea
Pamily-Aliyonitdae
Sarcophyton spp.

Family-Nephtheidas
Den dronephthya spp.

Famtly-Xertidae
Xenia spp’.

73. Schedules V and VI of the principal enactment are Replacement
hereby repealed and the following Schedules substituted Schedule V

and Vi of
therefor :— the —
: principal
enachnernt.
“SCHEDULE V {Section 42)
List of Plants that are protected Scientific Name
Family
Pamily Equis€taceae Equisetum debile
Family Iscetactce Isoetes coromandelina
Family Lycopodiaceae . Lycopodium carolinianum

' Lycopodium ceylanicum®
Lycopodium clavatum
Lycopodium hamiltonii
Lycopodium phlegmariz
Lycopodium phyilanthum
Lycopodium pinifoliuun
Lycopodium pulcherrimux

“a ™ nanheatanh fae tats


“4 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

Lycopodium serratum

Lycopodium squarrosum

Lycopedium wightianum
Family Psilotaceae . Psilotaum nudum

Family Selaginellaceas ~. cociaginelia calostachya *

Selaginella cochleata *

Selacinella practermissa °

Seiaginella wightil
Family Adiantacese . Actiniopteris radiata

Cheilanthes thwaitesii

Tdivpteris hookeriana

Pellaea boivini

Pellaea falcata

Pteris argyrea

Fteris confusa

Ptoris gongatensis

Pteris praetermissa

Pteris repens

Family Aspleniaceae ..  Aspionium disjunctum
Asplenium longipes
Asplenium nitidum
Asplenium obscurum
Aspnicnium pellucidum

Family Cyatheaceae .. Cyathea hookeri
Cyathea sinuvata

Fomily Dennstaedtiaceze .,  Microlepia majuscula
Lindsaca repens Var. pectinata
Family Dryopteridaceae : Devaria polyrhizon

Diplazium cognatum
Diplazium paradoxum
Dintavium zeylanicum
Polystichum anomalum
Pteridrys syrmatica
Pteridrys zeylanica
Tactaria thwaitesii

Family Grammitidaceae -»  Ctenopteris glangulosa
Ctenopteris repandula
Ctenopteris thwaitesi
Srammitis wallii
Scleroglossum sulcatum
Xiphoptoris cornigera °


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Family Hymenophyllaceae

Family Lomeriopsidaceae

Femily Marattiaceae
Family Ophiogiossaceae

Act, No, 49 of 1993

Trico manes exiguum

Trico manes intramarginale
Trico manes motleyi

Trico manes nitidulum
Trico manes pallidum

Trico manes saxitragoides
Trico manes wallii *

Bolbitis appendiculata var. asplenifolia
Teratophyllum aculeatum

Marettia fraxinea

Botry thium daucifolium
Botrchium lanuginosum
Heblminthostachys zeylanica
Ophioglossum costatum
Ophioglessum gramineum
Ophioglossum nudicatule
Ophioglossum pendulum
Ophioglossum petiolatum
Ophioglossum reticulatum
Ampelupteris prolifera
Christella meeboldii
Christella subpubesoens
Christella zeylanica
Propnephrium gardneri *
Sphaerostephanos subtruncatus
Thelypteris confluens
Trigonospora angustifrons
‘Trigonospora calcarata
Frigonospora ciliata
Crigonospora giandulosa *
Trigonospora obtusiloba
Trigonespora zeylanica
Osmunda collina

Belvisia mucronata
Leptochilus wallii *

Microsorium dilatatum
Pleoplitis macrocarpa


4&6 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No, 49 of 1993

Family Thelypteridaceae ‘+  Amauroplta hakgalensig
Family Cycadaceae «+  Cycas circinalis

Family Acanthaceae +» Andrographis macrobotrys

Barleria nitida
Gymnostachyum thwaitesii *
Strebilanthes caudata

Strobilanthes gardnerana *
Strobilanthes nigrescens

Strobilanthes nockii *
\ Strobilanthes punctata *

Strobilanthes rhytisperma *
Strobilanthes stenodon *
Strobilanthes thwaitesii *
Strobilanthes zeylanica *
Synnema uliginosum

Family Amaranthaceae +» Achyranthes bidentata
Achyranthes diandra *
Centrostachys aquatica
Cyathula ceylanica *

Family Anacardiaceae

-. Sermecarpus moenii *
Semecarpus obovata *
Semecarpus parvifolia *

Family Annonacere .. Alphovsea hortensis *

Alphonsca zeylanica *

Anaxagorea luzonensis

Artabotrys hexapetalus

Goniothalamus thomsonii

Miliusa zeylanica

Orophea polycarpa

Phoenicanthus coriacea *

Phoenicanthus obliqua
Polyalthia moonii *

Polyalthia persicaefolia
Uvaria cordata
Uvaria semecarpifolia *
XAylopia nigricans*
Family Apocynaceae ..  Anodendron rhinosoporum
Hunteria zeylanica
Petchica ceylanica *
Rauvolfia serpentina
Vallaris solanacea
Willughbeia cirrhifera
Wrightia flavido-rosea
Family Apostasiaceac ..  Apostasia wallichii


ewe

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

Family Araceae

family Araliaceae
Family Asclepiadaceae

Family Balanophoraceae
Family Balsaminaeae

Family Begoniaceae

Family Bombacaceae

Faenily Eoraginaceae

oe

Arisaema A, constrictum *
Cryptocoryne spiralis
Cryptocoryne thwaitesii *
Rhaphidophora decursiva
Rhaphidophora pertusa
Typhonium flegelliforme
Polyscias acuminata
Bidaria cispidata *
Brachystelma lankana *
Caralluma adscendens
Caralluma umbellata
Ceropegia candelabrum

Ceropegia elegans var. gardneri *

Ceropegia parviflora *
Ceropegia taprobanica *
Ceropegia thwitesii
Cosmostigma racemosum
Cyranchum alatum
Dischidia nummularia
Cymnema rotundatum *
Heterostemmsa tanjorense
Hoya pauciflora
Marsdenia tenacissima
OxysteJma esculentum
Taxocarpus kleinii
Tylophora fasciculata
Tylophora multiflora
Tylophora pauciflora
Tylophora zeylanica
Balanophora fungosa
Impatiens janthina *
Impatiens leucantha *
Impatiens repens *
Impatiens subcordata *
Impatiens taprobanica *
Impatiens walkeri *
Begonia dipetala
Begonia subpeltata

Cullenia rosayroana *

Adansonia digitata
Cordia subcordata
Heliotropium supinum
Rotula aquatica

47


48 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

Family Burmanniaceae oe

Family Campanulaceae

Family Capparidaceae

Family Caryophyliaceae
Family Celastraceae os

Family Combretaceae
Family Commelinaceae
Family Compositae

Family—Connaraceae

Burmannia championii
Thismia gardnerana ’*

Campanula canescens
Campanula fulgens
Cadaba fruticosa
Capparis divaricata
Capparis floribunda
Capparis tenera
Cleome chelidonii
Stellaria paucifiora
Euonymus thwaitesii *
Maytenus fructicosa *
Luminitzera littorea
Cyanotis obtusa *
Adenostemma angustifolium
Anaphalis fruticosa *
Anaphalis pelliculata *
Anaphalis thwatesii *
Blepharispermum petiolare
Blumea angustifolia *
Blumea aurita
Blumca barbata
Blumea crinita *
Blumea lanceolaria
Glossogyne bideng
Gynura hispida *
Gynura zeylanica *
Notonia grandiflora
Notonia walkeri
Senecio gardneri *
Sphaeranthus amaranthoides
Vernonia anceps*
Vernonia pectiniformis
Vernonia thwaitesii *
Xanthium indicum
Ellipanthus unifoliatus


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

¥amily-—Convolvulaceae ..  Avgyreia choisyana
Argyreia hancorniifolia *
Argyreia pomacea
Argyreia splendens
Bonamia semidigyna
Ipomoea coptica
Ipomoea jucunda *
Ipomoca staphylina
Ipomeea wightii

Family -—~-Crassulaceae ve Kalarchee laciniata

@# Family—Cucurbitaceae +. Kedrostis rostrata

Melothria leiosperma

ea Family Cyperaceae -»  Baeothryon subcapitatum
Carex breviscapa

Carex taprobanensis *
Cyperus articulatus
Cyperus cephalotes
Eleocharis confervoides confervoides
Eleocharis lankana *
Fimbristylis zeylanica *
Fimbristylig rmonticola
Ilypolytrum longirostre*
Mapania immersa *
Mariscus compactus
Pycreus stramineus
Rhynchospora gracillima
Scirpodendron ghaeri
Scleria pilosa *
Tricestularia undulata

Family—Dilleniaceae -.  <Acrotrema dissectum *
Acrotrema lyratum *

Acrotrema thwaitesii *

Family—Diocoreaceae -.  Discorea spicata

Family—Dipterocarpaceae +» Cotylelobium scabriusculum*
Hopea cordifolia *
Shorea disticha *
Shor::a lissophyHa *
Shorea ovalifolia *

} Stemonoporus affinis *
Stemonoporus lanceolatus *


36 Faune and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

Tamizz Ebenacese

Peandly Euphorhiaceae

e

es

Stemonoporus moonij *
Stemonoporus nitidus *
Stemoneporus oblongifolius *
Stemonoporus petiolaris *
Stemonoporus reticulatus *
Stemecnoporus rigidus *
Vatica obscura *

Diospyros acuta *
Diospyros albiflora *
Dicspyres atrata *
Diespyrus attenuata *
Diospyros chaetocarpa *
Diospyros edenoides*
Diospyros koenigii *
Diospyros moonii *
Diospyros opaca *
Diospyros oppositifolia *
Diospyres quaesita *
Elaeocarpus ceylanicus*
Elaeocarpus montanus *
Eriocaulon finviatile *
Eriocaulon longicuspis *
Eviocaulon luzulifolium
Eriocaulon philippo-coburgi
Eriocaulon walkeri *
Agrostistachys hookeri *
Antidesma thwaitesianum °
Bridelia stipularis
Chaectocarpus pubescens *
Chrozophora rottleri
Cleistanthus collinus
Croton moonii *
Dalechampia indica
Drypetes lanceolata *
Euphorbia cristata
Glochidion nemorale *
Mallotus distans
Phyvllanthus affinis *
Phyllanthus anabaptizatus *
Phyllanthus hakgalensigs *
Phyllanthus longiflorus
Phvllanthus rotundifolius
Podadenia sapida *


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

family-Flacourtiaceae
family-Gentianaceae

family-Geraniaceae
#amily-Gesneriaceae

family-Goodeniaceae
family~Guttiferae

family-Haloragidaceae

family-Hippocrateaceae

family-Hydrocharitaceae
Family-Icacinaceae
Family-Labiatae

Family-Lauraceae

ae

Putranjiva zeylanica *
Sauropus assimilis *

" Sauropus retroversus *

Trigonostemon diplopetalus *
Hydnocarpus octandra *

Exacum sessile
Crawfurdia championii

Geranium nepalense
Acschynanthus ceylanica
Chirita moonii *

Chirita walkeri *
Didymocarpus floccosus *
Didymocarpus zeylanicus *
Epithema carnosum *

Scaevola plumieri

Calophylum cordato-oblongum °*
Calophyilum trapezifolium *
Calophyllum cuneifolium *
Garcinia terpnophylla *

Mesua stylosa

Laurembergia indica *
Laurembergia zeylanica

Hippocratea arnottiana
Hippocratea macrantha
Nechamandra alternifolia
Pyrenacantha volubilis
Anisochilus paniculatus
Coleus elongatus
Leucas longifolia
Plectranthus capillipes *
Plectranthus glabratus
Plectranthus subincisus
Scutellaria robusta *

Actinodaphne albifrons *
Cassytha capillaris
Cinnamomum capparu-coronde *
Cinnamomum citriodorum *
Cinnamomum litseifolium
Cryptocarya membrancea *
Litsea nemoralis *
Litsea undulata *

61


52 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 1993

Family .Legumiraczae

Acacia jerruginea
#denantnera bicolor

Albizzia amara

Alyssicarpus longifolius
Eauhinia scandens
Cassia italica

Cassia senna

Caesalpinia crista
Caesalpinia digyna
Cicsalpinia hymenocarpa
Cacsalpinia major
Cortolaria berteroana
Crotolaria linifolia

Cictolaria montana
Croto/aria mysorensis

Crotolaria triquetra
Crotolaria wightiana
Croteleria willdenowiana
Crudia zeylanica*
Cynometra ripa
Desmodium gangeticum
Mismidium jucundum*
Besmodium zonatum
Dieciea javanica
Dunbaria ferruginea
Eleiotis monopnylla
Eriosema chinense
Gelactia striata
Indigofera constricta
indigofera glabra
Indigofera parviflora
Indigofera trifoliata
Indigofera wightii
Mucuna gigantea
Mucuna monosperma
Pericopsis mooniana
Rhynchasia acutissima
Riynchosia densifiora
Rhynchosia nummularia
Rhynchosia suaveolens
Seshania sericea
Smithia conferta
Sophora violacea*
Sophora zeylanica*


Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Family-Melastomaceae

Family-—-Menispermaceae
Family—Menyanthaceae

Act, No. 49 of 1993

Strongylodon siderospermus
Tephrosia hookerana
Tephrosia senticosa
Tephrosia spinosa

Lemna gibba

Utricularia scandens

Chlorophytum heyneanum
Dipcadi montanum
Urginea rupicola

Barathranthus mabaeoides
Dendrophthoe lonchiphyllus
Helixanthera ensifolia
Macrosolen barlowii
Tolypanthus gardneri

Abutilon pannosum
DiceJlostyles axillarig *
Julostylis angustifolia *
Pavonia patens
Thespesia lampas

Medinilla maculata *
Memecylon ellipticum *
Memecylon gracillimum *
Memecylon grande
Memecylon lecucanthum *
Memecylon macrocarpum *
Memecylon orbiculare *
Memecylon ovoideum *

Memecylon phyllanthifolium *

Memecylon revolutum *
Memecylon rotundatum
Sonerila brunonis
Sonerila cordifolia *
Sonerila firma*
Sonerila gardneri*®
Sonerila lanceolata®
Sonerila pilosula *
Sonerila robusta *
Sonerila tomentella *
Sonerila wightiana *
Cocsinium fenestratum

Nymphoides aurantiaca


54 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 uf 1993

Family—Moraceae

Family—-Myrtaceae

Family—Ochnaceae

Family—Olacaceae
Family—Oleaceae

Family—Orchidaceae

Broussonetia zeylanica *
Dorstenis indica

Ficus costata

Ficus trimenii

Maclura cochir ainensis
Eugenia amoena *
Eugenia cotinifolia *
Eugenia fulva *

Eugenia glabra *
Eugenia mabacoides
SSP. pedunculata *

Eugenia rivulorum *
Eugenia rufofulva *
Eugenia terpnophyHa *
Syzygium lewisii *

Ochna rufescens

Ximenia americana
Jasminum angustifolium
Jasminum bignoniaceum
Olea paniculata
Agrostophyllum zeylanicum °
Bulbophyllum crassifolium *
BulbophyHum purpureum °
Bulbophyllum tricarinatum *
Coelogyne zeylanica *
Dendrobium maccarthiea *
Corymborchis veratrifolia
Diplocentrum recurvum
Bria tricolor *

Galeola javanica *
Gastrodia zeylanica *
Gastrodia zeylanica *
Goodyera fumata
Habenaria virens

Ipsea speciosa

Liparis barabata *

Liparis brachyglottis *

oe.


or

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Tamilty—Orobanchaceae

Act, No. 49 of 1993

Malaxis densiflora
Malaxis lancifolia *
Malaxis purpurea
Oberonia claviloba
Oberonia dolabrata °
Oberonia fornicata *
Oberonia quadrilatera *
Oberonia recurva
Oberonia scyllae *
Oberonia wallie-silvae *
Oberonia weragamensis °
Peristylus plantagineus
Phreatia elegans
Pteroceras viridiflorum
Rhynchostylis retusa
Robiquetia gracilis
Sirhookera latifolia
Taeniophyllum gilimalensea *
Vanda thawaitesii *
Vanda spathuiata
Vanda tessalata

Aeginetia pendunculata
Cambellia aurantiaces *

Christisonia thawaitesii *

Areca concinna *

Nypa fruticans

Peperomia wightiana ‘

Dicraea stylosa

Polygala leptalea


86 Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Family—Portulacaceae

Family—Proteaceas

Family—Rhizophoraceae

Tamily—Rosaceae

Act, No. 49 of 1993

oe Portulaca wightiana
+e Helica ceylanica *

Bruguiera cylondrica
Ceriops decandra

we Alchemilla indica
Rubus glomeratus

Sanguisorba indicum *
oe Stemona minor

oe Byrsophyllum ellipticum
Canthium macrocarpum *
Dichilanthe zeylanica *
Gardenia turgida
Hedyotis cyanescens *
Hedyotis cymosa *
Hedyvotis evenia *
Hedyotis gardneri *
Hedyotis inamoena *
Hedyotis quinquenervia *
Hedyotis rhinophylla *
Lasianthus rhinophyllus *
Lasianthus thwaitesii *
Nargedia macrocarpa *
Neurocalyx gardneri *
Oldenlandia trinervia
Ophiorrhiza pallida *
Psychotria glandulifera *
Psychortia moonii *

Psychortia plurivenia, *
Psychortia stenophyila °


ee cen, ee ED

Fauna and Fioru Protection (Amendment) 57
Act, No. 49 of 1993

FPamily—Rutaceae

Family—Sapindaceae

Family—Sapotaceae a

Family—Scropholariaceae

Family—Simaraubaceae .

Family~Sonneratiaceae ..

Family—Sterculiaceae oe

Family—Stylidiacese we

Family—Symplocaceae

Family—Symphoremaceae

Saprosma indicum

Saprosma scabridum *
Scyphiphora hydrophyllacea
Seyphostachys pedunculatus *
Tricalysia erythrospora *
\ialaniia racemosa
Glycosmis cyanocarpa Var. simplicifolia
Naringi crenulata
Zanthophyllum caudatum
Cardiospermurn corindum
Euphoria gardneri*

Thraulococcus simplicifolius *

Madhuca moonii *
Palaquium canaliculatum *

Palaquium thwaitesii *

Adenosma subrepens *
Lindernia viscosa

Verbascum chinense

Suriana maritima

Scnneratia apetala

Pentapetes phoenicea

Pterygota thwaitesii *

tereulia guttata
Stylidium uliginosum

Symplocos diverifolia
Symplocos elegans *
Symplocos kurgensis

Sumphoremainvolucratum


7 —

Family—Triuridaceae

Family—Umbelliferae

Farmily—Urticacese

Family—Vahliaceae

Family—Verbenaceae

Family Violacere
Family Viscaceae

Family Zingiberaceae

Fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment)

Act, No. 49 of 1993

Tacca leontopetaloides
Gordonia speciosa *
Phaleria capitata
Corchorus tridens
Grewia asiatica
Grewia hirsuta

Triumfetta glabra *
Hyalisma janthina

Sciaphila erubescens *
Sciaphila inornata *
Sciaphila secudiflora *
Peucedanum ceylanicum

Sanicula elata

Elatostema acuminatum
Elatostema walkerae *
Lecanthus peruncularis
Vahlia dichotoma
Premna divaricata
Premna purpurascens °
Premna thwaitesii *
Priva cordifolia

Svenosia hydcrabadensis
Hybanthus ramosissimus *

Ginalloa spathulifolia *
Korthalsella japonica
Notothixos floccosus
Viscum ramosissimum
Aiphinia fax *

Alphinia rufescens *
Amomum acuminatum *
Amomum benthamianum °
Amomum graminifolium *
Amomum hypoleucum
Amomum trichostachyum *

Curcuma albiflora *,


fauna and Flora Protection (Amendment) al

Act, No. 49 of 1993 \
SCHEDULE VI {Section 43}
Protected Trees
Scientific English Sinhais Uamil Any his."
Name Name Name Name  tortcal aesthe-
tic or Scronte-

fic value

nee LLL LO

t. The tree popularly known a» Kuox’s Tree, situated at Muttar in Koddiyarpattu in the
Administrative District of Trincomalee ‘-—

Tamarindus indica .. Tamarind Siyambala Pulliam

Q. The tree popularly known as Orubendi-Simbalagaha nearabout 5 mile post from the
Richara anicut on th© Elahara Cana! situated in the Matale District of the Central Province
Tamarindas indica «» Tamarind Siyambala Pulliam gs

2. The Tree growingin the Parakaduwa Tomple aaid to be over 600 years ’—~
Mesua app... .. Iron-wood .. Nagaha .-. Naka oe

4. A tree growing on the banks of the Gin Ganga
Bious bengalensis .- Banyan Tree ..Nuga Gahe 7.

5. Tree planted in Kotte by Mahatma Gandhi on one of hia visits to Sri Lanka.

Mewuai errea .. .. Tron Wood NaGahs .. Naka an -

a .


4
Pf

Rs. 1,180 (Foreign), payable to the Surramvrennurt, Goversnemrr Posucarene *
Bureau, No, 255, Bauddhaioka Mawatha, Colomo 7, before 15th December eath
yeor in respect of the yeer following

nF

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of tke Parliament Rs. 885 (Local). *

one wee nm a

ood
