PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2014.

[Certified on 17th June, 2014]

Printed on the Order of Government

MOHAN LAL GRERO FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 20 OF 2014

Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 20141

[Certified on 17th June, 2014]

L.D.O. (Inc. 13/2013)

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MOHAN LAL GRERO FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the MohanLal Grero Foundation has heretofore been established inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objectsand transacting all matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Mohan Lal GreroFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theMohan Lal Grero Foundation (hereinafter referred to as theFoundation) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of theCorporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate withperpetual succession under the name and style of the MohanLal Grero Foundation (hereinafter referred to as theCorporation) and by that name may sue and be sued with fullpower and authority to have, and use a common seal and toalter the same at its pleasure.

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the voluntary social services organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe Mohan LalGreroFoundation.

2Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2014

3.(1) The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be

(a) to assist the relevant authorities to promote, improveand develop education and the knowledge oflanguages with special emphasis on the language ofEnglish ;

(b) to assist the relevant authorities to promote, developand maintain overall welfare of the under-privilegedand to provide necessary guidance, counselling oradvice to uplift their living standards ;

(c) to assist the relevant authorities to promote, improve,develop and maintain the abilities and aptitudes ofthe people in the fields of education, science, culture,literature, arts, aesthetic studies and sports ;

(d) to promote, propagate and foster humanitarian ideas,democratic and pluralistic values, good citizenshipand patriotic concepts and beliefs ;

(e) to assist the relevant authorities to organize, establishand create community development facilities in therural areas of the country and to inculcate in, teachand impart to, the rural community the values of self-development and self-employment ;

(f) to encourage and assist the youth to acquireproficiency in new technical skills ;

(g) to improve, develop, foster and maintain talents andabilities in entrepreneurship, research and training inbusiness, technology and management and conceptsof income-generating and self-employment venturesand enterprises ;

General objectsof theCorporation.

Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 20143

(h) to provide necessary services to promote activitieswhich encourage the improvement of knowledge anddisciplined thinking ;

(i) to provide guidance to improve proficiency ininternational languages used in commercial activities ;

(j) to collaborate with any other local and foreigninstitutions having objects similar to that of theCorporation ;

(k) to grant scholarships and bursaries to needy anddeserving students ;

(l) to educate the Sri Lankan citizens on the value of theenvironment and forestry, the environmental impactsof modern technology, afforestation, deforestationand environmental pollution and hazards relatingthereto ;

(m) to organize and establish facilities for promotingmutual understanding, co-operation and assistance,harmony, exchange of ideas and good fellowshipamong various cultural, religious and ethnic groups ;

(n) to assist the relevant authorities to promore, developand facilitate international understanding, co-operation and assistance in all spheres of cultural,economic, scientific and educational activities ; and

(o) to assist the relevant authorities to establish, improve,encourage, develop and maintain research facilitiesin scientific, cultural, education, economic and allother aspects of human development.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, political opinion,place of birth or any of such grounds.

4Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2014

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act themanagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Board of Directors(hereinafter referred to as the Board) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

(2) (a) The Board of the Foundation that holds office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall function as the Board of the Corporationuntil the first Board is appointed or elected in the mannerprovided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a periodof three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisorshall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapseof the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor Province.

Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 20145

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the Corporation or any one of them, including the power

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate lands orbuildings which may be required for the purposesof the Corporation and to deal with or dispose ofthe same as may be deemed expedient with a viewto promoting the objects of the Corporation ;

(b)to borrow or raise funds with or withour securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind :

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

(c)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank ;

(d)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the Corporation, in suchmanner as the Board may determine ;

(e)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe Corporation ;

Powers of theCorporation.

6Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2014

(f)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Corporation andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the Corporation ;

(g)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of theCorporation ;

(h)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the Corporation ;

(i)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the Corporation ; and

(j)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Corporation.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

(a)classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members ;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers ;

(c)the terms and conditions of appoinment, powers,functions and duties of the various officers, agentsand servants of the Corporation ;

Rules of theCorporation.

Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 20147

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board or any sub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat ;

(e)the qualification and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the Corporation ;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation ; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the Gazette.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.

AcAu

Register ofmembers.

Fund of theCorporation.

8Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2014

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualiafied auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section, qualified auditormeans

(a)an individual who, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practise as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute ; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant issuedby the Council of such Institute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the Corporation for each financial year and submit suchreport together with the audited statement of accounts to the

Accounts andauditing.

Annual Report.

Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 20149

Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Education and to the Registrar of Voluntary SocialServices Organizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of theyear succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign and localmoneys received by the Corporation during the financialyear shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with powerto sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose ofthe same.

14.The moneys and property of the Corporationhowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of theCorporation.

15.(1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal of theCorporation.

Corporation mayhold propertymovable andimmovable.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Debts due byand payableto theFoundation.

10Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2014

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Board as may be decided by suchBoard.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution having objectssimilar to those of the Corporation, and which is by therules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income orproperty among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of theCorporation immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Mohan Lal Grero Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 201411

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.