PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

FINANCE LEASING ACT, No. 56 OF 2000

[Certified on 18th August, 2000]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 18, 2000

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRE LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BURFAU, COLOMBO l

Price : Rs. 14.75 Postage : Rs. 5.25


Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000

[Certified on 18th August, 2000}
L.D.—O. 20/98.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION AND MONITORING OF
FINANCE LEASING BUSINESSES ; TO SPECIFY THE RIGHTS AND
DUTIES OF LESSORS AND LESSEES AND SUPPLIERS OF EQUIPMENT ;
AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Finance Leasing Act,
No. 56 of 2000 and, shall come into operation on such date as
the Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette
(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date’).

PART I
REGISTRATION OF FINANCE LEASING BUSINESSES

2. Subject to the provisions of section 44, from and after
the appointed date, no person shall carry on finance leasing

business, except under the authority of a certificate of

registration issued in that behalf under the provisions of this
Act.

3. A person shall not be eligible to be registered under
this Act, unless such person—

{a} is a licensed commercial bank or a licensed
specialized bank within the meaning of the Banking
Act, No. 30 of 1988 ;

(b)  afinance company within the meaning of the Finance
Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988 ; or

(c) apublic company incorporated under the Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982 having such minimum issued
and paid up capital as may be prescribed.

2—H 008049-4,550 (00/07)

Short Title and
date of operation.

Finance leasing
business to be
carried on a
certificate of
registration.

Qualifications for
registration.


2 Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000
Application for 4. (1) Anapplication for registration under this Act shall
registration, be made to the Director in such form as may be provided for

that purpose by the Director, and shall be accompanied by—

(a)

(b)

(c)

(e)

in the case of a licensed commercial bank or a
licensed specialised bank, a certified copy of the
licence issued to such bank by the Monetary Board
under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 and in force
on the date of making the application ;

in the case of a finance company, a certified copy of
the licence issued by the Monetary Board under the
Finance Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988 and in force
on the date of making the application ;

in the case of a public company—

(i) a certified copy of the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Company ; and

(ii) a certified copy of the Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company ;

a certified copy of the operating manual containing
the particulars specified in section 7 ;

the application fee as prescribed ; and

certified copies of such other documents as may be
prescribed.

(2) The Director may, where he considers it necessary,
require an applicant to furnish such further information or
particulars for the determination of the application.

G3)

A person who makes any statement in an application

made or in any document submitted under subsection (1), or
any information or particulars furnished under subsection (2),
which to the person’s knowledge is false or misleading in any
material particular, shal! be guilty of an offence under this

Act.


Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000 3

5. (1) Where the Director, on a consideration of the
information contained in an application made and the
documents, information and particulars furnished under
section 4 and after such investigation as the Director may
deem necessary, is satisfied that the applicant is fit and
competent to carry on finance /casing business, the Director
may having regard to the interests of the national economy—

(a) register the applicant ; and
{b) issue a certificate of registration to the applicant.

(2) Every person registered under subsection (1) shall be
referred to as a “registered finance leasing establishment”
(hereinafter referred to as a “registered establishment”).

(3) Every registered establishment shall exhibit the
certificate of registration issued to il in a conspicuous place
at the principal place of business of such establishment.

(4) The Director shall keep and maintain in the prescribed
form, a register of every registered establishment.

6. Every registered establishment shall pay the Director
an annual registration fee as may be prescribed, within two
months of the end of cach calendar year.

7. The operating manual to be submitted under paragraph
(2) of subsection (1) of section 4, shall contain particulars
relating lo—

(a) the period of duration of a finance lease ;

(b) the method of recovery of the payments due on the
finance lease ;

(c) the protection by the lessor of the right of the lessee
against claims in respect of the equipment provided
under the finance lease ;

Certificate of
Registration.

Annual
registration fee.

Operating manual,


Alteration of
certain documents
only with
approval.

Cancellation or
suspension of
tegistration.

(d)

(e)

8.

Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000
the disposal of such equipment after the expiration
of the finance lease ; and
such other particulars as may be prescribed.

Except with the prior written approval of the Director,

a registered establishment shall not—

(a)

(b)

9.

alter or deviate from the particulars contained in the
operating manual submitted under paragraph (d) of
subsection (1) of section 4 ; or

where such establishment is a company, alter its
Memorandum and Articles of Association.

(1) The registration of a registered establishment may

be suspended or cancelled by the Director on any one or more
of the following grounds :—

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

failure to commence busincss within twelve months
after registration ;

ceasing to carry on finance leasing business ;

proposing to make, or making any composition or
arrangement with its creditors or going inlo
liquidation or being wound up or otherwise
dissolved ; .

carrying on its business in a manner likely to be
detrimental to the interests of ils lessees ;

inability to mect its obligations to its lessees,
creditors or suppliers, as the case may be ;

acting in contravention of any provisions of this Act
or any regulations made thereunder, or any condition
imposed or any directions given by the Director
under this Act or such regulation ;


(g)

(h)

Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000 5

furnishing false, misleading or inaccurate
information or concealing or failing to disclose
material facts, in its application for registration ; or

where such establishment is a licensed commercial
bank, licensed specialized bank or a licensed finance
company, the licence issued to such establishment
has been revoked by the authority issuing the same,
under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 or the Finance
Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988, as the case may be.

(2) The Director may, for one or more of the grounds
specified in subsection (1)-——

(a)

(6)

10.

suspend the registration of a registered establishment
for such period as may be specified, which shall not
excced three months, and the establishment shall not
during the period of suspension enter into any finance
lease ; OT

cancel the registration of registered establishment
and the establishment shall not thereafter carry on
any finance leasing business except such business
as it had entered into before the date on which the
cancellation takes effect, and the establishment shall
for the purpose of completing such business be
deemed to be a registered establishment.

(1) The Director shall, before suspending or

cancelling the registration of a registered establishment on
any one or more of the grounds specified in section 9, serve a
notice in writing on the establishment, informing it of such
fact and specifying the grounds for the proposed suspension
or cancellation.

(2) A registered establishment may, within fourteen days
of receipt of a notice under subsection (1), show cause as to
why its registration should not be cancelled or suspended.

(3) Where a registered establishment fails to show cause
within the period specified in subsection (2), the Director may
suspend or cancel, as the case may be, the registration.

Procedure for
suspension or
cancellation of a
registration.


Right to
undisturbed
possession.

Use of equipment.

6 Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 af 2000

(4) Where the registered establishment in compliance with
notice issued to it under subsection (1) shows cause within
the specilied period, the Director may, after considering the
reasons submitted—

(a) refrain from suspending or cancelling
the registration, if he is satisfied that the
establishment has shown sufficient cause as to
why its registration should not be suspended or
cancelled ; or

(b) suspend or cancel the registration, if he is satisfied
that the establishment has not shown sufficient cause
as to why its registration should not be suspended or
cancelled.

(5) The decision of the Director under subsection (3) or
subsection (4), shall be served on the registered establishment
and shall take effect on the date on which such decision is
served on the establishment.

PART II
Duties of Lessors, LESSEES AND SUPPLIERS

11. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), a
lessee has a right to the undisturbed and peaceful possession
of the equipment provided to the lessee under a finance lease,
and it shall be the duty of a lessor to ensure the protection of
such right.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply where
a lessee has, by reason of any act or omission of the lessee,
ceased to be entitled to the right to undisturbed and peaceful
possession of the equipment.

12. It shal] be the duty of a lessee to—

(a) take proper care of the equipment provided under
the finance lease ;


Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000: 7

(b) use it for the purpose for which it is provided ; and

(c) subject to fatr wear and tear and to any modifications
agreed to by the parties to the finance lease, keep it in
the condition in which it was delivered to the lessee.

13. (1) Where an equipment specified in a finance lease
has not been delivered to a lessee at or before the time fixed
under such lease for its delivery, or has been delivered after
such time, or where the equipment delivered does not conform
lo the terms, conditions, warranties or specifications in the
supply agreement relating to such equipment, the lessee may,
subject to the provisions of subsection (2), reject the equipment
and terminate such finance lease.

(2) Where a lessee terminates a finance lease under
subsection (1), the lessee may withhold the payment under
such finance lease and further shall be entitled to recover from
the lessor any money paid under the finance lease, less any
reasonable sum withheld by the lessor in respect of—

(a) any benefits derived by the Icssce prior to the
termination ;

(6) any expenses incurred by the lessor in connection
with the lease ; and

(c) ‘any loss in value of the equipment arising from a
default or negligence of the lessee.

(3) Where an equipment specified in a finance lease
delivered to a lessee within the lime fixed for its delivery,
docs not conform to the terms, conditions, warranties or
specifications in the supply agreement relating to such
equipment, or where the lessor has reason to believe that the
equipment may not be supplied within the time fixed for its
delivery, the lessor may supply to the lessee another equipment
in conformity with the terms, conditions, warrantics or
specifications in the supply agreement, and the lessee shall
unless the finance lease provides otherwise, accept the
equipment as if the lessee had agrced to accept delivery of
the equipment from the lessor.

Non-delivery, late
detivery and non-
conformity of
equipment.


Lessee’s
acceptance of
equipment.

Return of
equipment.

Termination or
variation of
conditions of a
supply agreeinent.

8 Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000

(4) Where a lessce has accepted an equipment specified
ina finance lease notwithstanding that it has not been delivered
within the time specified for its delivery, or it had been
delivered after such time, or does nol conform to the terms.
conditions, warranties or specifications in the supply
agreement relating to such cquipment, the lessee shall not
thereafter have the right under subsection (1) to cither reject
the equipment or terminate the lease, as the case may be,

(5) The lessor shall not except as provided for in this
section, incur any liability to the lessee by reason of the non-
delivery or late delivery of an equipment by a supplicr or of the
non-conformity of such equipment with the terms, conditions,
warranties or specifications in the supply agreement, unless
such non-delivery, late delivery or non-conformity was due
to an act or omission on the part of the lessor.

14. Where alessee accepts the equipment provided under
a finance Jease. the terms and conditions of the lease shall be
irrevocable thereafter and it shall be the duty of the lessee to
observe all such terms and conditions including the terms and
conditions relating to payments under the lease.

15. Upon the expiration of the period of a finance lease
or its prior termination under this Act, the lessee shall return
the eyuipment to the lessor in such condition as 1s specified
in paragraph (¢) of section 12, unless the lessee had acquired
aright to purchase the equipment or retain it for a further
period. Where the fessee faits to return the equipment, the
lessor shall have a right to recover possession of the same.

16. (1) A lessee shall not terminate or rescind a supply
agreement without the consent of the lessor.

(2) The rights conferred on a fessee under this Act in
relation to a supply agreement, shall not be affected by any
variation of a term, condition, warranty or specification in
such agreement, unless the lessee has consented in writing Lo
such variation.



Finance Leasing Act, No, 56° of 2000 9

17. (1) A lessor shall not enter into a supply agreement
with a supplicr for the supply of an equipment under a finance
lease, until the lessee agrees in writing with the terms,
conditions, warrantics and specifications specilied in such
agreement.

(2) Where a lessor has entered into a supply agreement in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) and the
equipment specified in the agreement is delivered at or before
the ime fixed under such agreement, the lessee shall accept
the equipment supplied, if the equipment conforms to the
terms, conditions, warrantics and specifications specified in
the agreement.

18. (1) Where a lessor enters into a supply agreement
for the supply of an equipment to a lessee, the lessee shall
also have the right to enforce such agreement as if the lessee
were a parly to It.

(2) Where the supplier discharges the liability under a
supply agreement to cither the lessor or lessee, the supplier
shall be released from the liability to the other, and the
provisions of subsection (1) shall not be construed as imposing
on the supplier, any liability to both the lessor and the lessee
in respect of the same matter or thing under such agreement,
in such instance.

19. (1) A lessor shall not incur any liability to the lessee
for any loss suffered by the lessee in respect of the equipment
provided under the finance lease, except to the extent of any
loss arising out of the lessce’s reliance on the lessor’s skill
and judgement on the selection of the equipment or in the
lessor’s intervention in the selection of the supplier or in the
specification of the equipment.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), the lessor
shall not, in the capacity of a lessor, be liable to any person
for any foss suffered by death, personal injury or damage to
property caused by any equipment provided under the finance
lease or its use.

Supply
Agreement.

Supplier's
obligations to a
lessee.

Non-liabitity of
lessor for loss in
relation to
equipment.


10 Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000

(3) The provisions of subsection (2), shall not affect the
liability of a lessor for the loss referred to in that subsection,
in a capacity other than as a lessor.

Default by 20. Where a Iessce fails to comply with certain

lessees. terms and conditions of the finance lease tn such
circumstances as would amount to a substantial failure of
such lease, the lessor may, subject to the provisions of section
21—

(a) require the lessee to make accelerated payment of
the monies due under the lease, where the Icase so
provides ; or

(b) where a lessee fails to make accelerated payments
as required under paragraph (a), terminate the
finance lease and-—

(i) recover possession of the equipment
provided ; and

(ii) recover such damages as would place the
lessor in a position the lessor would have been
if the lessee had complied with the provisions
of the finance lease in accordance with its
terms and conditions.

Accelerated 21. (1) A lessor shall, prior to enforcing the right to
payments or accelerated payment or to the termination of a finance lease

termination with : . :
cmination wit under section 20, serve by registered post a notice on the
notice to lessee. |
essee—

(a) specifying the circumstances which had caused a
substantial failure of the lease within the meaning
of the finance lease ;

(b) appointing a date, not being a date less than twenty-
one days after the reccipt of the notice, for remedying
the failure referred to in paragraph (a).


Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000 1]

(2) Where a lessee fails to remedy the failure specified in
a notice served under subsection (1) on or before the date
appointed in the notice, or fails to give a reasonable cause lor
such failure, the lessor may act in accordance with the
provisions of section 20.

22. A finance lease may provide for the manner in which
damages recoverable under this Act may be computed and
such provision shall be enforceable between the lessor and
the lessee, unless the damages so computed, would be
substantially in excess of those provided under subparagraph
(ii) of paragraph (5) of section 20.

23. A lessor shall not be entitled to recover under
subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of section 20, such damages
which the lessor could have on a consideration of the
circumstances of the case, avoided in the exercise of due
diligence.

24. (1) A lessor may, with written notice to the lessee,
transfer or assign all or any of the lessor’s rights under a
finance Iease or in relation to an equipment provided under
such lease, to any other registered establishment.

(2) A transfer or assignment under subsection (1) shall
not relieve the transferor or assignor of its duties —

(a) under the finance lease or in any way alter its nature
or its legal effect : or

(b) in relation to an equipment provided under the
finance lease.

25. (1) A lessee shall not, except with the writlen
permission of the lessor and subject to any rights of third
parties, transfer the right to the possession and use of an
equipment under a finance lease to any other person.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a “third party”
means a person who is not a party to the finance lease in
relation to the equipment.

Computation of
damages.

Due diligence of
the lessor.

Transfer or
assignment of
lessor’s right.

Transfer of
lessee’s rights in
the equipment.


Lessee’s trustees
in bankruptcy or
creditors.

Recovery of
possession tf
resistance is not
offered.

Recovery of
possession
through court.

“hs

12 Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000

26. (1) The rights of a lessor under this Act may be
enforced against a trustee in bankruptcy of the lessee, or
against any creditor of a lessee, including any creditor who
has obtained an attachment in execution of such equipment.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), “a trustee in
bankruptcy” includes a liquidator, administrator or other
person appointed to administer the estate of a tessee for the
benefit of the lessee’s creditors.

27. A lessor who becomes entitled to recover possession
of an equipment under this Act or under a provision of a
finance Iease, may - -

(a) notify such right to the officer-in-charge of the police
station for the area within which the equipment is
found ;

(b) obtain the assistance of a police officer of that police
station to prevent a breach of the peace in the exercise
of that right , and

(ce) recover possession of the equipment from the phice
where it is found, if possession could be obtained
without resistance from the person in possession of
the equipment or where it ts notin the possession of
any particular person, without resistance [rom any
person.

28. (1) Where a lessor fails to recover possession of an
equipment under section 27, or where a lessor has reasonable
grounds to believe that itis impracticable to obtain possession
under that section, the lessor may make an epplication to the
District Court within whose jurisdiction the finance lease had
been entered into, for an order of possession of the equipment.

(2) Anapplication under subsection (1), shall be made by
way of petition and affidavit to which the lessce shall be made
a respondent, and which shall contain the following

information —

(a) the date of the finance lease ;


Finance Leasing Act, No. S6 of 2000 13

(5) the payments, if any, made under the lease ; and
(c) the circumstances constituting the default by the
lessee.

{3) The petition shall be accompanied by a certifted copy
of the finance Tease.

(4) The District Court on consideration of the pclition and

wfidavit and the documents attached thereto, and being

satisfied that the petitioner is prima facie entitled to obtain

possession of the equipment, shall make an interim order of

Possession compelling the respondent to deliver possession
of the equipment to the petitioner,

(5) A copy of the interim order made under subsection
(+4) shall be served on the respondent and—

(a) where the respondent fails to show sufficient cause
within fourteen days after the service of the order as
to why the order should not be made permanent, the
courtshall make the order permanent ; or

()) where the respondent shows sufficient cause within
fourteen days aller the service of the order as to why
the order should not be made permanent, the court
shall set aside the interim order.

(6) A permanent order made under subsection (5), shall
be executed in the sare manner as if il were a decree for the
recovery of movable property,

29, (1) Tn. an application under section 28, a lessor may,
in addition to praying for an order of possession, also pray
for an order for recovery of any monies due under the finance
lease, and in that event shall specily in the petition and affidavit
(led the sum due and such other facts as may be necessary
for the determination of such matter.

(2) ‘The provisions of subsections (4) and (5) of section
28 shall, autatis mutandis, apply to an order under subsection
(1) of this section, and the court may in the intertm order and
the permanent order made under those subsections, include an
order for recovery of the stan of money sought to be recovered.

Recovery of
Montes due under
the finance lease.


Savings of other
remedics.

Non-applicability
of certain
provisions of this
Part.

Effect of carrying
on finance leasing
business without
registration.

14 Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 af 2000

(3) A permanent order made under subsection (2), shall
be exccuted in the same manner as if it were a decree for the
recovery of money.

30. The provisions of sections 27. 28 and 29 shall be in
addition to and not in derogation of any other remedy that
may be available to a lessor in law, for the recovery of
possession of any equipment or any money due under a finance
lease.

31. The parties to a finance lease may provide in such
icase for the non-applicability of the provisions of this Part
of this Act other than the provisions contained in sections ! 1,
16, 22 and 24, to a finance icase entered into between them.

PART I
Powers OF THE DIRECTOR AND OFFICERS

32, (1) The Director or any officer authorised by the
Director may require by notice issued in that behalf to any
person whom the Director has reason to believe is carrying
on finance leasing business without obtaining a registration
under this Act, to furnish such information including the
production of any documents as the Director may consider
necessary, in order to ascertain such fact.

(2) Where the Director or the officer authorised, after
considering the information furnished and inspecting any
documents furnished under subsection (1), is satisfied that
the person concerned is carrying on finance leasing business
without being registered under this Act, the Director shall by
written notice issued in that behalf, require that person to
immediately cease carrying on such finance leasing business.

(3) Where a person to whom a notice is issued under
subsection (2) fails to comply with the requirements of the
notice within the time specified therein, the Director may take
necessary measures lo —


Finance Leasing Act. No. 56 of 2000 15

(a) prosecute such person for an offence under this
Act; and

(b) apply to the High Court of the Province in which
such person is carrying on finance leasing business
to obtain an order for an injunction restraining such
person from continuing to carry on finance leasing
business, until a valid registration is obtained for that
purpose under this Act.

(4) Every such application shall be made by petition in
writing addressed to such High Court and shall be heard and
determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in
Chapter XXIV of the Civil Procedure Code.

(5) The High Court of the Province shall after
consideration of an application made under subsection (3)
and where it is satisfied that the person concerned is carrying
on finance leasing business without being registered under
this Act, issue an injunction restraining such person from
continuing to carry on such business until a valid registration
is obtained by him under this Act for that purpose.

33. (1) The Director or any officer authorised by the
Director shall have the power to, examine the books and
accounts of a registered establishment, at such time and place
as may be specified by him.

(2) For the purposes of exercising the power under
subsection (1), the Director or the authorized officer may
require a registered establishment to produce for Inspection
at such place as may be notified, any books, records or
documents relating to the affairs of the establishment and any
registered establishment which fails to comply with such
requirement shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

34, The Director shall have the power to issue such
general directions, as he may consider necessary for the
purpose ensuring that registered establishments maintain
efficient standards in carrying out their duties, including
directions on the following matters :-—

Powers of
examination of
registered
establishments.

Power to issuc
directions.


Regulations.

16

(a)

(b)

(d)

(g)
(h)

(#)

™

35.

Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000

maximum rate of payments to be levied by registered
establishments ;

malters concerning the method of collecting
payments ;

form and manner in which the books of accounts or
other records or documents are to be maintained ;

terms and conditions of finance leases ;

minimum paid up capital and the reserves a
registered establishment shall have, having regard
to the value of its finance leases ;

having regard to the paid up capital and the reserves
of a registered establishment, the maximum value
of finance leases that may be granted to any one
person, group of persons, or category of persons as
may be specified by the Director ;

capital and reserves of registered establishments ;
minimum initial payment required to be made by a
lessee for any equipment or different categories of
equipment, such minimum to be expressed as a
percentage of the value of the equipment ; or

provisions for bad and doubtful debts.

(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect

of any matter required by this Act, to be prescribed or in
respect of which regulations are authorised by this Act, to
be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazctte and shall come into operation on the
date of publication or on such later date as may be specified
in the regulation.


Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000 17

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any such regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed be rescinded as from the
date of its disapproval but without prejudice to any thing
previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.

36. A suilor prosecution shall not lic against the Director

or any officer authorised by the Director for any act which is
in good faith done or purported to be done by the Director or
such officer under this Act.

37. The Director or any officer authorised by the Director
shall not disclose any information or matter acquired in the
discharge of his duties under this Act, except —

(a) when required to do so —
(i) by acourt of law;

(ii) by the person to whom such information or
matter relates ;

(6) in the performance of his duties under this Act ; or

(c) in order to comply with any of the provisions of this
Act or any other law.

PART IV
MISCELLANEOUS
38. Every registered establishment shall be deemed to
be a lending institution within the meaning of and for the

purposes of the Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 18 of 1990.

Protection from
suil.

Non-disclosure of
information.

A registered
establishment
deemed to be a
lending
institution.


Offences.

Wilful act or
omission in
relation to records
and books.

Penalty for
offence.

18 Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000

39, Every person who acts in contravention of any
provision of this Act or any regulations made thereunder or
fails to comply with any direction or notice issued thereunder
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

40. Any person who, being a director, manager, officer
or employce of a registered establishment —

(a) wilfully makes, or causes to be made, a false entry
in any book or record of office registered
establishment ;

(b) wilfully omits to make an entry in any book or record
of a registered establishment or wilfully causes any
such entry to be omitted ; or

(c) wilfully alters, abstracts, conceals or destroys an
entry in any book or record of the registered
establishment or wilfully causes any such entry to
be altered, abstracted, concealed or destroyed,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

41, (1) Any person who is found guilty of an offence
under this Act shall be liable on conviction after summary
trial by a Magistrate, to imprisonment of cither description
for a term not excceding two ycars or to a {tne not less
than rupecs ten thousand and not exceeding rupecs two
hundred and fifly thousand or to both such imprisonment and
fine.

(2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then —

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director, manager or secretary of that body corporate:

(b) if that body of persons is an unincorporated body,
every individual who is a member of such body ;
and


Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000 19

(c) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of
that firm,

shall be guilty of the offence unless such director, manager.
secretary, individual or partner, as the case may be, proves
that such offence was conimitted without his knowledge or
that he exercised al! due diligence to prevent the commission
of such offence.

42. (1) The Director may with the approval of the
Monetary Board and having regard to the circumstances in
which an offence under this Act was committed, compound
such offence for a sum of money not exceeding one hundred
thousand rupees.

(2) The compounding of any offence under this section
shall have the effect of an acquittal of the accused.

43. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires —

“close relation”, in relation to an individual, means the
spouse, or dependant child of that individual ;

“Director” means the head of the department of the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka to which the subject of supervision
of finance leasing companies under this Act, has been
assiyned by the Monetary Board ;

“equipment” means any tangible asset which has an
economically useful life of more than one year and
does not include land, any improvements made to
land other than fixtures or immovable property
attached to land which can be removed from the land
without substantial destruction to such fixture or
immovable property ;

“finance lease” means an agreement between a lessor and
a lessee —

(a) for the possession and usc by the lessee for an
initial period of not Icss than one year from
the date of the agreement, of an equipment
specilied by the lessee and either provided by
the lessor or a supplier selected by the lessce ;

Compounding of
offences.

Interpretation.


20

Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000

(5)

(c)

(d)

for the payment by the lessee to the lessor for
possession and use of such equipment of such
sums to be calculated so as to take into account
in particular the amortization of the whole or
substantial part of the cost of the equipment ;

which, after the acceptance of the equipment
by the lessee, is not terminable by the lessee
during the initial pcriod set out in paragraph
(a) ; and

which, though not a hire purchase agreement
within the meaning of the Consumer Credit
Act, No. 29 of 1982, may or may not provide
for the extension of the initial period set out in
paragraph (a) or for the purchase by the Icssee
of the equipment after the expiration of the
initial period set out in paragraph (a) or the
period extended under this paragraph ;

“finance leasing business” means the business of investing
money for the provision of equipment under a
finance lease ;

“lessor” in relation to a finance lease, means the person
who transfers the right to possession and use of a
equipment under lease to a lessec ;

“lessee”, in relation to a finance Jease, means a person who
acquires a right to possession and use of an
equipment under the lease ;

“Monetary Board” means the Monetary Board of the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka established under the
Monetary Law Act ;

“supplier” mcans a person who supplies an equipment for
the purpose of a finance lease, but docs not include
a lessee where the lessee supplics such equipment ;

and


Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000 21

“supply agreement”, means an agreement entered into by
a lessor with a supplier for the supply of an
equipment by the supplier under a finance lease.

44. (1) Every person who is carrying on finance leasing
business on the appointed date, may, notwithstanding the
provisions of section 2 of this Act, continue to carry on such
business for a period not exceeding one year from such
appointed date, but shall within that period apply for and
obtain a certilicate of registration under this Act to carry on
such finance leasing business.

(2) Where a person referred to in subsection (1) —

(a) is registered under this Act, all finance leases entered
into by such person before such registration shall be
deemed to be finance leases entered into under this
Act, and the provisions of this Act shall, accordingly
apply to and in relation to every such lease ; or

(b) does not apply for registration, or is refused
registration under this Act, only such finance leases
entered into by that person before the expiration of
the period referred into subsection (1) or the date of
refusal, as the case may be, shall remain valid for
the periods for which they are entered into.

45. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Persons engaged
in finance leasing
business on the
appointed date.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


I

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).

payable to the SuPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PusLications Bureau, No, 32, Fransworks House,
Lotus Roap, Cotomro 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.

— ~cge “2

~~
