PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIG
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PAYMENT OF GRATUITY
(AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 62 OF 1992

[Certified on 13th November, 1992] gee

Printed on the Orders of Government | —

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 13, 1992

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA .

TQ DBE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMEO 7

‘Price: 45 cents, Postage: Re. 1.00

4

Pl


Payment of Gratuity ‘ (Amendment)
Act, No. 62 of 1992

[Certified on 13th November, 1992]

L.Di—O. 2/912" 2 PB es balers

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PAYMENT OF GRATUITY
_ Act, No. 12 OF 1983

BX it enacted by the Parliament of the Deriocratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Payment of Gratuity
ce Act, No. 62 of 1992.

2. Section 5 of the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of

of 1983 (hereinafter referred to as “the principal enact-
ment”) is hereby amended by the addition of the following
new subsection immediately after subsecticn (3) there-
of :— ’

*(4) Any employer who, “being Tis liable to pay any sum

‘due as gratuity to a workman or his heirs, as the case

. may be, under subsection (1), fails or defaults to pay

that sum, on or before the due date, he shall be liable
to pay to that workman or his heirs, as the case may
be, in addition to the sum due as_ the gratuity, a
surcharge on that sum calculated in the following
manner :— i

(a) where the payment of the gratuity has ween in
arrears for a period not exceeding one month from
the due date, a surcharge of ten per centum ~ of
the sum due as gratuity ;

(b) where the payment of the gratuity has been in —

arrears for a period exceeding one month but not

~- exceeding three months from the due date, a
surcharge of fifteen per centum of the sum due
as gratuity ;

(c) where the payment of the gratuity has been in

arrears for a period exceeding three months
but not exceeding six months from the due date,
a surcharge of twenty per centum of the : sum due
as gratuity ; i

_(d) where the payment of the gratuity has: been in

arrears for a period exceeding six months but

not exceeding twelve months from the due date
a surcharge of twenty-five per centum of the sum
_due as gratuity ;

2—D 022000—7,080 (91/04)

Short.
tamed

Amendment
of section

‘5 of Act

No. 12 of
1983.


Amendment

of section -

8 of the
principal
enactment.

Sinhala
text to
prevail in
- ease of
inconsis-
tency.

2 - "Payment of Gratuity (Amendment)
Act, No. 62 of 1992

(e) where the payment of the gratuity has been in
arrears for a period exceeding twelve months from .
the due date,.a surcharge of thirty per centum of
the sum due as h REALUAEY

. For the purposes of this section, the expression “ due
date”, in relation to a gratuity, means the thirtieth day
from the date of termination of the services. of gue

- workman to whom the pratulty is payable. ’.

3. Section 8 of the principal | énactment ‘ig hereby
amended by the addition of the following new subsection
immediately after subsection (7) thereof:—

‘(8) For the purposes of this section, the expression
“gratuity ” includes any surcharge payan’ under sub-
section (4) of section §.. |

4, In the event of any inconsistency ‘between. the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text
shali prevail. ; plas
