PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

DIVINEGUMA ACT, No. 1 OF 2013

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 11th January, 2013]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 25.00Postage : Rs. 25.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 11, 2013

1Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

[Certified on 11th January, 2013]

L.D.O. 13/2012.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEPARTMENT TO BE

CALLED AND KNOWN AS THE DEPARTMENT OF DIVINEGUMADEVELOPMENT BY AMALGAMATING THE SAMURDHI AUTHORITY OFSRI LANKA ESTABLISHED BY ACT, NO. 30 OF 1995, SOUTHERNDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA ESTABLISHED BY ACT,NO. 18 OF 1996, THE UDARATA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRILANKA ESTABLISHED BY ACT, NO. 26 OF 2005; TO ESTABLISHDIVINEGUMA COMMUNITY BASED ORGANIZATIONS AT RURAL LEVEL

AND TO PROVIDE FOR A CO-ORDINATING NETWORK AT THE DISTRICT

LEVEL AND NATIONAL LEVEL; TO ESTABLISH DIVINEGUMA COMMUNITYBASED BANKS AND DIVINEGUMA COMMUNITY BASED BANKINGSOCIETIES; TO REPEAL SAMURDHI AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA ACT,NO. 30 OF 1995, SOUTHERN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRILANKA ACT, NO.18 OF 1996 AND UDARATA DEVELOPMENTAUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA ACT, NO. 26 OF 2005 AND TO PROVIDE

FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS, in furtherance of the economic developmentprocess and in giving effect to the national policy ofalleviating poverty and ensuring social equity, it has becomenecessary to improve the individual, family, group andcommunity centered livelihood development activities:

AND WHEREAS, Divineguma intends to mobilize peopleinto a national development process at communitylevel establishing divineguma community basedorganizations thus building up regional, district andnational level co-ordinating network and developing andpromoting a micro- finance banking system:

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Divineguma Act,No 1 of 2013, and the provisions of this Act other thanthis section, shall come into operation on such date as theMinister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette

Preamble.

Short title anddate of operation.

2PL0058894,190 (08/2012)

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 20132

(hereinafter referred to as the "appointed date"). Theprovisions of this section shall come into operation on thedate on which this Act becomes an Act of Parliament.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF DIVINEGUMADEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

2.There shall be established for the purpose of this Act,a government department called the DivinegumaDevelopment Department (in this Act referred to as the"Department").

3. (1) There shall be appointed a Director-General of theDepartment (in this Act referred to as the "Director-General")and such other officers and servants as may be required fromtime to time to carry out the powers and functions of theDepartment.

(2) The Director-General may delegate in writing to anypublic officer any of his powers, functions and duties as mayfrom time to time be considered necessary.

4.The objects of the Department shall be:-

(a)to carry out such development activities as may berequired to alleviate poverty and to bring about asociety guaranteeing social equity;

(b)to promote the individual, family, group andcommunity centered livelihood economicdevelopment activities;

(c)to ensure food security for each individual andfamily;

(d)to mobilize and empower people to speed up thenational development;

Establishmentof DivinegumaDevelopmentDepartment.

Objects of theDepartment.

Director-General andother officersand servants ofthe Department.

3Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

(e)to provide micro-financial facilities for the purposeof promoting the livelihood development ofpeople;

(f)to develop physical and social infrastructurefacilities as may be required for the development ofthe livelihood of people;

(g)to carry out such studies and research as may berequired relating to the economic and socialupliftment of people;

(h)to develop the human capital in order to uplift livingstandards of people; and

(i)to create a social security network for those who arein need of social security.

5.The Department shall, in the discharge of its functionshave the power:-

(a)to supervise and monitor the establishment, controland management of divineguma community basedorganizations, divineguma regional organizationsand divineguma district committees;

(b)to create a network of organizations linkingdivineguma beneficiaries at zonal, district, regional,village, Grama Niladari division and communitylevel and attend to matters connected therewith orincidental thereto;

(c)to establish centres for storage, marketing andprocessing of the products of divinegumabeneficiaries and to make available physical andfinancial resources for the said purpose;

(d)to maintain the Divineguma Development Fundand the Divineguma Revolving Fund establishedunder sections 36 and 37 of this Act;

Powers of theDepartment.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 20134

(e)to utilize the moneys of the DivinegumaDevelopment Fund and the Divineguma RevolvingFund for the purpose of this Act;

(f)to supervise, manage, monitor and auditdivineguma community based organizations,divineguma regional organisations, divinegumadistrict committees, divineguma community basedbanks and divineguma community based bankingsocieties;

(g)to arrange for the conduct of lotteries with theassistance of the National Lotteries Board to raisefunds for the Divineguma Development Fund;

(h)to collect information as may be required, to plan,supervise, monitor and implement the divinegumadevelopment programmes;

(i)to secure the co-operation of governmentdepartments, state institutions, local authorities,public corporations, provincial authorities andother private or public bodies, natural or legalpersons;

(j)to assist in implementing divinegumadevelopment programmes, by divinegumacommunity based organizations and divinegumaregional organizations;

(k)to implement and operate programmes which willeconomically and socially uplift living standardsof people and to develop infrastructure facilities;

(l)to utilize the resources of the Department for thepurposes of training and awareness programmesthat may be conducted by the Department;

(m)to take such measures as may be necessary topurchase raw-materials, equipment, technology and

5Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

products of divineguma beneficiaries for thepurpose of promoting the activities of divinegumabeneficiaries and to store them and make themavailable to producers as and when the need arises;

(n) to provide marketing facilities including thesetting up of marketing centers enablingdivineguma beneficiaries to introduce and sell theirproducts at national and international markets andto maintain, monitor and supervise such centers;

(o)to liaise with governmental and non-governmentalorganizations;

(p)to assign the responsibility of implementingdivineguma development projects to divinegumacommunity based organizations and divinegumaregional organizations;

(q)to possess and hold, any property movable orimmovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise; and

(r)to attend to all matters connected with or incidentalto such objects and functions as are specified inthis Act.

6.The functions of the Department shall be :

(a)to formulate and facilitate such projects that wouldimprove the income generation of individuals,families, groups and communities;

(b)to assist in increasing the employmentopportunities of devineguma beneficiaries;

(c)to promote marketing activities;

Functions of theDepartment.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 20136

(d)to develop necessary awareness of the communityon livelihood development;

(e)to motivate people towards environmental friendlylifestyle;

(f)to liaise with such institutions that provideresources and services required for the promotionof individual, family, group and communitycentered development projects;

(g)to promote saving habits amongst people;

(h)to remove obstructions faced by divinegumabeneficiaries in gaining access to resources andservices;

(i)to launch programmes that would lead to creationof a righteous social environment conducive tothe well being of the community;

(j)to mobilise the participation of divinegumabenificiaries in the planning and management ofprojects and schemes for their economic upliftment;

(k)to facilitate the providing of services to divinegumabeneficiries by any government department,corporation, local government institution, privatesector organization and non-governmentalorganizations; and

(l)to assist in creating an institutional framework forthe development of saving habits of divinegumabeneficiaries and granting of loans to them.

7.(1) There shall be established a Divineguma NationalCouncil to assist, under the superintendence of the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister, the Department in respect ofmatters relating to the policy and management ofdivineguma development programmes.

(2) The Divineguma National Council shall functionsubject to such directions of the Minister, as may be issuedin accordance with government policies provided for anddetermined by the Cabinet of Ministers.

DivinegumaNationalCouncil.

7Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

(3) The Divineguma National Council shall consist ofthe following members:-

(a)the Director-General who shall be the Chairman;

(b)Director of the Department who is in charge of thesubject of Micro-Finance;

(c)Director of the Department who is in charge of thesubject of divineguma community basedorganizations;

(d)Director of the Department who is in charge of thesubject of Livelihood;

(e)Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whomthe subject of Finance is assigned, or hisrepresentative;

(f)Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister or hisrepresentative; and

(g)five persons nominated by the Minister.

8. (1) The Minister may, by Order published in theGazette establish, for the purpose of ensuring the effectiveand proper implementation of the provisions of this Act,administrative zones integrating administrative activitiesof two or more districts, covering the entire island.

(2) There shall be appointed by the Cabinet ofMinisters, to each such zone a Head, of a similar standingto that of a Head of a government department, to be in chargeof each such zone.

PART II

DIVINEGUMA COMMUNITY BASED ORGANIZATIONS

9.There shall be established, for each Grama Niladaridivision or for a portion of a Grama Niladari division or forseveral Grama Niladari divisions as may be specified by theMinister by Order published in the Gazette, divinegumacommunity based organizations with the voluntaryparticipation of divineguma beneficiaries.

Minister toestablishadministrativezones.

Establishment ofdivinegumacommunitybasedorganizations.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 20138

10.The objects of the divineguma community basedorganizations shall be:

(a) to improve the social and economic conditions ofdivineguma members resident within its area ofauthority;

(b)to identify livelihood development opportunitiesand its potential;

(c)to provide assistance and aid that are required forthe livelihood development activities, under theguidance of the Department;

(d)to develop the physical and human resources thatare required for the improvement of the livelihoodactivities;

(e)to provide such opportunities as may be requiredto improve the saving habits of divinegumabeneficiaries;

(f)to expand the opportunities that are available inobtaining micro financial facilities and to improvethe investment capabilities;

(g)to uplift the level of education and skills ofdivineguma beneficiaries and their families;

(h)to provide raw materials, consultancy services andtechnological facilities as may be required for thepromotion of production and productivity;

(i)to provide facilities for storage and processing ofany products of divineguma beneficiaries and forthe promotion of marketing of such products; and

(j)to develop self-confidence, collective responsibilitytowards society, good qualities and values ofdivineguma beneficiaries.

Objects of thedivinegumacommunitybasedorganizations.

9Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

11.The powers of the divineguma community basedorganizations, subject to the direction and supervision ofthe Department, shall be:

(a)to organize divineguma beneficiaries into smallgroups;

(b) to give recognition to such small groups withinthe community based organizations;

(c)to implement a social security programme fordivineguma beneficiaries;

(d)to provide necessary facilities for divinegumabeneficiaries in order to secure loans fromdivineguma community based banks, establishedunder section 25 of this Act;

(e)to supervise and regulate loans obtained bydivineguma beneficiaries for livelihood activities;

(f)to provide resources and facilities for suchprogarmmes as may be implemented to developthe skills and knowledge of its members;

(g)to collect and manage membership fees and savingsof divineguma beneficiaries;

(h)to undertake and implement programmes which arebeing initiated by the Department and otherrecognized institutions for the well being ofdivineguma beneficiaries;

(i)to receive such assistance such as grants and loans,as may be provided by the government, non-governmental and private institutions;

(j)to undertake and execute such contracts which maybe given to divineguma community basedorganizations by the government and otherrecognized institutions in order to raise funds;

Powers of thedivinegumacommunitybasedorganizations.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201310

(k)to undertake and implement developmentprogrammes launched with the labour contributionof the community;

(l) to provide facilities, services and technologicalservices in relation to the purchase of, reprocessing,and value addition to, products;

(m) to maintain sales outlets and storages and toorganize markets and fairs for the promotion ofmarketing;

(n) to utilize human and physical resources of thedivineguma community based organizations forsocial security programmes;

(o) to maintain an office of divineguma communitybased organizations; and

(p) to possess and hold, any property movable orimmovable which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise.

12.The functions of divineguma community basedorganizations shall be:

(a)to encourage and provide guidance to its membersto organize themselves into small groups whichoperate with mutual co-operation;

(b)to motivate its members to enhance their savinghabits and develop livelihood activities and toprovide assistance for such activities;

(c)to implement such programmes as may be requiredfor the development of vocational skills andknowledge of its members;

(d)to organize shramadana activities with theparticipation of its members; and

(e)to provide facilities for the production andmarketing activities.

Functions of thedivinegumacommunitybasedorganizations.

11Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

13.The funds of divineguma community basedorganizations shall be deposited and maintained in adivineguma community based bank in accordance with suchregulations as may be prescribed by the Minister.

14.Where a divineguma community basedorganization is not functional in the accomplishment of itsobjects, the Director- General shall, in consultation with thedevineguma regional organization to which such defunctdivineguma community based organization belongs, causesuch defunct divineguma community based organization tobe merged with the nearest functional divinegumacommunity based organization or appoint an officer of theDepartment to perform the functions of such organizationwithout interruption.

PART III

DIVINEGUMA REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

15.(1) There shall be established such number ofdivineguma regional organizations as may be necessary,comprising of not less than five divienguma communitybased organizations for the purpose of supervising,monitoring and evaluating the functions of suchorganisations at regional level.

(2)Every divineguma regional organization shallconsist of the following members:-

(a)chairman of each divineguma community basedorganization;

(b)officer of the Department in charge of a region;

(c)Senior Manager of the divineguma communitybased banking societies established under section29 of this Act; and

(d)three persons involved in the development activitiesof the area to be nominated by the Director-General.

Maintenance offunds ofdivinegumacommunitybasedorganizations.

Appointment ofan officer toperform thefunctions ofdivinegumacommunitybasedorganizations.

Establishment ofdivinegumaregionalorganizations.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201312

(3) The Chairman and Secretary of each such divinegumaregional organization shall be elected from among themembers referred to in subsection (2).

(4) The Divisional Secretary of the Division, within whosearea of authority each such divineguma regionalorganization is established, shall function as an Advisor toeach such divineguma regional organization.

16.The objects of every divineguma regionalorganization, under the guidance and supervision of theDepartment, shall be:

(a)to provide necessary assistance to any divinegumacommunity based organization to carry out theirlivelihood development activities;

(b)to develop such human resources as may benecessary for the development of activities relatingto the upliftment of livelihood of its members;

(c)to assist the Department in promoting andmonitoring micro- financial activities within its areaof authority;

(d)to purchase products, reprocess and add value tothe same and provide facilities for storage,processing and marketing of such products atregional level; and

(e)develop human personality, collective work,virtuous and spiritual qualities of the divinegumabeneficiaries.

17. Each divineguma regional organization shall,under the guidance and supervision of the Department, havethe power:

(a)to carry out such studies as may be necessary andcollect information, in respect of economic and

Objects of thedivinegumaregionalorganizations.

Powers ofdivinegumaregionalorganizations.

13Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

social development activities within its area ofauthority;

(b)to review any livelihood development activitiescarried out by any divineguma community basedorganizations;

(c) to provide such assistance as may be necessary inpromoting the micro-financial activities within itsarea of authority;

(d)to provide such assistance as may be necessary toany divineguma community based organizationsin organizing and implementing programmesrequired for the development of vocational skillsand know-how;

(e)to provide such technical assistance and otherservices as may be necessary for the developmentof agricultural or any other products of itsbeneficiaries in the region;

(f)to maintain centres for the purchase, storage andmarketing of products and raw-material andorganize trading centres and shopping centres;

(g)to monitor and regulate all activities of divinegumacommunity based organizations;

(h)to establish and maintain a fund of suchorganizations subject to such regulations as maybe prescribed by the Minister ;

(i)to undertake and implement such projects launchedby the Department and any other recognizedinstitution;

(j)to accept aid, grants and loans offered bygovernmental and non-governmental organizationssubject to such regulations as may be prescribedby the Minster;

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201314

(k)to undertake and perform any contract offered bythe Department or other recognized institutionsubject to such directions as may be issued by theDepartment;

(l)to establish and maintain an office of thediveneguma regional organizations;

(m)to deposit moneys of the divineguma regionalorganization in a divineguma community basedbanking society and maintain accounts of suchdeposits;

(n)to utilize human and physical resources of theorganization for the social security programmes;and

(o)to possess and hold, any property movable orimmovable which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise.

18. The functions of the divineguma regionalorganization, under the guidance and supervision of theDepartment, shall be:

(a)to provide guidance and encouragement in respectof small group programmes being conducted bythe divineguma community based organizations;

(b)to supervise and monitor the savings of thedivineguma community based organizations;

(c)to provide such assistance as may be necessary tosuch divineguma community based organizationswhich are situated within its area of authority, forthe advancement of livelihood developmentactivities carried out by such organizations andsupervise and monitor the same;

Functions of thedivinegumaregionalorganizations.

15Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

(d)to organize and implement regional levelprogrammes needed for the development ofvocational skills and know-how of its members;

(e)to provide raw-material, technology and otherrelated services for the development of products atregional level and provide facilities for marketingof the same;

(f)to provide assistance for the social securityprogramme being implemented by the divenegumacommunity based organizations;

(g)to assist in the preparation of the progress report ofthe Department in respect of the respective region;and

(h)to liaise with other governmental, non-governmental and private organizations at regionallevel for the purpose of achieving the objects ofdivineguma regional organizations .

PART IV

DIVINEGUMA DISTRICT COMMITTEES

19.(1) There shall be established for the purpose of thisAct, divineguma district committees representing alldivineguma regional organizations functional within adistrict.

(2) Each such district committee shall consist of thefollowing members:

(a)all chairmen and secretaries of all divinegumaregional organizations within each such district;

(b)Senior Managers of all divineguma bankingsocieties established under section 29 of this Actwithin each such district;

Establishment ofdivinegumadistrictcommittees.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201316

(c)the officer of the Department, who is in charge of arespective district; and

(d)three persons involved in the developmentactivities of the district to be nominated by theDirector-General.

(3)The District Secretary, within whose area ofauthority each such divineguma district committee isestablished, shall function as an Advisor to each suchdivineguma district committee.

20. The objects of a divineguma district committee,under the guidance and supervision of the Depatment,shall be:

(a)to take such measures as may be necessary toachieve such objects as are specified in this Actthrough divineguma regional organizations anddivineguma community based organizations;

(b)to supervise, monitor and evaluate programmes ofdivineguma community based organizations anddivineguma regional organizations in the respectivedistrict;

(c)to secure the co-operation of the other district levelorganizations in relation to the divinegumaregional organizations and community basedorganizations; and

(d)to co-ordinate the programmes of divinegumacommunity based organizations and regionalorganizations functioning in the respective district.

21. The powers of each divineguma district committeeshall be:

(a)to convene and conduct committee meetings oncein every three months;

Objects ofdivinegumadistrictcommittees.

Powers of thedivinegumadistrictcommittees.

17Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

(b)to obtain reports from divineguma regional andcommunity based organizations in the respectivedistrict;

(c)to assist the Department in the supervision,monitoring and evaluation of the divinegumacommunity based organizations; and

(d)to conduct a study on divineguma developmentprogramme for and on behalf of the Departmentand forward such development proposals as maybe required to the Department.

22.The functions of each divineguma district committeeshall be:-

(a)to conduct studies on divineguma developmentprogrammes and projects in the respective district;

(b)to co-ordinate with such other district levelgovernmental, non- governmental and privateinstitutions as may be required in carrying outdivineguma development programme;

(c)to consider proposals and views for the efficientfunctioning of the divineguma developmentprogramme in the respective district and forwardthe same to the Department; and

(d)to prepare monthly a progress review report inrespect of the respective district and conveneprogress review meetings.

PART V

DIVINEGUMA NATIONAL FEDERATION

23.There shall be established a Divineguma NationalFederation consisting of representatives of all divinegumacommunity based organizations. The Minister shall presideat every meeting of the Divineguma National Federation.

Functions ofdivinegumadistrictcommittees.

Establishment ofthe DivinegumaNationalFederation.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201318

24.The object of the Divineguma National Federationshall be to consider proposals and views needed for nationalpolicy planning, co-ordination of divineguma developmentprogramme at national level and provide leadership for theimplementation of divineguma development programme.

PART VI

DIVINEGUMA COMMUNITY BASED BANKS

25.(1) There shall be established divinegumacommunity based banks for each such area covering thearea of authority of one or more divineguma communitybased organizations in order to promote micro-financialservices among its beneficiaries.

(2) The Minister shall prescribe the registration procedureof such banks and any other matter in relation to suchprocedure.

(3) Every such bank shall by the name assigned to it be abody corporate and shall have perpetual succession and acommon seal and may sue and be sued in that name.

(4) It shall be the duty of every such bank to comply withsuch regulations as may be made by the Minister.

26.The objects of the divineguma community basedbanks shall be :

(a)to promote the habit of savings among divinegumabeneficiaries ;

(b)to develop investment potential;

(c)to enhance income by developing the productionpotential; and

(d)to provide credit facilities to divinegumabeneficiaries.

Establishment of divinegumacommunitybased banks.

Objects of thedivinegumacommunitybased banks.

Object of theDivinegumaNationalFederation.

19Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

27.Every divineguma community based bank shallhave the power :

(a)to open, maintain and close membership accounts,accept deposits and issue bank pass books todivineguma beneficiaries and to members of suchbanks;

(b)to provide credit facilities with or without securities,recover loans, manage and operate the same;

(c)accept funds of divineguma community basedorganizations and manage the same;

(d)to maintain accounts of such subsidies and suchmoneys as may be provided by the Government ;

(e)to invest funds of the divineguma community basedbanks in divineguma banking societies; and

(f)to possess and hold, any property movable orimmovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise.

28.The functions of the divineguma community basedbanks shall be :

(a)to motivate divineguma beneficiaries to save;

(b)to provide loans to divineguma beneficiaries atindividual and group levels;

(c)to educate divineguma beneficiaries on financialmanagement;

(d)to ensure welfare of the depositors and members oftheir families;

(e)to develop a banking culture among its customers;and

(f)to distribute such subsidies as may be provided bythe government.

Powers ofdivinegumacommunitybased banks.

Functions ofdivinegumacommunitybased banks.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201320

PART VII

DIVINEGUMA COMMUNITY BASED BANKING SOCIETIES

29.(1) There shall be established for the purposes ofthis Act, divineguma community based banking societiescomprising of all divineguma community based banks withinthe area of authority of each divineguma regionalorganization, in order to establish a viable micro-financialbanking network at regional level.

(2) The Minister shall prescribe the registration procedureof such banking society and any other matter in relation tosuch procedure.

(3) Every such banking society shall by the nameassigned to it be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued inthat name.

(4) It shall be the duty of every such banking society tocomply with such regulations as may be made by theMinister.

30. The objects of divineguma community based bankingsocieties shall be :

(a)to set up a viable regional banking network co-ordinating divineguma community based banks;

(b)to provide such financial assistance which isrequired for livelihood development; and

(c)to motivate divineguma beneficiaries to engage informal micro-financial banking activities.

31.The divineguma community based bankingsocieties shall have the power:

(a)to accept deposits of the divineguma communitybased banks ;

(b)to invest its funds, grant credit facilities and disburseprofits;

Establishment ofdivinegumacommunitybased bankingsocieties.

Objects ofdivinegumacommunitybased bankingsocieties.

Powers ofdivinegumacommunitybased bankingsocieties.

21Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

(c)to provide such facilities and training as are neededfor the promotion of the divineguma communitybased banks;

(d)to maintain accounts of divineguma communitybased banks and manage such subsidies as may beprovided by the government;

(e)to supervise and regulate the divinegumacommunity based banking activities subject to suchdirections as may be issued by the Board ofManagement; and

(f)to possess and hold, any property movable orimmovable which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise.

32. The functions of divineguma community basedbanking societies shall be:

(a)to collect the deposits maintained by divinegumacommunity based banks and manage the same;

(b)to take such steps as may be necessary to develop amicro-financial culture among divinegumabeneficiaries; and

(c)to function as a regional institution for thesuccessful operation of the divineguma communitybased banking activities.

33. (1) The Minister shall appoint for the purpose ofthe supervision and regulation of the financial activities ofthe divineguma community based banks and divinegumacommunity based banking societies, a Board ofManagement of the Divineguma Community Based Banksand Divineguma Community Based Banking Societies (inthis Act referred to as the "Board of management").

(2) The Board of Management shall consist of :

(i)the following ex-officio members namely:-

(a)the Director-General of the Department whoshall be the Chairman;

Functions ofdivinegumacommunitybased bankingsocieties.

Board ofManagement ofdivinegumacommunitybased banks anddivinegumacommunitybased bankingsocieties.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201322

(b)a representative of the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister to whom the subjectof Finance is assigned;

(c)the Director in charge of the banking affairsof the Department;

(d)a representative to be appointed by theGovernor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;

(e)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministeror his representative; and

(ii)three persons to be appointed by the Minister(hereinafter referred to as the "appointed members").

(3) The term of office of every appointed member shallbe three years.

(4)An appointed member may resign his office byletter addressed to the Minister and such resignationshall be effective from the date on which it is acceptedby the Minister.

(5)The Minister may for reasons assigned thereforremove an appointed member from office.

(6)In the event of a vacancy occurring due to thedeath, resignation, incapacity or removal from office ofan appointed member, the Minister shall, having regard tothe provisons of sub section (1), appoint another member inhis place.

(7) A member appointed under subsection (6) shallhold office for the unexpired part of the term of office ofthe member whom he succeeds.

(8) The appointed members may be paid suchremuneration as the Minister, in consultation with theMinister to whom the subject of Finance is assigned, shalldetermine.

(9) The Board of Management shall, for the purpose ofsupervision and regulation of financial activities of such banksand banking societies have the power to issue directions fromtime to time, to such banks and banking societies.

23Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

(10) The Board of Management shall, in the discharge ofits duties, be subject to such regulations as may be prescribedby the Minister.

34.There shall be established for the purpose of thisAct, a Divineguma Community Based Banking Unionconsisting of all Divineguma community based Banks anddivineguma community based banking socities.

35. The provisions of the Banking Act, No.30 of 1988and the Finance Business Act, No.42 of 2011 shall not applyin respect of banks and banking societies established underthe provisions of this Act.

PART VIII

FUNDS OF THE DEPARTMENT

36. (1) There shall be established, for the purpose of thisAct, a fund called "Divineguma Development Fund". Thereshall be credited to such Fund all such sums of money asmay be provided from time to time by the Government :

(2) (a)All grants and donations received by theDepartment;

(b)all gifts and other contributions made by thebanks and banking societies established underthis Act;

(c)such percentage of money as may be prescribedby the Minister, of the profit of the banks andbanking societies established under this Act; and

(d)any other money that may be received underthis Act,

shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund and shallthereafter, with the approval of the Parliament, becredited to the Divineguma Development Fund.

DivinegumaDevelopmentFund.

Finance BusinessAct, No.42 of2011andBanking Act,No. 30 of 1988not to apply.

DivinegumaCommunityBased BankingUnion.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201324

DistrictSecretaries to beAdditionalDirector-General.

Declaration ofSecrecy.

(3) The moneys lying to the credit of the above Fundmay be utilized for such purposes and in such manner asmay be prescribed by the Minister from time to time.

37.(1) There shall be established for the purpose ofthis Act, a fund called "Divineguma Revolving Fund".

(2) All monies lying, on the date immediately prior tothe appointed date, to the credit of the revolving fund of, theSamurdhi Authority of Sri Lanka established under theSamurdhi Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 30 of 1995, theSouthern Development Authority of Sri Lanka establishedunder the Southern Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 18 of 1996 and the Udarata Development Authorityof Sri Lanka established under the Udarata DevelopmentAuthority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 26 of 2005 shall stand, witheffect from the appointed date, transferred to the DivinegumaRevolving Fund established under this Act.

PART IX

GENERAL

38. The District Secretary of each district shall functionas an Additional Director-General of the Department inrespect of the respective district.

39. The Director-General, Additional Directors-General,every Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director andofficers and servants of the Department, shall before enteringupon his duties sign a declaration pledging himself toobserve strict secrecy respecting all matters connected withthe working of the Department and shall by such declarationpledge himself not to disclose any matters which may cometo his knowledge in the discharge of his functions, except -

(a)when required to do so by a court of law; or

(b)in order to comply with any of the provisions ofthis Act or any other written law.

DivinegumaRevolving Fund.

25Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

40.(1) For the purposes of enabling the Department toexercise and discharge any of its powers and functions underthis Act, the Department or any person authorized in thatbehalf by the Department may, by notice in writing requireany person to furnish to the Department or to the personauthorized by the Department, within such period as shallbe specified in the notice, such returns and information asshall be specified in such notice and require any person tobe present before the Department.

(2) It shall be the duty of any person who is required bya notice under subsection (1), to furnish any return orinformation or to be present before the Department to complywith the requirements of such notice within the periodspecified in such notice, except where such person isprohibited from furnishing such returns or information underthe provisions of any other written law.

(3) No information contained in a return furnished incompliance with a notice issued under subsection (1) shallbe published or communicated by the Department or anyofficer, servant or agent of the Department to any otherperson except with the consent of the person furnishing suchreturn or information or in the course of the discharge of thefunctions of the Department.

(4) Every person who makes any statement before theDepartment shall in respect of such statement, be entitledto all the privileges to which a witness giving evidencebefore a court of law is entitled in respect of evidence givenby him before such court.

41.Any person who acts in contravention of any of theprovisions of this Act or any regulation, rule or directionmade or issued thereunder, shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act and shall on conviction after summary trialby a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twothousand five hundred rupees or to imprisonment for a termnot exceeding two years.

42.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thematters required by this Act to be prescribed and for mattersin respect of which regulations are authorized to be made.

Returns andInformation.

Offences.

Regulations.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201326

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of powersconferred by subsection (1), the Minister may makeregulations in respect of all or any of the following matters:-

(a)the constitution and administrative structure of thedivineguma community based orgnizations andmatters connected with such constitution andadministrative structure;

(b)the constitution and administrative structure ofthe divineguma regional orgnizations and mattersconnected with such constitution andadministrative structure;

(c)the constitution and administrative structure ofthe Divineguma Community Based BankingUnion and matters connected therewith orincidental thereto;

(d)registration of divineguma community basedbanks, requirements to be fulfilled with respect tosuch registration and cancellation of suchregistration and banking activities of thedivineguma community based banks and mattersconnected therewith or incidental thereto;

(e)registration of divineguma community basedbanking societies, requirements to be fulfilled withrespect to such registration and cancellation of suchregistration and activities of the divinegumacommunity based banking societies and mattersconnected therewith or incidental thereto;

(f)criteria in respect of the selection of divinegumabeneficiaries;

(g)criteria to be a member of divineguma communitybased organizations and diveneguma communitybased banks;

27Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

(h)criteria in respect of the supervision, regulation andevaluation of divineguma community basedorganizations, divineguma community based banksand divineguma community based bankingsocieties;

(i)delimitation of the area of authority ofimplementation and administration of divinegumaprogrammes at rural, regional or district levels;

(j)all matters connected with the DivinegumaDevelopment Fund and the Divineguma RevolvingFund;

(k)all matters connected with the funds maintainedby divineguma community based organizations,divineguma regional organizations, divinegumacommunity based banks and divinegumacommunity based banking societies;

(l)the procedure for the settlement of disputes thatmay arise when giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act and matters connectedtherewith or incidental thereto; and

(m)the use of a common logo for divinegumaprogrammes.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall no laterthan three months after its publication in the Gazette bebrought before the Parliament for approval. Any regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescindedfrom the date of such disapproval but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date of such disapproval shall bepublished in the Gazette.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201328

43.(1) The Director -General may, in consultation withthe Divineguma National Council, make rules in respect ofpolicy and management of affairs of the Department.

(2) Every rule made by the Director-General shall notcome into operation until it is approved by the Cabinet ofMinisters.

(3) Every rule so approved shall be published in theGazette.

PART X

REPEALS AND SAVINGS

44.The Samurdhi Development Authority Act, No.30of 1995, the Southern Development Authority Act, No.18 of1996 and the Udarata Development Authority Act, No.26 of2005 are hereby repealed. Notwithstanding the repeal ofthe aforesaid Acts:-

(a)all activities carried out by the Commissioner-General under the repealed Samurdhi DevelopmentAuthority Act, No. 30 of 1995, in theimplementation of the poverty alleviationprogrammes and other programmes of thegovernment, shall be deemed to be carried out andshall continue to be carried out, under this Act;

(b)all property movable and immovable, belongingto the Samurdhi Development Authority, SouthernDevelopment Authority and Udarata DevelopmentAuthoirty established under the repealed Acts(hereinafter reffered to as the said Authorities)as at the date immediately prior to the appointeddate shall with effect from the appointed date vestin and be deemed to be the property of theGovernment;

(c)all suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings, mattersor things which have been instituted by or against

Repeal of theSamurdhiDevelopmentAuthority Act,No.30 of 1995,the SouthernDevelopmentAuthority Act,No.18 of 1996and the UdarataDevelopmentAuthority Act,No.26 of 2005and savings.

Rules.

29Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

the said Authorities and which are pending as atthe date immediately prior to the appointed dateshall with effect from the appointed date be deemedto be suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings,matters or things which have been instituted by oragainst the Government;

(d)any decree, order or award entered or made infavour of or against the said Authorities by anycourt or tribunal or other body in any action, matter,proceeding or thing shall with effect from theappointed date be deemed to be a decree, order oraward entered or made in favour of or against theGovernment and may be enforced accordingly;

(e)such officer or servant in the employment of thesaid Authorities, as at the date immediately prior tothe appointed date shall-

(i)where such officer or servant does not opt tojoin the service of the Department and optsfor voluntary resignation from the service,such officer or servant be paid suchcompensation which shall be paid in terms ofa voluntary retrenchment scheme as shall beprescribed by the Minister;

(ii)where such officer or servant opts to join,with effect from the date of appointment tosuch posts in the respective authority, theservice of the Department, such officer orservant, be deemed with effect from such dateof appointment and subject to the approvalof the Public Service Commission, to be anofficer or a servant of the Department andbe eligible for a pension under the provisionsof Minutes on Pensions taking intoconsideration the contributions made by therespective Authorities to such Provident Fund;

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201330

(iii)where such of officer or servant opts to jointhe services of the Department-

(aa)if such officer or servant is eligible forthe receipt of any sum of money underthe Employees Provident Fund Act,No. 15 of 1958; and

(bb)if such officer or servant is eligible forthe receipt of any sum of money underthe Employees Trusts Fund Act, No. 46of 1980,

such officer or servant shall recover such sumof money and may, subject to the approval ofthe Public Service Commission, join theservice of the Department. Such officer orservant shall, with effect from the date ofappointment to the service of the Department,be deemed to be an officer or a servant of theDepartmeant. Further, the date on which suchofficer or servant is appointed to the serviceof the Department, shall be deemed to be thedate for the purpose of computation of thepension; or

(iv)where such officer or servant who opts tojoin the service of the Department and alsoopts to contribute to the EmployeesProvident Fund and the Employees TrustFund, such officer or servant shall, subject tothe approval of the Public ServiceCommission, with effect from the appointeddate, be deemed to be an officer or a servantof the Department and shall continue tocontribute to the same :

Provided however, such officer or servantshall not be entitled to a pension under theprovisions of Minutes on Pensions ;

31Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

(f)all debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurred,all contracts and agreements executed or enforcedinto and all matters and things engaged or agreedto be done by, with or for the said Authorities andall licences issued for and on behalf of the saidAuthorities, as at the date immediately prior to theappointed date shall, with effect from theappointed date be deemed to be debts, obligations,assets and liabilites incurred, all contracts andagreements executed or enforced into and all mattersand things engaged or agreed to be done by, withor for, and licences issued for and on behalf of, theGovernment ;

(g)all samurdhi banking societies and samurdhibanking federations that are in operation on thedate immediately prior to the appointed date shall,with effect from the appointed date be deemed tobe divineguma community based banks anddivineguma community based banking societiesrespectively;

(h)every person who has applied for, or is in receipt of,any welfare benefit, from Samurdhi Authority orSamurdhi Commissioner General in terms of anywritten law or otherwise, shall notwithstandinganything to the contrary in this Act, be eligible toapply for the receipt of or continue to receive, suchbenefit under the provisions of this Act.

45.The trusts and funds established for any object byor under the Samurdhi Development Authority of Sri Lankaestablished under the repealed Act, No. 30 of 1995, SouthernDevelopment Authority of Sri Lanka established under therepealed Act, No. 18 of 1996, Udarata DevelopmentAuthority of Sri Lanka established under the repealed Act,No. 26 of 2005, shall be managed by the Department ensuringthat there shall be no change with regard to the object andthe purpose for which such trusts and funds were establishedand the beneficiaries.

Trusts and fundsunder therepealed Acts tobe deemed to betrusts and fundsunder this Act.

Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 201332

46.In the event of any conflict or inconsistencybetween the provisions of this Act and the provisions of anyother written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

47.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-

"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Sri Lankaestablished under the Monetary Law Act,(Chapter 422);

"community" means plantation, urban or industrialsectors of the public;

"divineguma beneficiary" means any person whoobtains any kind of benefit or assistance underany programme, project or activity carried outby any divineguma community basedorganization or divineguma regionalorganization;

"micro-finance" means a type of banking servicethat is provided to employed or low-incomeindividuals or groups who would otherwisehave no other means of gaining financialservices;

"Minister" means the Minister to whom thesubject of Divineguma is assigned ; and

"National Lotteries Board" means the NationalLotteries Board established under the NationalLotteries Board Act, No. 11 of 1963.

48.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

This Act toprevail overother writtenlaw.

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

33Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.