PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

UDARATA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITYOF SRI LANKA ACT, No. 26 OF 2005

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th August, 2005]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 16.25Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 26, 2005

1Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

2PL 0003275,650 (06/2005)

Short title anddate ofoperation.

[Certified on 24th August, 2005]

L. D.O. 19/2004

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE UDARATADEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA FOR THE PURPOSE OF

IDENTIFYING, FORMULATING AND CO-ORDINATING THE IMPLEMENTATION

OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS WITHIN THE UDARATA AREA, AND FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Udarata DevelopmentAuthority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 26 of 2005 and shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may, appoint byOrder published in the Gazette.

CHAPTER I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE UDARATA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OFSRI LANKA

2.(1) There shall be established an Authority which shallbe called the Udarata Development Authority of Sri Lanka(hereinafter referred to as the Authority).

(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it by subsection(1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue be sued in such name.

3.(1) For the purposes of this Act, the area of authority ofthe Authority shall be limited to any area falling within theAdministrative Districts of Kandy, Matale, Nuwara Eliya,Kegalle, Ratnapura, Badulla, Monaragala and Ampara.

(2) The Minister may from time to time by Order publishedin the Gazette identify any Divisional Secretaries Divisionor part thereof, falling within any one of the aforesaidAdministrative Districts, to be a designated area for thepurposes of this Act :

Provided however, that the Authority may maintain branchoffices and engage in any other activity outside thedesignated area, insofar as the same is necessary for theattainment of the objects of this Act.

Establishment ofthe UdarataDevelopmentAuthority of SriLanka.

Area ofauthority.

2Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

4.The management of the affairs of the Authority shallbe vested in a Board of Management appointed by thePresident (hereinafter referred to as the Board), which shallconsist of the following :

(a)ex-officio members, namely-

(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Udarata Development ;

(ii) an officer holding the position of the DeputySecretary to the Treasury of the Ministry ofthe Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance, nominated by such Minister ;

(iii) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of PlantationInfrastructure, nominated by such Minister; and

(b)five members appointed by the President on therecommendation of the Minister, (hereinafter referredto as the appointed members).

5.(1) The President shall nominate a member to be theChairman of the Authority (hereinafter referred to as theChairman) from amongst the members of the Board.

(2) Where the Chairman by reason of illness or absencefrom Sri Lanka is temporarily unable to perform the duties ofhis office, the President may appoint another member of theBoard to act in his place.

(3) The President may for reasons assigned, remove theChairman from the office of the Chairman.

(4) The Chairman may resign from office by letteraddressed to the President and such resignation shall beeffective from the date on which it is accepted by thePresident.

Constitution ofthe Board ofManagement ofthe Authority.

Chairman of theAuthority.

3Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

6.A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as member of the Board if

(a)he is or becomes a member of Parliament orProvincial Council or local authority ;

(b)he is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

(c)he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in anyother country found or declared to be of unsoundmind ;

(d)he is serving or has served a sentence ofimprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lanka orany other country ;

(e)he holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by or on behalf of the Authority ;

(f)he is a person having been declared as an insolventor a bankrupt person under any law in Sri Lanka orany other country and is an undischarged insolventor bankrupt.

7.(1) An appointed member may resign his office byletter addressed to the President and such resignation shallbe effective from the date on which it is accepted by thePresident.

(2) The President may for reasons assigned, remove anappointed member from office.

(3) Where an appointed member dies, resigns or isremoved from office the President shall, having regard to theprovisions of section 4, appoint another member in his place.

(4) A member appointed under subsection (3) shall holdoffice for the unexpired period of the term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

Disqualificationfrom being amember of theBorad.

Removal andresignation ofappointedmembers.

4Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

8.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and(2) of section 7 the term of office of an appointed member ofthe Board shall be five years and such member shall beeligible for re-appointment.

(2) An appointed member who has been removed fromoffice shall not be eligible for re-appointment as a memberof the Board or to serve the Authority in any othercapacity.

9.(1) The Chairman of the Authority shall, if presentpreside at every meeting of the Board. In the absence of theChairman from any such meeting, the members presentshall elect one of the members present to preside at suchmeeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be fourmembers.

(3) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Board may regulate the procedure in regard to themeetings of the Board and the transaction of business atsuch meetings.

10.The members of the Board shall be paid remunerationout of the Fund of the Authority at such rates as may bedetermined by the Minister, with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

11.No act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall bedeemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of anyvacancy in the Board or of any defect in the appointment ofany member thereof.

12.In the exercise of its powers, discharge of itsfunctions and performance of its duties, the Authority shallcomply with the general policy of the Government and withany general or special directions issued to it by the Ministerin relation to the implementation of such policy.

Term of office ofmembers.

Meetings of theBoard.

Remuneration ofmembers.

Acts notinvalidated byreason of avacancy.

Authority tocomply with thegeneral policy ofthe Government.

5Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

13.(1) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custodyof such person as the Board may from time to time decide .

(2) The seal of the Authority may be altered in such manneras may be determined by the Board.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except in the presence of the Chairman,and one other member of the Board both of whom shall signthe instrument or document in token of their presence :

Provided that where the Chairman is unable to be presentat the time when the seal of the Authority is affixed to anyinstrument or document, any other member of the Boardauthorized in writing by the Chairman in that behalf, shall becompetent to sign such instrument or document in accordancewith the preceding provisions of this subsection.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instrumentsand documents to which the seal of the Authority is affixed.

CHAPTER II

OBJECTS OF THE AUTHORITY AND POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS

OF THE BOARD

14.The objects of the Authority shall be to :

(a)plan and implement development projects withinany designated area to improve productivity, fostereconomic, social, cultural and environmentaldevelopment and generate income and employmentopportunities ;

(b)carry out detailed studies of the projects identifiedin the overall development plan for the designatedarea, on a priority basis ;

(c)identify groups of people handicapped due tohistorical, social and other factors and prepareproposals, raise funds and execute projects to uplifttheir social and economic conditions ;

Seal of theAuthority.

Objects of theAuthority.

6Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(d)extend special attention to the preservation of thecity of Kandy, its heritage, cultural institutions,environment and infrastructure in consideration ofits historical significance, cultural and economicimportance to the entire nation ;

(e)secure the co-operation of government departments,state institutions, local authorities, publiccorporations, provincial authorities and otherpersons natural or legal whether private or public,in carrying out studies referred to in paragraph (b)and in the implementation of development projectswithin any designated area ; and

(f)secure the participation of foreign and local privatesector agencies, in carrying out detailed studiesreferred to in paragraph (b) and the implementationof development projects within any designated area.

15.For the purpose of carrying out the objects of theAuthority, the Board may exercise, perform and discharge allor any of the following powers, duties and functions :

(a)identify and approve development projects forimplementation within any designated area ;

(b)secure and obtain technical and financial assistancefrom local and foreign sources in carrying out theobjects of the Authority ;

(c)obtain local and foreign assistance in carrying outstudies aimed at implementing developmentprojects within any designated area ;

(d)require any Ministry, government department orother agency responsible for the implementation ofthe projects being carried on in any designated area,to co-operate in the planning and implementationof such projects ;

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Board.

7Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(e)request any Ministry, government department orother agency to take over, maintain and operate anydevelopment project of the Authority ;

(f)establish its own divisions or agencies as arenecessary for the discharge of its functions withinany designated area ;

(g)carry out research relating to the economic, social,cultural and environmental development of thedesignated areas ;

(h)prepare an environmental impact assessment reportin respect of any development project to beimplemented within any designated area ;

(i)award in accordance with the tender procedure laiddown by the government from time to time, tendersfor the procurement of goods and services necessaryfor the implementation of the developmentprojects ;

(j)impose or levy a charge for the services rendered bythe Authority within the designated area ;

(k)purchase, acquire, erect, maintain, reconstructor adopt any offices, plants, machinery orother material that may become necessaryfor the implementation of any developmentproject ;

(l)implement development projects through anypublic or private institution or jointly by privateand public institutions ;

(m)to borrow or raise money or secure obligations fromsources in Sri Lanka as is necessary for theimplementation of any development project ;

8Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(n)to acquire and hold any movable or immovableproperty;

(o)in collaboration with relevant Ministries, take suchmeasures as may be necessary for water -shedmanagement and control of soil erosion ;

(p)in collaboration with the relevant Ministries andprivate entrepreneurs manage farms and engage infarming, agricultural and horticultural activites ;

(q)provide advisory and farmer training services toimprove cultivation techniques, water management,soil management, and preservation of the physicalenvironment ;

(r)in collaboration with State and Private Banks,manage and operate schemes of supervised credit tofarmers ;

(s)provide agricultural inputs such as seed materials,fertilizers, agro-chemicals, power, agriculturalmachinery and equipment to farmers ;

(t)in collaboration with the relevant Ministries,facilitate or contract research relating to thedevelopment of agriculture and agro-based specificagricultural or related activities ;

(u)promote the establishment of agro-based or relatedindustrial and commercial enterprises ;

(v)promote the establishment of marketing services forthe purchase, storage, processing and sale of farmand other produce ;

(w)promote manufacture and trade of any plant,machinery, tools, goods or things of any description ;

9Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(x)import, export, buy, sell and otherwise deal in goods,produce, articles or merchandise ;

(y)acquire by subscription, purchase or otherwise andto accept and take, hold and sell, shares or stock inany company, society or undertaking such as maybe likely to promote or advance the objects of theAuthority ;

(z)accept any stocks or shares in or debentures or othersecurities of any company in payment or partpayment for any sale made to, or debt owing from,any such company ;

(aa)promote, invest and participate in subsidiarycompanies in order to achieve the objects of theAuthority ; and

(bb)subject to the provisions of the Constitution andany other written law, do all such other acts as maybe incidental or conducive to the attainment of theobjects of the Authority or the exercise of its powersunder this Act.

16.(1) The Board shall have the power to enter into anyagreement with any government department, ProvincialCouncil, local authority or any other body, or person whetherprivate or public, including joint ventures, for the purpose ofexercising, performing and discharging the powers, dutiesand functions of the Authority.

(2) Every such agreement shall be in writing and shallupon registration with the Authority constitute a valid andbinding contract between the Authority and such govermentdeparment, local authority or other body or person.

17.The Board may, in writing under the seal of theAuthority or in such other manner as may be provided by therules made by the Authority, empower any other person eithergenerally or in respect of any specific matter, to act for and onbehalf of the Authority, in any place outside Sri Lanka.

Powers of theBoard to enterinto anyagreement.

Empowering ofpersons to act forAuthorityoutside SriLanka.

10Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

18.(1) Where the Board considers it necessary for thepurposes of this Act, it may with the approval of the Presidentin or in relation to a designated area give special or generaldirections to any government department or corporation afterconsultation with such department or corporation to performand discharge such duties and functions relating to theimplementation of any development project as the Authoritymay determine.

(2) It shall be lawful for any such department or corporationto whom any such direction is given by the Authority undersubsection (1) to comply with such direction.

(3) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution, adepartment or corporation to which any direction is givenunder subsection (1), shall be subject to the supervision andcontrol of the Authority in respect of all matters connectedwith such direction.

19.(1) Where any land or any interest in any land withinany designated area is required by the Authority for theimplementation of any of the projects and the Minister byOrder published in the Gazette approves of the proposedacquisition, that land or interest in any land may accordinglybe acquired under the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460)and be transferred to the Authority, as if such land or interestin land is required for a public purpose :

Provided however, where any land or any interest in anyland of an estate situated within the designated area is requiredby the Authority the Minister shall consult the Minister incharge of the subject of Plantation Infrastructure, beforepublishing an Order, under this section for the acquisition ofsuch land or interest in such land.

(2) In any case where any land or any interest in any landwithin any designated area is to be acquired under the LandAcquisition Act for any purpose of the Authority and publicnotice of the intention to acquire that land or interest is

Power of Boardto issuedirections to anygovernmentdepartment orcorporation.

Compulsoryacquisition ofland.

11Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

published as required by the aforesaid Act at any time withinperiod of three years commencing from the date ofpublication of the Order under subsection (1), the followingprovisions shall apply for the purpose of determining theamount of compensation to be paid in respect of that land orinterest, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in thatAct

(a)the market value of the land shall be deemed to bethe market value the land would have had on thedate of publication of such Order, if it then were inthe same condition as it is in the time of acquisition,increased by a reasonable amount on account ofbona fide improvements if any, effected to such landafter such date ;

(b)in ascertaining the market value of the land at thedate of publication of such Order, no account shallbe taken of any benefit or increase in value whichmay have accrued, or any expectation of benefit orincrease in value likely to accrue directly orindirectly, from any development work or otheroperation of the Authority in pursuance of theprovisions of this Act.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2),where any person suffers loss or damage to his permanentresidence or livelihood, due to the acquisition of any land orany interest in any land situated within the designated area,such person shall, in addition to the compensation paid tosuch person under subsection (2) be compensated inaccordance with the National Involuntary Resettlement Policyof the Government.

(4) Any sum payable as compensation for the acquisitionof any land or interest in any land under subsection (1) forthe purposes of the Authority shall be paid by theAuthority.

12Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

20.(1) Where any immovable property of the State isrequired for any purpose of the Authority, such purpose shallbe deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or leasemay be made under section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordinance(Chapter 454) and the provisions of that Ordinance shallaccordingly apply to a special grant or lease of such propertyto the Authority.

(2) Where any movable property of the State is requiredfor any purpose of the Authority, the Minister may by Orderpublished in the Gazette, transfer to, and vest in the Authoritythe possession and use of such movable property :

Provided however, that no Order affecting any movableproperty of the State shall be made by the Minister under thepreceding provisions of this subsection, without theconcurrence of the Minister having control over suchproperty.

CHAPTER III

FINANCE

21.(1) The Authority shall have its own Fund(hereinafter referred to as the Fund).

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by the Parliament for the use of theAuthority;

(b)all such sums of money that may be received by theAuthority in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions underthis Act;

(c)all such sums of money received by the Authorityby way of gifts, grants or donations; and

(d)all sums of money accruing to the credit of theAuthority.

Fund of theAuthority.

State propertyboth movableand immovableto be madeavailable to theAuthority.

13Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums as arerequired to defray the expenditure incurred by the Authorityin the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions under this Act or under any other writtenlaw and all such sums as are required to be paid out of theFund.

22.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any otherwritten law to the contrary, the Authority may for the purposeof discharging any of its duties, allocate funds to any publiccorporation or any government department with the approvalof the Minister, and it shall be the duty of such corporation,or department, as the case may be, to carry out the saidfunctions, and duly account for the expenditure incurred indischarging such duties.

(2) The Authority shall be entitled to require anycorporation or government department, to which funds havebeen allocated under subsection (1), to furnish suchinformation as may be required by the Authority in respect ofthe expenditure of such funds and it shall be the duty of suchcorporation or department to comply with such requirement.

23.The Authority may open and maintain an account oraccounts with such bank or banks as it may think appropriateand such account or accounts shall be operated in accordancewith prevailing financial regulations of the Governmentpertaining to financial transactions of public corporations.

24.The Minister with the concurrence of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance may exempt the Authorityfrom the payment of any customs or any other duty on anygoods donated to the Authority or imported or purchased outof its funds by the Authority, if the donation or import orpurchase of any such goods is considered to be conducivefor the advancement of the objects of the Authority.

25.(1) The financial year of the Authority shall be thecalendar year.

Power of theAuthority to callupon any publiccorporation orgovernmentdepartment toassist in thedischarge ofduties carry outcertain functions.

Authority tomaintainaccounts.

Exemption ofAuthority frompayment ofduties & c.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts.

14Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.

26.(1) For the purpose of discharging its duties underthis Act, the Board is hereby authorized to borrow moneysfrom any local, international or foreign organization approvedby the President, subject to terms and conditions, as theGovernment may determine subject to the provisions ofsubsection (4) of this section.

(2) The loans authorized to be borrowed under this sectionmay be denominated in foreign currency.

(3) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance shallguarantee the loans raised by the Board under subsection (1),on behalf of the Government. Forthwith upon a guaranteethe Minister shall place before Parliament a statement settingout the details of such guarantee.

(4) Any sum required for the fulfillment of a guaranteeunder subsection (3) may, with the prior approval of theParliament be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

(5) In the case of any loan made to the Authority by anyinternational or foreign organization approved by the Presidentand guaranteed by the Government, the Government shall bearany loss and be entitled to any profit, resulting from any re-valuation of the rupee in relation to the currency or currenciesin which that loan is expressed and the amount of very suchloss shall be charged to the Consolidated Fund.

(6) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, byinstrument under his hand is hereby empowered on behalf ofthe Government to sign any guarantee agreement betweenthe Government and any local organization.

CHAPTER IV

STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

27.(1) The Board shall appoint a Director-General ofthe Authority who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of theAuthority.

DirectorGeneral.

Borrowingpowers of theBoard andGovernmentGuarantees.

15Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(2) The Director-General shall, subject to the general orspecial direction and control of the Board, be charged withthe direction of the affairs and transactions of the Authority,the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,functions and duties, and the administration and control ofthe officers and servants of the Authority.

(3) The Director-General may, with the approval of theAuthority, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,delegate to any officer or servant any power, duty or functionconferred or imposed on, or assigned to him by this Act andsuch officer or servant shall exercise, perform and dischargesuch power, function or duty subject to the general or specialdirections of the Director-General.

28.(1) The Authority may appoint such officers andservants to the staff of the Authority as it considers necessaryfor the efficient discharge of its functions.

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection(1) shall be remunerated in such a manner and at such rates andshall be subject to such conditions of service as may bedetermined by the Authority with the approval of the President.

(3) At the request of the Authority any officer in the publicservice may, with the consent of the officer and the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofPublic Administration, be temporarily appointed to theAuthority for such period as may be determined by theAuthority with like consent, or be permanently appointed tosuch staff.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

Staff of theAuthority.

16Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

(6) Where the Authority employs any person who hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service to the Authority by that person, shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such agreement.

(7) At the request of the Authority any member of theLocal Government Service or any other officer or servant of alocal authority, may, with the consent of such member, officeror servant and the Local Government Service Commission,or the local authority, as the case may be , be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority for such period as maybe determined by the Authority with like consent or bepermanently appointed to such staff on such terms andconditions including those relating to pension or providentfund rights as may be agreed upon by the Authority and theLocal Government Service Commission or that localauthority.

(8) Where any member of the Local Government Serviceor any officer or servant of any local Authority is appointedtemporarily under subsection (7) to the staff of the Authority,he shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as anyother member of the staff of the Authority.

29.(1) At the request of the Authority any officer orservant of a public corporation may, with the consent of suchofficer or servant and the governing board of such corporation,be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority forsuch period as may be determined by the Authority with likeconsent or with like consent be permanently appointed tothe staff of the Authority on such terms and conditions,including those relating to pension or provident fund rights,as may be agreed upon by the Authority and the governingboard of such corporation.

Appointment ofofficers andservants ofpublicCorporations tothe staff of theAuthority.

17Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(2) Where any person is appointed whether temporarily orpermanently, under subsection (1) to the staff of the Authority,he shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as anyother member of the staff of the Authority.

(3) For the purpose of this section governing board inrelation to a public corporation means the Board of Directorsor other body, in which the administration and managementof that public corporation has been vested.

CHAPTER V

GENERAL

30.(1) The Board may, subject to such conditions asmay be specified in writing, delegate to the Chairman or anyother member of the Board, any power, duty or functionconferred or imposed on, or assigned to, the Authority.

(2) Notwithstanding any such delegation, the Board mayexercise, perform or discharge any such power, duty orfunction, so delegated.

31.The Authority shall take all such measures as maybe necessary to ensure that any financial assistance renderedby the Authority to any person for carrying out a developmentproject within any designated area is utilized for the purposefor which it is given.

32.The Authority shall not make any investment in orotherwise transact business with an enterprise of which amember of the Authority is a partner, director or shareholderor in where such partner, director or shareholder directly orindirectly has an interest, unless the transaction is approvedby the Minister.

Delegation ofpowers of theBoard.

Authority toensure thatfinancialassistance givenfor carrying outdevelopmentprojects isutilized for thesame.

Authority not totransact businesswith enterprisesin which amember hasinterest,unlessapprovedby theMinister.

18Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

33.The Minister may order all or any of the activities ofthe Authority to be investigated and reported upon by suchperson or persons as he may specify and upon such orderbeing made, the Authority shall afford all such facilities asmay be necessary to carry out such order.

34.(1) The Minister may, give to the Authority in writinggeneral or special directions as to the performance of theduties and the exercise of the powers of the Authority. It shallbe the duty of the Authority to comply with such directions.

(2) The Minister may from time to time, in writing, directthe Authority to furnish to him in such form as he may require,returns, accounts and other information with respect to theproperty and activities of the Authority. It shall be the duty ofthe Authority to comply with such direction.

35.The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and theprovisions of that Act, shall be construed accordingly.

36.All members, officers and servants of the Authorityshall be deemed to be public servants within the meaningand for the purposes of the Panel Code.

37.(1) No suit or prosecution shall lie-

(a)against the Authority for any lawful act which ingood faith is done or purported to be done by theAuthority under this Act ; or

(b)against any member, officer, servant or agent of theAuthority for any lawful act which in good faith isdone or is purported to be done by him under thisAct or on the direction of the Authority.

Powers ofMinister to orderinvestigationsupon activities.

Directions of theMinister.

Authoritydeemed to bescheduledinstitutionwithin themeaning of theBribery Act.

Members,officers andservants of theAuthoritydeemed to bepublicservants.

Protection foraction takenunder this Actor on thedirection of theAuthority.

19Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(2) Any expense incurred by the Authority in any suit orprosecution brought by or against the Authority before anyCourt, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority, and anycosts paid to, or recovered by the Authority in any such suitor prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referredto in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit or prosecutionbrought against him before any Court in respect of any actwhich is done or is purported to be done by him under thisact or on the direction of the Authority shall if the Courtholds that such act is done in good faith, be paid out of theFund of the Authority, unless such expenses are recovered byhim in such suit or prosecution.

38.(1) The Minister may, in consultation with theAuthority, make regulations in respect of matters required bythis Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare authorized to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation shall as soon as it is convenientafter its publication in the Gazette be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any regulation which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the date ofdisapproval but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

39. (1) The Authority may make rules, in respect of allmatters for which rules are required or authorized to be madeunder this Act.

Regulations.

Rules.

20Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

(2) Every rule made by the Authority shall be approved bythe Minister and be published in the Gazette and shall comeinto operation on the date of such publication or on suchdate as may be specified therein.

40.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

41.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

development project means any activity whether publicor private which would generate production,income, employment or which would improve theeconomic, social, cultural or environmentalconditions of any designated area;

environmental impact assessment report shall have thesame meaning as is assigned to it by the NationalEnvironmental Act, No. 47 of 1980;

local authority means any Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil, Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyAuthority created and established by or under anylaw to exercise, perform and discharge the powers,duties and functions corresponding to or similar tothe powers, duties and functions exercised,performed and discharged by any such Council orSabha.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Interpretation.

21Udarata Development Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 26 of 2005

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.