PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 19.00 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 10, 2006

[Certified on 06th March, 2006]

Printed on the Order of Government

PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERINGACT, NO. 5 OF 2006

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 20061

[Certified on 6th March, 2006]

L.D. O. 15/2005.

AN ACT TO PROHIBIT MONEY LAUNDERING IN SRI LANKA ; TO PROVIDE

THE NECESSARY MEASURES TO COMBAT AND PREVENT MONEYLAUNDERING ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH

OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Prevention of MoneyLaundering Act, No. 5 of 2006.

2.The provisions of the Act shall apply in relation to

(a)a person who commits an offence under theprovisions of this Act whilst being resident inSri Lanka;

(b)an Institution which is used for the commission ofan offence under the provisions of this Act, whichInstitution is carrying on business in Sri Lanka andis either incorporated or registered in Sri Lanka or iseither incorporated or registered as a branch of abank incorporated or registered outside Sri Lanka;

(c)an Act which constitutes an offence under this Act,which is committed in Sri Lanka.

PART I

MONEY LAUNDERING

3.(1) Any person, who

(a)engages directly or indirectly in any transaction inrelation to any property which is derived or realised,

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Applicability ofthe provisions ofthe Act.

Offence ofmoneylaundering.

2Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

directly or indirectly, from any unlawful activity orfrom the proceeds of any unlawful activity;

(b)receives, possesses, conceals, disposes of, or bringsinto Sri Lanka, transfers out of Sri Lanka, or investsin Sri Lanka, any property which is derived orrealised, directly or indirectly, from any unlawfulactivity or from the proceeds of any unlawfulactivity,

knowing or having reason to believe that such property isderived or realised, directly or indirectly from any unlawfulactivity or from the proceeds of any unlawful activity, shallbe guilty of the offence of money laundering and shall onconviction after trial before the High Court be liable to a finenot less than the value of the property in respect of which theoffence is committed and not more than three times the valueof the property in respect of which the offence is committedor to rigorous imprisonment for a period of not less than fiveyears and not exceeding twenty years, or to both such fineand imprisonment. The assets of any person found guilty ofthe offence of money laundering under this section shall beliable to forfeiture in terms of Part II, of this Act.

(2) Any person who attempts or conspires to commit theoffence of money laundering, or aids or abets, the commissionof the offence of money laundering shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act and shall be liable after trial before theHigh Court to be punished with the same punishment as isspecified for the offence of money laundering.

In this subsection abet shall have the same meaning asin sections 100 and 101 of the Penal Code.

(3) For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared thata conviction for the commission by the accused of theunlawful activity shall not be necessary for the proof of theoffence under the provisions of this Act.

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 20063

4.For the purposes of any proceedings under this Act, itshall be deemed until the contrary is proved, that any movableor immovable property acquired by a person has been derivedor realized directly or indirectly from any unlawful activity,or are the proceeds of any unlawful activity, if such property

(a)being money, cannot be or could not have been

(i)part of the known income or receipts of suchperson; or

(ii)money to which his known income or receiptshas or had been converted; or

(b)being property other than money, cannot be or couldnot have been

(i)property acquired with any part of his knownincome or receipts; and

(ii)property which is or was part of his knownincome or receipts; and

(iii)property to which is any part of his knownincome or receipts has or had been converted.

5.(1) Any person who knows or has reason to believefrom information or other matter obtained by him in the courseof any trade, profession, business or employment carried onby such person, that any property has been derived or realisedfrom any unlawful activity, shall disclose his knowledge orbelief as soon as is practicable, to the Financial IntelligenceUnit.

(2) Any person who fails to comply with the provisionsof subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act,and shall on conviction after trial before the High Court beliable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingsix months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Presumption.

Duty of certainpersons todiscloseknowledge orbelief of actsconstituting theoffence ofmoneylaundering.

4Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

(3) The disclosure by a director or officer or servant of anInstitution in terms of the provisions of the FinancialTransactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006 of his knowledgeand belief that any property has been derived or realizedfrom any unlawful activity, shall be sufficient complianceby such director, officer or servant, of the duty imposed onhim by subsection (1).

(4) The provisions of subsection (1) shall have effectnotwithstanding any obligation as to secrecy or otherrestriction upon the disclosure of information, imposed byany written law or otherwise, and accordingly any disclosureby any person in compliance with the provisions ofsubsection (1) shall be deemed not to be a contravention ofsuch obligation or restriction.

(5) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (2) itshall be a defence for the accused to prove to Court, on abalance of probabilities that he had reasonable grounds fornot disclosing his knowledge or belief.

6.Any person who knows or has reason to believe thatan investigation into the commission of the offence of moneylaundering has been, is being, or is about to be made, andwho

(a)divulges, other than in the performance of his dutiesunder this Act, that fact or other information relatingto such investigation to any Court or to any otherperson, knowing that the investigation is likely tobe prejudiced thereby; or

(b)discloses, other than in the performance of his dutiesunder this Act, the identity of the person againstwhom such investigation has been, is being, or isabout to, be made;

(c)knowingly falsifies, conceals, destroys or otherwisedisposes of, or causes or permits the falsification,

Divulging &c. ofinformation anoffence.

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 20065

concealment, destruction or disposal of, anydocument or material which is, or is likely to be,relevant to that investigation,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall onconviction after trial before the High Court, be liable to a finenot exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment ofeither description for a period not exceeding six months, orto both such fine and imprisonment,

PART II

FREEZING AND FORFEITURE OF ASSETS IN RELATION TO THE OFFENCE

OF MONEY LAUNDERING

7.(1) A Police Officer not below the rank ofSuperintendent of Police or in the absence of such an officeran Assistant Superintendent of Police may, where there arereasonable grounds to believe that any person is involved inany activity relating to the offence of money laundering andit is necessary for preventing further acts being committed inrelation to such offence, issue an order (hereinafter referredto as a Freezing Order) prohibiting any transaction inrelation to any account, property or investment which mayhave been used or which may be intended to be used inconnection with such offence.

(2) The Freezing Order obtained under subsection (1) shallbe issued on

(a)the person who is believed to be involved in theactivity referred to subsection (1) ; and

(b)on any other person or institution who or whichmay be required to give effect to such Order.

(3) Subject to the provisions of section 8, a FreezingOrder made under subsection (1) shall be in force for a periodof seven days of the making thereof.

Freezing ofproperty.

6Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

(4) Any person who acts in contravention of a FreezingOrder issued on him, shall be guilty of an offence and shallon conviction after trial before the High Court be liable to afine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or one anda half times the value of the money in such account, propertyor investment which has been dealt with in contravention ofthe Freezing Order, whichever is higher or to imprisonmentof either description for a period not exceeding one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment.

8.(1) The Police Officer issuing the Freezing Order underthe provisions of section 6 shall, with in the seven days duringwhich such Order shall be in force, make an application tothe High Court seeking confirmation of such Freezing Orderand also if the circumstances so necessitate, request anextension of the original period of seven days.

(2) Where the High Court is satisfied that there aresufficient reasons for the making of such Freezing Order, theCourt may confirm the Freezing Order and also grant theapplication made for the extension thereof for such periodsas it considers necessary, subject however

(a)to any Orders which may be made under section 12;and

(b)to the requirement that the maximum period of anyextension so granted shall not exceed one year fromthe date of the making of the Freezing Order by thePolice Officer :

Provided that where indictment is filed for the offence ofmoney laundering in respect of the account, property orinvestment which is subject to the Freezing Order, suchFreezing Order shall unless vacated by Court for reasons tobe recorded, remain in force until the conclusion of the trialin respect of such offence, or where an appeal is preferredagainst a conviction for such offence, until the determinationof the appeal.

Confirming ofFreezing Orderby Court.

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 20067

(3) Where the High Court confirms a Freezing Order undersubsection (2) it shall cause to be published in at least onenewspaper circulating in the Sinhala, Tamil and Englishlanguages, Notice of such Order, in order to facilitate bonafide third parties to make application to Court in support oftheir claims to the account, property or investment which issubject to the Order of freezing.

9.No transaction shall be effected in relation to suchaccount, property or investment while the Freezing Order isin force and any transaction so effected shall be null andvoid.

10.In confirming a Freezing Order made under section7, the High Court may on an application made in that behalf,if it is of opinion that such an Order could damage legitimatebusiness or other interests of any person affected thereby,and that essential transactions relating to such account,property or investment as may have been prohibited by suchFreezing Order may be legitimately carried out, make orderpermitting the carrying on of such transactions subject tosupervision by and under the direction of a person appointedin that behalf by Court or of a receiver appointed in thatbehalf under section 11.

11.Upon an application made in that behalf by a policeofficer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police or inthe absence of such an officer an Assistant Superintendent ofPolice, the High Court may appoint a Receiver to takepossession of and otherwise deal with the account, propertyor investment which has been subjected to the Freezing Order,in accordance with such directions as may be given by Courtin that behalf.

12.(1) Any Police Officer not below the rank of aSuperintendent of Police shall take possession of, andotherwise deal with, any account, property or investment,which is subject to a Freezing Order, and the Court may on

Transactions incontravention ofthe FreezingOrder to be nulland void.

High Court topermit essentialand legitimatetransactions.

Appointment ofa Receiver.

Propertytracking andmonitoring.

8Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

application of the said Police Officer and for the purpose ofdetermining in whom the ownership, possession or control ofany property to which the Freezing Order relates, lies, Order:

(a)that any document relevant to

(i)identifying, locating or quantifying thatproperty;

(ii)establishing the ownership, possession orcontrol of that property,

be delivered forthwith to the Police Officer; and

(b)that a named institution furnish to the Receiver allinformation obtained by the institution about anybusiness transaction conducted by or for that personwith the institution during such period before orafter the date of the Order as the Court may direct.

(2) The Court making an Order under subsection (1) shallupon being satisfied that any person is failing to complywith, is delaying or is otherwise obstructing the executionof, an order made under subsection (1) make Orderauthorising the Police Officer to enter and search any premisesof that person, and remove any document, material or otherthing therein for the purpose of executing such Order.

(3) Upon determining in whom the ownership, possessionor control of any property to which the Freezing Order relates,lies, the Police Officer shall report the same to the Courtmaking the Freezing Order, along with all documentsestablishing and supporting such ownership, possession orcontrol, as the case may be.

13.(1) Where a person is convicted of the offence ofmoney laundering, the Court convicting such person shall,subject to the provision of subsections (2) make Order thatany movable or immovable property of such person derivedor realised, directly or indirectly from any unlawful activity,be forfeited to the State free from all encumbrances.

Forfeiture ofproperty inrelation to whichoffence ofmoneylaundering hasbeen committed.

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 20069

(2) In determining whether an Order of forfeiture shouldbe made under subsection (1), the Court shall be entitled totake into consideration the fact whether such an Order islikely to prejudice the rights of a bona fide purchaser forvalue or any other person who has acquired, for value, a bonafide interest in such property.

(3) An Order made under subsection (1) shall take effect

(a)where an appeal has been preferred to the Court ofAppeal or the Supreme Court against the Order offorfeiture, upon the determination of such appealconfirming or upholding the Order of Forfeiture;

(b)where no appeal has been preferred to the Court ofAppeal against the Order of Forfeiture within theperiod allowed therefor, after the expiration of theperiod within which an appeal may be preferred tothe Court of Appeal, against such Order of Forfeiture.

(4) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Court makingthe Order of Forfeiture may presume that any movable orimmovable property belonging to the person convicted ofthe offence of money laundering, is derived or realised,directly or indirectly from any unlawful activity if suchproperty is not commensurate with the known sources ofincome of such person, and the holding of which cannot beexplained on a balance of probabilities, to the satisfaction ofthe Court.

14.(1) Any person affected by an Order of Forfeituremade under section 13 of this Act, may make an applicationto Court making the Order of Forfeiture within a period ofthirty days of the making of such Order stating that he hassuffered loss as a result of the making of such Order.

(2) Where an application is made under subsection (1) tothe Court making the Order of Forfeiture, the Court may,upon being satisfied that the applicant has suffered loss as aresult of its Order, order compensation to be paid to suchperson from the property forfeited.

Rights of bonafide claimants.

10Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

15.Where any property has been forfeited to the Stateunder section 13 of this Act, the Court making the order ofForfeiture may, appoint a Receiver to be in charge of theproperty so forfeited.

16. The provisions of this Part of this Act shall haveeffect notwithstanding any obligation as to secrecy or otherrestriction upon the disclosure of information imposed byany written law or otherwise and accordingly any disclosureof information by any person in compliance with theprovisions of this Part of this Act shall be deemed not to be acontravention of such obligation or restriction.

PART III

GENERAL

17.An offence under this Act shall be a cognisable andnon-bailable offence, within the meaning, and for the purpose,of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

18.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then, if that body of persons is

(a)a body corporate, every director, or other officer ofthat body corporate; and

(b)a firm, every partner of that firm; and

(c)an unincorporated body other than a firm, everyindividual who is a member of such body and everyofficer of that body responsible for its managementand control,

shall be guilty of an offence:

Provided however, that no such person shall be deemed tobe guilty of an offence if he proves that the offence wascommitted without his knowledge or that he exercised alldue diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.

Appointment ofa Receiver uponconfiscation.

Secrecyobligationoverridden.

Offences underthis Act to becognisable andnon-bailable.

Offences bybody of persons.

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 200611

19.(1) No suit or prosecution shall lie

(a)against the Financial Intelligence Unit or any personauthorised to act on behalf of the FinancialIntelligence Unit for any lawful act which in goodfaith is done or purported to be done by the FinancialIntelligence Unit or such person under this Act;

(b)against an Institution or any director, officer, servantor agent of any such Institution, acting in the courseof his employment or agency or any person referredto in subsection (1) of section 3, for any lawful actwhich in good faith is done or purported to be doneby such Institution, director, officer, servant, agentor person in the performance of any duty imposedby this Act, or on the directions of the Authority.

(2)No proceedings, civil or criminal, shall be institutedin any Court or tribunal against the Financial IntelligenceUnit or any person authorised to act on behalf of the Authorityin respect of any report, made in good faith, by the saidFinancial Intelligence Unit or such person under this Act.

(3)Any expenses incurred by the Financial IntelligenceUnit in any suit or prosecution brought by, or against, thesaid Financial Intelligence Unit or any person authorized toact on behalf of the said Financial Intelligence Unit, beforeany Court or tribunal in respect of any lawful act done orpurported to be done by the said Financial Intelligence Unitor a person authorised to act on behalf of the said FinancialIntelligence Unit, under this Act, and any costs paid to, orrecovered by, the said Financial Intelligance Unit or suchperson in any such suit or prosecution shall be paid out of, orcredited to, as the case may be, the account of the saidFinancial Intelligence Unit.

(4)Any expenses incurred by an Institution or officer,servant, agent or person referred to in paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) in any suit, prosecution, brought by or againstsuch Institution or such officer, servant, agent or person before

Protection foraction takenunder this Act oron direction ofAuthority.

12Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

any court or tribunal in respect of any act which is done orpurported to be done by such Institution or such officer,servant, agent or person under this Act, or on the direction ofthe Financial Intelligence Unit, shall, if the Court or tribunalholds that the act was done in good faith, be paid by the saidFinancial Intelligence Unit, unless such expense is recoveredby such Institution or officer, servant, agent or person, insuch suit or prosecution.

20.(1) No person shall falsify, conceal, unlawfullydestroy or otherwise dispose of, or cause or permit thefalsification, concealment, unlawful destruction or disposalof any document, material or thing which is, or is likely to berelevant to the exercise, performance or discharge of anypower, duty or function under this Act.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act andshall on conviction after trial before the High Court be liableto a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingone year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

21.(1) No person shall

(a)falsify, conceal, destroy or otherwise dispose of, orcause or permit the falsification concealment,destruction or disposal of, any document or materialor thing which is or is likely to be relevant to theexecution of any Order made in accordance withthe provisions of this Act.

(b)divulge, the fact that an investigation into an offenceof money laundering or an offence under the law ofany foreign State corresponding to the offence ofmoney laundering, is being, or is about to be made,or divulge any other information to another personwhereby such investigation is likely to beprejudiced.

Falsification ofdocuments.

Offences.

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 200613

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act andshall on conviction after trial before the High Court be liableto a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingone year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

22.Where the Minister in consultation with the Ministerof Finance considers it appropriate, either because aninternational arrangement so requires or permits, or in theinterests of comity, he may order that the whole or any part ofany property forfeited under the provisions of this Part of thisAct, or the value thereof, be given or remitted to the requestingState.

23.Where any officer or servant of an Institutiondiscloses as hereinbefore provided his knowledge or beliefthat any property is derived or realized by means of anyillegal activity, any subsequent dealing by such Institution,officer or servant with the owner of such property, shall bedeemed not to constitute the aiding or abetment by suchInstitution, officer or servant, of an offence under this Act.

PART IV

PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXTRADITION AND MUTUAL ASSISTANCE INRELATION TO THE OFFENCE OF MONEY LAUNDERING

24.The Schedule to the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977is hereby amended by the insertion immediately before PartB thereof, of the following:

(47) An offence of Money Laundering within themeaning of the Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 2006..

25.Notwithstanding anything contained in theExtradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 an offence in terms of this Actshall for the purpose only of extradition under that Law, be

Asset sharing.

Dealing withproperty byInstitution &c.not to constitutean offence.

Amendment ofthe ExtraditionLaw, No. 8 of1977.

Interpretation inrelation to theExtradition Law.

14Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

deemed not to be a fiscal offence, or an offence of a politicalcharacter, or an offence connected with a political offence oran offence inspired by political motives.

26.Where a request is made to the Government of SriLanka by or on behalf of the Government of another countryfor the extradition of any person accused or convicted of anoffence, under this Act, the Minister shall, on behalf of theGovernment of Sri Lanka forthwith notify the Governmentof the requesting State of the measures that Government ofSri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take, for the prosecutionor extradition of that person for that offence.

27.(1) The provisions of the Mutual Assistance inCriminal Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall, wherever it isnecessary for the investigation and prosecution of an offenceunder section 2 of this Act, be applicable in respect of theproviding of assistance as between the Government of SriLanka and other States who are either Commonwealthcountries specified by the Minister by Order under section 2of the aforesaid Act or Non-Commonwealth countries withwhich the Government of Sri Lanka entered into anagreement in terms of the aforesaid Act.

(2) In the case of a country which is neither aCommonwealth country specified by the Minister by Orderunder section 2 of the aforesaid Act nor a No-Commonwealthcountry with which the Government of Sri Lanka has enteredinto an agreement in terms of the aforesaid Act, then it shallbe the duty of the Government to afford all such assistanceto, and may through the Minister request all such assistancefrom such country, as may be necessary for the investigationand prosecution of an offence under section 3 to the extentrequired for the discharge of its obligations under the UnitedNations Convention (including assistance relating to thetaking of evidence and statements, the serving of processand the conduct of searches).

Duty of Ministerto notifyrequesting Stateof measurestaken againstpersons forwhoseextradition arequest is made.

Assistance toCommonwealthcountries &c,.

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 200615

(3) The grant of assistance to such country may be madesubject to such terms and conditions as the Minister thinksfit.

28.(1) Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lankais arrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall beentitled to communicate without delay with the nearestappropriate representative of the State of which he is anational or if he is a stateless person, the nearest appropriaterepresentative of the State where he usually resides.

(2) A request under section 26 shall be deemed not to beinvalidated for the purposes of any legal proceedings byreason of any failure to comply with the provisions of section27, provided the Financial Intelligence Unit is satisfied thatthere is sufficient compliance with those provisions to enableit to properly execute the request.

29.(1) Where a person is arrested for an offence ofmoney laundering, the Minister to whom the administrationof this Act is assigned shall request the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Foreign Affairs to inform the relevant authoritiesin any other State which has made a request under section 26in respect of such person, of the measures which theGovernment of Sri Lanka has taken or proposes to take forthe prosecution or extradition of that person.

(2) Where a request is made to the Government of SriLanka, by or on behalf of the Government of any State for theextradition of any person accused or convicted of an offencecorresponding to the offence of money laundering, theMinister in charge of the subject of Foreign Affairs shall, onbehalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, forthwith inform theGovernment of the requesting State, of the measures whichthe Government of Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take,for the prosecution or extradition of that person.

(3) Where it is decided that no order should be made underthe Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, for the extradition of anyperson accused or convicted of an offence corresponding to

Rights of personsarrested underthis Act.

Duty of Ministerto inform otherStates havingjurisdiction overan offence.

16Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

the offence of money laundering pursuant to a request for hisextradition made under that Law, by the Government of anyState, the case shall be submitted to the law enforcementauthorities, so that prosecution for the offence under the lawof Sri Lanka, or any other appropriate action may beconsidered.

30.(1) A request for assistance under section 27 shall:

(a)confirm either that an investigation or prosecutionis being conducted into an offence under the law ofthe requesting State corresponding to an offence ofmoney laundering or that a person has beenconvicted of such an offence;

(b)state the grounds on which any person is beinginvestigated or prosecuted for such offence or givedetails of the conviction of such person;

(c)give particulars sufficient to identify any personreferred to in the request;

(d)give particulars sufficient to identify an Institutionor other person believed to have information,documents or material or thing relevant to theinvestigation or prosecution referred to paragraph(a) ;

(e)request the Authority to whom the request isaddressed to obtain from the Institution or otherperson referred to in paragraph (d) all or any of theinformation, documents or material or thing referredto in paragraph (d);

(f)specify the manner in which and the person to whom,any information, document, material or thingobtained pursuant to the request, is to be transmitted;

(g)state whether or not an order of freezing or order ofForfeiture required;

Requirements forassistance.

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 200617

(h)contain such other information as may assist theexecution of the request.

(2) The Financial Intelligence Unit shall cause to betransmitted to the person referred to in paragraph (f) ofsubsection (1) of this section, any information, document,material or thing seized by, or delivered or produced to theFinancial Intelligence Unit, pursuant to an Order made inaccordance with the provisions of this Act.

31.Where there is an extradition arrangement in forcebetween the Government of Sri Lanka and the Governmentof any other State, such arrangement shall be deemed, for thepurposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to includeprovision for extradition in respect of the offence of moneylaundering as defined in this Act, and of attempting orconspiring to commit, aiding and abetting the commissionof, or conspiring to commit, such offence.

32.The Government shall afford such assistance(including the supply of any relevant evidence at its disposal)to the relevant authorities of any foreign State as may benecessary in connection with criminal proceedings institutedin the State against any person, in respect of an offence underthe law of that State corresponding to the offence of moneylaundering.

33.(1) The Minister may make regulations under thisAct for any matter authorized or required to be made underthis Act, or for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect tothe principles and provisions of this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

Provisionregardingextraditionarrangement.

Duty ofGovernment toafford assistanceto other States.

Regulations.

18Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore Parliament for its approval. Any regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which a regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

34. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

35.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

designated non-finance business includes

(a)individual and collective portfoliomanagement;

(b)investing administering or managing fundsor money on behalf of other person;

(c)safekeeping and administration of cash orliquid securities on behalf of other persons;

(d)safe custody services;

(e)under - writing and placement of insurance,as well as insurance intermediation by agentsand brokers;

(f)trustee administration or investmentmanagement or a superannuation scheme;

(g)casinos, gambling houses or conducting ofa lottery, including a person who carries onsuch a business through the internet whentheir customers engage in financialtransactions equal to or above the prescribedthreshold;

Interpretation.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistancy.

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 200619

(h)real estate agents, when they are involved intransactions for their clients in relation tothe buying and selling of real estate;

(i)dealers in precious metals and dealers inprecious and semi-precious stones, includingbut not limited to metals and stones coveredby the Gem and Jewellery Act, No. 50 of1993, when they engage in cash transactionswith a customer equal to or above theprescribed threshold;

(j)lawyers, notaries, other independent legalprofessionals and accountants when theyprepare for, or carry out, transactions for theirclients in relation to any of the followingactivities :

(i)buying and selling of real estate;

(ii)managing of client money, securitiesor other assets;

(iii)management of bank, savings orsecurities accounts;

(iv)organization of contributions for thecreation, operation or managementof companies; and

(v)creation, operation or managementof legal persons or arrangements andthe buying and selling of businessentities;

(k)a trust or company service provider nototherwise covered by this definition, whichas a business provides one or more of thefollowing services to third parties:

(i)formation or management of legalpersons;

20Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

(ii)acting as or arranging for anotherperson to act as, a director or secretaryof a company, a partner of apartnership or a similar position inrelation to other legal persons;

(iii)providing a registered office,business address or accommodation,correspondence or administrativeaddress for a company, a partnershipor for any other legal person orarrangement;

(iv)acting as or arranging for anotherperson to act as, a trustee of an expresstrust;

(v)acting as or arranging for anotherperson to act as, a nomineeshareholder for another person;

(l)offshore business in accordance with thedefinitions provided for the same in otherwritten laws; and

(m)such other business as may be prescribedfrom time to time by the Minister taking intoconsideration the interests of the nationaleconomy;

Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) means the FinancialIntelligence Unit established under section of theFinancial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of2006;

finance business includes any one of the followingbusinesses or activities :

(a)banking, as defined in the Banking Act, No.30 of 1988, including the acceptance ofdeposits or other repayable funds frommembers of the public;

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 200621

(b)finance business as defined in the FinanceCompanies Act, No. 78 of 1988 (irrespectiveof whether the person is licensed or registeredunder the Act) ;

(c)lending, including consumer credit,mortgage credit, factoring (with or withoutrecourse) and financing of commercialtransactions;

(d)financial leasing other than transactionsrelating to consumer products;

(e)the transfer of money or value;

(f)money and currency changing services;

(g)issuing and managing means of payment (i.ecredit cards, travellers cheques, moneyorders and bankers drafts and electronicmoney);

(h)issuing financial guarantees andcommitments, including but not limited to,consumer credit, factoring with or withoutrecourse and financing of commercialtransactions including forfeiting;

(i)trading for its own account or for the accountof customers in money market instruments(i.e. cheques, bills of exchange, certificatesof deposit and derivatives), foreignexchange, exchange, interest rate and indexinstruments, commodity futures trading andtransferable securities;

(j)participating in securities issues and theprovision of financial services related tosuch issues; and

22Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

(k)such other business as may be prescribedfrom time to time by the Minister taking intoconsideration the interests of the nationaleconomy.

Institution means any person or body of personsengaged in or carrying out any finance business ordesignated non-finance business within themeaning of this Act;

Offshore Unit means a unit or department of alicensed commercial bank carrying on bankingbusiness, subject to the provisions of Part IV of theBanking Act, No. 30 of 1988, dealing with OffshoreBanking;

person includes a body of persons;

property means any currency, and includes any assetof any kind, whether corporeal or incorporeal,movable or immovable, tangible or intangiblewhether situated in Sri Lanka or elsewhere, andlegal documents or instruments in any formwhatsoever including electronic or digital form,evidencing title to, or interest in, such assets,including but not limited to bank credits, travellerscheques, bank cheques, money orders, shares,securities, bonds, drafts, letters of credit and includesany legal or equitable interest in any such property;

transaction means any activity connected withfinance business or designated non-financebusiness ;

transaction in relation to property includes

(a)a purchase, sale, loan, charge, mortgage, lien,pledge, transfer, delivery, assignment,subrogation, transmission, gift, donation,

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 200623

creation of a trust, settlement, depositincluding any deposit of any article,withdrawal, transfer between assets,extension of credit;

(b)any agency or grant of power of attorney;

(c)any other disposition or dealing of propertyin whatever form, or whatsoever descriptionor nature, howsoever described, which resultsin any right, title, interest or privilege,whether present or future, or whether vestedor contingent, in the whole or any part ofsuch property being conferred on anyperson; and

unlawful activity means any act which constitutesand offence under

(a)the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous DrugsOrdinance (Chapter 218);

(b)any law or regulation for the time being inforce relating to the prevention andsuppression of terrorism;

(c)the Bribery Act (Chapter 26);

(d)the Firearms Ordinance (Chapter 182), theExplosives Ordinance (Chapter 183) or theOffensive Weapons Act, No. 18 of 1966.

(e)the Exchange Control Act (Chapter 423);

(f)an offence under section 83C of the BankingAct, No. 30 of 1988;

(g)any law for the time being in force relatingto transnational organised crime;

(h)any law for the time being in force relating

24Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006

to cyber crime;

(i)any law for the time being in force relatingto offences against children;

(j)any law for the time being in force relatingto offences connected with the traffickingof persons; and

(k)an offence under any other law for the timebeing in force which is punishable by deathor with imprisonment for a term of sevenyears or more.

Prevention of Money LaunderingAct, No. 5 of 200625

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.