PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

WOMEN EMPOWERMENT ACT, No. 37 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 02nd of July, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 54.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 05, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

[Certified on 02nd of July, 2024]

L.D. O. 49/2023

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISIONS FOR THE EMPOWERMENT OF WOMEN; TO

PROVIDE FOR THE FORMULATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THENATIONAL POLICY ON ADVANCEMENT AND EMPOWERMENT OF WOMEN;

TO ESTABLISHED A NATIONAL COMMISSION ON WOMEN; TO MAKE

PROVISIONS TO APPOINT OMBUDS FOR THE WOMENS RIGHTS; TO

ESTABLISH MECHANISMS FOR THE PROTECTION OF WOMENS RIGHTS

AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTIAL

THERETO.

WHEREAS the Universal Declaration of Human Rightsaffirms the principle of non-discrimination and proclaimsthat all human beings are born free and equal in dignity andrights and entitled to all rights and freedoms withoutdistinction, including distinctions based on gender:

WHEREAS the Constitution of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka recognizes special provisions beingmade by Law, subordinate legislation or executive actionfor the advancement of women:

AND WHEREAS the establishment of the National WomensCommission operating at national level, will serve as theeffective mechanism for ensuring the empowerment ofwomen:

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024.

2. The objects of this Act shall be -

Preamble

Short title

Objects of theAct

2Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(a)to make provisions for the advancement andempowerment of women by introducingmechanisms to secure womens rights subject tothe provisions of the Constitution;

(b)to introduce mechanisms to give effect to theobligations undertaken by the Government of SriLanka in relation to women in terms of theConvention on the Elimination of All forms ofDiscrimination Against Women, and in terms ofapplicable laws;

(c)to formulate and implement the national policy forthe advancement and empowerment of women bytimely interventions at all levels across all sectorsand developing a framework to facilitate and ensureempowerment of women;

(d)to protect women from all forms of discriminationbased on gender and sexual orientation;

(e)to take steps to prevent discrimination,marginalization, sexual harassment and violenceagainst women and to strengthen the measures forthe prosecution and punishment of acts or omissionsrelating thereto;

(f)to make recommendations for law reforms as a matterof priority, in order to provide for the prevention ofdiscrimination against women, and empowermentof women;

(g)to promote the realization of, and ensure equalityand justice for women and take measures to ensureas far as possible, womens participation in allmeasures and mechanisms connected withadministration of justice and the equal

3Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

representation of women in decision makingstructures and positions at every level within theGovernment;

(h)to ensure economic empowerment having specialregards to women with disabilities;

(i)to conduct public education programmes relatingto all aspects of empowerment of women; and

(j)to promote and revision of laws and procedures forthe purpose of ensuring equal salaries between menand women engaged in employment with equalvalue,

3. Every woman shall be entitled to womens rights andno women shall be denied of such rights.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL COMMISSION ON WOMEN

4. (1) There shall be established a Commission whichshall be called and known as the National Commission onWomen (hereinafter referred to as the Commission).

(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

5. (1) The President shall appoint, subject to the provisionsof subsection (2), seven members to the Commission of whomminimum five members shall be women.

(2) The President shall obtain recommendations

(a) from the Constitutional Council for appointingfive members of the Commission; and

(b) from the Women Caucus of Parliament appointedby the Speaker, for appointing two members ofthe Commission.

Establishment ofthe NationalCommission onWomen

Constitution ofthe Commission

Protection andadvancement ofwomens rights

4Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(3) The Constitutional Council and the Women Caucusof Parliament, in making their recommendations undersubsection (2), shall have due regard to the provisions ofsubsection (1), and shall make such recommendations fromamong the persons having distinguished themselves inpublic life with proven knowledge, experience andeminence in the fields of law or legislation, trade unionism,management and administration, economic development,health, education, empowerment of women or havecommitted to increase the employment potential of women.

(4) The Constitutional Council and the Women Caucusof Parliament shall make recommendations under subsection(2) within one month from the date of coming into operationof this Act, or from the date of occurrence of a vacancy in themembership of the Commission.

(5) At least three members inclusive of the Chairpersonshall be appointed as full time members.

6. The Commission shall exercise, perform and dischargethe following powers, duties and functions for the purposeof achieving the objects of this Act:-

(a)inquire into and investigate the infringement orimminent infringement of womens rights andreceive complaints in terms of the provisions ofPart II;

(b)intervene in any proceedings relating to theinfringement or imminent infringement of womensrights, pending before any Court, with thepermission of such Court;

(c)to formulate National Policy on advancement andempowerment of women in terms of section 7 ofthis Act;

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Commission

5Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(d)develop a framework in compliance with theNational Policy on advancement and empowermentof women to facilitate and ensure empowerment ofwomen (hereinafter referred to as the framework);

(e)conduct public inquiries in relation to theinfringement or imminent infringement of womensrights;

(f)institute actions in any competent Court on its ownmotion in relation to the infringement or imminentinfringement of womens rights;

(g)take such steps as may be directed by a SuperiorCourt or by any other Court in respect of any matterrelating to womens rights referred to by that Court;

(h)request or call for any information or reports fromany person for the purpose of performing anyfunction vested in the Commission under this Actor any regulation made thereunder;

(i)inquire into, and investigate complaints with a viewto ensuring compliance with the provisions of theConstitution relating to womens rights and topromoting respect for and observance of womensrights;

(j)liaise and interact with state institutions, bodies orauthorities in order to foster common policies andpractices and to promote co-operation in relationto the handling of complaints by the Commission;

(k)open regional and provincial offices of theCommission;

6Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(l)acquire take and hold any property movable orimmovable by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift orotherwise and to sell, mortgage, lease, grant, conveydevise, assign, exchange, dispose of any suchmovable or immovable property;

(m)conduct programmes to create awareness anddisseminate information regarding womens rightsand internationally accepted norms relating towomens rights;

(n)to refer any women subject to discrimination formediation in accordance with the provisionshereinafter provided, either on receiving acomplaint on such discrimination or on its ownmotion;

(o)make recommendations to the Government and theMinister

(i)on measures to be taken to ensure thatdomestic laws and policies and administrativepractices are in accordance withinternationally accepted norms and standardson womens rights; and

(ii)on the formulation of regulations to beprescribed, legislation and administrativedirectives and procedures required forrespecting promoting, protecting andfulfilling womens rights;

(p)to assess the impact of legislation, policies andpractices on the womens rights and to makerecommendations to the relevant bodies in order topromote co-ordination among the bodies handlingcomplaints of women subject to discrimination orviolence;

7Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(q)take steps to ensure equality and protection towomen of different categories and status identifiedby regulations made under this Act;

(r)monitor and evaluate the adherence by privatepersons and other non-state institutions to policiesand practices in so far as those policies andpractices relates to womens rights;

(s)undertake research in furtherance of the promotionand protection of womens rights and to promoteawareness and provide education regarding mattersrelating to womens rights;

(t)receive grants, gifts or donations whether from localor foreign sources:

Provided that, the Commission shall obtainprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations;

(u)award in its absolute discretion, to an aggrievedperson such sum of money as it may deem sufficientto meet the expenses that may have been reasonablyincurred by such person in making a complaint tothe Commission under this Act;

(v)make rules in respect of the matters for which rulesare required to be made under this Act; and

(w)do all such other acts as may be expedient for theaccomplishment of the objects of this Act.

7. (1) The Commission shall formulate the draft of theNational Policy on advancement and empowerment ofwomen (hereinafter referred to as the National Policy)which shall include the procedures and mechanisms for theachievement of the objects of this Act.

Formulation ofthe nationalpolicy onadvancementandempowerment ofwomen

8Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(2) (a) The Minister shall discuss with the Commission,the draft National Policy formulate in terms of subsection(1), and being satisfied with the draft National Policy submitsuch draft National Policy to the Cabinet of Ministers for itsapproval.

(b) The Cabinet of Ministers may, review the draftNational Policy forwarded to the Cabinet of Ministers underparagraph (a), and may suggest amendments thereto prior togranting approval to such National Policy.

(3) Upon the approval of the National Policy by theCabinet of Ministers under subsection (2), the Minister shallcause such National Policy to be published in the Gazetteand it shall come into operation on the date of suchpublication or on such later date as may be specified therein.

(4) The Minister shall within one month of the approvalof the Cabinet of Ministers, lay such National Policy beforeParliament for its approval.

(5) It shall be the duty of the Commission to ensure thatevery relevant authority complies with the National Policyso approved.

(6) Where Parliament is not satisfied with the NationalPolicy submitted for approval under subsection (4), it shallmake its recommendations for amending the National Policy.

(7) It shall be the duty of the Minister to cause to beincorporated such recommendations to the National Policyand resubmit the National Policy to Parliament afterobtaining the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers for suchamendments.

9Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(8) If Parliament disapproves the National Policy, thenotification of such disapproval shall be published in theGazette.

8. Every member of the Commission, unless he vacatesoffice earlier by death, by operation of law, resignation orremoval, shall hold office for a term of four years and shallbe eligible for reappointment subject to a maximum periodof any two terms of office whether consecutive or otherwise.

9. (1) The President shall appoint one of the womenmembers to be the Chairperson of the Commission on therecommendation of the Constitutional Council.

(2) The Chairperson may resign from her office by letteraddressed to the President and such resignation shall beeffective from the date on which it is accepted by thePresident.

(3) The President may for reasons assigned therefor removethe Chairperson from the office of the Chairperson subjectto the provisions of section 10.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period ofher membership of the Commission.

(5) Where the Chairperson is temporarily unable toexercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions of her office due to ill health, other infirmity,absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Presidentmay appoint any other woman member to act as theChairperson in addition to her normal duties as a member.

Term of officeof members

Chairperson ofthe Commission

10Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

10. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Commission, if suchperson

(a)is or becomes a Member of Parliament, of anyProvincial Council or of any Local Authority;

(b)is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)has been or is adjudged an insolvent by a Court ofcompetent jurisdiction;

(d)is or become unfit to continue in office by reason ofillness or other infirmity of mind or body;

(e)has been or is declared to be of unsound mind by aCourt of competent jurisdiction;

(f)has served or is serving of a sentence ofimprisonment imposed by any Court in Sri Lankaor any other country; or

(g)has been removed from office during a previousterm in which he was appointed as a member of theCommission.

11. (1) The office of a member of the Commission shallbecome vacant-

(a)upon the death of such member;

(b)upon such member resigning from such office bywriting addressed to the President; or

(c)upon such member being removed from such officeon any grounds specified in section 9.

Removal andresignation ofmembers

Disqualificationsto be a memberof theCommission

11Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(2) The President may, after an address to Parliament andsupported by a resolution passed by a majority of the totalnumber of members of Parliament (including those notpresent), remove a member of the Commission from officeon the ground of proven misbehavior or incapacity undersubsection (1):

Provided however, that no resolution for thepresentation of such an address shall be entertained by theSpeaker or placed on the Order Paper of Parliament, unlessnotice of such resolution is signed by not less than one-thirdof the total number of members of Parliament and sets outfull particulars of the alleged misbehavior or incapacity.

(3) The procedure for the presentation and passing of anaddress to Parliament for the removal of a judge of theSupreme Court or the Court of Appeal, shall apply in allrespects to the presentation and passing of an address toParliament for the removal of a member of the Commission.

12. (1) The Chairperson of the Commission shall, ifpresent, preside at all meetings of the Commission. In theabsence of the Chairperson from any such meeting, themembers present shall elect one amongst themselves topreside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Commission shallbe four members.

(3) A meeting of the Commission may be held either-

(a)by the number of members who constitute aquorum being assembled at the place, date andtime appointed for the meeting; or

Meetings of theCommission

12Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(b)by means of audio - visual communication bywhich all members participating andconstituting a quorum can simultaneously seeand hear each participating member for theduration of the meeting.

(4) The Commission may regulate the procedure in regardto the meetings of the Commission and the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings.

(5) All questions for decision at any meeting of theCommission shall be decided by the vote of the majority ofthe members present. In the case of an equality of votes themember presiding shall have a casting vote.

13. The salaries of the members of the Commission shallbe determined by Parliament and shall be charged on theConsolidated Fund.

14. A member who is directly or indirectly interested inany decision that is to be taken on any matter by theCommission shall disclose the nature of such interest at themeeting of the Commission where such decision is beingtaken, and such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutesof the meetings of the Commission and such member shallnot take part in any deliberation or decision of theCommission with regard to that matter and shall withdrawfrom such meeting while such deliberation is in progress orsuch decision is being made.

15. No proceeding, act or decision of the Commissionshall be invalidated by reason only of the existence of avacancy among its members or of any defect in theappointment of a member thereof.

Remuneration ofmembers

Members todisclose anyinterest

Proceeding,act or decisionnot invalidatedby reason of avacancy

13Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

16. The seal of the Commission

(a) shall be in the custody of the Commission;

(b) may be altered in such manner as may be determinedby the Commission; and

(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or documentexcept in the presence of one member of theCommission and the Executive Director of theCommission or in the absence of the ExecutiveDirector, in the presence of any two members of theCommission, who shall sign the instrument ordocument in token of their presence.

PART II

POWERS OF INQUIRY AND INVESTIGATION OF THE COMMISSION

17. (1) The Supreme Court may refer any matter relatingto an infringement or imminent infringement of womensrights, arising in the course of a hearing of an applicationmade to the Supreme Court in terms of Article 126 of theConstitution, to the Commission for inquiry and report.

(2) The Commission shall inquire into and report to theSupreme Court any matter referred to it under subsection(1), within the period if any, specified in such reference.

(3) Where in the course of an inquiry or investigationconducted by the Commission in terms of the provisions ofthis Act, a question arises as to the scope or ambit of womensrights as protected by this Act, the Commission may refersuch question to the Supreme Court for its determinationthereon.

Seal of theCommission

Procedure uponreference interms ofArticle 126

14Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

18. (1) The Commission may in addition to the mattersreferred to the Commission under section 17, inquire intoand investigate an alleged infringement or imminentinfringement of womens rights by an action or omission ofany person, on its own motion or upon application made toit under section 19:

Provided that, the Commission shall not entertain anyapplication regarding the infringement or imminentinfringement of womens rights if relief in respect of suchinfringement has already been sought in any Court, Tribunalor any Institution created or established by the Constitutionor any other law for the time being in force:

Provided further, the Commission shall not inquireany application regarding infringement or imminentinfringement of womens rights, if inquiry has already beenconducted by the Ombuds under section 31 and in suchevent the Commission shall act in accordance with theprovisions of that section.

(2) The Commission shall cause the inquiry andinvestigation referred to in subsection (1) to be conductedby a Committee appointed by the Commission, within onemonth of receiving the application or information on thealleged infringement or imminent infringement and theCommittee shall conduct the inquiry and investigationsubject to the provisions of the Constitution and other writtenlaw.

(3) The Committee appointed under subsection (2) shallon conclusion of its investigation, submit a report thereonto the Commission. The Commission shall afterconsideration of such report, arrive at a final decision onwhether there has been an infringement or imminentinfringement of womens rights.

(4) The members of a Committee appointed undersubsection (2) shall be paid out of the Fund of theCommission, such allowance as may be determined by theCommission with the concurrence of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance.

Commissionempowered toinvestigate theinfringement orimminentinfringement ofwomens rights

15Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

19.(1) Any aggrieved person or any other person actingon behalf of the aggrieved person, may apply to theCommission as referred to in subsection (1) of section 18,requesting the Commission to inquire into and investigatean alleged infringement or imminent infringement ofwomens right.

(2) The application under subsection (1) shall be madewithin one month of the date of, or such person becomingaware of such alleged infringement or imminentinfringement.

(3) Where an application is made to the Commission byany person pursuant to subsection (1), the period withinwhich the inquiry into such complaint is pending before theCommission, shall not be taken into account in computingthe period of one month within which an application maybe made to the Supreme Court by such person in terms ofparagraph (2) of Article 126 of the Constitution or which anapplication for relief may be made by such person to anyother statutory body, person, court or tribunal under anyother law.

20. In every inquiry and investigation conducted underthe provisions of this Act, the aggrieved person as well asthe party who is alleged to have infringed the rights of theaggrieved person shall be afforded an opportunity to beheard.

21. (1) Where an investigation conducted by theCommission under section 18, does not disclose that aninfringement or imminent infringement of the rights of anaggrieved person had taken place, the Commission shallrecord that fact and shall, if the investigation was commencedupon an application made therefor, forthwith inform theapplicant within fourteen days.

Application toinvestigateinfringement ofwomens rights

Both parties tobe givenopportunity tobe heard atinquiry orinvestigation

Steps to be takenafter conclusionof investigation

16Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(2) Where an investigation conducted by theCommission, under section 18 discloses that an infringementor imminent infringement of the rights of the aggrievedperson had in fact taken place, the Commission may-

(a)if the Commission is of the opinion, that thegrievance complained of may be effectivelyresolved by mediation, refer the matter formediation in terms of section 22 and direct theparties to appear before the panel of mediatorsappointed under section 24; or

(b)forward to the relevant person a recommendationas to the manner in which in the opinion of theCommission, the infringement or imminentinfringement may be remedied or prevented.

(3) The Commission shall inform the aggrieved person ofthe action that has been taken by the Commission in termsof subsection (2) within fourteen days of the date of thedecision.

22. (1) Where the Commission refers a dispute formediation under paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section21 or subsection (3) of section 38, the panel of mediatorsappointed under section 24, shall

(a)mediate between the parties with a view to assistingthe parties to amicably resolve the dispute;

(b)conduct the mediation process in compliance withthe rules of procedure applicable to the conduct ofmediation proceedings;

(c)conclude the mediation process within a period ofsixty days from the date on which the dispute referredto the panel of mediators; and

Mediation

17Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(d)during the mediation process, abide by norms setout in the Code of Conduct for Mediators.

23. (1) For the purpose of sections 21, 22 and 38, thereshall be a Panel of Mediators consisting of five membersappointed by the Commission, from among the persons whohave proven knowledge, experience and eminence in thefields of law, administration, education or empowerment ofwomen.

(2) Code of conduct for the Panel of Mediators, term ofoffice, and remuneration of the members of the Panel ofMadiators shall be as prescribed.

(3) The Commission shall make rules setting out theprocedure which shall apply to the conduct of mediationproceedings.

24. (1) Where a settlement by mediation is reachedbetween the parties, the terms of the settlement agreed to bythe parties shall be reduced to writing, by the panel ofmediators, in the form of an agreement and shall be signedby the parties who shall thereafter comply with theobligations thereunder. The panel of mediators shall forwarda copy of the agreement to the Commission.

(2) Where a matter is referred for mediation under thissection and a settlement is arrived at, the Commission shallinform the applicant of the same within fourteen days andshall thereafter make such directions including directionsas to the payment of compensation as may be necessary togive effect to the terms of such settlement.

(3) In the event of the mediation process not beingsuccessful, or where one party objects to the same, the panelof mediators shall accordingly report the situation to theCommission.

(4) Upon the receipt of the report under subsection (3),where the attempt at mediation is not successful, theCommission may

Procedure uponconclusion ofMediation

Appointment ofPanel ofMediators

18Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(a)make such recommendation as it may think fit forthe appropriate authority or person or personsconcerned, with a view to preventing or remedyingsuch infringement or the continuation of suchinfringement;

(b)recommend to the appropriate authority, thatprosecution or other proceedings be institutedagainst the person responsible for suchinfringement; and

(c)grant such relief or make such direction as it maydeem just and equitable in the circumstances.

25. (1) The Commission shall consequent to theagreement being forwarded to it, notify the parties to thedispute and any other relevant person or governmentdepartment or institution mentioned in the recommendationsof the settlement as embodied in the agreement, to take allsuch steps as may be necessary to give effect to such decisionsor recommendations.

(2) Any relevant person or government department orinstitution who has been directed to give effect to a decisionor recommendation contained in an agreement specified insubsection (1), who is unable to take necessary steps to giveeffect to such decision or recommendation shall forthwithinform the Commission of its inability stating its reasonstherefor.

26. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of theCommission made under this Act, may appeal against suchdecision to the Court of Appeal within one month of thedate on which such decision was communicated to suchperson.

Commissionrequire parties&c,. to giveeffect to therecommendationsin the agreement

Appeal againstthe decision ofthe Commission

19Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(2) Until rules are made under Article 136 of theConstitution pertaining to appeals under this section, therules made under that Article pertaining to an applicationby way of revision to the Court of Appeal, shall apply inrespect of every appeal made under subsection (1) of thissection.

27. (1) The Commission shall, for the purposes of inquiryor investigation under this Act, have the power to

(a)procure and receive all such evidence, written ororal, and to examine all such persons as witnesses,as the Commission may think it necessary ordesirable to procure or examine;

(b)require the evidence, whether written or oral, ofany witness, to be given on oath or affirmation.Such oath or affirmation shall be that which berequired of the witness if such witness was givingevidence in a Court of law, and such oath oraffirmation shall be administered to every witnessgiving evidence before the Commission, by anofficer authorized on that behalf by theCommission;

(c)to summon any person, to attend or participate inany proceedings of the Commission to giveevidence or produce any document or other materialin the possession of such person, and to examinesuch person as a witness or require such person toproduce any document or other material;

(d)admit, notwithstanding the provisions of theEvidence Ordinance, any evidence, whether writtenor oral, which might be inadmissible in civil orcriminal proceedings, if such evidence is materialto the dispute in question; and

Powers ofInquiry orinvestigationunder this Act

20Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(e)to admit or exclude the public from such inquiry orinvestigation or any part thereof.

(2) It shall be the duty of every person summoned undersubsection (1) to comply with such summons unless suchperson is prohibited from disclosing the information requiredin terms of the Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016.

28. (1) Any person who gives evidence before theCommission shall, in respect of such evidence, be entitledto all the privileges to which a witness giving evidencebefore a Court of law is entitled to, in respect of the evidencegiven by such person before such Court.

(2) No person shall, in respect of any evidence, written ororal, given by that person to, or before the Commission beliable to any action, prosecution or other proceedings, civilor criminal in any Court.

(3) Subject as hereinafter provided, no evidence or anystatement made or given by any person to, or before, theCommission, shall be admissible against that person in anyaction, prosecution or other proceeding, civil or criminal inany Court:

Provided that, nothing in the provisions of thissubsection shall affect, or be deemed or construed to affect,any prosecution or penalty for any offence under Chapter XIof the Penal Code (Chapter 19):

Provided further that, nothing in the provisions of thissub section shall prohibit or be deemed or construed toprohibit the publication or disclosure of the name, or of theevidence or any part of the evidence of any witness whogives evidence before the Commission for the purposes ofthe prosecution of that witness for any offence under ChapterXI of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

Privileges ofpersons givingevidence beforethe Commission

21Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

29. (1) Every summons issued by the Commission shallbe under the hand of the Chairperson of the Commission.

(2) A summon may be served by delivering it to the personnamed therein or by leaving it at the last known place ofabode of that person, or by sending it by registered post tothe abode of that person.

(3) Every person to whom a summon is served shall attendbefore the Commission at the time and place specified thereinand shall answer the question put to him by the Commissionor produce such documents or materials as are required ofhim and are in his possession or power.

30. (1) An act done or omitted to be done in relation tothe Commission, whether in the presence of the Commissionor otherwise, shall constitute an offence of contempt against,or in disrespect of, the authority of the Commission if suchact would, if done or omitted to be done in relation to theSupreme Court, have constituted an offence or contemptagainst, or in disrespect of, the authority of such Court.

(2) Every offence of contempt committed against, or indisrespect of the authority of the Commission shall bepunishable by the Supreme Court as though it was an offenceof contempt committed against, or in disrespect of, theauthority of that Court, and the Supreme Court is herebyvested with jurisdiction to try every such offence.

(3) Any person who

(a) fails without cause, which in the opinion of theCommission is reasonable to appear before theCommission at the time and place mentioned inthe summons served under this Act;

Summons to beunder the handof theChairperson

Contempt of theCommission

22Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(b) refuses to be sworn or affirmed or having been dulysworn or affirmed refuses or fails without cause toanswer any question put to him regarding mattersbeing inquired into, or investigated by, theCommission;

(c) refuses or fails without cause which in the opinionof the Commission is reasonable to comply withthe requirements of a notice or written order ordirection issued or made to him, by theCommission;

(d) refuses or fails without cause, which in the opinionof the Commission is reasonable to produce andshow to the Commission any document or othermaterial, which is in the possession or control ofsuch person and which is in the opinion of theCommission required for ascertaining the truth ofthe matters being inquired or investigated into; or

(e) fails to comply with a recommendation or decisionof the Commission,

shall be guilty of the offence of contempt of against, or indisrespect of the authority of the Commission.

(4) Where the Commission determines that a person isguilty of an offence of contempt under paragraph (b) or (c) ofsubsection (3) the Commission may transmit to the SupremeCourt a Certificate setting out such determination. Everysuch Certificate shall be signed by the Chairperson of theCommission.

(5) In any proceedings for the punishment of an offenceof contempt which the Supreme Court may think fit to takecognizance of, as provided in this section, any documentpurporting to be a Certificate signed and transmitted to theCourt under subsection (4) shall

23Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(a)be received in evidence, and be deemed to be sucha Certificate without further proof, unless thecontrary is provided; and

(b)be evidence that the determination set out in theCertificate was made by the Commission and of thefacts stated in the determination.

(6) In any proceeding taken as provided in this sectionfor the punishment of alleged offence of contempt against,or in disrespect of the authority of the Commission, nomember of the Commission shall notwithstanding anythingto the contrary in this Act except with his own consent, besummoned or examined as a witness.

PART III

OMBUDS FOR THE WOMENS RIGHTS AND STAFF OF THE COMMISSION

31. (1) There shall be appointed a person who shall becalled and known as the Ombuds for Womens Rights(hereinafter referred to as the Ombuds) who shall be chargedwith the responsibility of entertaining any complaint referredto him by an aggrieved person connected with gender basedviolence or to a complaint concerning the infringement orimminent infringement of womens rights.

(2) The person appointed to hold the office of Ombuds interms of subsection (1) shall be a person of good repute withproven ability in the areas of law, human rights, mediationand dispute resolution.

(3) Any person who is subjected to, or who is aware of theoccurrence of, gender based violence or to the infringementor imminent infringement of womens rights may make acomplaint to the Ombuds.

Appointment ofan Ombuds forWomens Rights

24Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(4) The Ombuds shall maintain a record of all complaintsreceived and shall in the order that such complaints arereceived, make inquiries into the facts of each complaint.

(5) On the conclusion of an inquiry into a complaint, theOmbuds shall forward to the Commission a report containingrecommendations and possible avenues of relief availableto the complainant in terms of the provisions of this Act.The Commission shall take cognizance of therecommendations made by the Ombuds in recommendingaction to be taken in terms of Part II of this Act.

(6) Terms of reference applicable to the Ombuds, theremuneration payable, the term of office including mannerof removal therefrom and the Code of Conduct to be adheredto by the Ombuds shall be as prescribed.

32. (1) There shall be appointed by the President on therecommendation of the Minister, a person with prescribedqualifications to be the Executive Director of the Commissionwho shall act on the instructions of and be subject to, thegeneral direction and control of the Commission and beresponsible to the Commission.

(2) Subject to any written law and any guidelines issuedby the Government from time to time, the conditions ofemployment including remuneration and scheme ofrecruitment of the Executive Director shall be determinedby the Commission.

(3) The Executive Director may be present at meetings ofthe Commission and speak at such meetings but shall not beentitled to vote any such meeting.

ExecutiveDirector

25Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(4) The President may for reasons assigned, remove theExecutive Director appointed under subsection (1), fromsuch office.

33. (1) The Commission may appoint such number ofofficers and employees, as the Commission may deemnecessary for the proper and efficient discharge of itsfunctions.

(2) The Commission may

(a) exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss anyofficer or employee of the Commission;

(b) subject to relevant written law and any guidelinesissued by the Government from time to time,stipulate the conditions of employment includingremuneration and scheme of recruitment of theofficers and employees;

(c) establish and regulate a provident fund and anyother welfare and security schemes for the benefitof the officers and employees of the Commissionsubject to any written law and make contributionsto any such fund or scheme.

(3) At the request of the Commission, any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and theSecretary to the Ministry under which that officer isemployed and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Public Administration, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Commission for such period asmay be determined by the Commission, or with like consent,be permanently appointed to such staff.

Staff of theCommission

26Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(4) (a) Where any officer in the public service istemporarily appointed to the staff of the Commission, theprovisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatismutandis, apply to an in relation to, such officer.

(b) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to an in relation to, such officer.

(c) Where the Commission employs any person who hasentered into any contract with the Government by which hehas agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,any period of service to the Commission by that person shallbe regarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging his obligation under such contract.

PART IV

NATIONAL FUND FOR WOMEN

34. (1) There shall be established for the purposes of thisAct, a Fund to be called the National Fund for Women(hereinafter referred to as the Fund).

(2) The power of administration and management of theFund shall be vested with the Commission.

(3) There shall be paid into the Fund

(a) all such sums of money as shall be voted from timeto time by Parliament for the use of the Commission;

(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the

Establishment ofthe NationalFund forWomen

27Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

Commission by way of aid, gift, grants, donationsor bequests from any source whatsoever, whetherin Sri Lanka or abroad with the approval of theDepartment of External Resources; or

(c) all such sums of money as may be received by theCommission by way of proceeds from the sale ofany movable or immovable property of theCommission.

(4) There shall be paid out of the Fund

(a) all such sums of money as are required to defrayany expenditure incurred by the Commission, inthe exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act;

(b) all such sums of money as are auhtorized by theCommission to make any ex-gratia payments toany individual or organization in recognition ofany exceptional or outstanding contribution to thecause of womens rights; or

(c) all such sums of money as are required to be paidout of the Fund, by or under this Act.

35. The Commission in consultation with the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance may invest the moneys ofthe Fund which is not immediately needed, for theprogrames which assist the empowerment of women as itmay determine.

36. (1) The Commission shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions, of the Commission.

(2) The financial year of the Commission shall be thecalendar year.

Commission mayinvest its money

Audit andAccounts

28Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of Public Corporation shallapply to the audit of the accounts of the Commission.

PART V

GENERAL

37. (1) The Minister shall in consultation with theCommission make regulations in respect of matters requiredby this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare authorized to be made.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1), regulations may be made inrespect of all or any of the following: -

(a)prescribing the manner in which the Commissionshall appoint the Committee referred to insubsection (2) of section 18;

(b)prescribing the eligibility required of the personsappointed to the Committee referred to insubsection (2) section 18;

(c)prescribing the procedure to be followed by theCommittee in relation to an inquiry or investigationbeing conducted in terms of section 18;

(d)identifying the mechanisms or processes to beadopted in relation to complaints and grievancesreceived by the Commission in terms of theprovisions of this Act;

(e)identifying women of different categories and statusand to prescribe measures to be adopted to ensureequality and protection to respective category orstatus;

Regulations

29Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(f)issuing guidelines to the relevant authorities,specifying the manner of adhering to the framework;

(g)prescribing areas in which economic empowermentof women is required and targets to be met underthe framework and to ensure not less than fiftypercentum contribution of women in the nationaleconomy;

(h)establishing mechanisms to promote empowermentinitiatives:-

(i)for socio economic empowerment of womenhaving special regards to women withdisabilities;

(ii)for the protection of girls from all forms ofviolence, forced labour, trafficking andexploitation;

(iii)for a support systems for assisting women toaccess judicial processes for obtaining redressfor gender based violence anddiscrimination;

(i)prescribing policies and practices to be adopted byprivate persons and other non- state institutions toensure womens rights; and

(j)for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect tothe principles and provisions of this Act.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of its publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

30Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Every regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) The notification of the date on which any regulationis deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

38. (1) The Minister shall take necessary steps forupgrading the Sri Lanka Womens Bureau to a GovernmentDepartment.

(2) Any person who fails to comply with any regulationmade under section 37 shall be liable to inform the Ministerin writing the reasons for such noncompliance. If the Ministeris satisfied with the reasons given, the Minister may extendthe period for compliance.

(3) Where the regulations made by the Minister have notbeen complied with within the extended period referred toin subsection (2), the Minister may refer the matter to theCommission to resolve by mediation.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs (a),(b),(c) and (d) ofsubsection (1) of section 22 shall apply to a matter referredto mediation under subsection (3).

39. The Commission shall at the end of each financialyear submit to Parliament, a report containing a list of allmatters referred to it, the action taken in respect of themalong with the recommendations of the Commission inrespect of each matter.

Special Power ofthe Ministerunder this Act

Annual Report

31Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

40. The Commission may delegate to any officer orofficers appointed to assist the Commission any of its powers,duties or functions in so far as is required for the efficientfunctioning of the Commission and the officer or officers towhom such powers are so delegated may exercise thosepowers subject to the direction and control of theCommission. Any delegation made under this section maybe withdrawn by the Commission.

41. The members of the Commission and the officers andemployees appointed to assist the Commission shall bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning and forthe purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) and everyinquiry of investigation conducted under this Act, shall bedeemed to be judicial proceeding within the meaning ofthat Code.

42. The provisions of Part III of Chapter I under theHeading Offences relating to Bribery or Corruption of theAnti- Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023, shall mutatis mutandisbe deemed to be applicable to or in relation to, the provisionsof this Act.

43. (1) A liability, whether civil or criminal, shall not beattached to any member or officer of the Commission or toany officer authorised by such member or officer, for anythingwhich in good faith is done in the exercise, performance ordischarge of any power, duty or function imposed orconferred on the Commission under this Act.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Commission in any suitor prosecution brought by or against the Commission beforeany Court shall be paid out of the Fund, and any costs paidto, or recovered by, the Commission in any such suit orprosecution shall be credited to the Fund.

Delegation ofpowers, dutiesor functions ofthe Commission

Members of theCommissiondeemed to bepublic servants

Provisions of theAnti-CorruptionAct, No.9 of2023 to beapplied

Protection ofmembers andofficers of theCommissionfrom suit orprosecution

32Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person in any suitor prosecution brought against him before any Court inrespect of any act which is done or purported to be done byhim under this Act or any appropriate instrument, or on thedirection of the Commission, shall, if the Court holds thatthe act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund,unless such expense is recovered by him in such suit orprosecution.

44. (1) The Commission may make rules in respect of allmatters for which rules are required or authorized to be madeunder this Act. Every rule made under this Act shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(2) Every rule made by the Commission shall be approvedby the Minister and such rules and the notification of suchapproval be published in the Gazette within a reasonableperiod of time not exceeding three months and shall comeinto operation on the date its publication or on such laterdate as may be specified thereon.

(3) Any rule made by the Commission may at any time,be amended, added to, varied or rescinded in the like manner.

45. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Minister means the Minister to whom theimplementation of this Act has been assignedunder Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution;

Code of conduct for Mediators means the Codeof Conduct for Mediators as prescribed bythe Minister under this Act;

person includes any body of persons, corporateor unincorporate and a private person butshall not include legislative or judicialbodies;

Rules of theCommission

Interpretation

33Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

prescribed means the prescribed by regulationsmade under this Act;

private person means any person who is not theState or an organ or employee of the Stateand includes any incorporated person inwhich the State, the Government or anypublic corporation or local authority holdsless than fifty percentum of the shares of orinterests in, such incorporated person; and

womens rights mean the rights of women toequality and non discrimination asenumerated in Article 12 of the Constitutionand the goals described in Convention onElimination of All forms of DiscriminationAgainst Women including promoting equalopportunities for women in access toeducation and employment and ensuringfreedom from sexual harassment and all formsof violence against women enabling themto live in dignity.

46. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

34Women EmpowermentAct, No. 37 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.