PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
‘SRI LANKA»

rs

SRI LANKA EXPORT DEVELOPMENT :
ACT, No. 40 OF 1979 |

[Certified on 25th June, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Sippisment é6 Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Dae of Jame 29,. 1979 .

PoMe F
4 i : ‘ ‘
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA |
pS
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVI. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price: Re.110 cents 2 __ s, Postage: 50. cents

!


“Sri Lanka , Eeport Development
Act, No. 40 of 1979

.[Certified on 1 25th June, 1979] mt
L.D.—O. 101/78 |

An AcT TO PROVIDE FOR THE CONSTITUTION OF THE SRI LANKA
- Export DrvELOPMENT COUNCIL OF MINISTERS AND THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA ExporT DEVELOPMENT

’ Board ; TO VEST THE SAID BOARD WITH POWERS NECESSARY FOR .

THE DEVELOPMENT OF SRI LANKA EXPORTS ; AND TO PROVIDE

FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR ANCIDEN SAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic -

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may ‘be cited as the Sri Lanka Export

- Development Act, No. 40 of 1979, and shall come into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by
Order publishd in the Gazette.

PART I

-CONSTITUTION OF THE ExXPporT DEVELOPMENT Counc, OF

MINISTERS

2. (1) There shall be an Export Development Council of

Ministers consisting of—

’

Council; and

(b) the Ministers in charge of. the subjects of Trade,
Shipping, ‘ Industries, -Agriculture,; Plantation
Industries, Textile Industries, Fisheries, Finance,
Foreign Affairs, Planning and Rural Industries.

(2) The Export Development Council of Ministers shall,
subject to any general or special directions given by the
Cabinet of Ministers, be responsible for the formulation and
implementation of national export. development policies and
progranumest

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT AND Gomeneuriow' OF THE SRI LANKA EXPORT

; DEVELOPMENT BoarbD

(1) With effect. from. such date as may be fixed by
the Minister by Notification published in the Gazette there
shall be established a Board which shall be called the Sri
uanka Export Development Bie hereinafter referred to
as the “Board”.

2—A 41425-13,000 (79/05) ;

Short title |
and date c2 .
operation.

Constitution
of the Export:
Development

* ‘Council of
(a) the President, who shall ie the cheteian of the

Ministers.

Establish.
ment of the
Sri Lanka

Export
Development
Board.

~


tion of the
Board.

Sri Lanka Export Development . *
Act, No. 40 of 1979

' (2) The Board shall be:a body corporate with perpetual
succession and a ‘common seal and mays sue and be sued in
its corporate name, _

\
.

(3) The head office of the Board shall be in Colombo.

(4) The Board may, with the prior approval of the

Minister, establish and maintain any branch office;¢ or agency
within or outside Sri Lanka.

4, (1) The Board shall consist of—

@ a Chairman and six other members all of whom shall
be appointed by the Minister from among persons
who appear to have had experience and’ shown
capacity in industry, trade or finance, or in any
other field connected with export development ;

(b) the Secretary or Additional Secretary of the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the subject of ‘Trade,
nominated by that Minister ;

(c) the Secretary or Additional Secretary of the Ministry

of the Minister in charge of the subject of Shipping,
nominated by that Minister ;

(d) the Secretary or Additional Secretary of the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the subject of Industries,
nominated by that Minister ;

(e) the Secretary or Additional Secretary of the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the subject of pgricul:
ture, nominated by that Minister ;

| (f) the Secretary or Additional Seaetiny of the Ministry

of the Minister in charge of the subject of Plantation
Industries, nominated by that Minister ;

(g) the Secretary or Additional Secretary of the Ministry .
of the Minister in. charge of the subject,of Textile
_ Industries, nominated by that Minister; :

(h) the Secretary or Additional Secretary of the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the subject cr HASHELES)
nominated by that Minister ; ew ge

a)

(i) the Secretary or Additional Secretary of the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
nominated by that Minister; —

sl


Sri Lanka Export Development - tS
Act, No. 40 of 1979

(j) the Secretary or Additional Secreatry of the Ministry .
of the Minister in charge of the subject of ¥orelgn
Affairs, nominated by that Minister ;

(k) the Secretary or Additional Secretary of the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the subject of Planning,
nominated. by that Minister ;

{l) the Secretary or Additional Secretary of the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the subject of Rural
Industries, nominated by. that Minister; and

{m) a member of the Greater Colombo ‘Economic
Commission, appointed by the Minister with the
concurrence of the President. Me

. (2) Where two or more of the aibjects specified in
paragraphs (6b) to (1) of subsection (1) are assigned to, or
remain in the charge of, one Minister, then there shall be ©
only one member nominated by: that Minister in neabee “
of such subjects, ‘

(3) A person shall be disqualified for appointment, or for
continuing, as a member of the Board under paragraph (a)
or (m) of subsection (1)—

(a) if he is, or becomes, a Member of Parliament ; or.
{b) if he is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka.

(4) The Chairman and the members appointed by the
Minister under paragraphs (a) and (m) of subsection (1)?:
shall, subject to the provisions of subsections (5) and (8),
hold office for a term of three years but shall be Svein
for reappointment. .

(5) The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette
remove from office the Chairman or any member of the
Board appointed under paragraph (a) or (m) of subsection |
(1), without assigning any reason therefor and such removal
shall not be called in question in any court:

Provided, however, that the member appointed under ~
Paragraph (m) of subsection (1) shall not be removed from -
office under this subsection without the concurrence of the

President. es ie ~

(6) . Tn re event of the vacation of office by the Chairman
or any other member of the Board appointed under para--
graph (a) or. (m) of subsection (1), or, his removal from
office under ‘the provisions of the preceding subsection, the


Meetings of
the Board,
quorum
and regu-
lation of |
procedure,

es

4 Sri Lanka Export Development
Act, No. 40 of 1979

_ Minister may appoint another person to hold such office

during the unexpired part of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds:

Provided, however, that if such vacation of office or

_ removal from office is by, or of, the’ member appointed

under: paragraph (m) of subsection (1), no appointment
shall be made under this subsection without the concurrence
of the President.

(7) If the Chairman or any member of the Board appoin-
ted under paragraph (a) or (m) of subsection (1) is
temporarily unable to discharge the duties of his office due

’ to ill health or absence from Sri Lanka or for any other

‘an

cause, the Minister may appoint some other person to act -

in his place as Chairman or as member:

Provided, however, that if the member so unable to
discharge the duties of his office is a member appointed
under paragraph (m) of subsection (1), no appointment

shall be made under this subsection without the concurrence
of the President.

(8) The Chairman or any member of the Board may at

any time resign his office by letter to that effect addressed
to the Minister.

(9) The Chairman or any member of the Board may be
paid such remuneration out of the Fund of the Board, as
may be determined by the Minister.

(10) The Board shall, in the exercise, performance or
discharge of its powers, duties or functions under this Act,
be subject to such general or special directions as may,
from time to time, be issued by the Minister in consultation

where necessary, with the other Ministers of Ministries

represented on the Board.

5. (1) Meetings of the Board shall be held at least once
in every month and, in. addition, as frequently as are

necessary for the purpose of discharging its responsibilities
under this Act.

(2) The Chairman of the Board shall, if present, preside

at all meetings of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman

' from any such meeting, the members present shall elect
_ one of the members to preside at such meeting.

(3) At any meeting of the Board, seven members shall
constitute a quorum: Meat S


Sri Lanka Export Developrient 3)
Act, No. 40 of 1979 -

(4) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the proce-
dure to be followed in regard to the transaction of business
at meetings of the Board, shall be as determined by rules
made by the Board.

’

6. (1) The Chairman shall ‘hg the chief executive of the
Board.-

(2) The Chairman shall subject to the general direction
and control of the Board, be’charged with the direction of
the business of the Board, the organization and execution of
the powers, functions and duties of the Board and the
administrative control of the employees of the Board.

(3) The Chairman may, with the concurrence of the
Board, delegate in writing to any employee of the Board
such of his powers, functions or duties as he may from time
‘to time consider necessary, and any employee to whom any
such powers, functions or duties are so delegated shall:
exercise, discharge or perform them subject to the general
or special directions of the Chairman.

7. A member of the Board who has a direct or indirect
pecuniary interest in any business transacted or proposed

to be transacted by the Board shall disclose the nature of:

-- such interest at the meeting of the Board where such busi-

ness is discussed. The disclosure shall be recorded in the -

Minutes of the Board, and such member shall not take part

in any deliberation or decision of the Board with regard .

to that business, and shall withdraw from such meeting

while such deliberation is in progress or such decision is
being made. )

8. No ac or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid by
reason only of the existence of a vacancy among its members
or any defect in the appointment of a member thereof.

9. (1) The Board may establish committees consisting
of such number of persons, including persons who are not
members of the Board, for the proper exercise, performance
and discharge of its powers, duties and functions.

* (2) The Board may delegate to such committees such of
its powers, duties ‘and functions as may be determined by
the Board.

(3) Every committee established under sibsection (1)
shall determine the quorum for and the procedure to be
followed at the meetings of such committee. ‘

Disclosure
of interest
by members
of the
Board. -

Acts not
invalidated
by reason
of vacancy,
&e.

Power of —
the Board to
establish
committees.


6 _ |. Sri Lanka Export Development
Act, No. 40 of 1979

Establish- 10. a) On the advice of the Board the Minister may y by
Ader Order published in the Gazette, establish Advisory Commit-

Committees. tees that are oriented towards the devalopment and promo- —
‘tion of specific products, product groups and commodities
as well as the functional aspects of expors trade.

(2) It shall be the function of each such Advisory

‘* Committee to advise the Board on any or all of the matters

which the Minister considers necessary for the purposes of

' Carrying out or giving effect to the principles and provisions
of this Act.

' ~ (3) On the advice of the Board the Minister may appoint
to each such Advisory Committee such number of members
for such period and. on such terms and. conditions as he
shall determine.

(4) Each such Advisory: Committee shall have the power

_ to fix and regulate its own procedure including the power to

determine the number of members necessary to form a
quorum at its meetings.

(5) A member may resign from office BY letter to that

effect addressed to the Minister. F

~ (6) A member vacating his office by ee or by
‘the expiration of his Feros, © of office shall be éligible for
reappointment. ' 3, v4

(7) Where a member becomes by. reason of illness or

other infirmity, or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily

- unable to perform the duties of his office, the Minister may
appoint another person to act in his place.

, (8) The Minister. may, if he considers it expedient to do
so, remove, by Order published in the Gazette, any member
of an Advisory: ‘Committee.

Seal of 7 11. (1) The seal of the Board may be altered in . such
, He Board, ™ manner as may be determined by the Board.

‘y

(2) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any--’
instrument or document except in the présence of two
‘members of the Board who shall sign the instruyaent or
document in tokén of their presence)


Sri Lanka Export Development | Wes

Act, No. 40 of 1979

PART II |
POWERS AND FUNCTIONS ‘OF THE BOARD ©

, 12, (1) The powers and functions of the Board shall be—

(a) to advise the Export Development Council of Minis-
ters on the national export development policy and
3 programmes ;

(b) to recommend to the Export Development Council of
Ministers policies and measures on export-oriented
investment ;

- (c) to recommend. the adoption of trade agreements or
negotiation of inter-country commercial policy,
financial and other related arrangements that will
facilitate the aeyelopient of export: from Srt
Lanka ; ;

(d) to formulate a national export development plan

and programme for approval by the Export Deve- —

lopment Council of Ministers ;

(e) to monitor the implementation of the national export
. plan and programme and actively assist in the
‘implementation of the plan;
(f) to facilitate the development of supplies of export
products ;

(g) to administer the Export Development Fund and

' - implement all programmes of assistance for export

production and marketing in close co-operation with

the various agencies of the Government and of
trade and industry ;

(h) to function as a focal point within the Government
’ where exporters can deal with all export problems;

- (i) to carry out export potential surveys sek as to Sri
Lanka products ;

(j) to carry out research and development on ‘expen
' products ;

(k) to promote the export of profesional and consultancy
services from Sri eee in order to earn foreign
exchange ; ;

(lt) to promote and sponsor trading houses, dnpinearing
: and development work and other activities abroad,
that will enhance ‘Sri Lanka's foreign exchange
earnings ;
(m) to carry out feasibility’ studies. on éxporteoriented
projects and to undertake any special aa rag on
, . export development on a pilot basis ;

‘


Sri Lanka Export Development
Act, No. 40 of 1979
. fa . : ‘
_(n) to promote and sponsor the establishment of joint
export groups, export houses and other organiza-
tions ;

{o) to direct and co-ordinate the market development
activities of trade representatives and trade agents
abroad of Sri Lanka;

{p) to act as implementing agency for technical co-opera-
tion in the field of export development with organi-
zations and bodies outside Sri Lanka ;

(q) subject to limits and procedures ‘laid down by the
Minister in consultation with the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance,—

(i) to acquire shares, stocks or any other interest
in any business enterprise incorporated in
Sri Lanka or abroad and carrying on or
proposing to carry on business in Sri Lanka
or abroad ;

(ii) to lend money to any person or organization
in Sri Lanka or abroad for the purpose of
trade development ;

{r) without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred on the Board by this Act, to carry out or -
provide general export services to all exporters,
such as—

(i) trade information of current interest to pro-
ducers and traders,

(ii) marketing research in foreign markets,

(iii) assistance in the development of new products
and in the adaptation of existing ones for
export markets,

(iv) assistance in the initial stages of marketing a
new product or entry into a new market, in-
cluding test marketing exercises,

(v) organization of buyer-seller meetings in
Colombo and in foreign locations,

(vi) export consultancy services,

(vii) assistance in participation in esate displays, ©
trade fairs and other forms of trade promo-
tion, :

(viii) training courses in trade promotion and expect
marketing,


_<

Aet, No. 40 of 1979 .

fo

" Sri Lanka Export Development 9

~ (ix) assistance in resolving the problems encounter-

ed by individual producers of exports or
exporters,

(x) assistance in quality contre standards, packag- -

ing, export credit and insurance,
(xi) assistance in import and export procedures ce
- documentation ;

{s) to acquire and hold any movable or immovable pro-
perty or dispose of any movable or immovabis
property acquired or held by it;

(t) to levy fees or other charges for services or. facilities
provided by the Board ;

{u) to accept gifts, grants, donations or subsidies itcom 3 :
both local or foreign sources whether in cash or, ©

otherwise and to apply them for carrying out any
of the objects of the Board;

_(v) to recommend to the Minister, where there is no
provision in that behalf in any existing law and the
Board is of opinion that it is expedient to do so,
the making of regulations under this Act in respect
oi the following matters—

(i) the regulation of the sale and export of export .

products, the arrangements .and payments
relating to shipping, freight, brokerage, ware-
house or any other charges incurred in the
sale of export products abroad ;

(ii) the regulation of the insurance, credit, quality
control, standardisation, packaging and in-
ternal transport of export products ; |

(iii) the regulation of the establishment and activi-

ties of joint export groups, export. houses,
and other organizations engaged in exports ; ;
and : a

{w) to do all such other acts or things which are connec-
ted with, or are in furtherance of, the exercise,
performance.and discharge of the powers, duties and
functions of the Board under this Act or any
other written law.

(2) Every decision made by the Board in the exercise of
its powers under this Act shall be ene: by every
Ministry represented on the Board :

Provided, however, that the Export Development Council
of Ministers or the Cabinet of Ministers may vary any
decision made by the Board.

ad


Export
Devglop-
ment
Fund.

Levy of
cess on
imports

and exporie:

~ 10 Sri Lanka Export Development

Act, No. 40. of 1979.

PART IV —

FINANCE

ud

13. (1) There shall be established a fund to be called the

Export Development Fund (hereinafter referred to as “the

. Fund”), There shall be credited to the Fund—

(a) all such sums of money: as may be voted from time
to time by Parliament for the use of ‘the Board 5,

(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Board in the exercise, performance and discharge
e. of its powers, duties and functions ;

(c) all such sums of money as may be received. by the
Board by way of loans, donations, gifts, or grants
from any sources whatsoever, whether in or out-
side Sri Lanka ; and -

(d) the proceeds of all cess imposed under this Act on
-_ imports or on any exports.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money required to defray any expendituré incurred by the
Board in the exercise, performance and discharge of its

. ROMEry, duties and functions..

4
(3) The initial development Fund of the Board shall be

eighty million rupees. The amount of the initial Fund shall
be paid out of the Consolidated Fund in such instalments
as the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance may in
consultation with the Minister determine and such sums
shall be credited to the Fund, of

14. a) * There shall be charged, levied and paid a cess at

such rates as may be determined by the Minister from time
to time, with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of
the sunbject of Finance, by Order published in the Gazettes

’ on such imports and exports specified in the Order.

(2) The amount of cess imposed under this section may

‘be varied or rescinded by a’like Order.

(3) Every Order made by the Minister under this section

. shall come into force on the date of its publication in the
' Gazette or on such later date as may be specified therein, :

and shall be brought before Parliament for approval within
four months of the date of its publication. Any such Order
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be revoked as

from the date of its disapproval, but without prejudice to .

the validity of anything previously done thereunder. _


aN

Sri Lanka Export Development 11
Act, No. 40 of 1979

_ (4) This section shall have effect’ as though it formed part
of the Customs Ordinance, and the provisions of that Ordi-
nance shall apply accordingly. :

(5) The proceeds of the cess recovered under this section

shall be paid monthly by the Principal Collector of Customs
to the credit of the Fund. —

(6) The cess imposed under this section shall be in saat
tion to any import duty or export duty or, any other ‘cess

levied under any. other written law.
) . y
15. The Board may, wih the consent of the Minister or in
accordance with the terms of any. general authority given
by him, borrow temporarily, by way of overdraft or other-

wise, such sums as the Board may require for meeting the |

obligations of the Board or discharging its duties under

this Act:

¢
Provided that the aggregate of the amumudts outstanding
in respect of any temporary loans raised by the Board
under this section shall not at any time exceed such sum
as may be determined by the Minister in consultation with

the Minister in charge of the stibject of Finance.

16. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of

1971, shall mutatis mutandis apply to the financial control °

of the Board.

17. The font year of the Board shall be the calendar
year, on oo Ts

18. There shall be exempt from income tax—

(a) the profits and income of the Board ; and

(b) any sum paid by the Board to any person as a sub-
icy or grant out of the Fund.

PART Vv
SrarF

19. (1) There shall be a Director-General of the Board
appointed by the Minister for such period as may be

‘determined by the Minister. The Director-General shall be

the Secretary to the Board.

(2) The Director-General shall be remunerated in’ such
manner and at such rates, and shall be subject to such terms -
and, conditions of service, as may be determined by the

Board.

! : :
Borrowing
powers of
the Board-

” Application
of the

provisions
of the
Finance
Act No. 38
of 1971.

Financial

. year of
. the Board.

Exemption
from '
income tax.

Director-~
General of
the Board.

%


’ Appoint-~
ment of
officers,
servants
and
agents.

Acquisition a

of #mmo-
vable pro-

perty
under the
Land
Acquisi-
tion Act.

‘proves of the proposed acquisition,

1Z ‘Sri Lanka Export Development
. Act, No. 40 of 1979

(3) Where an officer in the public service is appointed
as Director-General, the provisions of subsections (3), (4),

’ (5) and (6) of section 20 shall ‘ mutatis: mutandis’ apply to

and in relation to him.

20. (1) The Board may appoint such officers, servants

and agents as it considers necessary for the efficient
exercise, performance and dircharge of its powers, duties
and functions.
‘ (2) The officers, servants and agents shall ‘be remuiiéra-
ted in such manner and at such rates, and shall be subject
to such conditions of service, as may be: ae il by rules
made by the Board. 5,

(3) At the request of the Board any officer in the public
service may, with the consent of that officer and his appoint-
ing authority, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the

‘Board for such period as may be determined by the Board,

with like consent, or be permanently appointed to such
staff.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions of sub-
section (2) of section 13 of the Transport Board Law,

' No. 19 of 1978, shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in rela-

tion to him. Any such officer shall be entitled to the total
remuneration including all allowances attached to the post
he is appointed to in the Board, subject to statutory deduc-
tions and any other deductions approved by the Board.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is perma-
nently appointed to the staff.of the Board, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 13 of the Transport Board Law,
No. 19 of 1978, shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in
relation to him.

(6) Where ‘the Board employs any person = has

entered into a contract,with the Government by which he

has agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,
any period of service with the Board by that person shall
be regarded as service to the Government for the purpose
oa discharging the obligations of such contract.

PART VI |
GENERAL ° .
21, (a) Where any immovable property is required- to

be acquired for the ' purpose of the business of the Board
and the Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, ap-

be deemed to be required for a public purpose and may ac-

cordingly be compulsorily acquired under the Land Acquisi-

tion Act and be transferred to the Board.

Pe

that property shall -


° Sri Lanka Export Development
Act, No. 40 of 1979

(2) Any sum payable for the “acquisition of any
immovable property. under the ana Acquisition Act ‘shall
be paid by the Board.

22, (1) Where any immovable — of the State is
required for the purpose of any business of the Board, such
purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for which a special
grant or lease of such property may be made under section
6 of the Crown’Lands Ordinance, and accordingly the pro-
visions of that Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or
lease of such PRgDERby, to the Board.

(2) Where any movable property: of the State is cetived
for the purpose of the Board, the Minister may, by Order
published in the. Gazette, transfer to and vest in the Board
the possession and use of such movable property.

| 23. (1) The Minister may, from time to time, give the
Board general or special directions as to the exercise of the.

powers and the performance of the duties of the Board and
such directions shall be carried out by the Board.

(2) The Minister may, from time ‘to time, direct in
writing the Board to furnish him such information with
respect to the property, business and activities of the
Board, as he may require and ‘the Board shall carry out
every such direction: - ; :

24, It shall be lawful for the Chairman of the Board or
any officer generally or specially authorized by him to call

for any information on the production, collection, pro-

person or organization...

25. Ail members) officers and servants of the Board shall

be deemed ‘to be public servants within the meaning and
for the purposes of the Penal Code.’

26. The Board shall be deemed te be a scheduled institu

‘tion within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the

provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly..

-

13

State pro-
perty, both.
movable
and im-
movable,

to be made
available

to the
Board.

Directions
of the

Minister.

Power to

eall for
any infor-
mation.

.cessing or export of a product or commodity, from any -

Members,
officers and
servants of.
the Board
deemed to
be public
servants.

The Board
deemed to .
be a sche-
duled ins-
titution.
within the
meaning of
the Bribery _
Act. :


14 Sri Lanka Export Development... + J
: Act, No. 40 of 1979 ;

: Protection 27. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie— rie Os
Seken tales (a) against the Board for any act which in good faith is
this Act done or purported to be done by the Board under ,
or on the ; : >
direction this Act; or :

. of the .

» Board. : (b) against any member, officer, servant or agent of the

Board for any act which in good faith is done or
purported to be done by him under this Act or on
the direction of the Board. pe

(2) Any expense incurred by the Board in any suit or
prosecution brought by or against the Board beforé any
court shall be paid out of the Fund, and any costs paid to,
or recovered by, the Board in any such suit or prosecution

Shall be credited to the Fund. a ee
(3) Any expense incurred by any such ‘person, as is
. referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit

or prosecution brought against him before any ‘court in.
respect of any act which is done or is purported to be done
by him under this Act or on the direction of the “Board
‘shall, if the court holds that such act was done in good faith,
be paid out of the Fund, unless such Bayonne is recovered
by him in such suit-or _ paaaerulon: : &

Secrecy. 28. Every rember’ “ afficery servant, agent “or auditor a
of the Board shall, before entering upon his, duties, sign a -
declaration pledging himself to observe strict secrecy res-

_ pecting all transactions of the Board and all matters rela-
.ting to such transactions and shall’ by such declaration

_. Pledge himself not to reveal any such transaction or matter .
 except— . . ae gt a

(a) when required s0 todo by the Board, "a sour of law,
or the person to whom the transaction _ or matter
- relates ;

\
sf

(b) in the performance’ of his duties ; “and

SJ in order to comply with any of the provisions, of this
. | - Act or any other written law. Fs ; |
sesule- . 29, (1) The Minister may make regulations for the pur-.
pose of carrying out or giving effect to the eprinetples and
Provisions of this Act. Sa

(2) In particular anil without prejudice to the geneeallty
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister. may
make regulations in respect of the following matters : —

(a) where there is no provision in that behalf in any
existing law, the sale and export. of export goods,

oy


" Sri Lanka Export Development - le | 15
Act, No. 40 of 1979

the arrangements and payments relating to shi pping,
freight, brokerage, warehouse or any other charges
incurred in the sale of export products abroad ;

{b) where there is no provision in that behalf in any.
existing law, the insurance, credit, quality control,
standardization, packaging and ere transport
of export products ;

({c) the establishment aud activities of joint export
groups, export houses, and other organizations
- engaged in exports ; :

_ 4d) the provision, of a scheme for - the registration of
exporters ; 3 “

(e) any matter in respect of which regulations are
authorized or required by this Act to be made.

(3) Buery Pegulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come. into operation on
the date of such publication or on such: “later date as may
be specified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the.Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. . Any*segulation which

«ds not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from
the date of disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder. if

(5) Notification, ‘of the date on which any regulation is’
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

30. (1) The Board may make rules in respect of all or | Power of
any ‘of the. matters for ‘which rules are authorized or ea
meguired by this Act” to be’made.. . rules, .

(2) No rule wade ‘by the Board under this Act shall have
effect until-it has been approved by the Minister. . :
x Se ary. a
31. Every ‘person who contravenes or > Hails to comply Offences.
with any provision of this Act or of any ‘regulation or rule
“made thereunder shall be guilty of an offence and shall,
on conviction by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceed-
ing one thousand rupees or to _imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding two years or to both

-Such fine and imprisonment.
