PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL AUTHORITY ON TOBACCO ANDALCOHOL (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 3 OF 2015

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 03rd March, 2015]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 06, 2015

1National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol(Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2015

2PL 0087713,000 (02/2015)

[Certified on 03rd March, 2015]

L.D.O. 8/2015.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY ON TOBACCO ANDALCOHOL ACT, NO. 27 OF 2006

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the National Authority onTobacco and Alcohol (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2015.

2.Section 34 of the National Authority on Tobacco andAlcohol Act, No. 27 of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactment) is hereby repealed and the followingsection substituted therefor:

34 (1) A manufacturer or an importer of atobacco product shall cause to be displayedconspicuously and in legible print

(a)on the top surface area of both frontand back sides of every packet, packageor carton containing the tobaccoproduct manufactured or imported bysuch manufacturer or importer, healthwarnings, as may be prescribed, subjectto the provisions of section 34A; and

(b)on every packet, package or cartoncontaining the tobacco productmanufactured or imported by suchmanufacturer or importer, a lable or astatement specifying the tar andnicotine content in each tobaccoproduct in such packet, package orcarton.

Prohibitionof themanufacture,sale, importetc. oftobaccoproductswithouthealthwarnings anda label or astatement oftar andnicotinecontent.

Short title.

Replacement ofsection 34 ofAct, No. 27 of2006.

National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol(Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 20152

(2) A person shall not sell, offer for sale,supply, distribute or store a packet, package orcarton containing tobacco products unlesshealth warnings as provided for in subsection(1) (a) and a label or a statement as providedfor in subsection (1)(b), are displayedconspicuously in legible print on every packet,package or carton containing the tobaccoproducts.

(3) Any person who contravenes theprovisions of subsection (1) or subsection (2),commits an offence and on conviction aftersummary trial by a Magistrate be liable to afine not exceeding rupees fifty thousand or toan imprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding one year or to both such fineand imprisonment..

3.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 34 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 34A of the principal enactment:

34A. (1) A manufacturer or an importer ofcigarettes and other tobacco products shallcause to be printed the health warnings referredto in section 34(1), covering an area of eightyper centum of the top surface area (principledisplay area) of both front and back sides ofevery packet, package or carton containingcigarettes and other tobacco products.

(2) The health warnings referred to in theforegoing subsection, shall indicate in theprescribed manner, the health hazards and theharmful effects caused by the usage ofcigarettes and other tobacco products.

(3) The health warnings on the front andback sides of the packet, package or cartonshall defer from each other.

Insertion of newsection 34A inthe principalenactment.

How todisplayhealthwarnings.

3National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol(Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2015

(4) Where a manufacturer manufacturesmore than one brand of cigarettes and othertobacco products, the manufacturer shall ensurethat two different brands manufactured by suchmanufacturer shall not bear the same healthwarning, simultaneously.

(5) The health warnings displayed on thepackets, packages or cartons of cigarettes andother tobacco products shall be changed oncein every six months, so that all types ofprescribed health warnings under all prescribedcategories of health warnings shall be covered.

(6) The manufacturers and importers ofcigarettes and other tobacco products shall usethe compact disc containing the prescribedhealth warnings which shall be issued only bythe Authority..

4.Section 45 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immedialely after the definitionof the expression Chairman of the following definition:

Health warnings includes pictures or pictogramsand messages..

5.The manufacturers and importes of existing stocks oftobacco products shall be granted a grace period up to June1, 2015, to comply with the provisions of section 34A.

6.Regulations made under section 30 read with section34 of the principal enactment prior to the date ofcommencement of this Act shall, continue to be in operationwith effect from the date of commencement of this Act, in sofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.

7.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment ofsectionm 45 ofthe principalenactment.

Transitional.provisions.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Savings

National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol(Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 20154

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.