PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENTAUTHORITY ACT, No. 17 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th May, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 13.50Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 19, 2006

1National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

2PL 0009485,650 (01/2006)

[Certified on 18th May, 2006]

L.D.O. 7/2005.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL ENTERPRISEDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY TO PROMOTE, SUPPORT, ENCOURAGE ANDFACILITATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT WITHIN SRI LANKA WITHSPECIAL EMPHASIS TO THE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE SECTOROF THE COUNTRY ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH ORINCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the National EnterpriseDevelopment Authority Act, No. 17 of 2006 and shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may, appoint byOrder published in the Gazette.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENTAUTHORITY

2.(1) There shall be established an Authority whichshall be called the National Enterprise DevelopmentAuthority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority ).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3. (1) The management of the affairs the Authority shallvest in a Board, appointed by the Minister which shall consistof the following :

(a)two ex-officio members, namely

(i) the Secretary to the Treasury ; and

(ii) Secretary to the Ministry in charge of theAuthority ; and

(b) seven appointed members chosen from amongpersons who have experience and knowledge inthe fields of finance, trade, banking, agriculture,industry, technology and law (hereinafterreferred to as appointed members).

Establishment ofthe NationalEnterpriseDevelopmentAuthority.

Short title anddateof operation.

Constitution ofthe Board of theAuthority.

2National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the members of theBoard to be the Chairman.

4. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedas a member of the Board if

(a) he is or becomes a member of Parliament or aProvincial Council or a local authority ;

(b) he is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

(c) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in anyother country found or declared to be of unsoundmind ;

(d) he is serving or has served a sentence ofimprisonment imposed by any Court in Sri Lankaor any other country ;

(e) he holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by or on behalf of the Authority ;

(f) he is a person having been declared as an insolventor a bankrupt person under any law in Sri Lanka orany other country and is undischarged insolvent orbankrupt.

5.(1) An appointed member may resign his office byletter addressed to the Minister and such resignation shall beeffective from the date on which it is accepted by the Minister..(2) The Minister may for reasons assigned, remove anappointed member from office.

(3) Where a member of the Board dies, resigns or isremoved from office the Minister shall, having regard to theprovisions of section 3, appoint another member in his place.

(4) A member appointed under subsection (3) shall holdoffice for the unexpired period of the term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

Disqualificationfrom being amember of theBoard.

Removal andresignation ofmembers.

3National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

6. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2)of section 5, the term of office of an appointed member of theBoard shall be three years unless he earlier vacates office bydeath, resignation or removal, and such member other thanthe member who is removed shall be eligible forreappointment.

(2) An appointed member who has been removed fromoffice shall not be eligible for reappointment as a member ofthe Board or to serve the Authority in any other capacity.

7.(1) The Chairman of the Board shall, if present presideat every meeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairmanfrom any such meeting the members present shall elect oneof the members present to preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be fourmembers.

(3) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Board may regulate the procedure in regard to themeetings of the Board and the transaction of business at suchmeetings.

8.The members of the Board shall be paid remunerationout of the Fund of the Authority at such rates as may bedetermined by the Minister, with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

9. No act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall bedeemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of anyvacancy in the Board or of any defect in the appointment ofany member thereof.

10.In the exercise of its powers, discharge of itsfunctions and performance of its duties, the Authority shallcomply with the general policy of the Government and withany general or special directions issued to it by the Ministerin relation to the implementation of such policy,

Meetings of theBoard.

Remuneration ofmembers.

Acts notinvalidated byreason of avacancy.

Authority tocomply with thegeneral policyof theGovernment.

Term of officeof members.

4National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

11.(1) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custodyof such person as the Board may decide from time to time.

(2) The seal of the Authority may be altered in such manneras may be determined by the Board.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except in the presence of theChairman, and one other member of the Board both of whomshall sign the instrument or document in token of theirpresence :

Provided that where the Chairman is unable to be presentat the time when the seal of the Authority is affixed to anyinstrument or document, any other member of the Boardauthorised in writing by the Chairman in that behalf, shall becompetent to sign such instrument or document in accordancewith the preceding provisions of this subsection.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instumentsand documents to which the seal of the Authority is affixed.

12.(1) The Minister may, by Order published in theGazette declare as a Special Economic Zone, any area ofland as shall be described in the aforesaid Order, situated inany part of Sri Lanka, as shall be identified by the Authorityin consultation with the Cabinet of Ministers other than anyarea which has been declared as a licensed Zone or anexport processing Zone in terms of the provisions of theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978.

(2) Where on a memorandum submitted by the Minister,the Cabinet of Ministers considers it necessary that acompany be incorporated for the purpose of managing anddeveloping an area declared as a Special Economic Zoneunder subsection (1), the Cabinet of Ministers may direct theMinister to submit in consultation with the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance, a Memorandum and Articles ofAssociation to the Registrar of Companies and also directsuch Registrar to register such company under the CompaniesAct, No. 17 of 1982.

Declaration andmanagement ofSpecialEconomicZones.

Seal of theAuthority.

5National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companies Act,No. 17 of 1982, the Registrar shall, on receipt of a directionunder subsection (1)

(a) issue a certificate of incorporation under subsection(1) of section 15 in the Companies Act, No. 17 of1982, in the name referred to in the direction issuedunder subsection (1) ; and

(b) publish an Order in the Gazette declaring that apublic company is incorporated in the name specifiedin the Order to manage an area declared as a SpecialEconmic Zone in accordance with the Memorandumand Articles of Association of the company soincorporated.

(4) The objects, powers and functions of the Companyshall be as set out in the Schedule hereto.

OBJECTS OF THE AUTHORITY AND POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF

THE BOARD

13.The objectives of the Authority shall be to :

(a) stimulate the growth, expansion and developmentof Sri Lanka's economy by encouraging, promotingand facilitating small and medium enterprisedevelopment within Sri Lanka ;

(b) stimulate and encorage the establishment andoperation outside Sri Lanka of enterprises designedwith a view to internationalize domestic enterpisescapable of penetrating foreign markets for thefulfillment of the objectives of this Act ;

(c) formulate policies, plans, promotional incentivesappropriately desiged and effectively support andpromote trade and development in industry andagriculture ;

Objectives of theAuthority.

6National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

(d) empowerment of people of human capitaldevelopment with technical skills as an integralcomponent of enterprise development ;

(e) develop infrastructure facilities required to meet thedevelopment needs ;

(f) facilitate the access of entrepreneurs to financesrequired for enterprise development and operation ;

(g) establish a Technology Development Fund topromote research and development in connectionwith product development, technologicalenhancement and commercialization of patents ;and

(h) facilitate regional economic development.

14.For the purpose of carrying out the objects of theAuthority, the Board may exercise, perform and discharge allor any of the following powers, duties and functions :

(a) register and enter into agreements with any person,partnership or corporative society engaged in orproposing to engage in business which in theopinion of the Authority would achieve or assist inthe achievement of the objects of the Authority ;

(b) to identify and encourage targeted entrepreneurswho have the potential to undertake regionalindustrial and business activities ;

(c) to acquire or lease land for industrial sites or townshipdevelopment for the purpose of the achievement ofthe objects of the Authority ;

(d) to provide funds and resources for the developmentof the Special Economic Zones ;

(e) to develop and manage sites, zones, premises,infrastructure facilities required for economicdevelopment ;

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Board.

7National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

(f) to establish or invest in companies to facilitate theachievements of the objects of the Authority ;

(g) to declare Special Economic Zones in a mannerhereinafter set out, and such Zones shall be growthcentre for enterprise development ;

(h) to establish for Divisional Secretary's Divisionstechnology development and service centers tofacilitate small and medium enterprisedevelopment ;

(i) to prescribe the fee and mode of application of thejoint venture partners to establish companies;

(j) to open and maintain an account or accounts withsuch bank or banks as it may think appropriate whichshall be operated in accordance with the prevailingfinancial regulations of the Government, pertainingto financial transactions of public corporations ;

(k) to co-ordinate with any Government Department,Ministry, Local Authority, Provincial Council orInternationl Organization in order to achieveenterprise development ;

(l) to carry out integrated planning and physicaldevelopment within the Special Economic Zoneswith the concurrence of the relevant authorities ;and

(m) to do all such acts or things as are incidental to orconsequential upon the exercise, discharge andperformance of its powers, functions and dutiesunder this Act.

15.(1) The Board shall have the power to enter into anyagreement with any person or partnership including jointventures, for the purpose of exercising, performing anddischarging the powers, duties and functions of the Authority.

(2) Every such agreement shall be in writing and shallupon registration with the Authority, constitute a valid andbinding contract between the Authority and such GovernmentDepartment, Local Authority or other body.

Powers of theBoard to enterinto anyagreement.

8National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

16.The Board may, in writing under the seal of theAuthority or in such other manner as may be provided by therules made by the Authority, empower any other person eithergenerally or in respect of any specific matter, to act for and onbehalf of the Authority, in any place outside Sri Lanka.

17.(1) Where any land or any interest in any land withinany designated area is required by the Authority for theimplementation of any of the projects and the Minister byOrder published in the Gazette approves of the proposedacquisition, that land or interest in land may accordingly beacquired under the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) andbe transferred to the Authority, as if such land or interest inland is required for a public purpose :

Provided however, that where any land or any interest inany land of an estate situated within the designated area isrequired by the Authority, the Minister shall consult theMinister in Charge of the subject of Plantation Infrastructure,prior to the publication of an Order under this section for theacquisition of such land or interest in such land.

(2) Where any land or any interest in any land within anydesignated area is to be acquired under the Land AcquistionAct (Chapter 460) for any purpose of the Authority andpublic notice of the intention to acquire that land or interestis published as required by that Act at any time, within aperiod of three years commencing from the date of publicationof the Order under subsection (1), the following provisionsshall apply for the purpose of determining the amount ofcompensation to be paid in respect of that land or interest,notwithstanding anything to the contrary in that Act

(a) the market value of the land shall be deemed to bethe market value, the land would have had on thedate of publication of such Order, if it then were inthe same condition as it is in the time of acquisition,increased by a reasonable amount on account ofbona fide improvements if any, effected to suchland after such date ;

Compulsoryacquisition ofLand.

Empowering ofpersons to act forAuthorityoutside SriLanka.

9National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

(b) in ascertaining the market value of the land at thedate of publication of such Order, no account shallbe taken of any benefit or increase in value whichmay have accrued, or any expectation of benefit orincrease in value which may have accrued, or anyexpectation of benefit or increase in value likely toaccrue directly or indirectly, from any work ofdevelopment or other operation of the Authority inpursuance of this Act.

18.Where any movable property of the State is requiredfor any purpose of the Authority, the Minister may by Orderpublished in the Gazette, transfer to, and vest in the Authoritythe possession and use of such movable property :

Provided however, that no Order affecting any movableproperty belonging to the State shall be made by the theMinister under the preceding provisions of this subsection,without the concurrence of the Minister having control oversuch property.

FINANCE

19.(1) The Authority shall establish, maintain andoperate a fund into which shall be paid

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by Parliament for the use of the Authority ;

(b) all such sums of money that may be received by theAuthority in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions underthis Act ;

(c) all such sums of money received by the Authorityby way of gifts, grants or donations ; and

(d) all sums of money accruing to the credit of theAuthority.

State movableproperty to bemade availableto the Authority.

Fund of theAuthority.

10National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all such sums as arerequired to defray any expenditure incurred by the Authorityin the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions under this Act or under any other writtenlaw and all such sums as are required to be paid out of thefund.

(3) The Authority shall establish a TechnologyDevelopment Fund. All sums of money allocated or receivedfor the purpose of technology development shall be paidinto such fund. The Authority shall identify areas oftechnology development for which money out of such fundshall be paid.

20.(1) The financial year of the Authority shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shallapply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.

STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

21.(1) The Chairman of the Authority shall be theDirector-General of the Authority.

(2) The Director-General shall, subject to the general orspecial directions and control of the Board, be charged withthe direction of the affairs and transactions of the Authority,the exercise, discharge and performance of its powers,functions and duties, and the administration and control ofthe officers and servants of the Authority.

(3) The Director-General may, with the approval of theAuthority, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,delegate to any officer or servant any power, function or dutyconferred or imposed on, or assigned to him by this Act andsuch officer or servant shall exercise, discharge and performsuch power, function or duty subject to the general or specialdirections of the Director-General.

Director-General.

11National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

Staff of theAuthority.22. (1) The Authority may appoint such officers andservants as it considers necessary for the efficient dischargeof its functions.

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection(1), shall be remunerated in such manner and at such ratesand shall be subject to such conditions of service as may bedetermined by the Authority with the approval of the Minister.

(3) At the request of the Authority any officer in the publicservice may, with the consent of the officer and the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofPublic Administration, be temporarily appointed to theAuthority for such period as may be determined by theAuthority with his consent, or be permanently appointed tosuch staff.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis ,apply to and in relation to him.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

(6) Where the Authority employs any person who hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service to the Authority by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such agreement.

(7) At the request of the Authority, any member of theLocal Government Service or any other officer or servant ofa Local Authority may, with the consent of such member,officer or servant and the Local Government Service

12National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

Commission, or the respective Local Authority, as the casemay be, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authorityfor such period as may be determined by the Authority withlike consent or be permanently appointed to such staff onsuch terms and conditions including those relating to pensionor provident fund rights as may be agreed upon by theAuthority and the Local Government Service Commissionor that Local Authority.

(8) Where any member of a Local Government Service orany officer or servant of any Local Authority is appointedtemporarily under subsection (7) to the staff of the Authority,he shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as anyother member of the staff of the Authority.

23.(1) At the request of the Authority any officer orservant of a public corporation may, with the consent of suchofficer or servant and the governing board of such corporation,be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority forsuch period as may be determined by the Authority with likeconsent or with like consent be permanently appointed tothe staff of the Authority on such terms and conditions,including those relating to pension or provident fund rights,as may be agreed upon by the Authority and the governingboard of such corporation.

(2) Where any person is appointed whether temporarilyor permanently under subsection (1) to the staff of theAuthority, he shall be subject to the same disciplinary controlas any other member of the staff of the Authority.

(3) For the purpose of this section governing board inrelation to a public corporation means the Board of Directorsor other body in which the administration and managementof that public corporation has been vested.

Appointmentof officersand servantsof publiccorporationto the staff ofthe Authority.

13National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

GENERAL

24.The Authority shall take all such measures as maybe necessary to ensure that any financial assistance renderedby the Authority to any person for carrying out a developmentproject within any Special Economic Zone, is utilized for thepurpose for which it is given.

25.The Authority shall not make any investment in orotherwise transact business with an enterprise of which amember of the Authority is a partner, director or shareholderor is in any other way directly or indirectly interested, unlessthe transaction is approved by the Minister.

26.(1) The Minister may, give to the Authority in writinggeneral or special directions as to the performance of theduties and the exercise of the powers of the Authority. It shallbe the duty of the Authority to comply with such directions.

(2) The Minister may from time to time, in writing, directthe Authority to furnish to him in such form as he may require,returns, accounts and other information with respect to theproperty and activities of the Authority. It shall be the duty ofthe Authority to comply with such direction.

27.The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act, shall be construed accordingly.

28.All members, officers and servants of the Authorityshall be deemed to be public servants within the meaningand for the purposes of the Penal Code.

Authority toensure thatfinancialassistance givenfor carrying outdevelopmentprojects isutilized for same.

Authority not totransact businesswith enterprisesin which amember hasinterest, unlessappproved bythe Minister

Directions of theMinister.

Authoritydeemed to be ascheduledinstitution withinthe meaning ofthe Bribery Act.

Members,officers andservants ofthe Authoritydeemed to bepublicservants.

14National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

29.(1) Any expense incurred by the Authority in anysuit or prosecution brought by or against the Authority beforeany court, shall be paid out of the fund of the Authority, andany costs paid to, or recovered by the Authority in any suchsuit or prosecution shall be credited to the fund of theAuthority.

(2) Any expense incurred by any person in any suit orprosecution brought against him before any court in respectof any act which is done or is purported to be done by himunder this Act or on the direction of the Authority shall if thecourt holds that such act is done in good faith, be paid out ofthe fund of the Authority, unless such expense is recoveredby him in such suit or prosecution.

30.(1) The Minister may, in consultation with theAuthority make regulations in respect of matters required bythis Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare authorized to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or in such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation shall as soon as it is convenient afterits publication in the Gazette be brought before Parliamentfor approval. Any regulation which is not so approved shallbe deemed to be rescinded from the date of disapproval butwithout prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

31.The Authority may make rules

(a) for the regulation of procedure and the transactionof business at its meetings ;

(b) providing for the custody and manner of affixing itsseal.

Reimbursementof expenses.

Regulations.

Rules.

15National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

32. The Minister shall with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance, in order toprovide policy and institutional support to encourage,promote and facilitate enterprise development with specialemphasis to small and medium enterpise sector in the country,exempt the Authority from the payment of any duties andlevies and of any tax on the income or profits of the Authorityto such extent as is permitted in terms of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 10 of 2006 or in terms of any other written law forthe time being in force governing the imposition of suchduty, levy or tax as the case may be.

33.(1) Upon the declaration of an area in terms of section12, the Authority shall be vested with the powers necessaryfor the implementation of the provisions of the UrbanDevelopment Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978.

(2) Upon the declaration of an area in terms of section 12,it shall be lawful for the Minister notwithstanding anythingto the contrary in the Urban Development Authority Law,No. 41 of 1978 to make regulations in consultation with theminister to whom the urban Development Authority has beenassigned, in relation to the physical planning within anyarea so declared.

34.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

35.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

development project means any activity whether publicor private which would generate production, income,employment or which would otherwise improve theeconomic, social, cultural or environmenentalconditions of any Special Economic Zone declaredin terms of section 12 ;

Exemption ofAuthority frompayments ofduties etc.

Authority to bevested withcertain powersunder the UrbanDevelopmentAuthority Law.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

16National Enterprise Development AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 2006

Local Authority means any Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil, Pradeshiya Saba and includes any Authoritycreated and established by or under any law toexercise, perform and discharge powers, duties andfunctions corresponding to or similar to the powers,duties and functions exercised, performed anddischarged by any such Council or Sabha.

SCHEDULE[Section 12 (4)]

1.Objects of the company

(a) to promote resource based economic development withinthe Special Economic Zone under its purview ;

(b) to encourage and promote agricultural services andcommercial activities within the Zone under its purview ;

(c) to widen and strengthen the base of the economy.

2.Functions and powers of the company

(a) to provide facilities to encourage the setting up and expansionof industrial, agricultural and business enterprises within theregions ;

(b) to support the development of local entrepreneurs, smalland medium business enterprises and to assist in the expansionand upgrading of local companies ;(c) to identify and encourage targeted companies to undertake awide range of regional services and business activities in SriLanka ;

(d) to promote and assist in development of support industriesservices ;

(e) to develop and manage sites, zones, parks, estates and otherpremises and other infrastructure needs for industries,agriculture and business within the region ;

(f) to encourage industrial and agricultural enterprises to upgradetheir skills and technical levels through investment intechnology, training, research and product development ;

(g) to plan develop and manage industrial townships ;

(h) to provide social amenities for the advancement and wellbeingof the persons living in the area ; and

(i) to borrow money from banks and other lending institutions.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.