Price : Rs. 5.50Postage : Rs. 4.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

RUBBER RESEARCH (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 28 OF 2003

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 12, 2003

[Certified on 09th September, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Rubber Research (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 20031

[Certified on 09th September, 2003]

L. D. O. 35/2000.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE RUBBER RESEARCH ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Rubber Research(Amendment) Act No.28 of 2003.

2. Section 3 of the Rubber Research Ordinance(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) as lastamended by Act, No. 39 of 1987, is hereby further amendedas follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1), of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(1)The board shall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio members :

(i)the person holding office for the timebeing as the Director of the RubberResearch Institute ;

(ii)the person holding office for the timebeing as the Director-General of theRubber Development Department :

(iii)the person holding office for the timebeing as the Chairman of thePlanters Association of Ceylon ; and

(b)the following nominated members :

(i)a representative of the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofPlantation Industries, nominated bysuch Minister ;

2H 180765,650 (2003/05)

Amendment ofsection 3 ofChapter 439.

Short Title.

Rubber Research (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 20032

(ii)a representative of the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofFinance, nominated by suchMinister ;

(iii)two representatives nominated by thePlanters Association of Ceylon fromamongst persons representing thePlantation Companies ;

(iv)a person nominated by the Councilfor Agricultural Research Policyfrom amongst persons who havegained eminence in the field ofagricultural science ;

(v)two representatives nominated by theMinister from amongst personsrepresenting the rubber smallholders ;

(vi)a representative of the ColomboRubber Traders Association,nominated by the Minister ;

(vii)a representative of the RubberManufacturers Association,nominated by the Minister ;

(viii)a person nominated by the Ministerin charge of the subject of PlantationIndustries.;

(ix)two members nominated by theMinister representing Trade Unions.

For the purposes of this paragraph TradeUnion shall have the same meaning as in theTrade Union Ordinance (Chapter 138)..

(2)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words appointed member of the wordsnominated member;

Rubber Research (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 20033

(3)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(3)Where a nominated member, by reason ofillness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for aperiod of not less than three months, is temporarilyunable to perform his duties, the Minister may havingregard to the provisions of paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) appoint another person to act in hisplace during such period.;

(4)in subsection (4) of that section by the substitutionfor the words appointed member, of the wordsnominated member;

(5)in subsection (5) of that section by the substitutionfor the words appointed member, of the wordsnominated member;

(6)by the repeal of subsection (6) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(6)In the event of the vacation of office bydeath, resignation or removal or for other cause byany nominated member of the board, the Ministerhaving regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) appoint any person to suceed suchmember. Any person appointed in place of suchnominated member shall hold office during theunexpired period of the term of office of the memberwhom he succeeds.;

(7)in subseciton (9) of that section by the substitutionfor the words appointed member, of the wordsnominated member.

Rubber Research (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 20034

3.Section 3A of the principal enactment, inserted by ActNo. 39 of 1987, is hereby amended, by the repeal ofsubsections (1) and (2) of that section and the substitution,therefor of the following subsections :

(1)The Minister shall appoint one of the members ofthe board to be the Chairman of the board.

(2)Subject to the provisions of subsections (3) and (4)the term of office of the Chairman shall be his periodof membership of the board :

Provided however, that where the Chairman ceasesto hold office as Chairman prior to the expiration of theterm of office as a member of the board, the Ministermay appoint another member of the board as Chairman,as the case may be and such member shall, unless heearlier vacates office as Chariman, serve as Chairmanfor the unexpired period of the term of office of theChairman whom he succeeds..

4.Every person holding office as a member of the boardon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof the Act, by virtue of the provisions of subsection (1) ofsection 3 of the principal enactment shall, notwithstandinganything in the principal enactment cease to hold office onthe date of commencement of this Act.

5.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Members of theboard holdingoffice on the daypreceding the dateof commencementof this Act tocease to hold suchoffice on the dateof commencementof this Act.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Amendment ofsection 3A of theprincipalenactment.

Rubber Research (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 20035

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.