PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

THE REHABILITATION OF BUDDHISTTEMPLES FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 17 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th April, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 11.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 25, 2014

1The Rehabilitation of Buddhist TemplesFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014

Short title.

2PL 0049182,050 (06/2010)

Preamble.

[Certified on 24th April, 2014]

L.D.O.(Inc.) 15/2010.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE REHABILITATION OF BUDDHISTTEMPLES FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a foundation called and known as theRehabilitation of Buddhist Temples Foundation hasheretofore been formed for the purpose of effectually carryingout and transacting all objects and matters connected withthe said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the severalobjects and matters for which it was formed and has appliedto be incorporated and it is expedient to grant suchapplication:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Rehabilitationof Buddhist Temples Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 17 of 2014.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of TheRehabilitation of Buddhist Temples Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the foundation) or shall hereafterbe admitted as members of the Corporation herebyconstituted shall be a body corporate with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of The Rehabilitationof Buddhist Temples Foundation (hereinafter referred to asthe Corporation) and by that name may sue and be suedwith full power and authority to have, and use a commonseal and alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation ofTheRehabilitation ofBuddhistTemplesFoundation.

The Rehabilitation of Buddhist TemplesFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20142

3.The objects for which the Corporation is constitutedare hereby declared to be:

(a)to provide financial and other assistance toBuddhist Temples faced with financial difficultiesto improve the infrastructure of such Buddhisttemples and buildings situated within the premiseswhich are owned by such temples and which requirerehabilitation;

(b)to take necessary measures for the fostering ofspiritual values amongst the Buddhists in the areaby encouraging involvement in national andreligous customs and promotion of the Buddhistway of life; and

(c)to work in collaboration with any other institutionhaving objects similar to those of theCorporation with a view to facilitating theexchange of ideas and experience.

4.(1) The management and administration of the affairsof the Corporation, shall subject to the provisions of thisAct and rules of the Corporation made under section 6, beadministered by a Committee of Management (hereinafterreferred to as the Committee) consisting of a President,Secretary, Treasurer and such number of other members asare elected or appointed in accordance with the rules madeunder section 6.

(2) The first Committee of the Corporation shall consistof the members of the Committee of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act and shall continue to hold officeuntil a new Committee is appointed in accordance with therules made under section 6.

(3) No act or proceding of the Committee shall bedeemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of a

Objects of theCorporation.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

3The Rehabilitation of Buddhist TemplesFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014

vacancy among its members or any defect on the election ornomination of any member thereof.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the followingpowers:

(a)to receive or collect money, gifts, donations, grantsor any other assistance from persons ororganizations in Sri Lanka or abroad:

Provided that, notwithstanding anything tothe contrary in any other provisions of this Act, theCommittee shall obtain prior written approval ofthe Department of External Resources of theMinistry of the Minister to whom the subject ofFinance is assigned in respect of all foreign grants,gifts or donations;

(b)to open and maintain current, savings or any otheraccount in any bank or banks,as may be determinedby the Committee;

(c)to enter into, perform and execute contracts andagreements either directly or through an officer oragent authorized by the Corporation for suchpurpose in order to achieve the objects of theCorporation;

(d)to borrow money or raise funds for the purposes ofthe Corporation;

(e)to invest funds of the Corporation in any institutionapproved by the Committee; and

(f)to appoint officers and servants for the fulfillmentof objects of the Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting and by a majority of the

Powers of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

The Rehabilitation of Buddhist TemplesFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20144

members present and voting to make rules not inconsistentwith the provisions of this Act or any other written law, forall or any of the followign matters:

(a) the classification of membership and admission,withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b) the election or appointment of the members of theCommittee, their powers, duties, functions and theterms of office;

(c) the appointment of various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation and their powers, duties,functions and disciplinary control;

(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning andholding of meetings of the Committee, the time,place, notice and agenda of such meetings, thequorum therefor and the conduct of business thereat;

(e) management of properties of the Corporation andcustody of its funds and generally for themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting, and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmonies here to for or hereafter received by way of gift,bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fess or grantsor any financial investment shall be credited to the fund ofthe Corporation (hereinafter referred to tas the Fund) andsuch fund shall be maintained in one or more banks as maybe determined by the Committee.

Fund of theCorporation.

5The Rehabilitation of Buddhist TemplesFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014

(2) The following sums of money shall be credited to theFund:

(a)all monies received and collected by theCorporation by way of gifts, donations,subscriptions, contributions, fees, or grants andprofits from investments;

(b)all monies received by the Corporation in theexercise of its powers and performance of itsfunctions under this Act;

(c)all monies received by the Corporation as loans,grants or donations from sources in Sri Lanka orabroad.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions.

8.Subject to the provisions of this Act the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty both movable or immovable which may becomevested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition, or otherwise, and all such property shall be heldby the Corporation for the purpose of the Corporation andsubject to the rules of the Corporation made under section 6with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same.

9.The moneys and property of the Corporation shall beapplied solely towards the promotion of its objects as setforth herein and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferreddirectly or indirectly by way of dividend, bouns, profit orotherwise howsoever to the members of the Corporation.

10.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper books ofaccounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assetsand liabilities, and all other transactions of the Corporation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Application ofmoney andproperty.

Audit ofAccounts.

The Rehabilitation of Buddhist TemplesFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 20146

(2) The provisions of Aticle 154 of the Constitution shallbe applicable in respect of the audit of the account of theCorporation.

(3) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

11.(1) The seal of the Corporation shall be in thecustody of such person as may be determined by theCommittee, and may be altered from time to time, in themanner determined by the Committee.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument except in the presence of two members of theCommittee who shall siging their names in token of theirpresence, and such signing shall be independent of thesigning of any person as a witness.

12.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, anyproperty whatsoever, such property, shall not be distributedamong the members of the Corporation but shall be given ortransferred to some other association or associations havingobjects, similar to the objects of the Corporation, and whichis, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributingany income or profit among its or their members. Suchassociation or associations shall be determined by themembers of the Corporation at or immediately before thetime of dissolution of the Corporation.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or anybody politic orCorporation.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Seal of theCorporation.

Propertyremaining onthe dissolutionof theCorporation.

7The Rehabilitation of Buddhist TemplesFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.