9Unesco Scholarship Fund Act, No.44 of 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

UNESCO SCHOLARSHIP FUNDACT, No. 44 OF 1999

[Certified on 3rd December , 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 03, 1999

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: Rs. 6.75Postage: Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

1Unesco Scholarship Fund Act, No.44 of 1999

[Certified on 3rd December, 1999]L.D. O. 8/95.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FUND CALLEDTHE UNESCO SCHOLARSHIP FUND FOR THE ADVANCEMENT

OF EDUCATION OF DISABLED AND DISPLACED CHILDREN BY THE

AWARD OF SCHOLARSHIPS ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREAWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS it is the policy of the Government of Sir Lanka toprovide for the advancement of the education of disabled anddisplaced children by the award of scholarships and toestablish a fund for such purpose :

NOW therefore be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sir Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the UNESCO ScholarshipFund Act, No.44 of 1999.

2. (1) There shall be established a Fund to be called theUNESCO Scholarship Fund (hereinafter referred to as theFund)

(2)The Fund shall by the name assigned to it bysub-Section (1) be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

(3)The Government may donate from time to time grantsto the Fund for the purpose of enabling it to carry out theobjects of the Fund.

3. (1) The administration, management and control ofthe Fund shall be vested in a Board of Management constitutedas hereinafter provided.

(2)The Board of Management of the Fund (hereinafterreferred to as the Board) shall consist of (a) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Education, who shall bethe Chairman of the Board (hereinafter referred toas the Chairman) ;

Preamble.

Short title.

Establishmentof UNESCOScholarshipFund.

Board ofManagementof the Fund.

2Unesco Scholarship Fund Act, No.44 of 1999

(b) the Secretary - General of the Sri Lanka NationalCommission for UNESCO ;

(c) the Chief Accountant of the Ministry of theMinister in charged of the subject of Education ;

(d) the Director of the Special Education Division ofthe Ministry of the Minister in charge of Education;

(e) the Commissioner of the Department of Child Careand Probation ;

(f) the Director of the Department of Social Services ;

(g) a representative of the Ministry of the Minister inCharge of the subject of Cultural and ReligiousAffairs, nominated by that Minister ;

(h) a representative of the General Treasury,nominatedby the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance;

(i) the Deputy Secretary-General of the Sri LankaNational Commission for UNESCO who shallfunction as Secretary to the Board;

(j) two other members appointed by the Chairman eachof whom shall, subject to the provisions ofsubsections (3) and (4), hold office for such periodas may be specified in the letter of appointmentissued to him by the Chairman.

(3)The Chairman may revoke the appointment of anymember appointed by him under paragraph (j) of subsection(2).

(4) Any member of the Board appointed underparagraph (j) of subsection (2), may at any time resign fromthe Board by a letter in that behalf addressed to the Chairman.

(5) In the absence of the Chairman from any meetingof the Board, any member elected from among the memberspresent, shall preside at such meeting.

3Unesco Scholarship Fund Act, No.44 of 1999

(6) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall befour members.

(7) Subject to the provisions of subsection (6), theBoard may regulate the procedure with regard to its meetingsand the transaction of business at such meetings.

(8)No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemedto be invalid by reason only of the existence of a vacancyamong its members or any defect in the appointment of amember thereof.

4.The Board shall, have the power -

(a) to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or inkind, whether from local or foreign sources ;

(b) to take or hold any movable property which maybecome vested in it by this Act or by virtue of anypurchase, grant, gift or otherwise and to sell, grantor otherwise dispose of, any movable property towhich the Fund may become entitled ;

(c) to award scholarships for the furtherance of theobjects of the Fund ;

(d) to enter into or perform, either directly or throughofficers and servants or agents authorised inwriting in that behalf by the Board, all suchcontracts and agreements as may be necessary forthe exercise, performance and discharge of thepowers, duties and functions, and in carrying outthe objects, of the Fund ;

(e) subject to the provisions of this Act, to appoint,employ and remunerate such officers and servantsas may be necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Fund, and to make rules regardingthe appointment, promotion, remuneration anddisciplinary control of such officers and servantsand the grant of leave and other benefits to them ;

Powers of theBoard.

4Unesco Scholarship Fund Act, No.44 of 1999

(f) to invest monies belonging to the Fund and to recall.re-invest and vary such investments at thediscretion of the Board ; and

(g) to make rules in relation to all matters connectedwith the administration of the Fund.

5.With effect from the date of commencement of thisAct, all monies lying to the credit of -

(a) Account No.6,000-0-0-6-65 (UNESCO Fund) at theGeneral Treasury ;

(b) savings of foreign or local grants,

shall vest in the Fund.

6.The Board shall maintain an account called TheUNESCO Scholorship Fund Account at a licensedCommercial Bank within the meaning of the Banking Act, No.30of 1988 and there shall be credited to such account -

(a) all monies which are vested in the Fund by reasonof the operation of section 5 ;

(b) any grants, gifts or donations of money made tothe Fund ;

(c) any income from investments or other receipts dueto the Fund ; or

(d) any income from sale of books and other incomefrom various fund raising activities carried out bythe Fund ;

(e) all other monies that may accrue to the Fund afterthe date of commencement of this Act.

7.The Secretary General of the Sri Lanka NationalCommission for UNESCO shall, subject to the direction of theBoard, be the Chief Administrative Officer of the Fund.

Transferring ofmonies to theFund.

The UNESCOFund Account.

ChiefAdministrativeOfficer of theFund

5Unesco Scholarship Fund Act, No.44 of 1999

8.It shall be the duty of the Board to apply the moniesbelonging to the Fund mainly for the following objects :-

(a) to award scholarship to disabled and displacedchildren ;

(b) to meet expenses in publishing books for sale.

9. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of the income and expenditure and all othertransactions of the Fund.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of theConstitution shall apply to the audit of the accounts of theFund.

(3) The Board shall, at the end of every year,prepare a report on the administration of the affairs of theFund during. that year, and shall submit such report of theMinister. The Minister shall cause such report to be placed inParliament, before the end of the year succeeding the year towhich such report relates.

10. The financial year of the Fund shall be the calendaryear.

11. The Minister in charge of the subject of Educationmay, with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finace, exempt the Fund from payment of anycustoms duty on any goods imported by the Fund. if theimport of such goods in considered by him to be conducive ofthe advancement of the objects of the Fund.

12. (1) At the requset of the Board any officer in thepublic service may,. with the consent of that officer and theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed tothe staff of the Fund for such a period as may be determinedby the Board or with like consent be permanantly appointedto such staff.

Purposes forwhich the moniesof the Fund maybe applied.

Audit andaccounts.

Financial year ofthe Fund.

Exemption of theFund from certainduties and taxes.

Appointment ofpublic servants tothe staff of theFund.

6Unesco Scholarship Fund Act, No.44 of 1999

(2)Where any officer in the public service istemporarily appointed to the staff of the Fund, the provisionsof sub- section (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No.37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to,and in relation to, him.

(3)Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Fund, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, 37 of 1991 shall mutatis mutandis, apply to,and in relation to, him.

(4)Where the Board employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which he hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period , anyperiod of service to the Fund by that person shall be regardedas service to the Government for the purpose of dischargingthe obligations of such contract

13. The Board may make such rules as it may considernecessary in relation to any matter affecting or connectedwith, or incidental, to the exercise and performance of itspowers, duties and functions.

14. All officers and servants of the Fund shall be deemedto be public servants within the meaning, and for thepurposes, of the Penal Code.

15. The Fund shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

Powers of Boardto make rules.

Officers andservants of theFund deemed tobe public servantsunder the PenalCode.

Fund deemedto be ascheduledinstitutionwithin themeaning of theBribery Act.

7Unesco Scholarship Fund Act, No.44 of 1999

16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

17. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -

Disabled child means a child of school going agewho is physically or mentally handicapped ;

Displaced child means a child of school goingage who is abandoned by his or her parentsor, whose parents have no means to educatehim or her, or whose parents are dead, orwhose surviving parent has no means toeducate him or her.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

8Unesco Scholarship Fund Act, No.44 of 1999

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign),Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.