14National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL HOUSING DEVELOPMENTAUTHORITY (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 30 OF 1999

[Certified on 23rd September, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 24, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price: Rs. 9.00 Postage: Rs.3.50

(Internet Version)

1National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

[Certified on 23rd September , 1999]

L. D. - O 4/98.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ACT, NO.17 OF 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the National HousingDevelopment Authority (Amendment) Act, No.30 of 1999.

2.Section 68 of the National Housing DevelopmentAuthority Act, No.17 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactment) is hereby amended by the substitu-tion for the words except under, the provisions of this Partof the words except under the provisions of this Part or PartVII A.

3.The following new Part is hereby inserted immedi-ately after Part VII and shall have effect as Part VIIA, of theprincipal enactment :-PART VII A

RECOVERY OF POSSESSION OF HOUSES, FLATS AND ANY

OTHER BUILDINGS BELONGING TO THE AUTHORITY

FROM PERSONS WHO ARE IN UNAUTHORISED

POSSESSION OR OCCUPATION OF SUCH HOUSES, FLATS

AND BUILDINGS, BY THE GENERAL MANAGER

69A. This part shall apply to every house,flator any other building belonging to the Authority(hereinafter referred to as the building)

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 68 ofActNo. 17 of 1979.

Houses, flatsand otherbuildings towhich this Partapplies andinterpretationof theexpressionbuilding

Insertion of NewPart VIIA in theprincipalenactment.

2National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

69B. (1) Where the General Manager hasreason to believe that a person is in unauthorisedpossession or occupation of any building orportion thereof, he may cause a notice to beserved on such person requiring him to vacatesuch building or portion thereof with hisdependants, if any, on or before the datespecified in such notice and to deliver vacantpossession thereof to the General Manager orany person authorized by him in that behalf andspecified in the notice or where the GeneralManager considers such service to beinexpedient or impracticable, he shall cause suchnotice to be exhibited in a conspicuous place inor upon that building, requiring such person tovacate such building or portion thereof on orbefore the date specified in the notice and todeliver vacant possession thereof with hisdependants, if any, to the General Manager orany person authorized by him in that behalf andspecified in the notice. Every such notice shallbe substantially in Form A specified in theSecond Schedule and is hereinafter in this Partreferred to as a Notice to quit.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) of thissection the date specified in the Notice to quitshall be a date not later than sixty days from thedate of issue or exhibition of such notice.

(3) A Notice required to be served on any person shall be sent by registered post addressedto that person and a Notice to quit as such, shallbe deemed to have been served on such personat the time when the letter containing such noticehas been delivered to the address to which it issent.

Notice to quit

3National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

69C. Where a Notice to quit has been served orexhibited as provided under section 69B, theperson in possession or occupation of thebuilding to which the notice relates shall togetherwith his dependants, or other occupants, if any,duly vacate such building or portion thereof anddeliver peaceful vacant possession of suchbuilding or portion thereof to the GeneralManager or any person authorized by him in thatbehalf and specified in the notice.

69D.(1) Where any person who is inunauthorised possession or occupation of anybuilding or portion thereof fails to comply withthe Notice to quit served or exhibited as providedby section 69B, the General Manager may makean application substantially in form B set out inthe Second Schedule to this Act, to theMagistrates Court within whose jurisdiction suchbuilding or any portion thereof is situated,setting out the following facts, namely :-

(i) that he is the General Manager of theAuthority ;

(ii) that the building described in the scheduleto the application is a building or portion ofa building, belonging to the Authority ;

(iii) that a Notice to quit was served on theperson who was in possession oroccupation of such building or wasexhibited in a conspicuous place in or uponsuch building ;

(iv) that the person named in the applicationis in unauthorized possession oroccupation of such building or portionthereof and has failed to vacate such

Obligation tocomply withNotice to quit.

Effect of noncompliancewith theNotice to quit.

4National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

building or portion thereof and hand overpossession thereof as required by section69c ; and

praying for the recovery of possession of suchbuilding or any portion thereof and for theejectment of such person in possession oroccupation of such building, his dependants andother occupants, if any, from such building or por-tion thereof.

(2) Every application under subsection (1)shall be supported by an affidavit substantially in the Form C set out in the Second Schedule to this Act verifying the facts set forth in suchapplication and shall be accompanied by a copyof the Notice to quit.

(3) every application referred to in subsection(1) supported by the affidavit and copy of the Noticeto quit referred to in subsection (2) ishereinafter in this Part referred to as an application for ejectment

(4) Notwithstanding anything in the StampDuty Act, No. 43 of 1982 no stamp duty shallbe payable in respect of any application forejectment.

69E. (1) Upon receipt of the application made under section 69D, the Magistrate shallforthwith issue summons together with a copy of theapplication on the person named in theapplication to appear and show cause on the datespecified in such summons (being a date not laterthan two weeks from the date of issue of suchsummons) why such person and his dependants, ifany, should not be ejected from the building or anyportion thereof as prayed for in the application forejectment.

Proceedingson receipt ofan applicationfor ejectment.

5National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

(2) If on the date specified in the summonsissued under subsection (1) the person on whomsuch summons was issued fails to appear orinforms the Court that he has no cause to showagainst the order for ejectment, the Courts shallforth with issue an order directing such personand his dependants, if any, to be ejected forth-with from the building or any portion thereof.

(3) If a person on whom summons has beenserved under subsection (1) appears on the datespecified in such summons and states that be hascause to show against the issue of an order forejectment, the Magistrates Court may proceedforthwith to hear and determine the matter or mayset aside the case for an inquiry on a later date.

(4) Where any application for ejectment hasbeen made to a Magistrates Court under section69D, the Magistrate shall give priority over all otherbusiness of that Court, to the hearing anddisposal of such application, except when circum-stances render it necessary for such otherbusiness to be disposed of earlier.

(5) At such inquiry the person on whomsummons under subsection (1) has been servedshall not be entitled to contest any of the mattersstated in the application under section 69D exceptthat such person may establish that he is inpossession or occupation of the building or anyportion thereof upon a valid permit or under avalid agreement entered into in writing with theAuthority or any company of which thecontrolling shares are held by the Authority byitself or together with one or more publiccorporations and that such permit or such validagreement in writing is and not revoked orotherwise rendered invalid.

6National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

(6) It shall not be competent to the MagistratesCourt to call for any evidence from the GeneralManager in support of the application made under section 69D.

(7) If after inquiry the Magistrate is notsatisfied that the person showing cause isentitled to the possession or occupation of thebuilding or any portion thereof he shall make anorder directing such person and his dependants,if any, in occupation of such building or portionto be ejected forthwith from such building orportion thereof.

(8) Notwithstanding anything contained in thepreceding provisions where the Magistrateis of opinion that, having regard to the manner in which the person on whom summons undersubsection (1) was served entered intooccupation of the building or portion thereof, itwould be unjust to order his ejectment therefrom,the magistrate may require such person and theAuthority to enter into an agreement on suchreasonable terms as may be determined by theMagistrate, with respect to such building orportion thereof, within a period of six months fromthe date of such requirement :

Provided however where such person onwhom summons under subsection (1) wasserved fails to enter into an agreement withinthe period of six months from the date of suchrequirement the provisions contained in this Partshall apply mutatis mutandis.

(9) No appeal shall lie against any order ofejectment made by a Magistrate undersubsection (2) or subsection (7).

7National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

(10) Where any person fails to comply with anorder made under subsection (2) or subsection(7) the Magistrate shall on the application of theGeneral Manager forthwith issue, and if need bere-issue a writ of possession to the Fiscal, of theCourt requiring and authorizing such Fiscalbefore a date specified in the writ not being a dateearlier than three and not later than seven cleardays from the date of issue of such writ, to deliverpossession of such building or portion thereof tothe General Manager or any other personauthorized by him in that behalf, specified inNotice to quit relating to such building. Such writshall be sufficient authority for the said Fiscal orany police officer authorized by Court in that be-half, to enter such building with suchassistants as the Fiscal or police officer shall deemnecessary and to eject the person in possessionor occupation and his dependants or occupants,if any from such building or portion thereof.

(11) Notwithstanding anything in any other law,the issue or re-issue of a writ of possession undersubsection (10) shall not be stayed in any mannerwhatsoever by reason of any steps taken or proposed to be taken in any Court with a view toquestioning the issue or re-issue of such writ ofpossession or the Notice to quit in pursuance ofwhich such writ of possession was issued orre-issued.

(12) Nothing in this Part shall be read andconstrued as precluding any person who claims tohave been unlawfully ejected from any building orportion thereof under this section form institutingan action in any Court, for damages or other reliefin respect of such ejectment.

8National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

69F. The provisions of this Part shall have ef-fect notwithstanding anything contained in anyother provision of this Act or other written law,and accordingly, in the event of any conflict orinconsistency between the provisions of this Partand such other provision or written law, the pro-visions of this Part shall prevail.

69G. for the purposes of this Part -

Unauthorised possession or occupationshall include every form of possession oroccupation except possession or occupationby any person or after his demise, by hislegal heirs, upon a valid agreement enteredinto in writing with the Authority or anycompany of which the controlling shares areheld by the Authority by itself or togetherwith one or more public corporations ;

houses flats and other buildings belonging tothe Authority shall include every house, flator any other building constructed by theAuthority or a company of which thecontrolling shares are held by the Authorityby itself or together with one or more publiccorporations on State land or land belongingto a public corporation leased out to theAuthority or such company.

4.Section 82 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words Schedule , ofthe words First Schedule.

5. The following Schedule is hereby insertedimmediately after the First Schedule to the principal enactmentand shall have effect as the Second Schedule to the principalenactment :-

Provisions ofthis Part toprevail overany otherprovision ofthis Act orother writtenlaw.

Amendment ofsection 82 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion ofSecond Schedulein the principalenactment.

9National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

SECOND SCHEDULE

FORM A

Notice to quit (section 69 B)

1,..............................................................................(state name anddesignation) the General Manager, National HousingDevelopment Authority having reasons to believe thatyou .......................................................................(State name) arein unauthorised possession*/ occupation of the building orportion thereof, described in the schedule hereto, do byvirtue of the powers vested in me by section 69B of the National Housing Development Authority Act, require you ........................................................... (state name) -

(a)to vacate such building together with yourdependants, or other occupants, if any ; and

(b)to deliver peaceful vacant possession of such buildingor portion thereof, to me*/or ...............................(statename and designation) authorized person to act onmy behalf, on or before ...........................(state date)

...................................................SignatureGeneral Manager.

Schedule above referred to (here describe the building statingthe situation including the name of district)

Date .................................

.....................................................SignatureGeneral Manager.

* delete whatever inapplicable.

10National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

FORM B

APPLICATION FOR EJECTMENT

(section 69 D)

To : the Magistrates Court of ........................................ (statename of such court)

I,........................................................... (state name) the GeneralManager, National Housing Development Authority do, byvirtue of the powers vested in me by section 69D of theNational Housing Development Authority Act, by thisapplication -

(a)set forth the following facts, namely -

(i) that I am the General Manager of the NationalHousing Development Authority ;

(ii) that the building or portion of the buildingdescribed in the schedule to this applicationis a building or portion of a building belong-ing to the National Housing DevelopmentAuthority ;

(iii) that a Notice to quit (a copy of which isattached to this application) was servedon .............................................(state name andaddress) */ exhibited in or upon the saidbuilding

(iv) that the said..................... (state name) is inunauthorised possession*/ occupation of thesaid building or portion thereof and has failedto comply with the provisions of section 69cof that Act ;

11National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

(b)pray for the recovery of possession of the saidbuilding or portion thereof and for the ejectment ofthe said ...................... (state name) his dependantsand other occupants, if any, from the said building orportion thereof.

...................................................SignatureGeneral Manager.

Schedule above referred to (here describe the buildingstating situation including district)

Date .................................................................................SignatureGeneral Manager.

*delete whatever inapplicable.

FORM C

AFFIDAVIT (section 69 D)

I, ...........................................................(state name) the GeneralManager, National Housing Development Authority do, asrequired by section 69D of the National Housing DevelopmentAuthority Act, hereby solemnly, sincerely and truly make oathand state*/ declare and affirm as follows :-

(i) that I am the General Manager of the NationalHousing Development Authority ;

(ii) that the building described in the schedule tothe application for ejectment or portion thereof is a

12National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

building or a portion of a building belongingto the National Housing DevelopmentAuthority ;

(iii) that a Notice to quit (a copy of which isattached to this application for ejectment) wasserved on .................................... (state name andaddress)/ exhibited in or upon the saidbuilding ;

(iv) that the said..................... (state name) is inunauthorised possession */ occupation of thesaid building or portion thereof and has failedto comply with the provisions of section 69cof that Act ;

...................................................Signature and Designation.

*Sworn/ Affirmed before me by deponent onthis ............................................ (state date)

Date ........................................

...................................................Signature and designationif any, of person administering oath/affirmation.

*delete whatever inapplicable.

6. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

13National Housing Development Authority(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1999

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign).Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.