PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CEYLON GERMAN TECHNICAL TRAININGINSTITUTE ACT, No. 15 OF 2017

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th of August, 2017]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 20.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 25, 2017

1Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

2PL 005301 2,961 (07/2017)

[Certified on 24th of August, 2017]

L.D.O. 61/2006

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CEYLON GERMANTECHNICAL TRAINING INSTITUTE; TO SPECIFY THE POWERS, DUTIES

AND FUNCTIONS OF THE INSTITUTE; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Ceylon German Technical Training Institutehas been established pursuant to a Resolution of the Boardof Directors of the Ceylon Transport Board established underthe Motor Transport Act, No. 48 of 1957 and was under theadministration of the Ceylon Transport Board:

AND WHEREAS the Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978repealed the Motor Transport Act, No. 48 of 1957 andestablished the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board and as aresult, the administration of the Ceylon German TechnicalTraining Institute was assigned to the Sri Lanka CentralTransport Board:

AND WHEREAS in the year 2005, the Transport BoardLaw, No. 19 of 1978 was repealed by the Sri Lanka TransportBoard Act, No. 27 of 2005, and as a result the administrationof the Ceylon German Technical Training Institute wasassigned to the Ministry of Transport:

AND WHEREAS it is the Policy of the Government toadminister all vocational and technical training institutesunder the purview of one particular Ministry and accordingly,the administration of the Ceylon German Technical TrainingInstitute has been transferred from the Ministry of Transportto the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development:

AND WHEREAS in consequent to the change of Ministriesfrom time to time, difficulties have now arisen in connectionwith the administration of the Ceylon German Technical

Preamble.

Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 20172

Training Institute and it has therefore now become necessaryto provide for the establishment, by legislation, of anInstitute as a separate legal entity and to specify the powers,functions and duties thereof:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Ceylon GermanTechnical Training Institute Act, No. 15 of 2017 and shallcome into operation on such date as the Minister may appointby Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to asthe appointed date).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CEYLON GERMAN TECHNICAL TRAININGINSTITUTE

2.(1) There shall be established, an institute which shallbe called the Ceylon German Technical Training Institute(hereinafter referred to as the Institute).

(2) The Institute shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in that name.

3.(1) The Ceylon German Technical Training Instituteestablished by a Resolution of the Ceylon Transport Board(hereinafter referred to as CGTTI) approved and adoptedby the Board of Directors of the Ceylon Transport Board,shall hereby stand transferred to the Institute established bysection 2.

(2) All contracts and agreements entered into by, or withCGTTI or by or with the State, for or on behalf of CGTTI,and subsisting on the day immediately preceding theappointed date, and all debts and liabilities of CGTTI, or of

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Establishment oftheCeylon GermanTechnicalTrainingInstitute.

Transitionalprovisions.

3Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

the State incurred for or, on behalf of CGTTI and subsistingon the day immediately preceding the appointed date, shallbe deemed with effect from the appointed date to be thecontracts and agreements entered into by, or with the Institute,or debts and liabilities of the Institute, as the case may be,and shall be enforced accordingly.

(3) All property movable and immovable allocated toCGTTI for the purposes of CGTTI, prior to the appointeddate, and subsisting on the day immediately preceding theappointed date shall be transferred to the Institute establishedunder this Act with effect from the appointed date, and forall purposes be deemed to have vested in the Institute.

(4) All rules and regulations made in respect of CGTTIand in force on the day immediately preceding the appointeddate, and which are not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Act, shall be deemed to be rules and regulations madeunder this Act, and may accordingly be amended, added toand rescinded by regulations or rules, as the case may be,made under this Act.

(5) All suits, prosecutions, appeals and other legalproceedings which have been instituted in any court ortribunal by or against the CGTTI, or by or against the State,in respect of CGTTI, and pending before such court or tribunalon the day immediately preceding the appointed date, shallbe deemed with effect from the appointed date to have beeninstituted by or against the Institute, and may be continuedaccordingly.

4.The functions of the Institute shall be

(a)to formulate and conduct vocational trainingcourses and programmes in the field ofautomobile industry and other technical andvocational training industries as may beprescribed, directly by the Institute or throughother public or private sector agencies;

Functions of theInstitute.

Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 20174

(b)to co-ordinate and facilitate the training oftrainers and instructors of the Institute,through public and private sectorparticipation;

(c)to carry out research on vocational trainingin the field of automobile industry andprescribed technical industries;

(d)to provide career guidance and counselingservices to persons who have completedvocational training in the Institute;

(e)to assist the relevant authorities to provideemployment opportunities in Sri Lanka andabroad, to passed out trainees and enter intoagreements with local and foreignorganizations in this regard;

(f)to liaise and co-ordinate with institutionsboth in Sri Lanka and abroad, having objectssimilar to those of the Institute and implementstudent and staff exchange programmes byentering into agreements with suchinstitutions;

(g)to continue the provision of practical trainingto the trainees at the vehicle repair center andat the vehicle service center and workshopsof the Institute;

(h)to establish regional centers of the Institutefor the purpose of conducting technical andvocational training and education in theprescribed fields;

(i)to monitor the technological advancementsin the relevant industries and develop,modernize and update the facilities of theInstitute accordingly;

5Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

(j)to conduct seminars, workshops andconferences with the assistance of nationaland international organizations engaged inautomobile and prescribed technicalindustries;

(k)to publish magazines and periodicals onautomobile and prescribed technicalindustries and vocational and technicaltraining on such industries; and

(l)to do all such other acts or things as may beexpedient for the accomplishment of theobjects of the institute.

5.The Institute shall, subject to the provisions of thisAct, have the power

(a)to appoint, employ, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control over its officers and servants;

(b)to manage and maintain regional centers of theInstitute, which provide vocational training andeducation in the prescribed fields;

(c)to conduct training programmes and courses, forpersons who wish to be qualified as trainers inprescribed fields and award certificates anddiplomas to those who have successfullycompleted such programmes and courses;

(d)to purchase machinery or raw material and suchother equipment required for the trainingprogrammes and courses conducted by theInstitute;

(e)to conduct National level examinations and tests,in accordance with the regulations made by theTertiary and Vocational Education Commission;

Powers of theInstitute.

Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 20176

(f)to assess and evaluate from time to time, thestandards maintained, and results obtained by thetrainees in the prescribed fields of training and tomake necessary adjustments thereto;

(g)to promote the introduction of new techniquesand equipment in order to obtain maximum resultsfrom the vocational training programmesconducted by the Institute;

(h)to acquire, hold, take or give on lease, mortgageor hire, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, anymovable or immovable property of the Institute;

(i)to enter into and execute, whether directly orthrough any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Institute, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary, for the dischargeof the functions of the Institute;

(j)to make rules in respect of

(i)the administration of the affairs of theInstitute including appointments,promotions, remuneration and disciplinarycontrol, of the officers and servants of theInstitute;

(ii)the courses of study and examinationsconducted by the Institute;

(k)to levy fees and other charges for training andservices provided by the Institute;

(l)to provide recreational and welfare facilities,official quarters and accommodation for trainees,officers and servants of the Institute; and

7Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

(m)to do all such other acts or things which, in theopinion of the Institute are necessary for, or areconducive or incidental, to the attainment of itsobjects.

PART II

CONSTITUTION OF THE BOARD

6.(1) The administration, management and control ofthe affairs of the Institute shall be vested in a Board ofGovernors (hereinafter referred to as the Board).

(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of administering theaffairs of the Institute, exercise, discharge and perform, thepowers, functions and duties conferred on, or assigned to, orimposed on the Institute by this Act.

7.(1) The Board shall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio members, namely

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister or his representative;

(ii)a representative from the Ministry ofthe Minister assigned the subject ofFinance, nominated by the Secretary tothe Treasury;

(iii)the Chief Executive Officer of the SriLanka Transport Board;

(iv)the Director General of the Tertiary andVocational Education Commission;

(v)the Director- Principal of the Instituteappointed under section 17 of this Act;and

Constitution ofthe Board.

Administration&c. of theInstitute vestedin the Board.

Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 20178

(b)four other members appointed by the Minister,out of the persons who shall be qualified in thefields of mechanical or automobile engineering,electrical or electronic engineering, finance, law,skills development and vocational educationand entrepreneurship (hereinafter referred to asthe appointed members).

(2) Every appointed member shall, unless he earliervacates office by resignation, death or removal, hold officefor a period of three years from the date of his appointmentand shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(3) Every appointed member may at any time resign fromhis office by letter to that effect, addressed to the Minister,and such resignation shall take effect upon it being acceptedby the Minister.

(4) Where any appointed member is by reason of illness,infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka temporarily unable todischarge the functions of his office, the Minister may,having regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection(1), appoint another person to act in his place.

(5) The Minister may, if he thinks expedient to do so,remove any appointed member from office for reasonsassigned and thereupon that member shall be deemed tohave vacated his office.

(6) Where an appointed member dies, resigns or isremoved from office the Minister may, having regard to theprovisions of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) appoint anotherperson in his place and the person so appointed shall holdoffice for the unexpired period of the term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

(7) Every ex-officio member of the Board shall hold office,as long as he holds the post by virtue of which he is a memberof the Board.

8.(1) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointedmembers to be the Chairman of the Board (hereinafter referredto as the Chairman).

Chairman of theBoard.

9Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

(2) Where the Chairman by reason of illness or absencefrom Sri Lanka is temporarily unable to perform the dutiesof his office, the Minister may appoint another member ofthe Board to act in his place.

(3) The Chairman may resign from office by letter to thateffect addressed to the Minister and such resignation shalltake effect upon it being accepted by the Minister.

(4) The Minister may, if he thinks it expedient to do soremove the Chairman from such office, for reasons assigned.

9.A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Board, if he

(a)is or becomes a member of Parliament, or of anyProvincial Council, or of any local authority;

(b)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any othercountry, found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(c)is a person who, has been declared an insolvent orundischarged, bankrupt under any law in force inSri Lanka or any other country;

(d)is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any othercountry for a criminal offence;

(e)he holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by or on behalf of the Institute.

10.The Board may act notwithstanding any vacancyamong its members and any act or proceeding of the Instituteshall not be deemed to be, invalid by reason only of theexistence of any vacancy among its members or of any defectin the appointment or nomination of a member thereof.

Disqualificationfrom being amember of theBoard.

Acts orproceedings ofthe Board notdeemed to beinvalid byreason of anyvacancy.

Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 201710

11.All or any of the members of the Board shall beremunerated in such manner and at such rates as may bedetermined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

12.(1) The meetings of the Board shall be held at leastonce in every month and the quorum for any meeting of theBoard shall be five.

(2) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of theBoard. In the absence of the Chairman from any meeting ofthe Board, the members present shall elect a Chairman forthat meeting from among themselves.

(3) All questions for decision at any meeting shall bedecided by the vote of a majority of the members present. Inthe event of an equality of votes, the Chairman or the memberpresiding at such meeting shall, in addition to his own vote,has a casting vote.

(4) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Boardmay regulate its procedure in regard to its meetings and thetransaction of business at such meetings.

13.The Minister may give the Board such general orspecial directions in writing as to the exercise of its powersand discharge of its functions under this Act, and the Boardshall give effect to such directions.

14.The Minister may, where he deems it necessary, orderall or any of the activities of the Institute, to be investigatedand reported upon by such person or persons as he mayspecify, and upon such order being made, the Board shallafford all such facilities and furnish such information tosuch person or persons as may be necessary to give effect tosuch order.

15.(1) The Seal of the institute

(a)shall be in the custody of such person as theBoard may decide from time to time;

Meetings of theBoard.

Directions ofthe Minister.

Powers ofMinister to orderinvestigationinto activities ofthe Institute.

Seal of theInstitute.

Remuneration ofthe members ofthe Board.

11Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

(b)may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Board;

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument except in the presence of twomembers of the Board both of whom shallsign the instrument or document in token oftheir presence.

(2) The Institute shall maintain a register of theinstruments or documents to which the Seal of the Institutehas been affixed.

PART III

APPOINTMENT OF THE ADVISORY COUNCIL, THE DIRECTOR-PRINCIPAL

AND THE STAFF OF THE INSTITUTE.

16.(1) The Minister shall appoint an Advisory Councilwhich shall be known as the Advisory Council of the Institute(hereinafter referred to as the Council) in consultationwith the Board consisting of

(a)a representative from the Foreign EmploymentBureau established under the Sri Lanka Bureau ofForeign Employment Act, No.21 of 1985;

(b)two representatives each from leading companiesin Sri Lanka, being the appointed agents inSri Lanka , for vehicle manufacturers abroad;

(c)a representative not below the rank of anExecutive Officer from a leading company inSri Lanka engaged in Electrical or Electronic trade;

(d)a representative, not below the rank of an ExecutiveOfficer from the Colombo Dockyard Limited;

(e)a Senior Lecturer from the Department ofMechanical Engineering of the University ofMoratuwa; and

AdvisoryCouncil of theInstitute.

Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 201712

(f)a Senior Lecturer from the Department ofMechatronic or Automotive Engineering of theOpen University of Sri Lanka.

(2)The principal function of the Council shall be tomake recommendations to the Board and the Minister, onall matters connected with the functions of the Institutespecified in section 4.

(3) The Chairman of the Council shall be appointed bythe Minister from among the members of the Council.

(4) Every member of the Council shall, unless he earliervacates office by resignation, death or removal hold officefor a period of three years from the date of his appointmentand the members who vacate office by effluxion of timeshall be eligible for re-appointment.

(5) Every member of the Council may at any time resignfrom his office by letter to that effect addressed to the Ministerand such resignation shall take effect upon it being acceptedby the Minister.

(6) The Minister may, if he thinks expedient to do so,remove any member of the Council from office, for reasonsassigned.

(7) Where any member of the Council dies, resigns or isremoved from office the Minister may having regard to theprovisions of subsection (1), appoint another person to actin his place and the person so appointed shall hold office forthe unexpired period of the term of office of the memberwhom he succeeds.

(8) Meetings of the Council shall be summoned by theChairman of the Council at least twice in every year:

Provided however, the Chairman shall summon ameeting of the Council whenever he deems it to be necessaryand whenever he is requested in writing to do so by not lessthan three members of the Council.

13Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

(9) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall bethree members.

17. (1) The Minister shall appoint a person withprescribed qualifications as the DirectorPrincipal of theInstitute (hereinafter referred to as the DirectorPrincipal)who shall function as the Chief Executive Officer of theInstitute.

(2) The Director-Principal may be paid such remunerationas may be determined by the Minister with the concurrenceof the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(3) The Director-Principal shall, subject to the generaldirection and control of the Board, be charged with themanagement of both academic and administrative affairs ofthe Institute, and the administration and control of theofficers and servants of the Institute.

(4) The Director-Principal may, with the approval of theBoard, whenever he considers it necessary to do so, delegateto any officer or servant of the Institute, any power, functionor duty conferred to, imposed on, or assigned to him by thisAct and such officer or servant shall exercise, discharge andperform such power, function or duty subject to the generalor special directions of the Director-Principal.

(5) If any vacancy occurs in the office of Director-Principal, the Board may, elect one of the members of theBoard to perform the duties of the office of the Director-Principal until a permanent appointment is made, subject tothe provisions of subsection (1).

18.(1) Officers and servants of the Sri Lanka TransportBoard, who on the day immediately preceding the appointeddate, were serving as officers and servants in the CGTTI,shall be offered employment in the Institute, on such termsand conditions, as may be agreed upon by the Board andsuch officers and servants.

Appointment ofDirector Principal of theInstitute.

Staff of theInstitute.

Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 201714

(2) Where an officer or servant referred to in subsection(1), who wishes to opt out of service in the Institute, may doso within six months from the date on which he was notifiedof the option by the Institute.

(3) Officers and servants of the CGTTI, other than theofficers and servants referred to in subsection (1), who wereserving on the day immediately preceding the appointeddate, shall be absorbed to the Institute, on such terms andconditions not less favorable than the terms and conditionsimposed on them in the CGTTI.

(4) At the request of the Institute any officer in the publicservice may, with the consent of that officer and the PublicService Commission, be temporarily appointed to the staffof the Institute for such period as may be determined by theInstitute with like consent, or be permanently appointed tothe Institute.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to such officer.

(6) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to such officer.

(7) Where the Institute employs a person who has agreedto serve the Government for a specified period, any periodof service to the institute by that person shall be regarded asservice to the government for the purpose of discharging theobligations of that person under such agreement.

(8) At the request of the Institute any officer of theProvincial Public Service may, with the consent of that

15Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

officer and the Provincial Public Service Commission, betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Institute for suchperiod as may be determined by the Institute or with likeconsent be appointed permanently to such staff on such termsand conditions including those relating to pension orprovident fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Instituteand the Provincial Public Service Commission.

(9) Where any officer of the Provincial Public Service istemporarily appointed to the staff of the Institute undersubsection (8), that person shall be subject to the samedisciplinary control as any other officer of the Institute.

19.The Institute may delegate any of its powers orfunctions other than the power conferred on it by this section,to any officer or servant of the Institute and any such functionor power shall be exercised, or discharged by such officeror servant, subject to the special or general directions ofthe Institute.

PART IV

FINANCE

20.(1) The Institute shall have its own fund (hereinafterreferred to as the Fund).

(2) All moneys lying to the credit of CGTTI, on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date shall betransferred to the Fund with effect from the appointed date.

(3) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Institute

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted fromtime to time by Parliament for the use of theInstitute;

(b)all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Institute in the exercise, performance

Delegation ofpowers andfunctions toofficers andservants of theInstitute.

The Fund of theInstitute.

Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 201716

and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions; and

(c)all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Institute by way of income, fees,charges, loans, donations, gifts or grants fromany source whatsoever, whether from, withinor outside Sri Lanka.

(4) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Institute

(a)all such sums of money as are required todefray any expenditure incurred by theInstitute in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functionsunder this Act; and

(b)all such sums of money as are required to bepaid out of the Fund, by or under, this Act.

21.The Institute may, with the concurrence of theMinister and the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance, borrow by way of overdraft or otherwise, ornegotiate and obtain on credit terms, such sums as theInstitute may require for the purpose of discharging itsfunctions under this Act:

Provided that, the aggregate of the amounts outstandingin respect of any amount borrowed by the Institute underthis section shall not at any time exceed such sum as may bedetermined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

22.From and after the appointed date the provisions ofthe Employees Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958, shallapply to the officers and servants of the Institute.

Borrowingpowers of theInstitute.

Application ofthe provisions ofthe EmployeesProvident FundAct, No. 15 of1958.

17Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

23.From and after the appointed date the provisions ofthe Employees Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980, shall applyto the officers and servants of the Institute.

24.The financial year of the Institute shall be thecalendar year.

25.The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to the audit of the accounts of the Institute.

PART V

GENERAL

26.(1) Where any immovable property of the State isrequired to be made available to the Institute, for any of itspurposes, such purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose forwhich a special grant or lease of such property may be madeunder section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordinance (Chapter454) and accordingly, the provisions of that Ordinance shallapply to a special grant or lease of such property to theInstitute for such purpose.

(2) Where any movable property of the State is requiredfor any purpose of the Institute, the Minister may by Orderpublished in the Gazette, transfer to, and vest in, the Institutethe possession and use of such movable property:

Provided however, that no Order affecting any movableproperty of State shall be made by the Minister under thepreceding provisions of this subsection, without theconcurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance.

27.(1) Where any immovable property, other than theState Land is required to be acquired for the purpose of carryingout any object of the Institute and the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette approves the proposed acquisitionfor that purpose, that property shall be deemed to be required

Application ofthe provisions ofthe EmployeesTrust Fund Act,No. 46 of 1980.

Financial year ofthe Institute.

Audit ofaccounts of theInstitute.

State propertyboth movableand immovableto be madeavailable to theInstitute.

Acquisition ofimmovableproperty underthe LandAcquisition Actfor the Institute.

Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 201718

for a public purpose, and may accordingly, be acquired underthe Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) and be transferred tothe Institute.

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immovableproperty under the Land Acquisition Act for the Instituteshall be paid out of the Fund of the Institute.

28.The Institute shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter26) and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

29.All members, officers and servants of the Instituteshall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning,and for the purposes, of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

30.Any expense incurred by the Institute , a member ofthe Board, a member of the Council, the Director- Principalor any officer or employee of the Institute in any suit orprosecution brought against the Institute or such personbefore any court , in respect of any act which is done by theInstitute or such person under this Act or on the direction ofthe Board shall, if the court holds that such act was done ingood faith, be paid out of the Fund and any cost paid to orrecovered by the Institute or any such person referred to inthis section shall be credited to the Fund.

31.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are authorized by this Act to be made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister maymake regulations in respect of all or any of the followingmatters prescribing

(a)the fields in which the Institute may conduct coursesof vocational training and education;

Expensesincurred to bepaid out of theFund.

Members,officers andservants of theInstitute deemedto be publicservants.

Institute deemedto be ascheduledinstitution withinthe meaning ofthe Bribery Act.

Regulations.

19Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

(b)the standards required for selection as instructorsin different fields on vocational and technicaltraining;

(c)the terms and conditions to be included in trainingcontracts required to be entered between traineesand the establishments or organizations whereinthey undergo practical training;

(d)the period of training for trainees in different fieldsof vocational and technical training;

(e)the types of practical training and institutionaltraining to be followed by trainees in different fieldsof vocational and technical training;

(f)the obligations of establishments or organizationsundertaking vocational and technical trainingunder this Act;

(g)the obligations of trainees undergoing vocationaland technical training under this Act; and

(h)the hours of work and leave entitlement of traineesundergoing vocational and technical training underthis Act.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of such publication or onsuch later date as may be specified therein.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Every regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from thedate of disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 201720

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

32.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

local authority means any Municipal Council,Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha andincludes any authority created or establishedby, or under, any law to exercise, perform ordischarge the powers, duties and functionscorresponding to, or similar to, the powers,duties and functions exercised, performed ordischarged by any such Council or Sabha;

Minister means the Minister to whom thesubject of Vocational Training has beenassigned;

prescribed means prescribed by regulationsmade under this Act;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished under Chapter XVIlA of theConstitution;

Sri Lanka Transport Board means the Sri LankaTransport Board established under theSri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005;

Tertiary and Vocational EducationCommission means the Tertiary andVocational Education Commissionestablished under Tertiary and VocationalEducation Act, No. 20 of 1990.

33.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Interpretation.

21Ceylon German Technical Training InstituteAct, No. 15 of 2017

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.