PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 162.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 15, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 14th of September, 2023]

CENTRAL BANK OF SRI LANKA

ACT, No. 16 OF 2023

1Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

[Certified on 14th of September, 2023]

L.D.O. 12/2019

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CENTRAL BANK OFSRI LANKA; FOR THE REPEAL OF THE MONETARY LAW ACT(CHAPTER 422); AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Central Bank ofSri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023 and shall come into operationon such date as the Minister may appoint by Order publishedin the Gazette (in this Act referred to as the appointed date).

(2) The appointed date shall be a date not later than aperiod of six months from the date on which the Certificateis endorsed in respect of this Act in terms of Article 79 of theConstitution.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CENTRAL BANK

2.(1) There shall be established an institution whichshall be called and known as the Central Bank of Sri Lanka(in this Act referred to as the Central Bank) to be anauthority responsible for the administration, supervision andregulation of the monetary, financial and payment systemsof Sri Lanka.

(2) The Central Bank shall be a body corporate withperpetual succession and a common seal and may sue or besued in its corporate name.

3.The Central Bank shall have its principal place ofbusiness in Colombo.

Short title anddate ofoperation

Establishment ofthe Central Bank

Principal placeof business

2Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

4.(1) The capital of the Central Bank shall be a fullysubscribed and paid-up amount as may be determined bythe Governing Board from time to time.

(2)The capital of the Central Bank shall be held solelyby the Government and shall not be transferable or subjectto any encumbrance.

(3)The capital of the Central Bank may be increasedby such amounts as may be determined by the GoverningBoard with the concurrence of the Minister from fundsallocated from the Consolidated Fund.

(4)The capital of the Central Bank shall not be reducedat any time.

5.(1) The Central Bank shall have administrative andfinancial autonomy.

(2)The Central Bank shall be autonomous andaccountable.

(3)The autonomy of the Central Bank shall berespected at all times and no person or entity shall cause anyinfluence on the Governor of the Central Bank or othermembers of the Governing Board and Monetary Policy Boardor employees of the Central Bank in the exercise,performance and discharge of their powers, duties andfunctions under this Act or interfere with the activities of theCentral Bank.

(4)Except in the exercise, performance and dischargeof the powers, duties and functions under this Act, theGovernor of the Central Bank or other members of theGoverning Board and Monetary Policy Board, employeesof the Central Bank or any person authorized by the CentralBank shall not seek or take instructions from any person:

Autonomy andaccountability ofthe Central Bank

Capital of theCentral Bank

3Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

Objects of theCentral Bank

Provided however, nothing in this section shall preventthe Central Bank from seeking professional or expert adviceto effectively exercise, perform and discharge its powers,duties and functions under this Act or any other written law.

6.(1) The primary object of the Central Bank shall be toachieve and maintain domestic price stability.

(2)The other object of the Central Bank shall be tosecure the financial system stability.

(3)Without prejudice to the attainment of its objectsand subject to the provisions of this Act, the Central Bankshall support the general economic policy framework of theGovernment as provided for in any law.

(4)In pursuing the primary object referred to insubsection (1), the Central Bank shall take into account,inter alia, the stabilization of output towards its potentiallevel.

(5)In pursuing the object referred to in subsection (2),the Central Bank shall take into account, inter alia, thedevelopment and efficiency of the financial system.

7.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the powers,duties and functions of the Central Bank shall be to

(a)determine and implement monetary policy;

(b)determine and implement the exchange rate policy;

(c)hold and ensure the prudent and effectivemanagement of the official international reservesof Sri Lanka;

(d)issue and manage the currency of Sri Lanka;

(e)administer, supervise and regulate payment systemsand ensure the safety, effectiveness, and efficiencyof such payment systems;

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Central Bank

4Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(f)register, license, regulate and supervise financialinstitutions;

(g)resolve financial institutions regulated andsupervised by the Central Bank;

(h)adopt and implement macroprudential policymeasures;

(i)collect and produce statistics;

(j)act as financial advisor and banker to theGovernment;

(k)act as fiscal agent of the Government to the extentprovided for by or under any written law;

(l) inform Parliament, Government, and the publicabout its policies and operations;

(m)cooperate with and participate in internationalorganizations, including public internationalfinancial institutions, and cooperate with domesticand foreign public institutions, concerning mattersrelated to its objects;

(n)promote financial inclusion in Sri Lanka;

(o)establish deposit insurance and liquidity supportschemes as means of securing the financial systemstability;

(p)hold, sell and dispose of property, both movableand immovable, and enter into contracts;

(q)acquire and hold such assets and incur suchliabilities as it may deem necessary; and

(r)generally, do all such acts and things as arenecessary for, or incidental or conducive to thecarrying out or attainment of the objects of theCentral Bank.

5Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2) The Governing Board, Monetary Policy Board andthe Governor of the Central Bank shall, for the purpose ofachieving the objects of the Central Bank, exercise, performand discharge the powers, duties and functions conferredon, or assigned to, or imposed on, the Central Bank by thisAct.

PART II

GOVERNING BOARD, MONETARY POLICY BOARD, GOVERNOR ANDDEPUTY GOVERNORS

8.(1) There shall be established a Governing Board ofthe Central Bank (in this Act referred to as the GoverningBoard) which is charged with the responsibility ofoverseeing the administration and management of the affairsof the Central Bank and the determination of general policyof the Central Bank other than the monetary policy.

(2) The Governing Board shall consist of the followingmembers: -

(a)the Governor of the Central Bank who shall be theChairperson of the Governing Board; and

(b)six members who shall have expertise inEconomics, Banking, Finance, Accounting andAuditing, Law or Risk Management.

(3)The Secretary to the Governing Board who shall bean employee of the Central Bank shall be nominated by theGovernor of the Central Bank.

(4)The members of the Governing Board other than theChairperson shall discharge supervisory and policyformulation functions of the Central Bank and shall notdischarge any executive function of the Central Bank.

(5)The powers, duties and functions of the GoverningBoard shall be to-

GoverningBoard of theCentral Bank

6Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(a)take general policy decisions other than monetarypolicy;

(b)take enforcement measures, including issuinginstructions to the financial institutions, regulatingpayment, clearing and settlement systems, andtaking remedial actions, and to appoint a receiverfor such institutions;

(c)take administrative measures, as provided for bythis Act or any other written law;

(d)formulate the corporate strategy of the CentralBank;

(e)approve the budget of the Central Bank;

(f)approve annual accounts and financial statementsof the Central Bank;

(g)organize the Central Bank and the generalframework regulating the powers, duties andfunctions of the employees of the Central Bank;

(h)prepare schemes for appointments, promotions andthe exercise of disciplinary control over theemployees of the Central Bank;

(i)appoint the Chief Internal Auditor of the CentralBank;

(j)oversee the financial reporting, risk management,compliance, information technology, security andinternal control system of the Central Bank;

(k)supervise the administration of the Central Bank;

(l)adopt policies including accounting policies andprocedures of the Central Bank in line withinternationally recognized accounting standards;

7Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(m)approve the internal audit report prepared by theAudit Committee of the Central Bank and monitorimplementation of the internal auditorsrecommendations in the Central Bank; and

(n)generally, do all such acts and things as arenecessary for, or incidental or conducive to theadministration and management of the CentralBank and to give effect to the provisions of thisAct.

(6)The Governing Board may, in writing, delegate thefunctions specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection(5) to the Governor of the Central Bank.

(7)The Governing Board may establish specializedboards and sub-committees to assist in supervising theadministration and management of the Central Bank.

(8)The Governing Board may make such rules as itmay consider necessary in relation to any matter affecting orconnected with or incidental to the exercise, performanceand discharge of the powers, duties and functions of theCentral Bank.

(9)The Governing Board may utilize the funds of theCentral Bank for the purpose of meeting all expendituresincurred by the Central Bank in the administration,management and operation of the Central Bank and in theexercise, performance, and discharge of the powers, dutiesand functions of the Central Bank.

9.(1) The meetings of the Governing Board shall beheld at least once a month, and as frequently as is necessaryfor the purpose of exercising, performing and dischargingthe powers, duties and functions of the Central Bank.

Meetings of theGoverningBoard

8Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2)The Chairperson of the Governing Board shall, ifpresent, preside at every meeting of the Governing Board. Inthe absence of the Chairperson from any meeting, a memberappointed under paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 8elected by the members present at that meeting shall presideat such meeting.

(3)The meetings of the Governing Board shall beconvened by the Chairperson or at the written request of anytwo members of the Governing Board.

(4)The quorum for a meeting of the Governing Boardshall be five members.

(5)Each member of the Governing Board shall haveone vote and in the event of an equality of votes at anymeeting of the Governing Board, the member presiding atsuch meeting shall, in addition to his vote, have a castingvote.

(6) All matters for decision at any meeting of theGoverning Board shall be decided by the votes of themajority of the members present.

(7)The Governing Board may make rules of procedurefor the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions under this Act, and such rules ofprocedure may provide for the manner in which the meetingsof the Governing Board shall be conducted.

(8)Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Governing Board may regulate the procedure in regardto the meetings of the Governing Board and the transactionof business at such meetings.

(9)No act, decision or proceeding of the GoverningBoard shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of theexistence of a vacancy in the Governing Board or a defect inthe appointment of any member of the Governing Board.

9Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

10.(1) The proceedings of the meetings of theGoverning Board shall be confidential to the extent permittedunder the Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016. TheGoverning Board may give publicity to any of its decisionson any matter, if it considers it necessary.

(2)The minutes of each meeting of the Governing Boardshall be signed by the person presiding at such meeting andthe Secretary to the Governing Board.

(3)The minutes of each meeting of the Governing Boardshall be kept in writing, and retained at least for a period oftwelve years.

11.(1) There shall be a Monetary Policy Board of theCentral Bank (in this Act referred to as the Monetary PolicyBoard), which is charged with the formulation of monetarypolicy of the Central Bank and implementation of a flexibleexchange rate regime in line with the flexible inflationtargeting framework in order to achieve and maintaindomestic price stability.

(2)The Monetary Policy Board shall regulate thesupply, availability, and cost of money, taking into accountthe macroeconomic and financial condition of Sri Lanka.

12.(1) The Monetary Policy Board shall consist of thefollowing members:

(a)the Governor of the Central Bank who shall be theChairperson of the Monetary Policy Board;

(b)members of the Governing Board appointedpursuant to paragraph (b) of subsection (2) ofsection 8;

(c) two experts in Economics or Finance;

(d) the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank in chargeof price stability; and

(e)the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank in chargeof financial system stability.

Confidentialityof proceedingsof theGoverningBoard

Monetary PolicyBoard

Composition ofthe MonetaryPolicy Board

10Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2)The Secretary to the Monetary Policy Board whoshall be an employee of the Central Bank shall be nominatedby the Governor of the Central Bank.

13.(1) The Monetary Policy Board shall meet at leastonce in two months.

(2)Every year, the schedule of meetings of theMonetary Policy Board shall be published by the CentralBank prior to the first meeting in that year.

(3)The schedule of meetings may be changed, if theChairperson of the Monetary Policy Board is of the viewthat an additional meeting or a reschedule of meeting isrequired due to any exigency. In such circumstances, therevised schedule of meetings shall be published by theCentral Bank as soon as practicable.

(4)The Chairperson of the Monetary Policy Board shall,if present, preside at every meeting of the Monetary PolicyBoard. In the absence of the Chairperson from any meeting,an appointed member elected by the members present atthat meeting shall preside at such meeting.

(5)The quorum for a meeting of the Monetary PolicyBoard shall be eight members of which one shall be theGovernor of the Central Bank or in his absence, the DeputyGovernor of the Central Bank in charge of price stability.

(6)Each member of the Monetary Policy Board shallhave one vote and in the event of an equality of votes at anymeeting of the Monetary Policy Board, the member presidingat such meeting shall, in addition to his vote, have a castingvote.

(7)All matters for decision at any meeting of theMonetary Policy Board shall be decided by the votes of themajority of the members present.

(8)The proceedings of the meeting of the MonetaryPolicy Board shall be confidential to the extent permittedunder the Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016.

Meetings of theMonetary PolicyBoard

11Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(9)The Monetary Policy Board shall publish theresolution adopted by it after the conclusion of every meetingof the Monetary Policy Board with an explanation of recenteconomic developments and the economic outlook whichunderpins such resolution.

(10)The Monetary Policy Board may make rules ofprocedure for the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions.

(11)The rules of procedure may provide for the mannerin which the meetings of the Monetary Policy Board shallbe conducted.

(12)The minutes of each meeting of the MonetaryPolicy Board shall be kept in writing, and retained at leastfor a period of twelve years.

(13)No act, decision or proceeding of the MonetaryPolicy Board shall be deemed to be invalid by reason onlyof the existence of any vacancy in the Monetary PolicyBoard or any defect in the appointment of any member ofthe Monetary Policy Board.

14.(1) The Governor of the Central Bank shall be theChief Executive Officer and the principal representative ofthe Central Bank.

(2) The Governor of the Central Bank, in consultationwith the Deputy Governors, shall be responsible for-

(a)the day-to-day operations of the Central Bank; and

(b)implementing policy decisions of the GoverningBoard and the Monetary Policy Board.

(3)The Governor of the Central Bank shall dischargesuch other functions of the Central Bank expressly assignedto the Governor of the Central Bank by the Governing Boardor the Monetary Policy Board.

Powers of theGovernor andthe DeputyGovernors ofthe Central Bank

12Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(4)The Governor of the Central Bank shall have theauthority to sign any rule, order, direction, notice, contract,promissory note, security, report, balance sheet, statement,or such other document on behalf of the Central Bank.

(5)The Governor of the Central Bank shall devote hisfull professional time to the business of the Central Bank.

(6)The Governor of the Central Bank shall not acceptor hold any other office or employment whatsoever, whetherpublic or private, and whether remunerated or not.

(7)The Governor of the Central Bank may delegateany of his powers, duties and functions to the Senior DeputyGovernor of the Central Bank, or with the concurrence ofthe Governing Board to any other Deputy Governor of theCentral Bank.

(8)Where the Governor of the Central Bank istemporarily absent from duty or is temporarily unable toexercise, perform and discharge his powers, duties andfunctions, the Senior Deputy Governor of the Central Bankdesignated in terms of subsection (8) of section 15 shall actas the Chief Executive Officer of the Central Bank and shallhave authority to exercise, perform and discharge the powers,duties and functions of the Governor of the Central Bank.

(9)Where both the Governor of the Central Bank andthe Senior Deputy Governor of the Central Bank aretemporarily absent from duty or are temporarily unable toexercise, perform and discharge their powers, duties andfunctions, the Governing Board shall appoint a DeputyGovernor of the Central Bank to act as the Chief ExecutiveOfficer of the Central Bank.

(10)The Deputy Governor of the Central Bankappointed under subsection (9) shall be designated as theacting Chief Executive Officer of the Central Bank.

13Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(11)(a) Where the Governor of the Central Bankvacates or ceases to hold office for any reason, the SeniorDeputy Governor of the Central Bank designated in terms ofsubsection (8) of section 15 shall act as the Chief ExecutiveOfficer of the Central Bank.

(b) Where the Senior Deputy Governor of the CentralBank referred to in paragraph (a) is unable to act as the ChiefExecutive Officer for any reason, the acting Chief ExecutiveOfficer designated in terms of subsection (10) shall act asthe Chief Executive Officer of the Central Bank.

(12)The office of the Governor of the Central Bankshall not remain vacant for a period of more than forty-fivedays.

15.(1) The Minister shall, having regard to theprovisions of section 17, recommend to the President-

(a)the name of a person to be appointed as theGovernor of the Central Bank; and

(b)the names of persons to be appointed as membersof the Governing Board referred to in paragraph (b)of subsection (2) of section 8 and the experts of theMonetary Policy Board referred to in paragraph (c)of subsection (1) of section 12 (in this Act referredto as the appointed members).

(2)In recommending the names of persons to beappointed as members of the Governing Board referred to inparagraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 8, the Ministershall take into account the desirability of promotingdiversity in the membership of the Governing Board.

(3)Upon the receipt of the recommendations of theMinister under subsection (1), if the President is satisfiedwith the suitability of the persons so recommended, thePresident shall recommend the names of such persons to theConstitutional Council for approval.

Appointment ofthe Governorand otherappointedmembers andthe SeniorDeputyGovernor of theCentral Bank

14Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(4)Upon the receipt of approval of the ConstitutionalCouncil under subsection (3), the President shall appointsuch persons as the Governor of the Central Bank and theother members of the Governing Board and the MonetaryPolicy Board.

(5)Where the Constitutional Council refuses to approvethe name of a person referred to in subsectioin (3), theMinister shall make a fresh nomination, and the provisionsof subsections (2), (3), and (4) shall apply to such nominationaccordingly.

(6)Where the President is of the view that any personrecommended under subsection (1) is not suitable for suchappointment, the President shall, in writing, communicatesuch fact along with reasons therefor to the Minister and theMinister shall table such communication in Parliament.

(7)Where the Minister receives a communicationreferred to in subsection (6), he shall recommend to thePresident another person. The provisions of subsections (2),(3), (4) and (6) shall apply to the recommendation madeunder this subsection.

(8)The Minister shall, on the recommendation of theGoverning Board-

(a)determine the number of Deputy Governors of theCentral Bank to be appointed and appoint suchnumber of Deputy Governors who shall exercise,perform and discharge such powers, duties andfunctions assigned to them by this Act or theGoverning Board; and

(b)designate the most senior Deputy Governorappointed under paragraph (a) as the Senior DeputyGovernor of the Central Bank.

(9)Every appointment made under this section shall besubject to the provisions of section 17.

15Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(10)The Deputy Governors of the Central Bank shallbe employees of the Central Bank.

(11) The appointment of the Deputy Governors of theCentral Bank and the designation of the Senior DeputyGovernor of the Central Bank shall be made in accordancewith the criteria prescribed by rules of the Governing Board.

(12) The appointments referred to in subsection (1) shallbe finalized not more than a period of thirty days prior to theexpiration of the term of office of the previously appointedmember.

(13) In the event of the President failing to appoint anyperson approved by the Constitutional Council undersubsection (4) within a period of thirty days from the date ofapproval of the Constitutional Council, such person shallbe deemed to have been appointed as the Governor of theCentral Bank, a member of the Governing Board or an expertof the Monetary Policy Board, as the case may be, with effectfrom the date of expiry of such period.

16.(1) The term of office of the Governor of the CentralBank and an appointed member shall be a period of sixyears commencing on the date of his appointment.

(2)Where the Governor of the Central Bank or anyappointed member vacates office before the expiration ofthe term of office, another person shall be appointed in termsof section 15 in his place to hold office during the unexpiredperiod of the term of office of the Governor of the CentralBank or the appointed member so vacating the office.

(3)The Governor of the Central Bank or any appointedmember who vacates office by effluxion of time shall beeligible for reappointment:

Provided however, the aggregate term of office of anysuch member shall not exceed a period of twelve years.

Term ofoffice of theGovernor ofthe CentralBank and anappointedmember

16Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

17.(1) The persons appointed under section 15 shall bepersons of eminence and integrity who have distinguishedthemselves in public and professional life and who possessprofessional or academic experience in the fields ofEconomics, Monetary Policy, Banking, Finance, Accountingand Auditing, Law or Risk Management in order to assist theCentral Bank to achieve its objects and to exercise, performand discharge its powers, duties and functions.

(2)A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as the Governor of the Central Bank, or anappointed member or a Deputy Governor of the Central Bank,if such person

(a)has committed or has been connected with thecommission of, any act which involves fraud, deceit,dishonesty or professional misconduct;

(b)is subject to an investigation or inquiry consequentupon being served with notice of a charge involvingfraud, deceit, dishonesty or other similar criminalactivity, by any regulatory authority, supervisoryauthority, professional association, commission ofinquiry, tribunal or any other body established bylaw, in Sri Lanka or abroad;

(c)has been convicted by any court in Sri Lanka orabroad in respect of a crime involving dishonestyor committed in connection with financialmanagement or of any offence involving moralturpitude;

(d)is an undischarged insolvent or has been declaredbankrupt by a court of competent jurisdiction inSri Lanka or abroad;

(e)has failed to satisfy any judgement or order of anycourt whether in Sri Lanka or abroad, or to repay adebt;

Eligibility anddisqualificationsof the Governorand otherappointedmembers andDeputyGovernors ofthe Central Bank

17Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(f)has been declared by a court of competentjurisdiction in Sri Lanka or abroad, to be of unsoundmind;

(g)has been removed or suspended by an order of aregulatory or supervisory authority from serving asa director, chief executive officer or other officer inany financial institution or corporate body, in SriLanka or abroad;

(h)was a chief executive officer or held any otherposition of authority in any financial institution

(i)whose license has been suspended orcancelled; or

(ii)which has been wound up or is beingwound up, or which is being compulsorilyliquidated whether in Sri Lanka or abroad;

(i)is an employee of the Central Bank:

Provided however, this disqualification shall notbe applicable in the case of the appointment of aDeputy Governor of the Central Bank from amongthe employees of the Central Bank;

(j)is or becomes a member of the Parliament, aProvincial Council or a local authority;

(k)is or becomes a public officer or judicial officer orholds any office or position other than an academicposition, either by election or appointment, forwhich salary or other remuneration or benefit otherthan the superannuation benefit deriving from hisprevious employment, is payable out of publicfunds, provincial funds or the funds of any localauthority:

18Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

Provided however, nothing in this subsectionshall be held to empower the Minister to remove,with the concurrence of the Governing Board, fromoffice, any Deputy Governor of the Central Bankwho has been temporarily released under subsection(3), by reason only that such Deputy Governor ofthe Central Bank holds such office or position insuch institution:

Provided further, that nothing in this subsectionshall be construed to enable a Deputy Governor ofthe Central Bank who has been temporarily releasedto serve in an office or position of a publiccorporation under subsection (3) to take part in thedeliberations of the Governing Board or MonetaryPolicy Board of the Central Bank while he holdsoffice or position as a public officer;

(l)is an official of a political party; or

(m)is or becomes a director, officer or employee of anentity regulated by the Central Bank or a financialinstitution operating through offices in Sri Lankaor a beneficial owner of an equity interest in afinancial institution.

(3)The Governing Board may, with the concurrence ofthe Minister, temporarily release a Deputy Governor of theCentral Bank to serve in an office or position of any Ministry,department, public international financial institution orpublic corporation which is not a financial institution underthis Act.

18.Any person serving any office referred to insubsection (1) of section 15 may resign such office by givingnot less than three months notice in writing to the Presidentand the Minister.

19.(1) Any person appointed under subsection (4) ofsection 15 may be removed by the president, on therecommendation of the Minister and subject to the approval

Resignationfrom office

Disqualificationsand removalfrom office

19Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

of the Constitutional Council following a hearing of therelevant appointed person that such person

(a)is unable to exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, duties and functions of such office becauseof an infirmity of body or mind that has lasted formore than a period of three months;

(b)has not complied with the relevant code of conductof the Central Bank;

(c)has failed to exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, duties and functions of such office for aconsecutive period of more than three monthswithout the approval of the Governing Board; or

(d)is disqualified in terms of the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 17.

(2)Upon the receipt of the approval of theConstitutional Council, the President shall, in writing,remove any person appointed under subsection (4) of section15, and shall state in the letter of removal-

(a)the date on which the removal shall take effectwhich shall not be a date earlier than the date onwhich the letter of removal is received; and

(b)the reasons for the removal.

(3) Any person appointed under subsection (4) of section15 may be suspended from the office by the President priorto the commencement of the hearing or during the course ofthe hearing under subsection (1).

(4) Any person appointed under subsection (8) of section15 may be removed from office by the Minister on the adviceof the Governing Board, in the event the Minister is satisfiedfollowing a hearing of the relevant person that such person

20Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(a)is unable to exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, duties and functions of such office becauseof an infirmity of body or mind that has lasted formore than a period of three months;

(b)has not complied with the relevant code of conductof the Central Bank;

(c)has failed to exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, duties and functions of such office for aconsecutive period of more than three monthswithout the approval of the Governing Board; or

(d)is disqualified in terms of the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 17.

(5) No person appointed pursuant to subsections (4)and (8) of section 15 shall be removed from office on anyground other than the grounds specified in subsection (1) or(4).

(6) Any person appointed under subsection (7) of section15 may be suspended from the office by the Minister, on theadvice of the Governing Board, prior to the commencementof the hearing or during the course of the hearing undersubsection (4).

20.Any person who ceases to be the Governor of theCentral Bank, a member of the Governing Board orMonetary Policy Board, Deputy Governor, or an employeeof the Central Bank shall not serve in any capacitywhatsoever, in or for, any financial institution until theexpiration of a period of three years from the date of suchcessation.

21.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, the remuneration of the Governor of theCentral Bank and the allowances payable to the appointedmembers shall be determined by the Parliament.

Restriction onsubsequentactions

Remuneration

21Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2)The amount of remuneration and allowancesdetermined under subsection (1) shall be specified in theletter of appointment issued to such Governor and appointedmembers, and such remuneration shall not be reduced duringthe terms of office of such Governor and appointed members.

(3)No remuneration or allowance shall be based on theprofits of the Central Bank or any of its revenues.

22.The Governing Board shall adopt such Codes ofConduct applicable to members of the Governing Boardand the Monetary Policy Board.

PART III

EMPLOYEES OF THE CENTRAL BANK

23.(1) The Governing Board may appoint and removeemployees of the Central Bank, and may determine the termsand conditions of their employment including theremuneration.

(2)No remuneration shall be based on the profits of theCentral Bank or any of its revenue.

(3)The Governing Board may establish and regulatepensions or provident funds or schemes for the benefit ofemployees and their dependents and nominees, and maymake contributions to any such fund or scheme.

(4) The Governing Board may, notwithstanding theprovisions of subsection (1) of section 114, grant loans andadvances, to employees of the Central Bank for suchpurposes as may be determined by the Governing Boardsubject to such terms and conditions as may be determinedby the Governing Board.

(5) The compulsory age of retirement for every employeeof the Central Bank shall be sixty years and the optional ageof retirement for every employee of the Central Bank shallbe fifty-five years.

Codes ofconduct

Appointmentand removal ofemployees ofthe Central Bank

22Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(6) The Central Bank shall make rules relating todisciplinary control for all the employees of the CentralBank.

24.(1) The employees of the Central Bank shall devotetheir professional services to the Central Bank, and shall notaccept or hold any other office or employment, whetherpublic or private, or whether remunerated or not, except as anominee of the Central Bank or for educational or academicpurposes, which are not in conflict with or which will notprevent the ability of any employee to devote hisprofessional services to the Central Bank, and are within thelimits determined by the Governing Board in that regard.

(2) The Governing Board may, at the request of anyministry, department, public international financialinstitution or a public corporation which is not a financialinstitution, temporarily release any officer of the CentralBank with the consent of such officer, to serve any office orposition in such ministry, department, public internationalfinancial institution or public corporation, subject to suchterms and conditions as may be determined by the GoverningBoard:

Provided, however, the temporary release of any officerof the Central Bank shall not exceed a period of five yearsunless the Cabinet of Ministers approves such other longerperiod.

(3) Any officer of the Central Bank who is released toserve any office or position in terms of subsection (2), shallbe deemed to be removed from such office or position, ifsuch officer is removed from his office in the Central Bankunder the provisions of this Act.

25.The Governing Board shall make codes of conductapplicable to employees of the Central Bank.

Codes ofconduct

Employees notto accept anyother office

23Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

PART IV

INFLATION TARGET

26.(1) The Minister and the Central Bank shall sign amonetary policy framework agreement with regard to settingout the inflation target to be achieved by the Central Bank.

(2) In the event the Minister and the Central Bank areunable to reach an agreement with regard to the inflationtarget as referred to in subsection (1), the Minister shall placehis proposal for the inflation target and that of the CentralBank before the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Cabinet ofMinisters shall determine the inflation target to be achievedby the Centeral Bank.

(3)The Minister shall publish the monetary policyframework agreement including the inflation target and otherparameters relating thereto in the Gazette within a period ofone week from the date of such agreement.

(4)The Minister and the Central Bank may review theinflation target and any other parameters relating thereto,once in every three years or in such other intervals, ifexceptional circumstances so warranted. The Minister shall,upon such review, publish in the Gazette the inflation targetand other parameters relating thereto so reviewed and theexceptional circumstances that warranted such review.

(5)If the Central Bank fails to meet the inflation targetby a margin determined in terms of subsections (1) and (4) ofthis section for two consecutive quarters, the MonetaryPolicy Board shall submit a report to Parliament through theMinister, which shall also be made available to the public,setting out-

(a)the reasons for the failure to achieve the inflationtarget;

(b)the remedial actions proposed to be taken by theCentral Bank; and

(c)an estimate of the time-period within which theinflation target shall be achieved.

Inflation target

24Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(6) The Monetary Policy Board shall determine themonetary policy and other instruments relating to theimplementation of the monetary policy of the Central Bankand shall have the authority to adjust such instruments forthe purpose of implementing the monetary policy.

27.The Central Bank shall publish a report once in sixmonths explaining recent movements in inflation, sourcesof inflation and medium-term projections for inflation andkey risks to such projections.

28.(1) Where the Monetary Policy Board anticipateseconomic disturbances that are likely to threaten thedomestic price stability in Sri Lanka or there are abnormalmovements in the price level that are actually endangeringsuch domestic price stability, it shall be the duty of theMonetary Policy Board

(a)to adopt such policies, and to cause such remedialmeasures to be taken, as are appropriate in thecircumstances and authorized by this Act;

(b)to submit to the Minister and, if it is not prejudicialto the public interest, publish, a detailed reportwhich shall include, as a minimum, an analysis of

(i)the causes of the anticipated economicdisturbances, or of the actual abnormalmovements of the price level;

(ii)the probable effects of such disturbancesor movements on the level of production,employment, and income in Sri Lanka;and

Publication ofreport oninflation

Action topreserve pricestability

25Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(iii)the measures which the Monetary PolicyBoard has already taken, and monetary,fiscal, or administrative measures that itproposes to take or recommends foradoption by the Government.

(2) The Monetary Policy Board shall continue to submitfurther reports periodically so long as the circumstanceswhich occasioned the submission of the first report constitutea threat to domestic price stability.

(3) The Minister shall submit the reports referred to inthis section to the Cabinet of Ministers to consider the sameand take appropriate decisions to avert such an occurrence.

PART V

MONETARY AND OTHER OPERATIONS

29.(1) In the carrying out of its operations, the CentralBank may open and maintain cash, precious metals andsecurities accounts on its books for

(a)financial institutions, foreign banks, andgovernment entities;

(b)central banks, international organizations includingpublic international financial institutions, foreigngovernments, and donor organizations.

(2)The Central Bank may prescribe by rules theconditions for opening accounts on its books.

(3)The Central Bank may open and maintain cash,precious metals and securities accounts on the books of

(a)financial institutions which are subject to theregulation and supervision of the Central Bank;

Opening ofaccounts

26Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(b)central banks, depositories, foreign banks andinternational organizations including publicinternational financial institutions.

30.The Central Bank may, subject to the payment offees in line with market rates and the terms and conditions asmay be prescribed by the Governing Board, provide custodialfacilities to financial institutions for denominated currencynotes and coins as it designates, and for securities, preciousmetals and any other valuable assets as the Governing Boardmay determine.

31.(1) In order to achieve the objects of the CentralBank and to exercise, perform and discharge its powers,duties and functions, the Central Bank may

(a)operate in the financial markets by buying andselling outright or under a repurchase agreement,and by lending or borrowing claims and marketableinstruments, as well as precious metals;

(b)conduct credit operations with licensed banks andother market participants operating in Sri Lanka,based on adequate collaterals; or

(c)issue securities on such terms and conditions andin such form as may be determined by the MonetaryPolicy Board.

(2) The Monetary Policy Board shall make rulesspecifying

(a)the types of instruments and collateral to be usedfor open market and credit operations for thepurpose of the monetary policy; and

(b)the conditions under which the Central Bank mayenter into transactions for the purposes ofparagraph (a).

(3) The Governing Board shall make rules specifying

Open marketoperations

Custodialservices of theCentral Bank

27Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(a)the types of instruments and collateral to beused for credit operations other than themonetary policy; and

(b)the conditions under which the Central Bankmay enter into transactions for the purposes ofparagraph (a).

32.(1) The Central Bank shall require-

(a) the licensed commercial banks; and

(b) such other financial institutions falling undersuch criteria as may be prescribed by theMonetary Policy Board (in this Act referred toas the relevant financial institutions),

to maintain reserves against their deposit liabilities and suchof their other financial liabilities as the Monetary PolicyBoard may consider necessary and shall, for that purpose,prescribe the classes of deposit liabilities and the categoriesof other financial liabilities against which reserves arerequired to be maintained.

(2)The reserves required to be maintained by a licensedcommercial bank or a relevant financial institution undersubsection (1), shall be proportionate to the volumes of eachclass of its deposit liabilities and each category of its otherfinancial liabilities and shall, subject to subsection (3), takethe form of rupee deposits in the Central Bank.

(3)The Monetary Policy Board may, in the interest ofthe national economy and the banking and financial systemsof Sri Lanka, demand the maintenance of any part of thereserves required to be maintained, in the form of assetsother than rupee deposits in the Central Bank.

33.(1) The Monetary Policy Board shall prescribe thereserve ratios applicable to each class of deposit liabilitiesand each category of other financial liabilities against which

Regulation ofreserves of thefinancialinstitutions

Monetary PolicyBoard toprescribe reserveratios

28Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

reserves are required to be maintained under subsection (1)of section 32 and may, from time to time, vary such ratios asit may consider necessary.

(2)Where any licensed commercial bank or relevantfinancial institution is required to maintain a reserve againstany class of deposit liabilities or any category of otherfinancial liabilities, the Central Bank shall, if so determinedby the Monetary Policy Board, in the interest of the nationaleconomy and the banking and financial systems of thecountry, pay to such licensed commercial bank or relevantfinancial institution, as the case may be, interest at such rateas may be determined by the Monetary Policy Board, on theamount maintained as a reserve or a part thereof.

(3)Where the reserves maintained by any licensedcommercial bank or relevant financial institution are belowthe reserves required to be maintained by such licensedcommercial bank or relevant financial institution, suchlicensed commercial bank or relevant financial institutionshall pay to the Central Bank, an interest on the amount ofthe deficiency at such rate as may be determined by theMonetary Policy Board.

34.Where a licensed commercial bank or a relevantfinancial institution regularly fails to maintain the reservesrequired to be maintained by such licensed commercial bankor relevant financial institution under subsection (1) ofsection 32, the Monetary Policy Board may, in the interestof the national economy, make order

(a)prohibiting or restricting the making of loans orinvestments by such licensed commercial bank orrelevant financial institution;

(b)prohibiting the application of the whole or anyspecified part of the net profits of such licensedcommercial bank or relevant financial institutionfor the purpose of payment of a dividend to itsshareholders.

Consequences ofreservedeficiencies

29Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

35.The Monetary Policy Board may recommend to theGoverning Board to adopt such other methods of monetarycontrol as may be authorized by this Act.

36.(1) In exceptional circumstances, the Central Bankmay, on such terms and conditions as the Governing Boarddetermines, grant liquidity assistance to a financialinstitution, or for its benefit-

(a)under such rate as the Governing Board maydetermine which shall be above the prevailingmarket rate; and

(b)for a period not exceeding a period of ninety-onedays that may be renewed following a decision bythe Central Bank for another period not exceedinga period of ninety-one days.

(2)The Central Bank shall provide such financialassistance on the basis of a programmme specifying theremedial measures:

Provided however, no such commitment shall be madeby the Central Bank unless such financial institution, in theopinion of the Governing Board, is solvent and can provideadequate collateral to support the loan, and the request forfinancial assistance is based on the need to improveliquidity.

(3)The renewal of credit facilities granted undersubsection (1) shall, after the initial ninety-one days, requirea Government guarantee in writing securing their repayment.The maximum renewal period shall be ninety-one days uponwhich the credit operations shall be repaid.

(4)The Governing Board shall determine the type andminimum value of the collateral to be deposited or providedfor to secure credit operations granted or renewed under thissection.

(5)If the Central Bank discovers that the assistedfinancial institution did not implement the remedial

Operationalmethods ofmonetarycontrol

Liquidityassistance tofinancialinstitutions

30Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

measures specified in subsection (2), or that such measuresdid not achieve the results intended, the Central Bank shalltake appropriate measures including the administrativemeasures provided for in section 107.

(6)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in thepreceding provisions of this section, the Central Bank may,if it considers that financial stability issues are at stake andto avoid a disturbance in the financial system, at its owndiscretion and on such terms and conditions as the GoverningBoard determines including the viability of the financialinstitution in the context of a restructuring or resolutionplan, provide liquidity support in exceptional circumstanceto a financial institution for a maximum period of one hundredand eighty days in cases where the Government has, for thesake of public interest, provided to the Central Bank anunconditional and irrevocable guarantee for any lossesincurred by the Central Bank from the loan.

PART VI

FOREIGN EXCHANGE OPERATIONS AND INTERNATIONAL RESERVES

37.(1) The Central Bank may engage in foreignexchange operations by conducting

(a)foreign exchange auctions;

(b)derivative transactions;

(c)direct dealings; or

(d)any other acceptable methods as approved bythe Governing Board.

(2)Foreign exchange operations may be transacted bythe Central Bank only with

(a)licensed commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka;

(b)the Government and agencies or institutionsacting on behalf of the Government, whetherestablished by any written law or otherwise;

Foreignexchangeoperations of theCentral Bank

31Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(c)foreign commercial and investment banks;

(d)foreign central banks;

(e)international financial institutions; and

(f)foreign Governments, foreign provincialgovernments and agencies or institutions actingon behalf of foreign Governments.

38.The Central Bank shall not accept any commissionor impose any charge of any description in respect of thepurchase or sale of foreign exchange, except telegraphic orother costs which are actually incurred in connection withsuch purchase or sale.

39.(1) The Central Bank may grant collateralized loansto, or take loans from, any institution of any descriptionreferred to in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (f) of subsection (2)of section 37 and may engage in such other transactionswith such institutions as are expedient or desirable in thepublic interest and are appropriate having regard to thecharacter of the Central Bank.

(2)Any loan taken as provided in subsection (1) maybe secured by assets held by the Central Bank.

(3)The Central Bank may act as an agent orcorrespondent of a foreign commercial bank or an investmentbank or any institution referred to in paragraphs (b), (d), (e)and (f) of subsection (2) of section 37.

40.(1) The Central Bank shall manage the officialinternational reserves consistent with international bestpractices and the rules made by the Governing Board havingregard to the safety, liquidity and return in that order ofpriority.

Central Bank notto accept anycommission orimpose anycharges inforeignexchangeoperations

Loans to andfrom foreigninstitutions

Management ofinternationalreserves

32Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2)The international reserves of the Central Bank mayinclude the following assets

(a)gold including credit balances representing suchgold;

(b)assets denominated in freely convertible foreigncurrencies in the form of

(i)foreign notes and coins held by or to thecredit of the Central Bank;

(ii)credit balances and interbank deposits thatare payable on demand or within a shortterm held in the accounts of the CentralBank, on the books of foreign central andcommercial banks, or internationalfinancial institutions;

(iii)readily-marketable debt securities issuedby, or supported by foreign governmentsincluding provincial governments,foreign central banks, internationalfinancial institutions and agencies;

(c)either the whole, or such maximum percentage ofthe whole, of the holdings of such drawing rights inthe International Monetary Fund as may bedetermined from time to time by the GoverningBoard; and

(d)any other readily-marketable financial assetsdenominated in freely convertible foreigncurrencies as determined by the Governing Board.

(3)In the event, the Central Bank is satisfied that thereis a decline or a likelihood of decline in the internationalreserves, or such reserves may reach to a level that couldjeopardize the objects of the Central Bank, and that theCentral Bank is unable to remedy such decline by its own

33Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

measures, the Central Bank shall report to the Minister inwriting of such decline including reasons for andrecommendations to remedy such decline.

41.(1) Every licensed commercial bank shall, after theclosure of business at the end of such period as may beprescribed by the Governor of the Central Bank, make areport to the Central Bank setting out the volume andcomposition of its purchases and sales of foreign exchangeduring that period, and shall furnish such additionalinformation as the Central Bank may require with referenceto such purchases and sales and to the movements of itsaccounts in foreign currencies.

(2)The Governor of the Central Bank may require anyother person to make reports to the Central Bank at specifiedtimes or intervals as to all transactions or operations in gold,in any shape or form, and in foreign exchange.

(3) Every report under this section shall be in such formas the Governor of the Central Bank may prescribe for thepurpose.

(4) The Central Bank may make such inspection orexamination of or take custody of any of the books andaccounts kept by any licensed commercial bank or otherperson as it may deem necessary for the purpose of verifyingthe accuracy of any statement set out in any report made bysuch licensed commercial bank or person.

42.(1) The Governing Board may determine the mannerof determination of the maximum amount of the workingbalances which licensed commercial banks may hold inforeign currencies generally or in any specified foreigncurrency or currencies, and may require such banks to sell tothe Central Bank all or any specified part of the surpluses inexcess of such maximum amount.

(2)The Governing Board may, having regard to thespecial needs of any particular licensed commercial bank,permit such bank to hold working balances in any specified

Information onexchangeoperations

Control offoreignexchangeholdings ofcommercialbanks

34Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

foreign currency in excess of the maximum amountdetermined for such currency under subsection (1).

(3)In ascertaining whether the working balances of anylicensed commercial bank in any foreign currency are inexcess of the maximum amount determined under subsection(1), there may be deducted from such balances the netliabilities of that bank in currencies into which the first-mentioned currency is freely convertible.

PART VII

CURRENCY AND LEGAL TENDER

43. The currency of Sri Lanka shall be the Sri Lankarupee. The Sri Lanka rupee shall be divided into one hundredunits each of which shall be called a cent.

44.The Central Bank shall have the sole right andauthority to issue currency in Sri Lanka.

45.(1) No person other than the Central Bank shalldraw, accept, make, or issue any bill of exchange, promissorynote, or engagement for the payment of money payable tobearer on demand, or borrow, owe, or take up any sum orsums of money on the bills or notes payable to bearer ondemand of any such person:

Provided however, cheques or drafts payable to beareron demand may be drawn on licensed commercial banks oragents by their customers or constituents in respect of moneysin the hands of such banks or agents held by them at thedisposal of the person drawing such cheques or drafts.

(2) Every person who contravenes any provision of thissection commits an offence.

46.(1) Any currency notes and coins issued by theCentral Bank shall be liabilities of the Central Bank.

Currency

Issuing power

Prohibitionagainst issue ofnotes by anyperson otherthan the CentralBank

Liability fornotes and coins

35Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2)The currency notes and coins held in custody of theCentral Bank shall not be considered as part of its currencyissue and shall not be taken into account in determining theassets and liabilities of the Central Bank.

47.(1) All currency notes and coins issued by theCentral Bank shall be legal tender in Sri Lanka for thepayment of any amount.

(2)Any transaction executed or liquidated between oramong residents in Sri Lanka shall, unless otherwiseauthorized by the Central Bank for the purposes of the ForeignExchange Act, No. 12 of 2017, be in Sri Lanka rupees.

48.(1) The Central Bank may, with the approval of theMinister and subject to section 49, issue commemorativecurrency notes or coins.

(2) Any commemorative currency notes or coins issuedunder subsection (1) may be sold at a price higher than thedenomination specified in such notes or coins and as maybe determined by the Minister.

(3) The sale of commemorative currency notes or coinsissued under subsection (1) at a price higher than thedenomination specified in such currency notes or coins shallbe deemed not to be a contravention of section 55 or 56.

(4) Numismatic items prepared from currency notes orcoins other than commemorative currency notes or coinsmay be sold at a price higher than the denominationspecified in such notes or coins with the approval of theGoverning Board, and the sale of such items at a price higherthan the denomination specified in such currency notes orcoins shall be deemed not to be a contravention of section55 or 56.

49.(1) The Central Bank shall, with the approval of theMinister, prescribe the denominations, dimensions, designs,inscriptions, and other characteristics of currency notes andcoins issued by the Central Bank.

Currency to bethe legal tender

Issue ofcommemorativecurrency notesor coins

Characteristicsof currency

36Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2)Every currency note shall bear the signatures infacsimile of the Minister and of the Governor of the CentralBank and shall be stated on the face thereof to be issued onbehalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.

50.The Central Bank shall have the authority to enterinto contracts with any other person in Sri Lanka or abroadfor the printing of currency notes and the minting of coins.

51.Upon a request made and subject to such conditionsas may be specified by rules, the Central Bank shallexchange, without charge or commission, currency notesand coins issued by the Central Bank.

52.The Central Bank shall withdraw from circulationand shall cancel all currency notes and coins which for anyreason whatsoever are unfit for circulation, and shall, as soonas practicable and subject to such rules as may be made inthat behalf by the Governing Board, replace them by thedelivery in exchange of fit currency notes and coins.

53.(1) The Governing Board may, in its discretion, bynotice published in the Gazette call in for the replacementof currency notes or coins of any issue or denomination.

(2)Any currency notes and coins called in forreplacement in accordance with this section shall remainlegal tender for such period not exceeding one year from thedate of call as may be specified by the Governing Board andshall thereafter cease to be legal tender.

(3)The Governing Board may determine a period notless than one year within which the Central Bank or anyagent authorized by the Governing Board for the purpose,shall, upon surrender of any currency notes or coins so calledin for replacement, replace such currency notes or coins, atpar and without charge, by the delivery in exchange of fitcurrency notes or coins.

Contracts forprinting of notesand minting ofcoins

Exchange ofcurrency

Replacement ofcurrency unfitfor circulation

Redemption ofcurrency

37Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(4)All currency notes and coins called in forreplacement and not surrendered as provided in subsection(3) shall cease to be a liability of the Central Bank and thebearer of any such notes or coins shall not be entitled to anycompensation.

54.The Central Bank shall create and administer acurrency stock in order to ensure the availability of a regularsupply of currency notes and coins.

55.Any person who without the authority of theGoverning Board

(a)cuts, perforates, or in any other way whatsoevermutilates any currency note;

(b)prints, stamps, or draws anything upon any currencynote, or affixes any seal or stamp to or upon anycurrency note;

(c)attaches or affixes to or upon any currency noteanything in the nature or form of an advertisement;

(d)reproduces in any form whatsoever, or makes afacsimile of, any currency note; or

(e)uses otherwise as a legal tender, any currency note,

commits an offence.

56.(1) Any person who, without the authority of theGoverning Board, melts, breaks up, perforates, mutilates oruses otherwise than as legal tender, any coin which is legaltender in Sri Lanka commits an offence.

(2)Any person who knowingly uses, possesses or dealswith any metal or article which he knows or has reasonablecause to believe, is derived from any coin which has beendealt with in contravention of subsection (1), commits anoffence.

Currency stock

Mutilation ordefacement ofcurrency notes

Use of currencycoin otherwisethan as legaltender

38Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

57.(1) Where, in any proceedings in any court, it has tobe determined whether a document purporting to be acurrency note is an imitation of a currency note, a certificateunder the hand of the Governor of the Central Bank to theeffect that such document is an imitation of a currency noteand is not a currency note issued or deemed to be issued bythe Central Bank shall be received in such proceedings asconclusive evidence of the fact that such document is animitation of a currency note.

(2) The Governor of the Central Bank who issues acertificate under this section shall not be examined or cross-examined with respect to that certificate.

(3) Every certificate issued under this section shall be ina form as may be determined by the Governing Board.

58.(1) Where, in any proceedings in any court, it has tobe determined whether an article purporting to be a coin ora current coin is an imitation of such coin or current coin, acertificate under the hand of the Governor of the CentralBank to the effect that such article is an imitation of a coinor a current coin, as the case may be, and is not a coin or acurrent coin issued or deemed to be issued by the CentralBank, shall be received in such proceedings as conclusiveevidence of the fact that such article is an imitation of a coinor a current coin.

(2) The Governor of the Central Bank who issues acertificate under this section shall not be examined or cross-examined with respect to that certificate.

(3) Every certificate issued under this section shall be ina form as may be determined by the Governing Board.

(4) In this section, the expression current coin shallhave the same meaning as in the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

Conclusiveevidence ofimitation of acoin or currentcoin

Conclusiveevidence ofimitation of acurrency note

39Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

PART VIII

PAYMENT AND SETTLEMENT SYSTEMS

59.(1) The Central Bank may establish and operate oneor more systems

(a)for the transfer of funds by and between the CentralBank, licensed commercial banks and such otherinstitutions or persons that maintain a settlementaccount with the Central Bank and who are admittedas participants to such system by the Central Bank;

(b)for the transfer and settlement of scripless securitiesby and between the Central Bank and directparticipants;

(c)for the settlement of payment obligations in respectof transfer and settlement of scripless securitiesunder paragraph (b); and

(d)for the maintenance of a depository for the recordingof title to scripless securities of the Central Bank,of direct participants, and in the case of dealer directparticipants, of their customers. The Central Bankmay make such rules as it may consider necessaryin relation to the depository.

(2) A system established under subsection (1) may belinked to another system in Sri Lanka or elsewhere for theclearing or settlement of payment obligations or securities,and the Central Bank may enter into agreements with theoperators of any of such systems.

(3) (a) The Central Bank shall provide facilities forclearance transactions among licensed commercial banksoperating in Sri Lanka or any other financial institutions asmay be approved by the Governing Board.

Establishment ofsystems fortransfer of fundsand transfer andsettlement ofscriplesssecurities

40Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(b) The reserves maintained by licensed commercialbanks in the Central Bank or the funds maintained in theCentral Bank by any financial institution as may be approvedby the Governing Board shall serve as a basis for theclearance of cheques and the settlement of balances amongsuch banks and financial institutions in accordance withsuch rules as may be made in that behalf by the CentralBank.

(4) The Central Bank may enter into agreements withthe participants of a system established under subsection (1)and issue in writing to the participants of the system, rulesfor the operation of the system.

(5) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (4),such rules may provide

(a)for the provision of intra-day credit against thecollateral of securities to the participants and theconditions attaching to the provision of such credit;

(b)for the appointment of the Central Bank as acertification authority for the purpose of issuingcertificates to participants under any law applicableto the appointment of certification authorities inrespect of electronic signatures;

(c)for the formulation and adoption of a code ofconduct for participants;

(d)for the authentication of transactions carried outelectronically;

(e)for the Central Bank, if it considers necessary in theinterest of the system, to cease or suspend theoperation of the system, or to withdraw or suspendthe privileges or rights of any participant orcategory of participants or to suspend or revoke themembership in the system of a participant;

41Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(f)for the appointment of auditors or inspectors forthe auditing or inspection of the operating systemsof participants in respect of the settlement system;and

(g)for the payment of charges and fees to the CentralBank by the participants.

(6) A payment or transfer made through a systemestablished under subsection (1), is final and irrevocable

(a)in the case of a transaction involving funds transferonly, upon the settlement account of the participantrequesting the funds transfer being debited;

(b)in the case of a transaction involving a securitiestransfer only, upon the securities account of theparticipant requesting the securities transfer beingdebited; or

(c)in the case of a transaction involving both a fundstransfer and a securities transfer, upon debiting thesettlement account or the securities account of aparticipant requesting the funds transfer or thesecurities transfer as the case may be, whicheveroccurs earlier,

and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, such payment or transfer shall not be required tobe reversed, repaid or set aside, and subject to the provisionsof Articles 126 and 140 of the Constitution, no court shallorder such payment or transfer to be rectified or stayed.

(7) (a) Any scripless securities issued under this Act orthe Local Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417) or theRegistered Stock and Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420)shall be transferred, pledged, encumbered, lent, borrowed ortransacted in only as provided by or under the rules madeunder this Act or regulations made under the Local TreasuryBills Ordinance or the Registered Stock and SecuritiesOrdinance, as the case may be.

42Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(b) A transfer, pledge, encumbrance, loan, borrowingor transaction effected under paragraph (a) shall be validand effectual notwithstanding anything in any other writtenlaw, and the claim of a participant of the system on anyscripless securities posted as collateral in accordance withthose rules or regulations as may be applicable shall havepriority over the claims on such scripless securities of a personwho is not a participant of the system.

(8) Nothing in subsections (5) and (6) shall affect anyother legal right or remedy available to a person who hassuffered any loss or damage by a payment, transfer orsettlement effected through a system established undersubsection (1).

(9) Notwithstanding the provisions of any written lawrelating to the winding up of companies, if proceedings forthe winding up of a participant of a system havecommenced

(a)the Central Bank may do anything permitted orrequired by the rules of the system in order to netobligations incurred on or before the day on whichthe proceedings commenced;

(b)the obligations that are netted under the rules ofthe system shall be disregarded in the proceedings;and

(c)the netting made by the Central Bank and anypayment made by the participant under the rules ofthe system shall not be voidable in the proceedings.

(10) If proceedings for the winding up of a participant iscommenced and a payment or settlement owed by suchparticipant has been made as referred to in subsection (6) or(9), and if a payment or settlement of such funds or securitieswould have been void or voidable under any other writtenlaw if made outside the system, the liquidator of suchparticipant may recover from the person to whose benefit

43Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

such payment or settlement was made such amount as wouldhave been recoverable, if such payment or settlement hadbeen made outside the system.

(11) Where any transaction effected through a systemestablished under subsection (1) is carried out electronically,such transaction shall not be denied legal effect, validity orenforceability solely on the ground that such transaction iscarried out electronically or that the information relating tosuch transaction is maintained in the form of an electronicrecord, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, such record may be tendered in evidencein proceedings before any court or tribunal.

(12) Any or all of the functions referred to in subsection(1) or (2) may be carried out by a body corporate authorizedfor the purpose by the Governing Board, subject to suchterms and conditions as may be imposed by the GoverningBoard.

(13) The Central Bank shall provide facilities

(a)for financial institutions other than licensedcommercial banks, as may be approved by theGoverning Board, to maintain accounts at theCentral Bank for the purpose of settlingsecurities transactions; and

(b) for financial institutions other than licensedcommercial banks, as may be approved by theGoverning Board to maintain accounts at theCentral Bank for the purpose of holding scriplesssecurities or clearing and settling transactionsin scripless securities among direct participants.

(14) (a) Any or all of the functions referred to in paragraph(d) of subsection (1), paragraph (a) of subsection (3) andsubsection (13) may be carried out by a body corporateauthorized for the purpose by the Governing Board, subjectto such terms and conditions as may be imposed by theGoverning Board.

44Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(b) The body corporate referred to in paragraph (a) maymaintain an account with the Central Bank for the purposeof carrying out such functions.

60.(1) The Central Bank shall be responsible for theregulation, licensing, registration and oversight of payment,clearing and settlement systems as further specified in thePayment and Settlement Systems Act, No. 28 of 2005 or anyother written law relating to regulation, licensing, registrationand oversight of payment, clearing and settlement systems.

(2) The Central Bank may, by rules

(a)require the registration or licensing of anypayment, clearing and settlement system or theoperator of such system;

(b)require any payment, clearing and settlementsystem or the operator of such system to observesuch conditions and requirements as may beprescribed by the Central Bank; and

(c)regulate and oversee the issuance of paymentinstruments.

(3) Any employee of the Central Bank or any otherqualified person nominated by the Central Bank, mayconduct periodic examinations over payment, clearing andsettlement systems and the participants of such systems, toexamine such accounts, books, documents and other records,or to obtain such information or records of such systems andparticipants or to take such other action as the Central Bankmay direct.

(4) The payment, clearing and settlement systems, andtheir operators and participants, shall furnish the CentralBank with such information and records as the Central Bankmay require.

(5) The Central Bank may disclose information and dataobtained under subsection (3) or (4) in whole or in part inaccordance with section 79.

Licensing andoversight

45Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

PART IX

SUPERVISION AND RESOLUTION OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

61. (1) The Central Bank shall be exclusively responsiblefor the regulation, licensing, registration and supervision offinancial institutions. Such responsibility shall include theimposition of administrative measures within the meaningof section 107.

(2) Any employee of the Central Bank or any otherqualified person authorized by the Central Bank shallexamine the books and accounts of financial institutions, atleast once in each examination period, and shall make suchfurther examinations in respect of any financial institution,whenever required so to do by the Governor of the CentralBank.

(3) A report on the results of each examination under thissection shall be furnished to the Governing Board.

(4) Any person authorized by the Central Bank may

(a)administer oaths or affirmations, in accordancewith the Oaths and Affirmations Ordinance(Chapter 17), to any director, officer, or employeeof any financial institution;

(b)require any director, officer, or employee tofurnish such information as such person mayconsider necessary for the purpose of ascertainingthe true condition of the affairs of any suchfinancial institution; or

(c)require any director, officer, or employee toproduce for inspection any book, record, or otherdocument in his possession containing or likelyto contain any information.

Supervisoryauthority of theCentral Bank

46Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(5) It shall be the duty of every director, officer oremployee of any financial institution to afford to the CentralBank or to any person authorized by the Central Bank anopportunity to examine books and records and its cash, assets,liabilities and general condition, whenever so requested bythe Central Bank.

(6) The Central Bank may, for the purpose of thecontinuous supervision of financial institutions

(a)require any such financial institution, to furnishfrom time to time and within such period as maybe specified, such statement and informationrelating to the business or affairs of such financialinstitution, as it may consider necessary to obtainfor the purpose of ascertaining the true conditionof the affairs of such financial institution;

(b)require the auditor of any such financialinstitution, to furnish to it within such period asmay be specified, any information in relation toan audit carried out by such auditor of suchfinancial institution, as it may consider necessaryto obtain for the purpose referred to in paragraph(a); and

(c)examine the books and accounts kept by anysuch financial institution as it may deemnecessary for the purpose of verifying theaccuracy of any statement or information sofurnished.

(7) Any employee of the Central Bank or any otherqualified person authorized by the Central Bank shallexamine the books and accounts of any subsidiary or agencyof any financial institution including the overseas operationsof such financial institution, if directions in that behalf aregiven by the Central Bank.

(8) The Central Bank may exchange information and dataobtained under subsection (4) or (6), in whole or in part or

47Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

aggregate form, from the classes of financial institutionsdetermined in accordance with the nature of their business,with competent authorities in or outside Sri Lanka that areentrusted with

(a)the supervision of other financial institutions;

(b)the supervision of financial markets;

(c)maintaining the stability of the financial systemthrough the use of macroprudential policy; and

(d)the reorganization or resolution of financialinstitutions,

and may enter into an agreement with any of such authoritiesfor determining the procedure for the exchange ofinformation and data and specifying their respective rolesand duties.

(9) The Central Bank may disclose information and dataobtained under subsection (4) or (6), in whole or in part oraggregate form, from the classes of financial institutionsdetermined in accordance with the nature of their businessin accordance with section 79.

(10) In this section-

examination period means a period of such durationas may be specified for the purpose by theCentral Bank; and

qualified person means a person who possesses anacademic or professional qualification andextensive knowledge and experience in thefield of Banking, Finance, Accounting,Auditing, Law, Risk Management or any othersimilar field.

48Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

62.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, the Central Bank shall be the authorityresponsible for the resolution of financial institutions:

Provided however, where the resolution involves publicfunds, such resolution decisions shall be taken inconsultation with the Minister subject to the applicable laws.

(2) The Central Bank may enter into agreements withforeign supervisors and resolution authorities for theexchange of information and cooperation in resolutionplanning and in the implementation of resolution measures.

(3) The Central Bank shall carry out resolution planningand implement resolution measures on financial institutionsin accordance with the provisions of this Act and otherapplicable laws.

PART X

MACROPRUDENTIAL AUTHORITY

63.(1) The Central Bank shall be the macroprudentialauthority in Sri Lanka.

(2) The Central Bank shall develop and periodicallyupdate the overall approach to the use of macroprudentialtools, and publish such approaches with a view to informingthe public of the role of the Central Bank in macroprudentialpolicy.

(3) In order to achieve the financial stability, the CentralBank shall pursue the following intermediatemacroprudential objectives:-

(a)to maintain the resilience of the financial system,in a manner that supports the provision of financialservices even under adverse economic and financialconditions;

Resolutionauthority of theCentral Bank

Macroprudentialobjectives of theCentral Bank

49Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(b)to contain risks from unsustainable increases incredit and leverage; and

(c)to contain risks from interconnectedness within thefinancial system and control the risk of failure ofindividual systemically important institutions.

(4) (a) Without prejudice to the provisions of sections 5and 6, the Central Bank shall, on the request of the Minister,provide the Minister with information regarding the exercise,performance and discharge of the powers, duties andfunctions of the Central Bank.

(b) Any specific information relating to supervised oroverseen entities may be provided only for the purpose ofthe Governments functions with respect to financialstability, including crisis prevention and crisis management.

(c) Notwithstanding the confidentiality requirementsspecified in this Act, the supply of such information shall besubject to such limitations as the Central Bank may deemappropriate to preserve confidentiality.

(5) In the achievement of financial stability undersubsection (3), the Central Bank shall consider the interestsof depositors.

64.(1) The Central Bank, as the macroprudentialauthority may-

(a)monitor, identify or assess the build-up of risks andvulnerabilities in the financial system;

(b)request, collect, compile, analyze or publish data,information and statistics in order to achieve themacroprudential objectives;

(c)conduct stress testing and simulation exercises;

Macroprudentialpowers of theCentral Bank

50Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(d)designate systemically important financial sectorparticipants under section 68;

(e)adopt and apply the macroprudential instrumentsindicated in section 66 to financial institutionsregulated and supervised by the Central Bank;

(f)adopt and apply enhanced macroprudentialoversight to systemically important financial sectorparticipants;

(g)identify gaps in regulation that could pose systemicrisks;

(h)formulate strategies and policies to mitigate oraddress identified systemic risks;

(i)monitor domestic and international financialregulatory developments and advise on legislativeor regulatory measures that will enhance financialstability;

(j)develop and propose prudential standards to beapplied by relevant financial sector authorities inrespect of financial sector participants regulatedand supervised by such authorities;

(k)facilitate information sharing and cooperationamong relevant financial sector authorities; and

(l)propose to the Financial System OversightCommittee the recommendations to be issued topublic or financial sector authorities.

(2) The Governing Board shall meet at least quarterly forthe purpose of deciding any matter in relation tomacroprudential authority under this section.

51Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(3) The Central Bank shall, without prejudice to itsautonomy, communicate to the Financial System OversightCommittee, such information as may be necessary for theexercise, performance and discharge of powers, duties andfunctions under this section.

65.(1) The Central Bank shall monitor, analyse, andassess

(a)vulnerabilities of the financial sector, including therisks arising from the developments in the financialsector;

(b)risks to the financial system, including those arisingfrom financial developments in the household andnon-financial corporate sectors;

(c)risks to the financial system arising from the broadereconomic context, in or outside Sri Lanka; and

(d)any risk to the financial system stability, the natureand extent of such risk, including any riskcontemplated in any matter raised by members ofthe Financial System Oversight Committee orreported by a financial sector authority in terms ofthis Act or communicated by a public authority.

(2) The Central Bank shall determine the methodologyand indicators to be used in the assessment of systemic risks,at an early stage.

66.(1) In order to mitigate or eliminate identifiedsystemic risks, the Central Bank shall issue qualitativeand quantitative macroprudential instruments, whichinclude

(a)countercyclical capital buffers;

(b)capital conservation buffer;

Monitoring,analysis andassessment ofrisks

Macroprudentialinstruments

52Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(c)dynamic provisioning;

(d)caps on leverage ratios;

(e)caps on interest rates and credit growth;

(f)sectoral capital requirements;

(g)caps on loan-to-value ratios;

(h)caps on debt-service-to income ratio;

(i)caps on loan-to-income and debt-to-income ratios;

(j)exposure caps;

(k)liquidity tools;

(l)capital surcharges;

(m)liquidity surcharges;

(n)control of inter-linkages in funding or derivativesmarkets; and

(o)margin deposit requirements.

(2) The Central Bank may apply macroprudentialinstruments in respect of any financial sector participant orclass of such financial sector participants regulated andsupervised by the Central Bank.

67.(1) The Central Bank may exercise the followingpowers upon financial institutions:-

(a)to directly collect relevant data or information;

(b)to apply a macroprudential instrument accordingto section 66;

Powers of theCentral Bankupon financialinstitutions

53Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(c)to conduct on-site inspections to verify data andinformation collected under paragraph (a), andverify compliance with the rules made under thisAct; and

(d)to enforce such rules by applying the administrativemeasures indicated in section 107 of this Act toany financial sector participant that is notcompliant, and ordering a financial sectorparticipant to take, or refrain from taking, actionsthat are necessary to restore compliance.

(2) The Central Bank shall have the power to collectrelevant data or information directly from any person orinstitution in order to achieve its macroprudential objectives.

68. (1) The Central Bank shall prescribe the criteriathat are used to designate a financial sector participant assystemically important.

(2) Nothing provided for in subsection (1) shall beconstrued so as to entitle any financial sector participantdesignated as systemically important to claim any form ofguarantee or credit or other support from any publicauthority.

69.The Central Bank shall, if it considers necessary toprevent or mitigate a systemic risk with powers other thanmacroprudential instruments as provided for in subsection(1) of section 66, or if such risk is likely to be arising fromthe behaviour of any class of financial sector participantsoutside of the Central Banks regulatory or supervisoryauthority, propose to the Financial System OversightCommittee, recommendations to be issued to relevantpublic authorities or to financial sector authorities, undersection 75.

Central Bank toproposerecommendationsto the FinancialSystemOversightCommittee

Designation ofsystemicallyimportantfinancial sectorparticipants

54Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

70.(1) The Central Bank shall prepare and publish anassessment of the stability of the financial system (in thisAct referred to as the Financial Stability Review) on orbefore the thirty-first day in the month of October of eachyear.

(2) The Financial Stability Review shall include -

(a)the Central Banks assessment of financial systemstability;

(b)the identification of, and assessment of, the risksand vulnerabilities of the financial system;

(c) an overview of measures taken by the Central Bankand the other financial sector authorities to identifyand manage risks, vulnerabilities or disturbancesin the financial system; and

(d)an overview of recommendations made by theFinancial System Oversight Committee during theperiod under review and the progress made inimplementing the recommendations.

PART XI

FINANCIAL SYSTEM OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

71.(1) There shall be a Financial System OversightCommittee.

(2) The objective of the Financial System OversightCommittee shall be to contribute to secure the stability ofthe financial system in line with the macroprudential policy.

72.The Financial System Oversight Committee shall-

(a)examine the macroprudential policy to mitigateidentified building-up of systemic risks affectingthe financial system;

FinancialStability Review

Establishment ofthe FinancialSystemOversightCommittee

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe FinancialSystemOversightCommittee

55Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(b)coordinate the implementation of macroprudentialpolicy;

(c) upon a proposal of the Central Bank under section69, issue recommendations to relevant publicauthorities and financial sector authorities oncorrective action in response to the risk identifiedand, making those recommendations public, if itdeems necessary; and

(d)monitor compliance with its recommendations.

73. (1) The Financial System Oversight Committee shallconsist of

(a)the Governor of the Central Bank, who shall be theChairperson;

(b)the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank in chargeof macroprudential policy;

(c)the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank in chargeof regulation and supervision;

(d)a Deputy Secretary to the Treasury nominated bythe Secretary to the Treasury;

(e)the Chief Executive Officer of the InsuranceRegulatory Commission of Sri Lanka;

(f)the Chief Executive Officer of the Securities andExchange Commission of Sri Lanka; and

(g)another person who may be appointed by theGoverning Board.

(2) The Financial System Oversight Committee may inviterepresentatives from any other public authority to themeetings of the Committee to express their opinions.

Composition ofthe FinancialSystemOversightCommittee

56Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(3) The Secretary to the Financial System OversightCommittee who shall be an employee of the Central Bankshall be nominated by the Governor of the Central Bank.

(4) The quorum for a meeting of the Financial SystemOversight Committee shall be four voting members,including the members referred to in paragraph (a), and (b)or (c) of subsection (1).

(5) Every voting member of the Financial SystemOversight Committee shall have one vote and in the case ofan equality of votes, the Chairperson shall be entitled to asecond or casting vote.

(6) The Financial System Oversight Committee shall, inthe case of paragraph (c) of section 72, vote by ordinaryresolution.

(7) A meeting of the Financial System OversightCommittee shall be convened at least quarterly. Anyextraordinary meeting may be convened by the Chairperson,at his discretion or at the written request of at least twovoting members.

(8) The Financial System Oversight Committee may makerules regarding the procedures to be followed at its meetings.

(9) The Secretary to the Financial System OversightCommittee shall keep the minutes of each meeting of theFinancial System Oversight Committee at least for a periodof twelve years.

74.The Central Bank shall establish a Secretariat of theFinancial System Oversight Committee, which shall beresponsible for high-quality analytical, statistical,administrative, logistical and financial support to theFinancial System Oversight Committee, under the directionof the Chairperson of the Financial System OversightCommittee.

Secretariat of theFinancial SystemOversightCommittee

57Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

75.(1) Any recommendation under paragraph (c) ofsection 72 may be of either general or specific nature andmay be addressed to all or one or more public authorities,according to the mandate of the authority receiving therecommendation.

(2) The recommendation shall include a specifiedtimeline for the policy response.

(3) The recommendation may be addressed to financialsector authorities in order to request the adoption of specificactions by exercising its regulatory, supervisory,enforcement, or resolution powers, according to the mandateof the authority receiving the recommendation.

(4) The recommendation shall be deemed to be fullyimplemented when the authority receiving it adopts all theactions within the timeline specified in the recommendation.

(5) (a) Where the receiving authority does not intend tofully implement the recommendation, it shall communicatethe reasons therefor to the Secretariat of the Financial SystemOversight Committee.

(b) Where the receiving authority implements only apart of the recommendation within the specified timeline, itshall communicate the reasons for not implementing therest of the recommendation to the Secretariat of the FinancialSystem Oversight Committee.

(6) Where the Financial System Oversight Committeedecides not to implement the recommendation in full, itshall make public such decision.

(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (6),where a recommendation is issued on a financial sectorparticipant designated as systemically important, theFinancial System Oversight Committee shall be convenedimmediately and shall determine whether to re-issue therecommendation subject to a detailed explanation. If anyrecommendation is re-issued and if it is not fully

Recommendationsto publicauthorities andfinancial sectorauthorities

58Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

implemented by the financial sector participant, theFinancial System Oversight Committee shall publish thedecision taken.

(8) (a) The Financial System Oversight Committee shall,in appropriate circumstances, decide whether arecommendation shall be published.

(b) If the Financial System Oversight Committee decidesto make a recommendation public, it shall inform thereceiving authority in advance.

(c) The authority receiving a recommendation that hasbeen made public by the Financial System OversightCommittee may make its views and reasoning public inresponse thereto.

PART XII

INFORMATION EXCHANGE WITH FINANCIAL SECTOR AUTHORITIES

76.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, the financial sector authorities shallcooperate with the Central Bank regarding itsmacroprudential authority and shall provide the CentralBank with all the data and information necessary in theexercise of its macroprudential authority.

(2) Upon a request for data or information or statisticsmade by the Central Bank under this Part, a financial sectorauthority shall provide the Central Bank with any such data,information or statistics in its possession within a periodspecified in such request or within a reasonable period.

77.(1) For the implementation of the provisions of thisPart of this Act, the Central Bank shall, as soon as practicable,enter into an agreement with each financial sector authority,for determining the procedure for such implementation andspecifying their respective roles and duties.

(2) The agreement shall, as a minimum, include provisionson-

Informationexchange withregard tomacroprudentialissues

Agreement

59Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(a)collection and sharing of information; and

(b)notification and consultation onmacroprudential policy measures to be taken byfinancial sector authorities.

(3) The Central Bank may, for the implementation of theprovisions of this Part of this Act, enter into an agreementwith any public authority.

(4) The agreement entered into under subsection (1) maybe reviewed and updated as appropriate, at least once inevery three years.

PART XIII

STATISTICS AND INFORMATION

78.The Central Bank, in order to achieve its objectsand for the effective exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under this Act or any otherwritten law, may-

(a)request, collect, compile, analyze, abstract andpublish relevant statistics and information;

(b) prescribe the statistical information so required andthe form in which such information is to be providedto the Central Bank, the persons subject to reportingrequirements, the applicable confidentiality regimeand the administrative measures that may beimposed in case of breach of such requirements;and

(c) coordinate with bi-lateral and multilateral agenciesin the adoption of internationally acceptedstatistical methodologies and data disseminationstandards with a view to achieving consistency andefficiency in the organization of statistics andinformation.

Collection ofstatistics andinformation

60Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

79.The Central Bank may publish statistics,information and the methodology applied in the compilationof statistics and information, subject to the provisions ofsection 119.

PART XIV

RELATIONSHIP WITH THE PARLIAMENT, THE GOVERNMENT AND THE PUBLIC

80.(1) The Central Bank shall, once in every six monthsand at such additional times as it deems necessary, informthe public regarding the implementation of its monetarypolicy, and the achievement of its objects.

(2) (a) The Governor of the Central Bank, the membersof the Governing Board and the Monetary Policy Board andevery Deputy Governor of the Central Bank shall, at therequest of the Parliament, be heard by the Parliament or anyof its committees once in every four months, regarding thefunctions of the Central Bank.

(b) The Governor of the Central Bank, the members ofthe Governing Board and the Monetary Policy Board andevery Deputy Governor of the Central Bank may, on theirown initiative, seek an opportunity to apprise functions ofthe Central Bank or to submit any document or report of theCentral Bank to Parliament.

(3) The Governor of the Central Bank shall ensure thatthe Central Bank shall, within a period of four months afterthe close of each financial year, publish, and lay beforeParliament through the Minister, a report approved by theGoverning Board, on the state of the economy during suchfinancial year emphasizing its policy objectives and thecondition of the financial system. The report shall include areview and an assessment of the policies of the Central Bankfollowed during such financial year.

81.(1) The Central Bank shall act as the financial advisorto the Government.

Dissemination ofstatistics andinformation

Accountability

Financialadvisor, fiscalagent of, andbanker to, theGovernment

61Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2) The Central Bank may, on such terms and conditionsas it shall agree with the Government, act as fiscal agent ofthe Government to the extent provided for by or under anywritten law and banker to the Government.

(3) In the discharge of its functions as the fiscal agent of,and banker to the Government, the Central Bank may engagethe services of banks or other institutions in places, whetherin or outside Sri Lanka, where the Central Bank does nothave offices or agencies adequately equipped to performsuch functions.

(4) The Central Bank shall, on request of the Government,provide the Government with data on funds received by theCentral Bank, acting as the fiscal agent of the Government.

(5) The Government shall, on request of the Central Bank,provide the Central Bank with such information anddocuments as the Central Bank may request for the purposeof coordinating the functions of the Central Bank with thefiscal policy of the Government.

(6) The Central Bank may represent the Government ofSri Lanka in any dealing, negotiation, or transaction withthe International Monetary Fund, the International Bank forReconstruction and Development or any other internationalfinancial institution of which Sri Lanka is a member, andshall maintain such accounts as may result from Sri Lankasmembership in, or operations with, such InternationalMonetary Fund, International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment or such other international financialinstitution. The Central Bank may be authorized by theGovernment to represent it in any dealing, negotiation, ortransaction with foreign Governments, institutions, oragencies.

(7) The Central Bank may operate a registry for securitiesissued by the Government.

82.(1) The Central Bank shall be the official depository,and may accept deposits in any currency from, or on behalfof the Government:

Depository forthe Government

62Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

Provided however, the Central Bank may authorize oneor more licensed commercial banks operating in Sri Lankato accept Government deposits, subject to such rules as theGoverning Board may prescribe.

(2) As the depository, the Central Bank shall receive anddisburse moneys, keep records thereof, and provide otherfinancial services related thereto to the Government.

(3) The Central Bank shall not pay any interest on anydeposit held by the Government in Sri Lankan rupees.

83.(1) There shall be a Council for the Coordination ofFiscal, Monetary and Financial Stability Policies of theCentral Bank, (in this Act referred to as the CoordinationCouncil) consisting of the following members:

(a)the Governor of the Central Bank, who shall bethe Chairperson;

(b) the Secretary to the Treasury; and

(c)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Economic Policy, in theevent that such subject is assigned to a Ministerother than the Minister of Finance.

(2) The Coordination Council shall hold its meetingsquarterly to share information and exchange views on recentmacroeconomic developments, outlook, and risks.

(3) The Chairperson of the Coordination Council shallcall for an emergency meeting to share information andexchange views on any event or circumstance that poses asignificant risk to financial stability, or that is expected tohave a substantial adverse effect on economic activity, inSri Lanka, with contagion effects among financial sectorparticipants.

(4) The Central Bank shall place before the CoordinationCouncil

CoordinationCouncil

63Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(a)the data relevant for the purpose ofsubsection (2); and

(b)the assessment of the Central Bank regardingthe impact of economic policies of theGovernment on inflation, monetary conditionsand fiscal operations.

(5) For the avoidance of doubts, the Coordination Councilshall have no authority to make decisions over the fiscal,monetary and financial stability policies.

84.(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of sections5 and 6, the Central Bank shall-

(a)cooperate with the Government and any otherpublic authority; and

(b)exchange views with the Government and any otherpublic authority on policies relating to monetary,foreign exchange operations, financial systemstability, crisis prevention and crisis managementand fiscal matters.

(2) The Central Bank and the Minister shall keep eachother fully informed of all matters that affect the functionsof the Central Bank and the Ministry.

(3) The Central Bank may advise the Government on anymatter which, in its opinion, is likely to affect theachievement of the objects of the Central Bank under thisAct.

85. Without prejudice to the provisions of sections 5and 6, the Central Bank may, in order to achieve its objectsand in the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions under this Act, cooperate with domesticor foreign regulatory, supervisory or monetary authorities,or with public international financial institutions, with aview to sharing information, coordinating activities, orarranging any other form of cooperation as it may deemnecessary.

Inter-institutionalcooperation

Cooperationwith theGovernment

64Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

86. (1) The Central Bank shall not, directly or indirectly,grant credits to the Government or any public authorityowned by the Government or to any other public entity.

(2) The Central Bank shall not incur any cost on behalf ofthe Government, except for expenses related to the functionsof the Central Bank under subsection (3) of section 113 ofthis Act.

(3) The prohibition laid down in subsection (1) shall notapply to such Government-owned or publicly-owned banksand other financial institutions as may be determined by theGoverning Board.

(4) The Central Bank shall not purchase securities issuedby the Government, any Government-owned entity, or anyother public entity in the primary market. The Central Bankmay purchase such securities in the secondary marketprovided that such purchases do not circumvent theprohibition laid down in subsection (1).

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1)and (4), upon a Proclamation being made under the PublicSecurity Ordinance (Chapter 40) in the interests of the PublicSecurity and the preservation of public order, or a globalhealth emergency that substantially and materially disruptsor constraints access by the Government to market funding,the Central Bank may purchase Treasury Bills in the primarymarket, where-

(a)the Central Bank, in consultation with the Ministerand subject to its monetary policy objectives underthis Act, recommends the amount and terms of suchTreasury Bills to be purchased under this subsection;

(b)Parliament approves every each recommendation;and

(c)upon the approval of Parliament, the Central Bankpublishes in the Gazette the reasons for and, theamount and terms of such purchase of Treasury Bills:

Prohibition onmonetaryfinancing

65Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

Provided, however, the total amount of thepurchase of Treasury Bills under this subsection shall-

(i)not exceed five per centum of the limit of theTreasury Bills approved by Parliament,applicable for the respective financial year;

(ii)be at prevailing market interest rates;

(iii)be on a temporary basis for a period notexceeding six month;

(iv)be repaid immediately upon maturity, in cashonly;

(v)be of maturities not exceeding six months;and

(vi)not be rolled over or renewed.

PART XV

CREDIT OPERATIONS

87.(1) The Central Bank may, as the agent of theGovernment-

(a)disburse and recover any loan or advance;

(b)issue guarantees, pay indemnity payments,recover any post claim recoveries and write offany unrecoverable balance; or

(c)disburse grants and interest subsidy,

out of the funds of the Government with a view toimplementing refinance loan schemes and interest subsidyloan schemes under such terms and conditions as may bedetermined by the Government.

(2) Any loan or advance granted to such institution shallbe made against a promissory note or such other security asmay be determined by the Government subject to thefollowing conditions:-

(a)that the loan or advance is repayable within suchperiod not exceeding fifteen years as may bedetermined by the Government;

Creditoperations withcreditinstitutions

66Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(b)that the repayment to the Central Bank of the loanor advance is secured by the assignment to theCentral Bank, by way of pledge, of debts owed tosuch institution by its borrowers in respect of suchpurpose; and

(c)such other conditions including the rate of intereston such loan or advance, as determined by theGovernment.

(3) The Central Bank may, in consultation with theMinister, prescribe the terms and conditions subject to whichloans or advances will be made available to credit institutionsout of the funds provided by the Government, for thepurposes for which their loans in general are destined, orrelating to any other matters affecting or connected with thecredit policy of such institutions.

(4) An assignment of debts to the Central Bank under thisPart of this Act shall be effected by an instrument whichshall be in such form as may be determined by the GoverningBoard.

(5) The Central Bank shall, on the execution of anassignment, have a first charge on the debts so assigned.

(6) The provisions of this Part of this Act shall have effectnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherprovision of this Act.

88.No stamp duty shall be chargeable or payable on orin respect of any instrument of assignment of debt by way ofpledge to the Central Bank under this Part of this Act.

89.No instrument of assignment to the Central Bankunder this Part of this Act shall require registration under theRegistration of Documents Ordinance (Chapter 117).

90.No assignment shall require execution before alicensed notary public and witnesses as provided for bysection 2 of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance(Chapter 70).

91.In this Part of this Act

assignment means an assignment by way ofpledge; and

Stamp duty

Registration ofinstrument ofassignment

Applicability ofthe Preventionof FraudsOrdinance

Interpretation

67Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

credit institution means any bank licensed underthe Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988.

PART XVI

FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

92.The financial reporting framework, and accountingpolicies and procedures shall be in line with theinternationally recognized financial reporting frameworkas approved by the Governing Board.

93.The financial year of the Central Bank shall be thecalendar year.

94.(1) The Central Bank shall establish and maintain ageneral reserve account.

(2) The general reserve account shall not be used for anyother purposes, except for the purposes of transferring toretained earnings if it becomes negative.

(3) The Central Bank shall establish special reserveaccounts to record unrealized gains and losses arising fromexchange rates and unrealized gains arising from marketprice revaluation due to its positions in foreign currencies,gold, financial instruments, and other financial assetsrecorded in the income statement in line with theinternationally recognized financial reporting frameworkas approved by the Governing Board, prior to distributionof profits.

95.(1) Before the expiration of forty-five days after theend of each financial year, the Central Bank shall determineits net profits or losses, and distributable earnings.

(2) (a) The earnings available for distribution shall bedetermined by deducting from the net profits after tax thetotal amount of unrealized revaluation gains arising fromprice revaluations and unrealized revaluation gains andlosses arising from exchange rates, and by allocating anequivalent amount to the respective unrealized revaluationreserve accounts.

Financial year

Accountingstandards

Reserveaccounts

Profits, lossesand distributableearnings

68Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(b) Unrealized revaluation losses arising from exchangerates shall be transferred to the respective unrealizedrevaluation reserve account until such revaluation reserveaccount has a zero balance, after which the losses shall becovered by the retained earnings.

96. (1) Before the expiration of sixty days after the endof each financial year, the Governing Board shall, based onthe income statement, statement of financial position,statement of cash flows and statement of changes in equityof such financial year, allocate the distributable earnings inaccordance with the following provisions:

(a)Firstly - the Central Bank may establish specialreserves for such purposes as the Governing Boardmay deem fit;

(b)Secondly - an amount equivalent to hundredpercent of distributable earnings remaining afterallocation to special reserves pursuant to theprevious provision shall be credited to the generalreserve account until the sum of the paid-up capitaland general reserve is at least six per centum of thetotal monetary liabilities of the Central Bank; and

(c)Thirdly - any remaining distributable earnings aftercompliance with the preceding provisions shall, asdetermined by the Governing Board in consultationwith the Minister, either be applied in liquidationof any outstanding Government obligations to theCentral Bank due as at the end of the financial yearor be paid and credited to the Consolidated Fund.

(2) No distribution shall be made except as provided forin subsection (1).

97.In the event, the audited annual financial statementsof the Central Bank reflect that the value of its assets fallsbelow the sum of its monetary liabilities and its paid-upcapital-

Coverage ofshortfall incapital

Allocation ofdistributableearnings

69Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(a)the Central Bank shall, within a period notexceeding thirty days, assess the situation andprepare a report on the causes and extent of theshortfall and assess the situation;

(b)in the event that the Governing Board approves thereport prepared under paragraph (a), the CentralBank shall request the Minister for a capitalcontribution to be made by the Government toremedy the deficit with a view to restoring thecapital to an unimpaired level; and

(c)the Minister may, upon the request made underparagraph (b), seek the approval of the Parliamentto transfer to the Central Bank the necessary amountin currency or in negotiable debt instruments witha specified maturity issued at prevailing market-related interest rates.

98.The Central Bank shall publish a general balancesheet showing the volume and composition of its assets andliabilities as at the last day of each month before the last dayof the succeeding month.

99.(1) The Central Bank shall prepare financialstatements for a financial year.

(2) Within four months after the close of each financialyear, the Central Bank shall submit to the Minister, financialstatements approved by the Governing Board, signed by theGovernor of the Central Bank and the Chief Accountant andaudited by the Auditor-General.

(3) The financial statements shall be laid before Parliamentwithin fourteen days after the receipt thereof by the Minister,if Parliament is then in session, or, if Parliament is not insession, within fourteen days after the commencement ofthe next ensuing session.

(4) Upon completion of the requirements undersubsection (2), the Central Bank shall publish the financialstatements.

Balance sheet ofthe Central Bank

Annual financialstatements

70Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

100.(1) Prior to the commencement of each financialyear, the Governing Board shall approve the annual budgetof the Central Bank.

(2) All revenue and income projected to be generated bythe Central Bank or granted to the Central Bank from anysource together with projected expenditures, includingdepreciation and provisions for losses, shall be included inthe annual budget.

(3) The Governing Board shall make rules for theimplementation of the annual budget.

PART XVII

INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDITS

101.(1) The accounts of the Central Bank shall beaudited by the Auditor-General.

(2) The Auditor-General or any officer of the NationalAudit Office established under the National Audit Act,No. 19 of 2018, authorized in that behalf by the Auditor-General, or any other auditor appointed by the Auditor-General shall at all times have the right of access to andexamination of the accounts of the Central Bank and of allbooks and documents containing information with respectto matters connected with such accounts.

(3) The Auditor-General shall report to the Governor ofthe Central Bank on main concerns arising from the auditand in particular on material weaknesses in internal controlsrelating to the financial reporting process.

(4) The Auditor-General shall submit an opinion on theaccounts of the Central Bank to the Minister who shall laysuch opinion before the Parliament. The opinion of theAuditor-General shall be published together with the annualaudited financial statements of the Central Bank.

102.(1) A Chief Internal Auditor of the Central Bank(in this Act referred to as the Chief Internal Auditor) shallbe appointed by the Governing Board.

Budget

Auditing of theaccounts of theCentral Bank

Appointment ofChief InternalAuditor

71Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2) The Chief Internal Auditor shall be a person withsubstantive professional qualifications and experience inthe field of Accounting or Audit.

(3) The Chief Internal Auditor shall be appointed for aterm of five years and shall be eligible for reappointment forsuch period as may be determined by the Governing Board:

Provided however, no person shall serve as the ChiefInternal Auditor for more than ten years.

(4) The Chief Internal Auditor shall be removed by adecision of the Governing Board if the Governing Board issatisfied that such Chief Internal Auditor is subject to anydisqualification referred to in paragraphs (a) to (m), exceptparagraph (i) of subsection (2) of section 17.

(5) The Governing Board shall define the scope, termsand conditions of the Internal Audit in the Audit Charter ofthe Central Bank in line with international professionalpractices framework.

(6) The Chief Internal Auditor or an officer of the InternalAudit Department authorized in that regard shall, in theexercise, performance and discharge of his powers, dutiesand functions under this Act or as may be specificallydirected by the Governing Board, be entitled to have accessto, take into custody or obtain copies of any document,information or record of any activity or transactionundertaken by the Central Bank including any document,information or record provided to or obtained by the CentralBank from any external party or entity, and unless otherwisedecided by the Governing Board, it shall be the duty of allofficers and employees of the Central Bank to comply withthe requirements communicated by the Chief InternalAuditor or a person authorized in that behalf.

(7) The internal audit reports of the Central Bank shallnot be shared with any person other than the Auditor-Generalor a person authorized by the Governing Board.

72Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

103.(1) There shall be an Audit Committee of theCentral Bank (in this Act referred to as the AuditCommittee) consisting of such number of members of theGoverning Board appointed pursuant to paragraph (b) ofsubsection (2) of section 8 as may be nominated by theGoverning Board.

(2) (a) In the absence of at least one member of theGoverning Board with extensive experience in the field ofAccounting or Auditing, an expert with extensive experiencein such field shall be appointed by the Governing Board asan additional member of the Audit Committee.

(b) The expert shall not have been a member of theGoverning Board or an employee of the Central Bank duringthe period of three years immediately preceding the date ofhis appointment as a member of the Audit Committee.

(3) An expert appointed under paragraph (a) of subsection(2) shall be removed by a decision of the Governing Board ifthe Governing Board is satisfied that such expert is subjectto any of the disqualifications referred to in subsection (2)of section 17.

(4) The powers, duties and functions of the AuditCommittee shall include-

(a)overseeing the internal audit function;

(b)monitoring compliance with the findings andrecommendations issued by the Chief InternalAuditor;

(c)meeting with the auditors to discuss their findings;and

(d)reviewing with the auditors the annual financialstatements.

(5) The Audit Committee shall, once in four months reportto the Governing Board.

(6) Subject to subsection (2), the Governing Board shalldefine the composition, and powers, duties and functions ofthe Audit Committee in the Audit Charter of the CentralBank.

AuditCommittee

73Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

PART XVIII

GENERAL PROVISIONS

104.The Central Bank shall, without prejudice to theprovisions of section 6, support the general economic policyframework of the Government as provided for in any lawwith a view to encouraging and promoting the developmentof the productive resources of Sri Lanka.

105.(1) The Central Bank shall have the power to makesuch rules or issue such directions as it may consider necessaryfor exercising, performing and discharging the powers, dutiesand functions entrusted to the Central Bank by or under thisAct or any other written law.

(2) A rule made by the Central Bank shall have generalapplication. It shall be binding in its entirety and directlyapplicable.

(3) A direction issued by the Central Bank shall bebinding on the addressee only.

106.(1) Every rule or order made by the Central Bankunder this Act shall be published in the Gazette and shall,except any rule or order specified in subsection (2), comeinto force on the date of such publication or on such laterdate as such rule or order shall specify.

(2) Upon the publication under subsection (1), every ruleor order, the contravention of, or failure to comply withwhich, entails criminal sanction shall, within three monthsfrom the date of publication, be placed before Parliament forapproval. Such rule or order shall come into force on thedate on which such rule or order is approved by Parliament.

(3) The Central Bank shall maintain a public register ofits published rules and directions.

Duty of theCentral Bank tosupport theeconomic policyof theGovernment

Regulatoryinstruments

Publication ofrules anddirections

74Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

107.(1) The Central Bank may take administrativemeasures on any person who contravenes any of theprovisions of this Act or any rule, direction or decision madeor issued thereunder.

(2) The Central Bank shall, before taking anyadministrative measures against a person, afford such personan adequate opportunity to be heard providing all materialfacts pertaining to the contravention referred to insubsection (1).

(3) (a) The Central Bank shall make rules specifying theprocedure to be followed in respect of the imposition ofadministrative measures.

(b) In the case of administrative fines, the amount ofadministrative fines shall be prescribed by the GoverningBoard.

(c) Every rule made under this subsection shall beplaced before Parliament for approval.

(d) Every rule made under this subsection shall comeinto force on the date on which such rule is approved byParliament.

(4) In determining whether to impose administrativemeasures, and the extent of such measures, the Central Bankshall take into consideration-

(a)the severity of the contravention and whether suchcontravention is recurring;

(b)whether any loss or damage is caused to thedepositors or any other person due to suchcontravention;

Administrativemeasures

75Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(c)whether the person against whom a penalty is to beimposed is unduly benefitted from suchcontravention;

(d) the financial resources of such person;

(e) any mitigating factors; and

(f)such other matters as it considers to be relevant.

(5) Notwithstanding anything in any written or other law,no person shall be liable or subject to any action orproceedings in any court in respect of any loss or damagesuffered or incurred or alleged to have been suffered orincurred by any other person by reason of any act or thingdone or omitted to be done by such person in carrying out orcomplying with any provision of this Act or any rule, orderor direction made or issued under this Act.

(6) For the purpose of this section, administrativemeasures includes administrative fines, written warnings ororders, suspension and dismissal of administrators of financialinstitutions, revocation of licences and other measures, asspecified in this Act.

108.(1) Where an employee of the Central Bank or aqualified person authorized by the Central Bank is satisfied,after examination by himself or any examiner of the affairsof any banking institution, or upon information receivedfrom the banking institution, that the banking institution isinsolvent or is likely to become unable to meet the demandsof its depositors, or that its continuance in business is likelyto involve loss to its depositors or creditors, the employee ofthe Central Bank or the qualified person authorized by theCentral Bank shall make a report accordingly to the Governorof the Central Bank for submission to the Central Bank.

Power of theCentral Bank tosuspend orrestrict businessof a bankinginstitution

76Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2) Where the Central Bank, upon review of the facts andcircumstances, is of opinion that action should be taken ashereinafter provided, the Central Bank may make Orderdirecting the banking institution forthwith to suspendbusiness in Sri Lanka and directing an employee of theCentral Bank or a qualified person authorized by the CentralBank to take charge of all books, records and assets of thebanking institution and to take such measures as may benecessary to prevent the continuance of business by thebanking institution.

(3) Subject to the provisions of Articles 126 and 140 ofthe Constitution, no action or proceeding may be institutedin any court for the purpose of securing the review orrevocation of any Order made under subsection (2) or inrespect of any loss or damage incurred, or likely to be oralleged to be incurred, by reason of such Order.

(4) An Order made by the Central Bank under subsection(2) in respect of any banking institution shall cease to haveeffect upon the expiration of a period of six months from thedate on which it is made, and it shall be the duty of theCentral Bank, as soon as practicable and in any event beforeexpiration of the said period

(a)to make Order permitting the banking institutionto resume business, either unconditionally orsubject to such conditions as the Central Bank mayconsider necessary in the public interest or in theinterest of the depositors and other creditors of thebanking institution;

(b)to cause an employee of the Central Bank or aqualified person authorized by the Central Bank tomake an application to the competent court undersuch written law as may be applicable in that behalffor the winding up of the banking institution; or

77Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(c)to cause an employee of the Central Bank or aqualified person authorized by the Central Bank tomake an application to the competent court, to windup the affairs of a branch of the banking institution,incorporated outside Sri Lanka.

(5) Where an order has been made by the Central Bankunder subsection (4) permitting the resumption of businessby any banking institution subject to such conditions asmay be specified in the Order, the competent court may, onan application made to it in that behalf by the bankinginstitution at any time while the Order is in force, make anorder permitting the banking institution to resume businessunconditionally, or varying or altering, in such manner asthe court may determine, any or all of the conditionsspecified by the Central Bank, and any such order shallhave effect notwithstanding anything in the Order made bythe Central Bank under subsection (4).

(6) The employee of the Central Bank or the qualifiedperson authorized by the Central Bank shall be namedrespondent to any such application and shall be entitled onbehalf of the Central Bank to be heard and to adduceevidence at the hearing thereof.

(7) Where an application is made by an employee of theCentral Bank or a qualified person authorized by the CentralBank as provided for in subsection (4) for the winding up ofany banking institution-

(a)the banking institution shall not carry on businessduring the pendency of the application unless it isauthorized so to do by the court and except inaccordance with such conditions, if any, as may bespecified by the court; and

(b)the court, if it is of opinion after such inquiry as itmay consider necessary, that the banking

78Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

institution is not insolvent, may make an orderpermitting the banking institution to resumebusiness either unconditionally or subject to suchconditions as the court may consider necessary inthe public interest or in the interest of the depositorsand other creditors of the banking institution.

(8) Every order made by a competent court under thissection shall be subject to an appeal to the Court of Appealand the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code relating toappeals in civil actions shall mutatis mutandis apply in thecase of any such appeal:

Provided however, an order under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (7) shall be final and shall not be subject to appeal.

(9) Every application to a competent court under thissection shall be deemed to be an action of the value of fivethousand rupees.

(10) In this section

competent court, in relation to any bankinginstitution, means the High Court establishedby Article 154P of the Constitution andexercising civil jurisdiction under the HighCourt of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act,No. 10 of 1996.

(11) Where the business of a banking institution has beensuspended under subsection (2), the Central Bank may

(a)require such banking institution to forthwith takeany action or to do any act or thing which theCentral Bank may consider necessary for carryingon the business of such banking institution;

(b)appoint a fit and proper person to advise suchbanking institution with regard to the properconduct of the business of such banking institution;

79Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(c)assume control of, and carry on the business of suchbanking institution or delegate to another person,the carrying on of the business of the bankinginstitution;

(d)reorganize such banking institution by increasingits capital and arranging for new shareholders andby the reconstitution of its board of directors; and

(e)make such arrangements as are necessary for theamalgamation of such banking institution with anyother banking institution that consents to suchamalgamation.

(12) (a) Where an Order has been made by the CentralBank under subsection (1) of section 76M of the BankingAct, No. 30 of 1988 in respect of a licensed specialised bank,the provisions of subsections (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10) and(11) of this section shall, notwithstanding subsections (3)and (4) of section 76M of the Banking Act and subject toparagraph (ii) of this subsection, mutatis mutandis, apply tosuch bank as if it were a banking institution.

(b) Where the application of the provisions of subsection(4) of this section requires -

(i)the winding up of a licensed specialised bank, theCentral Bank shall cancel the licence issued to suchbank under Part IXA of the Banking Act and theprovisions of Part VIII of that Act shall apply tosuch winding up as if it were a compulsory windingup of the bank, in the case of a bank incorporated orestablished within Sri Lanka or a compulsorywinding up of the affairs or closure of the businessof the bank, in the case of a bank incorporatedoutside Sri Lanka; or

(ii)the resumption of business of a licensed specializedbank, the Central Bank may exercise the powersconferred on it under section 76N of the BankingAct;

80Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(c) In this subsection licensed specialised bank shallhave the same meaning as in the Banking Act, No. 30 of1988.

109.The Central Bank shall promote and sponsor thetraining of technical personnel on the subjects which arerelevant to the operations of the Central Bank, and for thatpurpose, the Central Bank is hereby authorized to defray thecosts of study, in Sri Lanka or abroad, of employees of theCentral Bank who are of proven merit, or of any otherqualified persons selected by the Central Bank.

110.(1) Any person who contravenes or fails to complywith any provision of this Act commits an offence under thisAct.

(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply withany provision of any rule or order made under this Act, thecontravention of, or failure to comply with which entailscriminal sanction, commits an offence under this Act.

(3) Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody corporate, then every person who at the time of thecommission of the offence was a director or an officer ofsuch body corporate shall be deemed to have committedthat offence unless such person proves that the offence wascommitted without such persons knowledge, or that suchperson exercised all due diligence to prevent the commissionof such offence.

111. Any person who commits an offence under this Actshall, on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty-five million rupeesor to imprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding three years, or to both such fine and imprisonment.

112. The Governing Board may, having regard to thecircumstances in which an offence under this Act wascommitted, compound such offence for a sum of money notexceeding one half of the maximum fine specified underthis Act for such offence.

Compoundingoffences

Penalty

Training

Offences underthis Act

81Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

113. (1) The Central Bank may collect fees or chargesfor the services which it renders in the exercise, performanceand discharge of the powers, duties and functions under thisAct.

(2) The Central Bank shall publish such fees or chargesin its official website.

(3) The Central Bank shall be reimbursed at market ratesfor any expenditure incurred by it at the request of or onbehalf of the Government, for rendering any service otherthan those specifically provided for in this Act.

114.(1) Except as otherwise specifically authorized bythis Act or any other written law, the Central Bank shall not-

(a)grant any credit, except as authorized under thisAct or make any monetary or financial gain;

(b)engage in trade or otherwise have a direct interestin any commercial, industrial, or other undertakingexcept where such interest is acquired in satisfactionof any of its claims:

Provided however, all such interest shall bedisposed of at the earliest possible opportunity;

(c)purchase the shares of any other bank or financialinstitution or of any company, or grant loans oradvances upon the security of any such shares;

(d)grant loans or advances on the mortgage of, orotherwise on the security of, immovable propertyor documents of title relating thereto; or

(e)acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise any rightin or to real property, except as it may considernecessary or expedient for the provision of premisesfor the conduct of its administration and operationsor such other requirements incidental to thedischarging of its functions.

Fees and charges

Prohibitedactivities

82Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theCentral Bank may-

(a)make adequately secured loans to, or have anownership share or otherwise participate in, anyorganization that is engaged in activities that arerequired for the proper discharge of the functionsof the Central Bank and including an ownershipshare or otherwise participate in any companywhich, in the opinion of the Governing Board, wasformed for the advancement and promotion ofhuman resources and technological developmentin the banking and financial sector in Sri Lanka, orto provide for all or any of the facilities;

(b)grant loans to any employee of the Central Bank,in accordance with rules made by the GoverningBoard;

(c)establish employee retirement funds or similararrangements for the benefit or protection of theemployees of the Central Bank and theirdependents and nominees, and manage such fundsor arrangements; and

(d)lease out any property that is not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the Central Bank.

(3) Any activity referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection(2) shall be published by the Central Bank in the reportreferred to in subsection (3) of section 80.

115.Subject to the provisions of subsection (6) ofsection 119, the provisions of this Act shall have effectnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other writtenlaw and accordingly, in the event of any inconsistency orconflict between the provisions of this Act and such otherwritten law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

Provisions ofthis Act toprevail overother written law

83Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

116.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law

(a)the Central Bank shall be exempt from the paymentof income tax;

(b)all goods of any description imported or purchasedout of bond by the Central Bank shall be exemptfrom customs duty; and

(c)the Central Bank shall be exempt from the paymentof stamp duty on any instrument executed by, or onbehalf of, or in favour of the Central Bank in caseswhere, but for this exemption, the Central Bankwould be liable to pay the duty chargeable in respectof such instrument.

117.(1) The Central Bank shall have the first priorityand an unconditional preferential right against all otherclaims to satisfy each of its claims arising from the dischargeof its functions from any cash balances, securities and otherassets that it holds for the account of the debtor concerned,whether as collateral to secure its claims or otherwise, at thetime such claim becomes due and payable.

(2) The Central Bank may exercise its preferential rightonly by appropriating the cash balances by way ofcompensation and by selling securities and other assetswithout undue delay in a commercially reasonable mannerand paying itself from the proceeds of the sale after deductingtherefrom the costs associated with the sale.

(3) No action from any court of law or from any publicentity shall be required for the Central Bank to exercise itspreferential right under subsection (2), and no other claimshall be permitted to delay the exercise by the Central Bankof its preferential right in accordance with subsection (2).

Tax exemption

Preferential right

84Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

118. (1) No attachment or execution shall be issuedagainst the Central Bank or its property, including gold,special drawing rights, currency, credits, deposits orsecurities, and any proceeds thereof, before the issuance of afinal judgment by any court of law established in Sri Lanka.

(2) The Central Bank may, at its discretion, waive theprotection either in whole or in part, explicitly and in writing,except with respect to its gold and the special drawing rights.

119. (1) No person who serves or has served as theGovernor of the Central Bank, any other member of theGoverning Board and Monetary Policy Board, a member ofthe Financial System Oversight Committee, or an employeeof the Central Bank or in any other capacity under theauthority of the Central Bank shall, except in the exercise,performance and discharge of such persons powers, dutiesand functions under this Act or any other written law, permitaccess to, disclose or publicize any non-public informationwhich he has obtained in the performance of his duties oruse such information, or allow such information to be used,for personal gain.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), anyperson referred to in that subsection may disclose non-publicinformation outside the Central Bank, in accordance withprocedures established by the Governing Board, if suchdisclosure-

(a)is made in accordance with the written consent ofthe natural or legal person to whom suchinformation relates;

(b) is made as required by a court of law or to complywith any other provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law for the time being in force;

Immunity fromprejudgmentattachment

Confidentiality

85Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(c)is made to the external auditors of the Central Bankto such extent as is necessary to conduct the auditof the Central Bank;

(d)is made to provide information to domestic orforeign regulatory, supervisory, or monetaryauthorities, or to public international financialinstitutions, in the exercise of their duties in relationto the Central Bank; or

(e)is required in the interests of the Central Bank inany legal proceedings.

(3) The Governing Board shall be entitled to determinethe classification and accessibility of information held byor drawn up by the Central Bank.

(4) Where, in any legal proceedings, a certified copy ofany book or document of the Central Bank or of any entry insuch book or document is produced, such certified copyshall be received as prima facie evidence of the existence ofsuch book, document or entry, as the case may be, and shallbe admitted as evidence of the matters, transactions oraccounts therein recorded in every case where, and to thesame extent as, the original book, document or entry is nowby law admissible, but not further or otherwise.

(5) In this Section, certified copy in relation to anybook, document or entry, means a copy of such book,document or entry, together with a certificate written at thefoot of such copy-

(a)that it is a true copy of such book, document orentry;

(b)that such book or document is still in the custodyof the Central Bank; and

86Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(c)that such entry is contained in one of the ordinarybooks of the Central Bank, and was made in theusual and ordinary course of business,

and such certificate being dated and subscribed with thename and official title of such officer as may be authorizedfor the purpose by the Governor of the Central Bank.

(6) The provisions of the Right to Information Act, No.12 of 2016 shall have effect notwithstanding anything tothe contrary in this Act, and accordingly in the event of anyinconsistency or conflict between the provisions of the Rightto Information Act and this Act, the provisions of the Rightto Information Act shall prevail in relation to any informationof the Central Bank.

120.No civil or criminal proceedings shall be institutedagainst the Governor of the Central Bank, members of theGoverning Board and Monetary Policy Board, anyemployee of the Central Bank, or a person who previouslyheld such a position, for any act which in good faith is doneor purported to be done by him under this Act pursuant toand in the course of the exercise, performance and dischargeof the powers, duties and functions on behalf of the CentralBank, if he proves that he acted in good faith and exercisedall due diligence, reasonable care and skill.

121.(1) The Governor of the Central Bank, othermembers of the Governing Board and Monetary Policy Board,employees of the Central Bank, every person who has beena member of any of such Board or an employee of the CentralBank shall be indemnified by the Central Bank for all lossesand expenses incurred by him after appointed date in orabout the exercise, performance and discharge of his powers,duties and functions under this Act, other than such lossesand expenses as the Governing Board may deem to havebeen constituted due to his misconduct or willful default.

Protection fromaction

Indemnificationfor costs in legalproceedings

87Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), every person whohas the benefit of such indemnity shall be entitled to seeklegal advice or obtain legal representation in respect of anyinquiry or investigation conducted by any statutory authorityor any legal proceedings instituted against such person. TheCentral Bank shall pay such cost as may be reasonablyincurred in respect of such inquiry or investigation orproceedings, as and when such cost is incurred:

Provided however, where it is held that a person is notentitled to be indemnified by the Central Bank due tomisconduct or willful default on the part of such person, heshall be forthwith required to reimburse the Central bank ondemand, the total cost so incurred by the Central Bank. Theamount so demanded shall constitute a debt due from suchperson to the Central Bank until reimbursed.

122.The Governor of the Central Bank, other membersof the Governing Board and Monetary Policy Board andthe employees of the Central Bank shall be deemed to bepublic servants within the meaning and for the purpose ofthe Penal Code (Chapter 19).

123.The Central Bank shall be deemed to be aScheduled Institution within the meaning of the BriberyAct (Chapter 26) and the provisions of that Act shall beconstrued accordingly.

124. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

banking institution means

(a)any commercial bank;

(b)any agency or institution acting on behalfof the Government (whether establishedby any written law or otherwise) whichmakes loans, advances or investments oraccepts deposits of money from the public;or

Interpretation

Members andemployeesdeemed to bepublic servants

Central Bankdeemed to be aScheduledInstitution.

88Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(c)any other person or body of personsdeclared by the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance, by Order published inthe Gazette, to be a banking institution forthe purposes of this Act;

commemorative currency note or coin means acurrency note or coin issued to commemorateany person or special event;

currency means all currency issued and incirculation in accordance with the provisionsof this Act;

dealer direct participant and direct participantshall have the respective meanings assignedto them in the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance(Chapter 417) and the Registered Stock andSecurities Ordinance (Chapter 420);

deposit liabilities means all those liabilities of alicensed commercial bank, being demanddeposits, special deposits, savings deposits,time deposits, placements made by anyinstitution other than a licensed commercialbank in the inter-bank call money market,margins against letter of credit and specialdeposit schemes including pension funds,childrens deposit schemes and other schemesof a similar nature, and funds held in trust oron behalf of its constituents consequent todeposits, but does not include inter-commercial bank deposits;

financial institution means -

(a)any licensed commercial bank within themeaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of1988;

89Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(b)any licensed specialized bank within themeaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of1988;

(c)any licensed finance company within themeaning of the Finance Business Act, No.42 of 2011;

(d)any registered finance leasingestablishment within the meaning of theFinance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000;

(e)any money broker within the meaning ofthe Money Brokering Regulations issuedor deemed to have been issued under thisAct;

(f)any primary dealer within the meaning ofthe Registered Stock and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420) or the LocalTreasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417);

(g)any authorized or restricted dealer withinthe meaning of the Foreign Exchange Act,No. 12 of 2017; or

(h)any other financial institution as may beassigned to the Central Bank by anywritten law for the time being in force,

regulated and supervised by the Central Bank;

financial market means an organized institutionalstructure or mechanism for creating and exchangingfinancial assets;

financial market infrastructure includes a multilateralsystem among participating institutions, includingthe operator of the system, used for the purposes ofclearing, settling or recording payments, securities,derivatives or other financial transactions;

90Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

financial sector authority means any authorityestablished by law for the regulation or supervisionof a financial sector participant;

financial sector participant means

(a)any licensed commercial bank within themeaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

(b)any licensed specialized bank within themeaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

(c)any licensed finance company within themeaning of the Finance Business Act, No. 42of 2011;

(d)any registered finance leasing establishmentwithin the meaning of Finance Leasing Act,No. 56 of 2000;

(e)any money broker within the meaning of theMoney Brokering Regulations made ordeemed to have made under this Act;

(f)any primary dealer within the meaning of theRegistered Stock and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420) or the Local Treasury BillsOrdinance (Chapter 417);

(g)any authorized or restricted dealer within themeaning of the Foreign Exchange Act,No. 12 of 2017;

(h)any insurance company within the meaningof the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act,No. 43 of 2000;

(i)any insurance broker or loss adjuster withinthe meaning of the Regulation of InsuranceIndustry Act, No. 43 of 2000;

91Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(j)any institutional agent within the meaningof the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act,No. 43 of 2000;

(k)any stock exchange within the meaning ofthe Securities and Exchange Commission ofSri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;

(l)any stock broker or stock dealer within themeaning of the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;

(m)any managing company operating a unit trustwithin the meaning of the Securities andExchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act,No. 19 of 2021;

(n)any person who carries on business as a marketintermediary within the meaning of theSecurities and Exchange Commission ofSri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021; or

(o)any other financial institution as may beassigned to the Central Bank by any writtenlaw for the time being in force;

financial system means a network of financialinstitutions and markets dealing in a variety offinancial instruments that are engaged in moneytransmission and lending and borrowing of fundsthrough financial market infrastructure;

Government means the Government of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

Insurance Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka meansthe Insurance Regulatory Commission of Sri Lankaestablished under the Regulation of InsuranceIndustry Act, No. 43 of 2000;

92Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

Minister means Minister assigned the subject ofFinance;

monetary liabilities means the reserve money includingcurrency in circulation, deposits held by licensedcommercial banks and government agencies in theCentral Bank and such other liabilities as may bedetermined by the Central Bank from time to time,having regard to all types of liabilities available atthe Central Bank and the analytical use of themonetary base;

money supply means all currency, demand deposits,time and savings deposits and such other financialassets as may be prescribed by the Central Bankfrom time to time and are owned by persons otherthan the Government, (commercial) banks and suchfinancial institutions or categories of financialinstitutions as may be prescribed by the CentralBank;

note means a currency note issued by the Central Bank,including a currency note issued or deemed to beissued by the Board of Commissioners under theCurrency Ordinance, No. 21 of 1941;

other financial liabilities in relation to a financialinstitution, means liabilities (other than depositliabilities) incurred by such financial institutionby the acceptance of money in any form from thepublic, in the course of its business, by the issue ofbills of exchange, promissory notes, bonds,certificates, notes, commercial papers or any othersimilar instrument by means of which money israised from the public;

person includes any officer of any department of theGovernment and any body of persons, corporate orunincorporate, whether established or constitutedby or under any written law or otherwise;

93Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

prescribed means prescribed by rules;

public authority or public entity includes a Ministry,Department, Provincial Ministry, ProvincialDepartment, local authority, public corporation anda company in which the Government or a publiccorporation or a local authority holds fifty percentum or more of the shares of that company;

public corporation means any corporation, board orother body which is or was established by or underany written law other than the Companies Act, No.07 of 2007, with funds or capital wholly or partlyprovided by the Government, by way of grant, loanor otherwise;

public international financial institution includes theAsian Development Bank, International Bank forReconstruction and Development, and theInternational Monetary Fund;

resident means -

(a)a citizen of Sri Lanka residing in Sri Lanka;

(b)an individual who has been in Sri Lanka for aperiod not less than one hundred and eighty-three days in aggregate in any twelve monthsperiod;

(c)a company incorporated in Sri Lanka or abody corporate established by or under anywritten law, or any firm, partnership or otherorganization in Sri Lanka; or

(d)a branch, subsidiary, affiliate, extension,office or any other unit of a company or otherlegal person established by or under thelaw of any foreign country and operating inSri Lanka;

94Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

scripless securities means securities issued in scriplessform;

Secretary to the Treasury means the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance;

securities includes

(a)treasury bills issued in accordance with theprovisions of the Local Treasury BillsOrdinance (Chapter 417), whether issued inscripless form or otherwise;

(b)registered stock or securities issued inaccordance with the provisions of theRegistered Stock and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420), whether issued in scriplessform or otherwise; and

(c)any security of the Central Bank, whetherissued in scripless form or otherwise, exceptfor the purpose of paragraph (a) of subsection(5) of section 59;

securities account means an account maintained by aparticipant with the Central Bank;

Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lankameans the Securities and Exchange Commission ofSri Lanka established under the Securities andExchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of2021;

settlement account means an account maintained by aparticipant with the Central Bank under this Actand used for the purposes of the system with theapproval of the Central Bank; and

95Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

special deposits means all those deposit liabilities of acommercial bank arising out of monies depositedin any special account.

PART XIX

REPEALS AND SAVINGS

125.The Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422) is herebyrepealed.

126.(1) The Governor of the Central Bank appointedunder the provisions of the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422)and holding office on the day immediately prior to theappointed date shall be deemed to be and continue to be theGovernor of the Central Bank under this Act, and shallcontinue to serve in such office until the expiration of theterm of his office.

(2) The members of the Monetary Board appointed underthe provisions of the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422), exceptthe Secretary to the Treasury appointed under that Act andholding office on the day immediately prior to the appointeddate shall be deemed to be the members of the GoverningBoard under this Act, and shall continue to be members ofthe Governing Board under this Act until the expiration ofthe term of their respective offices.

(3) The persons who continue to be the Governor of theCentral Bank or the members of the Governing Board interms of the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall beeligible for reappointment to any office under this Act:

Provided however, any such person shall not servefor a term exceeding twelve years including the period suchperson served as the Governor of the Central Bank or anappointed member, under the provisions of the MonetaryLaw Act (Chapter 422).

Repeal of theMonetary LawAct (Chapter422)

Continuation ofterms of office

96Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

127.(1) Notwithstanding the prohibition in section 86of this Act, the Central Bank may make new directprovisional advances to the Government to financeexpenditures authorized to be incurred out of theConsolidated Fund within the first month of the financialyear:

Provided however, every such new advance shall berepaid within a period of not exceeding six months and thetotal amount of such advances outstanding shall not exceedten per centum of the revenue of the first four months of thepreceding financial year as reported in the half yearly reportpublished by the Ministry of the Minister under the FiscalManagement (Responsibility) Act, No. 3 of 2003 for therelevant period.

(2) Such new advances shall bear interest at prevailingmarket-related rates as determined by the Central Bank.

(3) Such new advances shall not be made to refinance theoutstanding credit of the Central Bank to the Governmenton the appointed date.

(4) The provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3) of thissection shall be effective until such time provisions are madeby law for the Government to finance its immediate fiscalrequirements.

128.Notwithstanding the prohibition in subsection (4)of section 86, the Central Bank may purchase securities issuedby the Government in the primary market, bearing interestat prevailing market-related rates, within a period of eighteenmonths from the appointed date:

Provided however, such securities shall mature or beredeemed within a period of one year from the appointeddate and the total amount of such securities purchased shallnot exceed one-tenth of the limit of the Treasury Billsapproved by Parliament.

Central Bank topurchasesecurities issuedby theGovernment

Provisionaladvances

97Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

129.(1) Notwithstanding the prohibition in subsections(1) and (4) of section 86, any outstanding credit of the CentralBank to the Government and any holding of securitiespurchased on the primary market as at the appointed datemay be maintained.

(2) The Central Bank shall, in consultation with theMinister, convert any outstanding credit of the Central Bankto the Government and any outstanding securities purchasedon the primary market as at the appointed date, over a periodof one year immediately succeeding such date, intonegotiable debt instruments with a specified maturity periodon which the Central Bank shall, as much as possible, sellsuch debt instruments under its monetary policy.

130.Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 96 and97, if from the appointed date the latest audited financialstatements of the Central Bank prior to the appointed datereflect that the values of its assets are below the sum of itsmonetary liabilities and paid-up capital, and in accordancewith the Governments financial position, it is unable totransfer to the Central Bank the necessary amount in currencyor in negotiable debt instruments pursuant to section 97, theCentral Bank shall not be required to pay and credit anyremaining distributable earnings pursuant to paragraph (c)of subsection (1) of section 96 to the Consolidated Fund,but such distributable earnings shall instead be applied torestore its capital to an unimpaired level:

Provided however, if the capital of the Central Bank is orcontinues to be impaired after a period of six years from theappointed date, the provisions of section 97 shall beapplicable.

131.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)of subsection (1) of section 114, any outstanding creditgranted to credit institutions pursuant to section 88A of theMonetary Law Act (Chapter 422) and any credit guaranteegiven under section 108 or 108A of the said Act shall bemaintained under this Act subject to the terms and conditionsas agreed.

Transitory creditto creditinstitutions inrespect oflendingoperationscarried out forproductivepurposes

Transitory creditto theGovernment

Application ofdistributableearnings torestore thecapital

98Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

132.Notwithstanding the repeal of the Monetary LawAct (Chapter 422), the Central Bank shall continue to act asagent of the Government pursuant to sections 112 and 113of the repealed Act, which shall be limited only in respect ofthe issuance of securities of the Government for the accountof the Government and in respect of the management ofpublic debt, until such date as the relevant law relating topublic debt management agency or office comes intooperation.

133.(1) Any right or obligation attributed to theMonetary Board under the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422)or any other law prior to the appointed date shall be assumedby the Central Bank under this Act, except as providedotherwise.

(2) Any action, regulation or decision taken or issued ormade by the Monetary Board under the Monetary Law Act(Chapter 422) or any other law prior to the appointed date,shall be deemed to have been taken or issued or made by theCentral Bank under this Act, except as provided otherwise.

134.With effect from the appointed date,notwithstanding any provision in any other law-

(a)the capital of the Central Bank under the MonetaryLaw Act (Chapter 422) (in this Act referred to asthe repealed Act) on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall be deemed tobe the capital of the Central Bank under this Act asat the appointed date;

(b)the employees of the Central Bank under therepealed Act, holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall be deemed tobe the employees of the Central Bank under thisAct with effect from the appointed date and suchemployees shall continue to hold office in the

Savings

Central Bank tocontinue to actas agent of theGovernment

Rights andobligations ofthe MonetaryBoard

99Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

Central Bank under this Act on terms and conditionsnot less favourable than the terms and conditionsattaching to the respective office held by them onthe day preceding the appointed date;

(c)all currency notes and coins includingcommemorative notes and coins issued by theCentral Bank and the holding of its own notes andcoins as part of its currency issue under the repealedAct and subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date, shall be deemed tobe the currency notes and coins issued and held bythe Central Bank as the case may be under this Act;

(d)all payment, clearing and settlement systemsestablished and operated by the Central Bank underthe repealed Act or any other written law, andexisting on the day immediately preceding theappointed date shall be deemed, with effect fromthe appointed date, to be payment, clearing andsettlement systems established and operated by theCentral Bank under this Act;

(e)all examinations, audits, inquiries or investigationsinitiated by the Central Bank or any of its officersunder the repealed Act and pending on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date shall bedeemed, with effect from the appointed date, to beexaminations, audits, inquiries or investigationsconducted or being conducted, as the case may be,initiated by the Central Bank or such officer underthis Act;

(f)all contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, guarantees,powers of attorney, grants of legal representationand other instruments of whatever nature enteredinto by the Central Bank, the Monetary Board orany other officer of the Central Bank authorized bythe Monetary Board under the repealed Act, and

100Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

subsisting and having effect on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date and to which theCentral Bank or the Monetary Board or anyauthorized officer is a party or which are in favourof the Central Bank shall be deemed with effectfrom the appointed date to be contracts, deeds,bonds, agreements, guarantees, powers of attorney,grants of legal representation and other instrumentsentered into by or granted in favour of the CentralBank under this Act;

(g)unless specifically suspended or cancelled orwithdrawn in the manner provided for in this Act orin any other written law, all licences, registrations,rules, regulations, directions, determinations,orders, approvals or refusals, notices, circulars,operating instructions or any other writtencommunication made or issued by the Central Bankor the Monetary Board or any officer of the CentralBank authorized by the Monetary Board under therepealed Act, and subsisting or having effect on theday immediately preceding the appointed date shallbe deemed with effect from the appointed date tobe licences, registrations, rules, regulations,directions, determinations, orders, approvals orrefusals, notices, circulars, operating instructionsor any other written communication made or issuedby the Central Bank under this Act;

(h)all applications, actions, proceedings or appeals ofwhatever nature instituted under the provision ofany law by or against the Central Bank, theMonetary Board, its members or any officer of theCentral Bank under the repealed Act and pendingon the day immediately preceding the appointeddate shall be deemed as from the appointed date, tobe applications, actions, proceedings or appealsinstituted by or against the Central Bank or anyofficer thereof under this Act and may be continuedaccordingly;

101Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

(i)all judgments, decrees or orders entered in favourof, or against the Central Bank or the MonetaryBoard or any officer of the Central Bank under therepealed Act by any court or tribunal in any actionor proceeding shall be deemed with effect from theappointed date, to be judgments, decrees or ordersentered in favour of, or against the Central Bank orsuch other officer of the Central Bank under thisAct;

(j)all reserves maintained by the Central Bank for thepurposes of the provisions of the repealed Act orany other written law or any regulatory requirementissued thereunder or otherwise, on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date shall bedeemed with effect from the appointed date to bereserves of the Central bank under this Act, held forsuch purpose;

(k)(i)all property immovable and movable andtangible and intangible, of the Central Bank(including cash balances, reserve funds,investments, intellectual properties, anddeposits);

(ii)all liabilities, including deposits andcontingent liabilities, of the Central Bank;

(iii)all rights, powers, privileges, authorities,obligations, duties and interests arising in orout of, such property and such liabilities;

(iv)all books, accounts and documents relating orappertaining to the Central Bank or to anyproperty of the Central Bank,

under the repealed Act, and subsisting on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date, shallbe deemed as from the appointed date to be

102Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

property, liabilities, rights, powers, privileges,authorities, obligations, duties, interests, books,accounts and documents of the Central Bank underthis Act;

(l)all exemptions, refunds, losses, concessions, reliefs,benefits of taxes, duties, levies or any othermonetary benefit entitled or enjoyed by the CentralBank under the repealed Act and subsisting on theday immediately preceding the appointed date shallbe deemed as from the appointed date, exemptions,refunds, losses, concessions, reliefs, benefits oftaxes, duties, levies or any other monetary benefitentitled or enjoyed by the Central Bank under thisAct; and

(m)with effect from the appointed date, every referenceto the Central Bank, the Monetary Board or anyofficer of the Central Bank under the repealed Actgiven in any Act, regulation, notification, contract,instrument, record, share certificate, document,deed, bond, agreement, guarantee, power ofattorney, grant of legal representation and otherinstrument of whatever nature shall be deemed tobe a reference to the Central Bank or any such officerof the Central Bank under this Act to give effect tothe provisions thereof.

135.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

103Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.