PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OFSRI LANKA ACT, No. 11 OF 2016

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 27th July, 2016]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 14.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 29, 2016

1National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

2PL 009950 2,961 (05/2016)

Establishment ofthe NationalResearch Councilof Sri Lanka.

[Certified on 27th July, 2016]

L.D.O. 28/2014

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A COUNCIL TO BE

CALLED AND KNOWN AS THE NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OFSRI LANKA FOR THE PURPOSE OF FOSTERING AND SUSTAINING A SCIENCE

AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH CULTURE AND COMMUNITY IN SRI LANKA

AND FACILITATING RESEARCH PROGRAMMES THAT WILL CONTRIBUTE

TO THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENDA, AND TO PROVIDE FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the National ResearchCouncil of Sri Lanka Act, No. 11 of 2016, and shall comeinto operation on such date (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date) as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OFSRI LANKA

2.(1) There shall be established a Council which shallbe called the National Research Council of Sri Lanka(hereinafter referred to as the Council).

(2) The Council shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued inits corporate name.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

2National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

3.The objectives for which the Council is establishedshall be

(a)to assist the Government to facilitate researchrelating to science and technology in order to builda vibrant scientific and technological communityin the country;

(b)to promote and facilitate research relating to scienceand technology in higher educational institutionsand public sector research institutes and othergovernmental institutes so as to develop a researchbase that will contribute to national needs; and

(c)to solicit the co-operation of the private sector inthe enhancement of research relating to science andtechnology.

4.(1) The Council shall consist of

(a)not more than ten members to be appointed bythe Minister from among Scientists who havewide knowledge and experience in the field ofresearch relating to science and technology andother relevant disciplines (hereinafter referredto as appointed members);

(b)the following ex-officio members:

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister to whom the subject of scienceand technology is assigned or hisrepresentative; and

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister to whom the subject of finance isassigned or his representative.

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointedmembers to be the Chairman of the Council.

Objecitves of theCouncil.

Constitution ofthe Council.

3National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

5.In the exercise of its powers and carrying out of itsobjectives, the Council shall comply with the general policyof the Government in connection with research relating toscience and technology with any general or special directionsissued by the Minister in respect thereof.

6.A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Council

(a)if such perosn is, or becomes a member of Parliament,any Provincial Council or any Local Authority; or

(b)if such person is not, or ceases to be a citizen ofSri Lanka; or

(c)if such person has any financial or other interest asis likely to affect prejudicially the discharge byhim of his functions as a member of the Council; or

(d)if such person absents himself from threeconsecutive meetings of the Council withoutacceptable reasons; or

(e)if such person is under any law in force in Sri Lankaor in any other country, found or declared to be ofunsound mind; or

(f)if such person is serving or has served a sentence ofimprisonment impose by any court in Sri Lanka orany other country.

7.Every ex-officio member of the Council shall holdoffice as long as such officer holds office by virtue of whichhe has been appointed to the Council.

8.(1) Every appointed member of the Council shall,unless such member vacates office earlier by death,resignation or removal, hold office for a term of three yearsfrom the date of appointment and unless such member hasbeen removed from office, be eligible for re-appointment.

Council toexercise itspowers underthe directions ofthe Minister.

Disqualificationfor membershipof the Council.

Ex-officiomembers.

Provisionsrelating toappointedmembers.

4National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

(2) The Minister may, remove any appointed member ofthe Council from office for reasons assigned.

(3) Any appointed member of the Council may at anytime resign from office by letter to that effect addressed toMinister and such resignation shall take effect upon it beingaccepted by the Minister in writing.

(4) (a) In the event of the vacation of office by death,resignation or removal from office of any appointed member,the Minister may having regard to the provisions of section4(1), appoint any other person to succeed such member.

(b) Any person so appointed in place of such member,shall hold office during the unexpired part of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

(5) Where any appointed member of the Council, byreason of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for aperiod of not less than three months, is temporarily unableto perform the duties of his office, such member shall informthe Minister in writing of such inability. Thereupon, theMinister may having regard to the provisions of section 4(1)appoint another person to act in his place during such period.

9.(1) The Chairman may resign from the office ofChairman by letter in that behalf addressed to the Ministerand such resignation shall take effect upon it being acceptedby the Minister in writing.

(2) The Minister may for reasons assinged, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, remove the Chairman. TheChairman in respect of whom an Order is made under thisparagraph shall be deemed to have vacated office on thedate of the publication of the Order in the Gazette.

(3) Where the Chairman is by reason of illness, infirmityor absence from Sri Lanka for a period of not less than threemonths, temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office,

Term of officeetc. of theChairman.

5National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

the Chairman shall inform the Minister of such inability inwriting. The Minister may, under section 4(2), appointanother member to act in place of the Chairman during suchabsence.

(4) Where the Chairman vacates office by death,resignation or removal, the Minister may, under theprovisions of section 4(2), appoint another member in hisplace and the Chairman so appointed shall hold office forthe unexpired term of the term of office of the Chairmanwhom he succeeds.

(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1) and (2) ,the term of office of the Chairman shall be his period ofmembership of the Council.

10.No act or proceeding of the Council shall beinvalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy inthe Council or any defect in the appointment of a member ofthe Council.

11.The members of the Council may be paid suchremuneration as may be determined by the Minister withthe concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject offinance.

12.(1) A meeting of the Council shall be held at leastonce in every two months.

(2) The Chairman or in his absence a member elected bythe members present, shall preside at the meetings of theCouncil.

(3) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Councilshall be decided by the vote of a majority of the memberspresent. In the case of an equality of votes, the memberpresiding shall have a casting vote.

Acts orproceedings ofthe Council notto be invalid byreason of anyvacancy ordefect in theappointment ofa member.

Remuneration&c. of membersof the Council.

Meetings of theCouncil.

6National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

(4) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall besix members and subject to the provisions of this section theCouncil may regulate the procedure of its meetings.

13.(1) The Seal of the Council shall be as determinedby the Council.

(2) The seal of the Council

(a)may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Council;

(b)shall be in the custody of such person orpersons as the Council may determine;

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument without the sanction of theCouncil and except in the presence oftwo members of the Council, both of whomshall sign the instrument in token of theirpresence.

PART II

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COUNCIL

14.The functions of the Council shall be-

(a)to provide grants for the conduct of researchrelating to science and technology for thepurpose of achieving the objectives of theCouncil;

(b)to facilitate, coordinate, supervise andmonitor research relating to science andtechnology in respect of grants provided tohigher educational institutions, public sectorresearch institutes and other governmentalinstitutions so as to ensure the efficientutilization of government investments inresearch;

The seal of theCouncil.

The functions ofthe Council.

7National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

(c)to import plant, machinery and equipmentrequired for the purpose of the Council andto receive equipment, funds and any otherassistance from recognized local or foreignsources for the efficient conduct of theCouncil;

(d)to collect, print and publish reports,periodicals and papers on research relatingto science and technology and relatedsubjects;

(e)to award scholarships and fellowships forscientific study or scientific work at scienceand technology institutions local or foreign;

(f)to develop a national system to recognize andgrant awards for research and innovationsrelating to science and technology; and

(g)to conduct lectures, seminars and workshopson research relating to science andtechnology and related subjects.

15.The Council shall have the power

(a)to purchase, acquire and hold any property,movable or immoverble and to sell, lease,mortgage, exchange or otherwise dispose ofthe same for the purposes of the Council;

(b)to open and maintain current, savings ordeposit accounts in any bank or banks;

(c)to enter into all such contracts with local orforeign individuals or institutions as may benecessary for the exercise, performance ordischarge of its powers and functions;

Powers of theCouncil.

8National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

(d)to invest its funds which are not requiredimmediately in such securities as it maydetermine;

(e)to acquire such rights, privileges, powers,licences and authorities as may be necessaryfor the performance and discharge of itsfunctions;

(f)to give grants to individuals, scientists or toany institute or authority to initiate orconduct research on specific projects relatingto science and technology;

(g)to establish working committees to assist theCouncil in any aspect of its work, define thescope of work of such committees and toappoint, with the approval of the Minister,persons to such committees;

(h)to make rules in respect of matters pertainingto the administration of the affairs of theCouncil as may become necessary;

(i)levy fees, royalties or charges for any servicesrendered by the Council; and

(j)to do all other acts as may be necessary for, orincidental to the attainment of the objectivesof the Council and the carrying out of thefunctions of the Council.

PART III

APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND THE STAFF

OF THE COUNCIL

16.(1) The Minister shall in consultation with theCouncil appoint a person who possesses a degree in theScience, from a recognized university to be the Chief

The ChiefExecutiveOfficer of theCouncil.

9National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

Executive Officer of the Council subject to such terms andconditons as may be determined in the like manner.

(2) The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to thedirections of the Council, be charged with the administrationof the affairs of the Council and disciplinary control of thestaff of the Council. He shall discharge any other functionsas may be assigned to him by the Council.

(3) The Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed forsuch period as shall be determined by the Minister whichshall not exceed five years from the date of his appointmentand unless removed from office may be re-appointed by theMinister in consultation with the Council, taking intoconsideration his performance in such office during the tenureof his office.

(4) The Chief Executive Officer shall be entitled to bepresent and express his views at any meeting of the Council,but shall not be entitled to vote at any such meeting.

(5) The Minister may remove the Chief Executive Officerfor reasons assigned therefor.

17.(1) The Council may, subject to the provisions ofthis Act

(a)appoint such officers and other employees as itconsiders necessary for the performance ordischarge of its functions and may exercisedisciplinary control over or dismiss such officers oremployees;

(b)pay such remuneration and other benefits to suchofficers and other employees as shall be determinedby the Council, in consultation with the Ministerand with the concurrence of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance;

Appointment&c. of the staffof the Council.

10National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

(c)establish and regulate provident funds or schemes,for the benefit of its officers and employees andmake contributions to such funds or schemes.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions ofsection 14(2) of the National Transport Commission Act,No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and inrelation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions ofsection 14(3) of the National Transport Commission Act,No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and inrelation to such officer.

(4) Where the Council, employs a person who has enteredinto a contract with the Government for a specified period,any period of service to the Council shall be ragarded asservice to the Government for the purpose of dischargingthe obligations of such contract.

PART IV

FINANCE

18.(1) The Council shall have its own Fund, to whichshall be credited

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted upon byParliament from time to time for the use of theCouncil;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theCouncil in the exercise, discharge and performanceof its powers and functions under the Act;

(c)all such sums of money as may be received by theCouncil for the promotion and enhancement of the

Fund of theCouncil.

11National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

objects of the Council by way of loans, donations,gifts, bequests or grants from any source whatsoever,whether within or outside Sri Lanka; and

(d)all such sums of money as may be received by theCouncil by way of fees, royalties or charges underthis Act.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Council, allsuch sums of money as are required to defray the expenditureincurred by the Council in the exercise, discharge andperformance of the powers and functions of the Council.

19.(1) The Council shall cause proper books ofaccounts to be kept of its assets and liabilities, income andexpenditure and all other transactions of the Council.

(2) The Financial year of the Council shall be the calendaryear.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shallapply to and in regard to the audit of accounts of the Council.

PART V

GENERAL

20.(1) The Council shall within six months of the endof each financial year, submit to the Minister an annualreport of the activities carried out by the Council duringthat financial year, and cause a copy each of the followingdocuments relating to that year to be attached to the report:

(a)the audited accounts of the Council for the year,along with the Auditor-Generals report;

(b)a report of proposed activities for the yearimmediately following the year to which such reportand accounts relates.

Audit ofAccounts of theCouncil.

Annual Report.

12National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the reports anddocuments submitted under subsection (1) before Parliamentwithin six months from date of receipt of such reports anddoucments.

21.Where any land is required for any purpose of theCouncil, such purpose shall, for the purpose of the LandAcquisition Act ( Chapter 460), be deemed to be a publicpurpose and the land may accordingly be acquired underthe Act by the Government for the Council, and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to suchacquisition.

22.(1) No liability, whether civil or criminal, shall attachto any member or officer of the Council or to any officerauthorized by such member or officer, for anything which ingood faith is done in the performance or exercise of anyfunction or power imposed on or assigned to the Councilunder this Act.

(2) Any expenses incurred by the Council in any suit orprosecution brought by or against any relevant authoritybefore any Court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Counciland any cost paid to or recovered by the Council in any suchsuit or prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of theCouncil.

(3) Any expenses incurred by a member or officer of theCouncil or by any officer authorized by any such memberor officer, as the case may be, in any suit or prosecutionbrought against him before any court in respect of any actdone by him under this Act shall, if the Court holds thatsuch act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund ofthe Council, unless such expenses are recovered by him insuch suit or prosecution.

23.(1) A person shall not, do anything to interfere orobstruct any member or officer of the Council or exerciseany undue influence or coercion on any such member orofficer in the exercise or performance of any power orfunction by such member or officer under this Act.

Compulsoryacquisition ofland for theCouncil.

Protection ofmembers andofficers of theCouncil fromsuit orprosecution.

Interference orexercise ofundue influenceetc; to be anoffence.

13National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

(2) A person who acts in violation of the prohibitionimposed by subsection (1), shall commit an offence and shallon conviction after summery trial before a Magistrate, beliable to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand.

24.All officers and servants of the Council shall bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning and for thepurposes of the Penal Code.

25.The Council shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and theprovisions of the Act shall be construed accordingly.

26.(1) The Council may make rules which are necessaryfor the management and administration of the affairs of theCouncil.

(2) Every rule made by the Council, shall be published inthe Gazette and shall come into operation on the date ofsuch publication or on such later date as may be specified insuch rule.

27.From and after the appointed date

(a)all activities hitherto carried out by the NationalResearch Council which has been established underthe Presidential Directive dated 24th of July 2007(hereinafter referred to as the National ResearchCouncil) in the accomplishment of the objcets ofthat Council and which are not inconsistent withthe objects of the National Research Council of SriLanka established under section 2 of this Act(hereinafter referred as the Council) shall bedeemed to be activities required to be carried outunder this Act and, shall continue to be carried outby the Council;

Officers andservants of theCouncil deemedto be publicservants.

Council deemedto be ascheduledinstitution forthe purposes ofthe Bribery Act.

Rules.

Savings.

14National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

(b)all property movable and immovable belonging tothe National Research Council, on the dateimmediately prior to the appointed date shall, witheffect from the appointed date, stand to betransferred to the Council;

(c)all suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings, mattersor things which have been instituted by or againstthe National Research Council and are pending asat the date immediately prior to the appointed date,shall be deemed to be suits, prosecutions, actions,proceedings, matters or things which have beeninstituted by or against the Council and may becontinued and completed accordingly;

(d)any decree, order or award entered or made in favourof or against the said National Research Councilby any court or tribunal or other body shall, witheffect from the appointed date be deemed to be adecree, order or award entered or made in favour ofor against the Council and may be enforcedaccordingly;

(e)the officers and employees of the National ResearchCouncil holding office on the day immediatelyprior to the appointed date, shall, be deemed, witheffect from the appointed date, to be officers oremployees of the Council on terms not lessfavourable than their terms of employment in theNational Research Council;

(f)all debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurred,all contracts and agreements executed or enforcedinto and all matters and things engaged or agreedto be done by or with the National Research Counciland all licenses issued for and on behalf of the saidNational Research Council which are subsisting ason the day immediately prior to the appointed dateshall, with effect from the appointed date be deemed

15National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

to be debts, obligations, assets and liabilitiesincurred, all contracts and agreements executed orenforecd into and all matters and things engaged oragreed to be done by, with or for and licenses issuedfor and on behalf of the Council.

28.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Minister means the Minister to whom theimplementation of the provisions of this Actis assigned.

29.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil Texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Interpretation.

16National Research Council of Sri LankaAct, No. 11 of 2016

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.