,
RS oo NE \o ig
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC ~ ~
SOCIALIST. REPUBLIC OF oe
SRI LANKA, ng
PREVENTION OF TERRORISM
- ° (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) >
: ACT, No. 48° OF 1972 3°
7 - [certfed on 200 Jay 1879] i ‘. ¥
‘Prinded. on tha Drilers Of Govertinakt : aa )
Published as a Supplement to Part Il.of the Gazette of a Demotratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 20, 1979
eal ats lense pipiens eo tT
Tak ap su rowealLlt eos mo comSasols, pcan eoupnepo EGS
Price: Rs. 1.10 2 Postage > 50 Cents


Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
‘Act, No. 48 of 1979
[Certified on 20th July, 1979]
LD_0, 39/79
An Act 10 MAKE TEMPORARY PROVISION FOR THE PREVENTION OF

[ACTS OF TERRORISM IN SRI LANICA, THE PREVENTION OF UNLAW-

FUL ACTIVITIES OF ANY INDIVIDUAL, GROUP OF INDIVIDUALS,

ASSOCIATION, ORGANTZATION OR BODY OF PERSONS WITHIN Sat

LANKA on OUTSIDE Sax LANKA AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

‘THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Preamble.
Republic of Sri Lanka continues to affirm that men and
institutions remain free only when freedom is founded upon

respect for the Rule of Law and that grievances should be

redressed by constitutional methods :

AND WHEREAS public order in Sri Lanka continues to
be endangered by elements or groups of persons or associa~
tions that advocate the use of force or the commission of
crime as a means of, or as an aid in, accomplishing govern-
mental change within Sri Lanka, and who have resorted to
acts of murder and threats of murder of members of Parlia-
ment and of local authorities, police officers, and witnesses
to such acts and other law abiding and innocent citizens,
as well as the commission of other acts of terrorism such
as armed robbery, damage to State property and other acts
involving actual or threatened coercion, intimidation and
violence :

AND WHEREAS other democratic countries have enacted
special legislation to deal with acts of terrorism :

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Prevention of Terrorism Short title
(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48 of 1979, and shall and date ot
come into operation in respect of all or any of its provisions °Per*ton-
on such date or dates as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette.

PART 1
Orrences
2 (1) Any person who— Offences
(a) causes the death of any specified person, or kidnaps Wwl*t ad
or abducts a specified person, or commits any other Penalties.
attack upon any such person, which act. would,
under the provisions of the Penal Code, be punish-
able with death or a term of imprisonment of not
. Jess than seven years ; oF
2-6 4aana—18,05 (0/07)


2 Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No, 48 of 1979

(®) causes the death of any person who is a witness to
any offence under this Act, or kidnaps or abducts or
commits any other attack upon any such person,
which act would, under the provisions of the Penal
Code, be punishable with death or a term of im-
prisonment of not less than seven years ; or

(©) commits criminal intimidation of any specified person
or a witness referred to in paragraph (b) ; or

(@) commits the offence of robbery of the property of
the Government, any department, statutory board,
public corporation, bank, co-operative union or
co-operative society ; or

(e) commits the offence of mischief to the property of
the Government, any department, statutory board,
public corporation, bank, co-operative union or
co-operative society or to any other public
property ; or

(f) without lawful authority imports, manufactures or
collects any firearms, offensive weapons, ammuni-
tion or explosives or any article or thing used, oF
intended to be used, in the manufacture of explo-
sives; or

(9) possesses without lawful authority, within any secu-
rity area, any firearms or any offensive weapon, am-
munition or explosives or any article or thing used, .
or intended to be used, in the manufacture of explo-
sives ; or

(h) by words either spoken or intended to be read or by
signs or by visible representations or otherwise
‘causes or intends to cause commission of acts of vio-
lence or religious, racial or communal disharmony
or feelings of ill-will or hostility between different
communities or racial or religious groups; or

(® without lawful authority erases, mutilates, defaces
or otherwise interferes with any words, inscrip-
tions, or lettering appearing on any board or other
fixture on, upon or adjacent to, any highway, street,
road or any other public place ; or

@) harbours, conceals or in any other manner prevents,
hinders or interferes with the apprehension of,
proclaimed person or any other person, knowing oF
having reason to believe that such person has
commited an offence under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Any person guilty of an offence specified in— ~

(@) paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1) shall on con~
vietion be liable to imprisonment for life, and


Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) 3
Act, No. 48 of 1979
(i) paragraphs (c), (4), (e), (A), (9), (h), @ or Gi)
of subsection (1) shall on conviction be liable to
imprisonment of either description for a period not
less than five years but not exceeding twenty years.
(8) In this section—
(i) “proclaimed person” means any person proclaimed
by the Inspector-General of Police by Proclamation
published in the Gazette to be a person wanted in
connection with the commission of any offence
under this Act ; and
(ii) “security area” means any area declared by the
‘Minister by Order published in the Gazette to be
a security area if he is satisfied that by reason of
any unlawful activity there is in such area a rea-
sonable apprehension of organized violence.
3. Any person who— Penalty for
_ preparation,
(@) does any act preparatory to the commission of an Sbetment,
offence ; or cones
{6 commit
(b) abets, conspires, attempts, exhorts or incites the com- offence.
mission of an offence ; or
(©) causes the death of any person, or commits any attack
upon any person whomsoever in the course of com-
mitting any offence under this Act, which act would,
under the provisions of the Penal Code, be punish-
able with death or with a term of imprisonment of
not less than seven years,
shall be guilty of an offence and shell on conviction be liable
to imprisonment of either description for a pericd of not
less than five years but not exceeding twenty years where
the offence is one specified in paragraph (a) or (b), or to
imprisonment for life where the offence is one specified in
paragraph (c).

4. Where any person is convicted by any court of any Forfeiture
offence under section 2 or section 3, then, in addition to any °F Property.
other penalty that the court shall impose for such offence—

(q) all property movable and immovable, of that person

shall, by virtue of such conviction, be deemed to
be forfeited to the Republic ; and


4 Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 48 of 1979
(b) any alienation or other disposal of such property
effected by such person after the date of coming
into operation of this Part shall be deemed to have
been, and to be, null and void.
Penalty for 5. Any person who—
pce (a) knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
any person—
(i) has committed an offence under this Act, or
(ii) is making preparation or is attempting to com-
mit an offence under this Act,
fails to report the same to a police officer ; or
(b) having in his possession any information relating to
the movements or whereabouts of any person who
has committed or is making preparations or is at~
tempting to commit an offence under this Act fails
to report the same to a police officer,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction be
liable to imprisonment of either description for a period
not exceeding seven years.
PART II
Investigation oF OFFENCES
Powers of | 6, (1) Any police officer not below the rank of Super-
spurs fearch  intendent or any other police officer not below the rank of
Sub-Inspector authorized in writing by him in that behalf
may, without a warrant and with or without assistance and
notwithstanding anything in any other law to the contrary—
(a) arrest any person ;
(0) enter and search any premises ;
(©) stop and search any individual or any vehicle, vessel,
train or aircraft ; and
(@) seize any document or thing,
connected with or concerned in or reasonably suspected of
being connected with or concerned in any unlawful activity.
(2) Any person who obstructs or hinders any police off-
cer lawfully exercising any power conferred on him by oF
under subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence and shall
on conviction be liable to imprisonment of either description
for a period not exceeding seven years.


Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) 5
Act, No. 48 of 1979

7. (1) Any person arrested under subsection (1) of Remand
section 6 may be kept in custody for a period not exceeding .
seventy-two hours and shall, unless a detention order under
section 9 has been made in respect of such person, be pro-
duced before a Magistrate before the expiry of such period
and the Magistrate shall, on an application made in writing
in that behalf by a police officer not below the rank of Super-
intendent, make order that such person be remanded until
the conclusion of the trial of such person :

Provided that, where the Attorney-General consents to
the release of such person from custody before the conclu-
sion of the trial, the Magistrate shall release such person
from custody.

(2) Where any person connected with or concerned in or
reasonably suspected to be connected with or concerned in
the commission of any offence under this Act appears or is
produced before any court other than in the manner referred
to in subsection (1), such court shall order the remand of
such person until the conclusion of the trial :

Provided that, if an application is made under the hand
of a police officer not below the rank of Superintendent to
keep such person in police custody for a period not exceed-
ing seventy-two hours, the Magistrate shall authorize such
custody and thereupon the order of remand made by the
Magistrate shall remain suspended for the period during
which such person is in police custody.

(3) A police officer conducting an investigation under

_ this Act in respect of any person arrested under subsection
(1) of section 6 or remanded under subsection (1) or sub-
section (2) of this section—

(a) shall have the right of access to such person and the
right to take such person during reasonable hours
to any place for the purpose of interrogation and
from place to place for the purposes of investiga

. tion; and

() may obtain a specimen of the handwriting of such
person and do all such acts as may reasonably be
necessary for fingerprinting or otherwise identify-
ing such person. .


6 Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 48 of 1979
Recording ot 8 Any police officer may at any stage of an investigation
iinaaete, by or trial produce before any Magistrate any person conver-
* sant with any fact relating to the commission of any offence
under this Act, and the Magistrate shall thereupon record“
the statement of such person upon oath.
PART I
Derention anp Resraicrion Opens
Detention 9. (1) Where the Minister has reason to believe or suspect
‘orders. that any person is connected with or concerned in any
unlawful activity, the Minister may order that such person
be detained for a period not exceeding three months in the
first instance, in such place and subject to such conditions
as may be determined by the Minister, and any such order
may be extended from time to time for a period not
exceeding three months at a time:
Provided, however, that the aggregate period of such
detention shall not exceed a period of eighteen months.
(2) (a) At any time after an order has been made in
respect of any person under subsection (1), the Minister
may direct that the operation of such order be suspended
and may make an order under subsection (1) of section 11.
(0) The Minister may revoke any such direction if he
is satisfied that the person in respect of whom the direction
was made has failed to observe any condition imposed oF
that the operation of the order can no longer remain
suspended without detriment to public safety.
Order under _-«*10.__-An order made under section 9 shall be final and shall
section 9 not be called in question in any court or tribunal by way
to be final. % ‘
of writ or otherwise.
Power of 11, (1) Where the Minister has reason to believe or sus-
Minister to pect that any person is connected with or concerned in the
fon of" - commission of any unlawful activity referred to in sub-
Movement in section (1) of section 9, he may make an order in writing
* imposing on such person such prohibitions or restrictions
as may be specified in such order in respect of—
(@) his movement outside such place of residence as may
be specified ; or 2
(®) the places of residence and of employment of such
person ; or
(©) his travel within or outside Sri Lanka ; or


Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) 7
Act, No. 48 of 1979
(q) his activities whether in relation to any organization,
‘association or body of persons of which such person
is a member, or otherwise ; or
(e) such person addressing public meetings or from
holding office in, or taking part in the activities of
or acting as adviser to, any organization, associa-
tion or body of persons, or from taking part in any
political activities,
and he may require such person to notify his movements
to such authority, in such manner and at such times as may
be specfiied in the order.

(2) Where the Minister makes a restriction order in
respect of any person while an order of detention in res-
pect of such person is in force, such restriction order shall,
unless otherwise specified, take effect upon the expiry of
the detention order.

(8) Every order made under subsection (1) shall be in
force for such period, not exceeding three months, as may
be specified therein :

_ Provided, that the Minister may, by order in writing,
extend such period from time to time for periods not
exceeding three months at a time so however that the
aggregate of such periods does not exceed eighteen months.

(4) Where an order is made under subsection (1), the
Minister may by notice in writing served on the person to
whom such order relates, vary, cancel or add to any °
Prohibitions or restrictions imposed by such order on such
person and the prohibitions or restrictions so varied or
added to shall, unless earlier cancelled, continue in force 7
for the unexpired portion of the period specified in such
order or the period as extended under subsection (3).

(5) An order made by the Minister under subsection (1)
shall be final and shall not be called in question in any
court or tribunal by way of writ or otherwise.

12 ‘Any person who contravenes or acts in breach of penatty.
any prohibition or restriction imposed on him by an order
under section 11 shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a term of imprisonment of either
description for a period of five years.


8 Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 48 of 1979
PART Iv
Apvisory Boarp
Asvigory 13, (1) There shall, for the purposes of this Act, be «
oan. established an Advisory Board consisting of not less than
three persons appointed by the President.

(2) Any person in respect of whom any detention order
or restriction order has been made shall be informed of the
unlawful activity in connection with which such order has
been made and such person or any other person on his
behalf may make representations to the Advisory Board.

(8) Every meeting of the Advisory Board held to
consider such representations shall be presided over by a
Chairman nominated from among the members by the
Minister and it shall be the duty of the Chairman to advise
the Minister in respect of such representations.

(4) The Minister may make rules in relation to the
hearing and disposal of any representations that may be
made by any person in respect of any such order.

PART V
PRoHisrTI0N OF PUBLICATIONS
Prohibition 44. (1) Notwithstanding any Order made under section ¢
SLitications, 1, the provisions of subsection (2) shall come into operation
only upon an Order made in that behalf by the Minister
from time to time and published in the Gazette for such!
period as may be specified in the Order.

(2) (a) No person’shall, without the approval in writing
of a competent authority, print or publish in any newspaper
any matter relating to—

. (i) the commission of any act which constitutes, an offence
under this Act or the investigation of any such
offence ; or

(ii) incitement to violence, or which is likely to cause

religious, racial or communal disharmony oF
feelings of ill-will or hostility between different
‘communities or racial or religious groups.

(b) No person shall, without the approval in writing of
a competent authority, distribute or be concerned in the
distribution of any newspaper printed or published in Sri
Lanka or outside Sri Lanka in respect of any matter the
printing and publication of which is prohibited under
paragraph (a).


Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) 9
Act, No. 48 of 1979

(3) Any person who commits any act in contravention of
any of the provisions of subsection (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall on conviction be liable to imprison-
ment of either description for a period not exceeding five
‘years.

(4) (@ Where any person is convicted of an offence
under this section, the court may, in addition to the punish-
ment it may impose for that offence under subsection (3),
order that no person shall print, publish or distribute or in
any way be concerned in the printing, publication or dis-
tribution of any such newspaper for such period as is
specified in such order and that the printing press in which
such newspaper was printed shall, for such period as shall
be specified in such order, not be used for any purpose
‘whatsoever or for any such purpose as is specified in the
order.

(b) Where any proceedings have been instituted against
any person for the commission of any offence under this
section, it shall be competent for the court to make an
interim order that the printing press in which it is alleged
‘that such newspaper or publication was printed shall not
be used for any purpose whatsoever or for any such
purpose as is specified in the order, until the conclusion of
the trial.

PART VI
‘Taran

“15. Every person who commits an offence under this Act vial.
shall be triable without a preliminary inquiry, 'on an indi-
ment before a Judge of the High Court sitting alone without
a jury.

16. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, Admissibility
where any person is charged with any offence under this Sfatemoants.
Act, any statement made by such person at any time,
whether—

(a) it amounts to a confession or not ;

(b) made orally or reduced to writing ;

(c) such person was or was not in custody or presence
J of a police ‘officer ;

(@) made in the course of an investigation or not ;

(e) it was or was not wholly or partly in answer to any

question,
may be proved as against such person if such statement
is not irrelevant under section 24 of the Evidence Ordinance ;


10 Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) ~
Act, No, 48 of 1979

Provided, however, that no such statement shall be proved
as against such person if such statement was made to a
police officer below the rank of an Assistant Superintendent,

(2) The burden of proving that any statement referred
to in subsection (1) is irrelevant under section 24 of the
Evidence Ordinance shall be on the person asserting it to
be irrelevant,

(8) Any statement admissible under subsection (1) may
be proved as against any other person charged jointly with
the person making the statement, if, and only if, such
statement is corroborated in material particulars by
evidence other than the statements referred to in
subsection (1).

Sections 25, 17. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any

3.and 30 of, other law, the provisions of sections 25, 26 and 30 of the

Ordinance Evidence Ordinance shall have no application in any

not to apply. proceedings under this Act.

Admissibility 18. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any

of certain

Statements other Iaw— ,

documents. (a) a statement recorded by a Magistrate, or made at
an identification parade by a person who is dead
or who cannot be found, shall be admissible in
evidence notwithstanding that such person is not
present or cannot or has not been cross-examined ;
and

‘ (®) any document found in the custody, control or posses-

sion of a person accused of any offence under this
‘Act or of an agent or representative of such person
may be produced in court as evidence against such
person without the maker of such document being
called as a witness and the contents of such docu-
ment shall be evidence of the facts stated therein.

(2) If in the course of a trial for an offence under this
Act, any witness shall, on any material point, contradict
either expressly or by necessary implication a statement
made by him and recorded by a Magistrate or a statement ¢
made by him at any identification parade, it shall be lawful
for the presiding Judge—

(a) to act upon such statement ; and


Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) 11
Act, No. 48 of 1979

(®) to have such witness at the conclusion of such trial

arraigned and tried on an indictment which shall

be prepared and signed by the Registrar of such

court, for intentionally giving false evidence in a
stage of a judicial proceeding.

(8) At any trial referred to in subsection (2) (b), it shall
be sufficient to prove that the witness made the contradic-
tory statement and it shall not be necessary to prove which
of the statements is false.

19, Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written Provisions
lew— written

Jaw relating
(@) every person convicted by any court of any offence to'the grant
under this Act shall, notwithstanding that he has of et
lodged a petition of appeal against his conviction persons
or the sentence imposed on him, be kept on remand iccused of
until the determination of the appeal ; ager this

(b) any order made under the provisions of subsection

(4) of section 14 shall, notwithstanding any appeal
made against such order, continue in force until
the determination of such appeal :

Provided, however, that the Court of Appeal may in
exceptional circumstances release on bail any such person
referred to in paragraph (a) subject to such conditions as
the Court of Appeal may deem fit, or vary or suspend any
order’referred to in paragraph (b).

20, Notwithstanding anything in the Code of Criminal Certain
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979— : he ke
(@) the provisions of section 308 of that Act shall not Procedure
apply in the case of any person who is convicted; 2otnte

persons

(b) the provisions of section 306 of that Act shall not poet a

apply in the case of any person who pleads or ofan’
i ‘ offence under
is found guilty, offence

by or before any. court of any offence under this Act,

21, Every court shall give priority to the trial of any Priority for
person charged with, or indicted for, any offence under this {ye8.2°¢
‘Act and to the hearing of any appeal from the conviction of nge* this
any such offence and sentence imposed on such conviction, ~


12 Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 48 of 1979
PART VII
Spxcrat, Provisions
Persons 22, Any person who has committed any offence under
Sffencesunder section 296 or section 297 or section 300 of the Penal Code
certain see prior to the date of coming into operation of Part VI of
Penal Code this Act or has abetted or has conspired to abet the commis-
in relation, sion of any such offence proir to such date, in relation to
Persons, to any person who is a specified person or a person who was
be triable a witness to any offence which if such offence had been
ae committed after the date of coming into operation of Part
I of this Act would have constituted an offence under this
Act shall, notwithstanding the provisions of any other law
to the contrary, be triable without a preliminary inquiry,
on an indictment before a Judge of the High Court sitting
alone without a jury.
Admissibility _23._‘The provisions of sections 8, 16, 17 and 18 of this Act
Matements, Shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to any act,
or the trial for the commission of an offence in respect of
any act, committed before the date of coming into opera-
tion of Parts I, I and VI of this Act, which act would, if
committed after such date, have constituted an offence
under this Act :

Provided, however, that no statement referred to in any +
such section shall be admissible unless such statement was
made after the coming into operation of the aforesaid Parts
of this Act.

‘Act 24, Any person who commits an act in or in relation to
Sejnmitted in any vessel or aircraft registered in Sri Lanka shall, if such
vessel or act constitutes an offence under this Act, be guilty of an
saa offence under this Act,

PART VII

Miscetanzous
Offences by _-25, Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
ee body of persons, then if that body of persons is—

(@) a body corporate, every director and officer of that

body corporate ; or

(b) a firm, every partner of that firm ; or

(©) a body unincorporate other than a firm, every officer

‘of that body responsible for its management and
control, .
shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence :


Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) 13
Act, No. 48 of 1979

Provided that no such person shall be deemed to be
guilty of such offence if he proves that such offence was
‘committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all

+ due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

26. No suit, prosecution or other proceeding, civil or Protection of
criminal, shall lie against any officer or person for any act Micers &e.
or thing in good faith done or purported to be done in
pursuance or supposed pursuance of any order made or
direction given under this Act.

27, (1) The Minister may make regulations under this Regulations.
Act for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the
principles and provisions of this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be publi-
shed in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.

(8) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before Parliament for its approval. Any regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder. Notification of the date on

* which a regulation is deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.

28, The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwith- This Act to
standing anything contained in any other written law and Prevail over
accordingly in the event of any conflict or inconsistency written law.
between the provisions of this Act and such other written
law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

OY The provisions of this Act shall be in operation for Duration of
a period of three years from the date of its commencement, ‘his Act.

30. The Proscribing of Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam Repeal of
and Other Similar Organizations Law, No. 16 of 1978, is R26 of
hereby repealed. 198.

PART IX
TvTERPRETATION
SL (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise Interpreta-
* requires— tion.
“competent authority” means any person appointed by
the Minister by name or by office to be a competent
authority for the purposes of this Act ;


14 Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 48 of 1979

“co-operative union or co-operative society” includes
any society registered or deemed to be registered
under the Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of
1972; .

“document ” has the same meaning as in the Penal Code;

“explosives " has the same meaning as in the Explosives
Act;

“firearms” has the same meaning as in the Firearms
‘Ordinance ;

“local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council, Town Council or Village Council and
includes any Authority created and established by
or under any law to exercise, perform and dis-
charge powers, duties and functions corresponding
to or similar to the powers, duties and functions
exercised, performed and discharged by any such
Council ;

“newspaper” includes any journal, magazine, pamphlet
or other publication ;

“offensive weapon” has the same meaning as in the
Offensive Weapons Act, No. 18 of 1966 ;

“organization” includes any movement, society, party, ”
association or body or group of persons ;

“printing press” includes any machinery, apparatus or
plant capable of being used for printing, litho-
graphy, photography or other mode of representing
or reproducing words in a visible form, or any type
or other article belonging to such machinery,
apparatus or plant ;

“public corporation” means any corporation, board
or other body which was or is established by or
under any written law other than the Companies
Ordinance, with funds or capital wholly or partly
provided by the Government by way of grant, loan
or otherwise ;

“specified person” means—

(a) the President ;

(b) a Judge of the Supreme Court, Court of *
Appeal, High Court, District Court, Magis-
trate’s Court, Primary Court or any other
Court of First Instance ;


Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) 15
Act, No. 48 of 1979
(c) any representative or official of a foreign State
or any official or other agent of an interna-
tional organization of an inter-governmental
. character ;
(@ @ member of Parliament or of a local
authority ;
(e) any member of a commission established under
the Special Presidential Commissions of
Inquiry Law, No. 7of 1978, or under the
Commissions of Inquiry Act ; -
(f) juror, counsel or officer of court ; and
(g) any member of the Armed Forces, Police Force
and any other Forces charged with the
maintenance of public order ; and

“unlawful activity” means any action taken or act

committed by any means whatsoever, whether
within or outside Sri Lanka, and whether such
action was taken or act was committed before or

. after the date of coming into operation of all or
any of the provisions of this Act in connection with

. the commission of any offence under this Act or
any act committed prior to the date of passing of
this Act, which act would, if committed after such
date, constitute an offence under this Act.

(2) All words and expressions used herein and defined in
the Penal Code and not hereinbefore defined shall be
deemed to have the meanings respectively attributed to
them by that Code.
