PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MEDICAL (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 28 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th of September, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 21, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 20181

L.D.O. 55/2015

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MEDICAL ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 105)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Medical (Amendment)Act, No. 28 of 2018.

2.Section 12 of the Medical Ordinance (Chapter 105)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended in subsection (1), by the insertion immediatelyafter paragraph (c) thereof of the following paragraphs:

(cc)three members elected by the medical specialistsreferred to in subsections (1) , (3) and (4) of section39A;(ccc)one member elected by the dental specialistsreferred to in subsection (2) of section 39A;.

3.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1), by the insertion immediatelyafter paragraph (a) thereof of the following paragraph:-

(aa)a register of medical and dental specialists whichcontains the names of every medical specialist anddental specialist who possesses a qualificationreferred to in section 39A and has obtainedregistration under section 39B;.

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 12 ofChapter 105.

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

[Certified on 19th of September, 2018]

2Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 2018

4.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 39 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 39A, 39B, 39C and 39D of thatenactment:

39A. (1) A medical practitioner registeredunder section 29, who possesses a qualificationrequired for Specialist Medical Officer Grade,as specified in the Medical Service Minutes,shall be eligible to be registered as a medicalspecialist under section 39B.

(2) A dentist registered under section 43,who possesses a qualification required forSpecialist Medical Officer Grade, as specifiedin the Medical Service Minutes, shall beeligible to be registered as a dental specialistunder section 39B.

(3) A medical practitioner registerd undersection 29 or a dentist registered under section43, who has successfully completed specialisttraining in a country other than Sri Lanka andobtained a specialist medical or dentalqualification which satisfies the eligibilitycriteria of the Post Graduate Institute ofMedicine to practice the respective specialty,shall be eligible to be registered as a medicalor dental specialist, as the case may be, undersection 39B.

(4) Any person who has obtained a graduateand post graduate qualification in medicine ordentistry from any university or medical ordental school of any country other thanSri Lanka, recognized by the Medical Counciland satisfies the eligibility criteria of the PostGraduate Institute of Medicine to practice therespective specialty shall be eligible to beregistered as a medical or dental specialist, asthe case may be, under section 39B.

Insertion of newsections 39A,39B, 39C and39D in theprincipalenactment.Qualificationsrequired forregistrationas a medicalor dentalspecialist.

Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 20183

39B. Any medical practitioner, dentist or aperson who possesses any one of the specialistmedical or dental qualifications referred to insection 39A shall, upon application made to theMedical Council in the prescribed form, alongwith the prescribed fee for registration, beregistered as a medical or dental specialist inthe respective field of medicine or dentistry, if-

(a) he is of good character; and

(b) (i) he produces a certificate ofregistration under section 29, in thecase of a medical practitioner whopossesses a qualification referred toin subsection (1) of section 39A; or

(ii) he produces a certificate ofregistration under section 43, in thecase of a dentist who possesses aqualification referred to insubsection (2) of section 39A; or

(iii) he produces a certificate ofregistration under section 29 orsection 43, in the case of a medicalpractitioner or a dentist whopossesses a qualification referred toin subsection (3) of section 39A; or

(iv) he has obtained the provisionalregistration required for the Boardcertification, in the case of a personwho possesses a qualificationreferred to in subsection (4) ofsection 39A; and

(c) he produces a Board Certification or aCertificate of Accreditation in respectof Board Certification, as the case may

Registrationas a medicalor dentalspecialist.

4Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 2018

be, issued by the Post Graduate Instituteof Medicine, upon satisfying theeligibility criteria of the Post GraduateInstitue of Medicine.

39C. No person, not being a medical ordental specialist registered under section 39B,shall take or use any name, title or additionimplying or tending to the belief that he is amedical or dental specialist who possesses aqualification referred to in section 39A or, byany act or omission intentionally cause orpermit any person to believe that he is a medicalor dental specialist registered under section39B, and to act upon such belief.

39D. Every medical or dental specialistregistered under section 39B shall be entitledto practise the respective specialty in Sri Lankaand to demand and recover reasonableprofessional charges including the cost ofmedicines and surgical appliances supplied,or other services rendered during the course ofsuch practice..

5.Section 74 of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(1) by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression estate apothecary of the followingdefinition:

eligibility criteria of the Post GraduateInstitute of Medicine means the eligibilitycriteria for Board Certification orCertificate of Accreditation in respect ofBoard Certification in the respectivespecialty, recommended by the respectiveBoard of Study of the Post GraduateInstitute of Medicine, prescribed byregulations under the Post GraduateInstitute of Medicine Ordinance No. 1 of1980;;

Amendment ofsection 74 of theprincipalenactment.

No person topractice as amedical ordentalspecialistwithoutregistration.

Registeredmedical ordentalspecialistsentitled topractice inthe respectivefield.

Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 20185

(2)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression medical practitioner of thefollowing definition:

Medical Service Minutes means theMedical Service Minutes published inGazette No. 662/11, dated May 17, 1991,as may be amended from time to time andlast amended by the Medical ServiceMinutes published in the GazetteNo. 1883/17, dated October 11, 2014;;

(3)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression pharmacist of the followingdefinition:-

Post Graduate Institute of Medicine meansthe Post Graduate Institute of Medicineestablished by the Post Graduate Instituteof Medicine Ordinance No. 1 of 1980, madeunder section 18 of the Universities Act,No. 16 of 1978 and published in GazetteExtraordinary No. 83/7 of April 10, 1980,as amended from time to time;.

6.Every medical practitioner or dentist who possessesany qualification eligible to be registered as a medical ordental specialist under section 39B, on the date ofcommencement of this Act and has been engaged in thepractice of respective specialty, prior to that date, shall berequired to obtain registration under section 39B, within aperiod of twelve months from the date of commencement ofthis Act.

7.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Transitionalprovisionapplicable tomedical anddental specialistsengaged in thepractice.

6Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.