PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BUDGETARY RELIEF ALLOWANCE OFWORKERS ACT, No. 4 OF 2016

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd March, 2016]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 24, 2016

1Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

2PL 009757 2,950 (02/2016)

[Certified on 23rd March, 2016]

L.D.O. 27/2015.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT OF A BUDGETARY RELIEFALLOWANCE BY EMPLOYERS TO WORKERS AND FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Budgetary ReliefAllowance of Workers Act, No. 4 of 2016.

2.(1) The Commissioner-General shall be the competentauthority for the purposes of this Act.

(2) The competent authority may delegate to any officerof the Department of Labour any power, function or dutyconferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such authority bythis Act.

3.(1) With effect from May 1, 2015, every employer inany industry or service shall, in respect of each month pay toevery worker employed by him, a Budgetary ReliefAllowance (hereinafter referred to as the allowance),calculated on the following basis:-

(a)in the case of a worker whose monthly wages orsalary for the month of May, 2015 (hereinafterreferred to as the relevant month) is rupees fortythousand or below, the allowance payable shall beone thousand five hundred rupees:

Provided however, that in the case of a workerwho for any reason other than the failure of theemployer to provide work for such worker, does

Short title.

CompetentAuthority.

Payment ofBudgetary ReliefAllowance.

2Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

not work for the required number of days in a month asprescribed by any written law or contract ofemployment, the allowance payable to such workerfor such month shall be in proportion to the number ofdays he has worked during such month;

(b)in the case of a worker who is paid a daily rate notexceeding rupees one thousand six hundred for therelevant month, the allowance payable shall be sixtyrupees per day for each day he has worked during themonth;

(c)in the case of a worker who is employed in the relevantmonth on a piece-rate basis, the allowance payable inrespect of a month shall be not less than fifteen percentum of the total wages or salary payable to suchworker for that month:

Provided however, the total allowance payable fora month under paragraph (a), (b) or (c) shall not exceedone thousand five hundred rupees;

(d)in the case of a worker whose monthly wages or salaryfor the relevant month exceeds rupees forty thousandand does not exceed rupees forty one thousand fivehundred, the allowance payable shall be the differencebetween rupees forty one thousand five hundred andthe amount of wages or salary for the relevant month;

(e)in the case of a worker who is paid a daily rate of a sumexceeding rupees one thousand six hundred and notexceeding rupees one thousand six hundred sixty forthe relevant month, the daily allowance payable shallbe one twenty fifth of the difference between rupeesforty one thousand five hundred and the total wagesfor the relevant month.

3Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),every employer in any industry or service shall, in respect ofeach month commencing from January 1, 2016 pay to everyworker referred to in subsection (1) employed by him, anallowance calculated on the following basis:

(a)in the case of a worker whose monthly wages orsalary for the relevant month is rupees fortythousand or below, the allowance payable shall beone thousand rupees:

Provided however, that in the case of a workerwho for any reason other than the failure of theemployer to provide work for such worker, doesnot work for the required number of days in a monthas prescribed by any written law or contract ofemployment, the allowance payable to such workerfor such month shall be in proportion to the numberof days he has worked during such month;

(b)in the case of a worker who is paid a daily rate notexceeding rupees one thousand six hundred for therelevant month, the allowance payable shall be asum of forty rupees per day for each day he hasworked during the month;

(c)in the case of a worker who is employed in therelevant month on a piece-rate basis, the allowancepayable in respect of a month shall be not less thanten per centum of the total wages or salary payableto such worker for that month:

Provided however, the total allowance payablefor a month under paragraph (a), (b) or (c) shall notexceed one thousand rupees.

(3) (a) The allowance payable under subsection (1) or (2)or both subsections (1) and (2), as the case may be, shall besubjected to a maximum limit of the total wages or salary ofrupees forty one thousand five hundred to a worker for amonth.

4Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

(b) For the avoidance of doubt, it is declared that any workerwho has received the allowance under paragraph (d) or (e) ofsubsection (1) shall not be entitled to any allowance undersubsection (2).

(4) An employer in any industry or service who had madewages or salary increase of the workers employed by him, duringthe period between October 1, 2014 and April 30, 2015 if suchincreases added together exceed the amount to be increasedunder subsection (1) or under subsections (1) and (2), suchemployer shall be exempt from the application of subsection(1) or both subsections (1) and (2), as the case may be.

(5) A worker who has received wages or salary increase of asum less than one thousand five hundred rupees during theperiod between October 1, 2014 and April 30, 2015 shall beentitled to an allowance under subsection (1) which is equivalentto the difference between one thousand five hundred rupeesand the amount of such wages or salary increase.

(6) A worker who has received wages or salary increase of asum more than one thousand five hundred rupees and less thantwo thousand five hundred rupees during the period betweenOctober 1, 2014 and April 30, 2015 shall be entitled to anallowance under subsection (2) which is equivalent to thedifference between two thousand five hundred rupees and theamount of such wages or salary increase.

(7) A worker who is covered by

(a)a Collective Agreement entered into under theIndustrial Disputes Act (Chapter 131), which is inforce on the date of coming into operation of thisAct and which contains provisions relating toincrease of wages; or

(b)an order under subsection (2) of section 10 of theIndustrial Disputes Act, extending the applicationof a Collective Agreement referred to in paragraph(a) in respect of such worker,

5Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

shall not be entitled to the allowance under subsection (1)or subsection (2).

(8) A worker who is employed

(a)by any charitable institution within the meaningof the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006; or

(b)by any religious institution maintained for, orconnected with worship,

shall not be entitled to the allowance under this Act.

For the purpose of this subsection, religious institutionmeans any temple, kovil, church, mosque or other similarinstitution and includes any institution owned andmaintained by such temple, kovil, church or mosque for thepurpose of, or connected with worship.

(9) The Minister may, taking into consideration therelevant declining economic conditions prevailing inrelation to any industry or service, in consultation with theMinister assigned the subject of Industry and the Ministerassigned the subject of Economic Affairs, defer by Orderpublished in the Gazette, the operation of the provisions ofthis section in relation to any industry or service specifiedin such Order, to such date as may be specified therein :

Provided that, any deferment in terms of this subsectionshall not extend beyond a period of twelve months from thedate of the making of such Order.

(10) For the purposes of subsections (4), (5) and (6), theexpression wages or salary increase means any increase ofwages or salary connected to Budgetary Relief Allowanceunder this Act but does not include any annual or periodicalincrements given to a worker or to which a worker is entitled:

Provided however, any increase paid to a worker by anyemployer, which is in the nature of increment connected tothe allowance under this Act within the period commencing

6Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

from October 1, 2014 and ending on April 30, 2015 shall bedeemed as a part of the wages or salary for the purpose of thissection.

4.Every worker who had been employed by any employerin the relevant month subject to the provisions of section 3, forso long as he continues to be a worker of such employer, shallcontinue to be so employed on such terms and conditionsrelating to wages or salary, allowances or other payments inmoney by whatsoever name or designation as are not lessfavourable than those which such worker had enjoyed on theday immediately prior to the date of the coming into operationof this Act.

5.(1) The employer of a worker in any industry orservice shall from and after the date of the coming into operationof this Act, maintain and keep in the premises in which thatindustry or service is carried on, a register setting out

(a)the name of each worker employed by him;

(b)the class of work performed by each worker employedby him; and

(c)the amount paid to each such worker as allowance inaccordance with the provisions of this Act.

(2) Every register maintained under subsection (1) shall bepreserved for a period of six years by the employer. Everyemployer shall when required by the Commissioner-General,produce such register for inspection or furnish a true copythereof or permit a copy of such register to be made.

(3) Where an employer of any worker in any industry orservice has failed to maintain and keep in the premises wherethat industry or service is carried on the register required to bekept under subsection (1) or fails, when required to do so undersubsection (2) to produce such register for inspection, the

Specialprovisionsregardingcontinuationofemployment.

Duty of theemployer tomaintain aregister.

7Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

Commissioner-General is hereby empowered to assess theallowance or the short payment of allowances, as the casemay be, payable to such worker under this Act on the basisof all the evidence, both oral and documentary, available tohim and the provisions of section 11 shall apply wheredefault is made in the payment of any such allowance.

6.The competent authority shall have power

(a)to enter into and inspect at all reasonable hoursof the day or night, any place in which workersin any industry or service are employed, for thepurpose of examining any register or forascertaining whether the provisions of this Actare being complied with;

(b)where no such register is available forexamination when he inspects such place, torequire the production of such register on aspecified later date for examination at such placeor at the office of such authority;

(c)to take copies of the whole or any part of anysuch register;

(d)to question any person whom he finds in suchplace and whom he has reasonable cause tobelieve is an employer of workers employed inany industry or service carried on in such place;or

(e)to direct, in writing, any employer of workersemployed in any industry or service to furnishhim on or before a specified date, with

(i)a return, relating to all workers employedby any such employer in any specifiedclass or description of such workers andcontaining such other particulars as hemay require for the purposes of this Act;

Powers ofcompetentauthority.

8Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

(ii)such information or explanation as he mayrequire in respect of particulars stated in anyreturn furnished by any such employer; or

(iii)a true copy of the whole or any part of anyregister maintained by any such employer.

7.(1) Any employer in any industry or service whocontravenes the provisions of section 3 or section 4 or section5 of this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable onconviction by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty fivethousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description for aterm not exceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

(2) Any person who

(a)fails to furnish the competent authority with suchassistance as is necessary for any entry or inspectionor for the exercise of his powers under section 6;

(b)hinders or obstructs such authority in the exerciseof the powers conferred by that section;

(c)refuses to produce any register or furnish anyinformation which such authority requires him toproduce or furnish;

(d)makes or causes to be made in any register, anyfalse statement or makes or causes or knowinglypermits to be produced, any register containing afalse statement to such authority, knowing the sameto be false;

(e)furnishes any information to such authority actingunder the powers conferred by that section,knowing the same to be false; or

(f)fails to comply with any directions given by suchauthority under section 6, or who, when called upon

Offences andpenalties.

9Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

to furnish a return under that section, knowingly,makes or furnishes, or causes to be made orfurnished, a return containing any false statement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on convictionby a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousandrupees or to imprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

8.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons then

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everyperson who at the time of the commission of theoffence was a director, general manager, agent,secretary or officer holding similar office of thatbody;

(b)if that body of persons is a firm, every partner ofthat firm; or

(c)if that body of persons is not a body corporate,every person who at the time of the commission ofthe offence was a member of that body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he provesthat the offence was committed without his consent orconnivance and that he exercised all such diligence so as toprevent the commission of that offence as he ought to haveexercised having regard to the nature of his functions andthe related circumstances.

9.The allowance payable to a worker under this Actshall be deemed for all purposes to include

(a)contributions to Employees Provident Fund,Employees Trust Fund and pension;

Liability of thedirectors andcertain officersfor offencescommitted by abody of persons.

Payment dueunder this Act toconstitute part ofa workerswages or salary.

10Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

(b)wages or salary of annual holiday or leave;

(c)overtime remuneration;

(d)maternity benefit payment; and

(e)gratuity,

and shall constitute part of the wages or salary of such worker.Every employer of any such worker shall pay such allowancewithin the period within which such employer is required byany relevant written law to pay the wages or salary of suchworker.

10.(1) Any employer who fails to pay the allowancerequired to be paid to a worker under this Act shall be guilty ofan offence and shall be liable on conviction by a Magistrate toa fine not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding sixmonths or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Upon conviction by the Magistrate of an employer forfailure to pay any sum required to be paid to a worker under thisAct, the court shall, in addition to the penalty imposed for suchoffence, order such employer to pay such sum to such workerwithin a period specified in the Order, and if the sum is not sopaid, such sum shall be recovered by Order of court, as if it werea fine imposed by the court and paid to such worker.

11.(1) Where any employer defaults in payment of theallowance payable to any worker or workers the Commissioner-General shall, after such investigation as he may deem necessary,if he is satisfied that the employer has defaulted payment of theallowance to such worker or workers, by notice issued to suchemployer, require the employer to deposit with him the amountof the allowance defaulted in respect of such worker or workersfor the period the amount is due, within the date specified insuch notice.

Failure topay sums dueto workers.

Actionagainstdefault ofpayment oftheallowance.

11Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

(2) The employer shall, upon receipt of such notice undersubsection (1), deposit with the Commissioner-General theamount indicated in the notice on or before the date specifiedin the notice and any payment of allowance to the worker orworkers made by the employer after receipt of such noticeshall not be deemed to be a valid payment of the allowancein default.

(3) Where an employer fails to make the payment of anysum he is liable to pay as the allowance under this Act andcontravenes subsection (2), the Commissioner-General shallissue a certificate containing particulars of the sum so dueand the name and place of residence of the defaultingemployer to the Magistrate having jurisdiction in thedivision in which the place of employment of the worker orworkers in respect of whom default is made is situate. TheMagistrate shall, thereupon summon such employer to appearbefore him to show cause why further proceedings for therecovery of the sum due under this Act should not be takenagainst him and if such employer fails to appear before courton the day specified in such summons or sufficient cause isnot shown, as the case may be, such sum shall be deemed tobe a fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate on suchemployer for an offence punishable with imprisonment andthe provisions of subsection (1) of section 291 [exceptparagraphs (a), (d) and (i)] of the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979 relating to the default of payment of afine imposed for such an offence shall thereupon apply andthe Magistrate may make any direction which by theprovisions of that subsection he could have made at thetime of imposing such sentence.

(4) The correctness of any statement in a certificate issuedby the Commissioner-General for the purpose of this sectionshall not be called in question or examined by the court inany proceedings under this section, and accordingly anystatement in such certificate shall be sufficient evidence tothe facts that the amount due under this Act from thedefaulting employer has been duly calculated and that suchamount is in default.

12Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

(5) In any proceedings against any employer under thissection for failure to pay any sum which he is liable to payunder this Act, the burden of proving that the sum was paidshall lie on the employer.

12.No prosecution for any offence committed under thisAct shall be instituted except by, or with the previous writtensanction of, the Commissioner-General.

13.(1) Section 3 of this Act shall be deemed for all purposesto have come into operation on May 1, 2015.

(2) Where there remains, as on the date of coming intooperation of this Act, any unpaid amount of the allowancepayable by any employer to any worker under subsection (1) orsubsection (2) of section 3 of this Act for the period commencingon May 1, 2015 and ending on the date on which this Actcomes into operation, and where such employer pays to suchworker such arrears of the allowance in equal monthlyinstalments or higher monthly installments within a period oftwelve months commencing from the date on which this Actcomes into operation, such employer shall for all purposes bedeemed to have complied with the provisions of subsection (1)or (2) of section 3 of this Act.

14.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Collective Agreement shall have the same meaningas in the Industrial Disputes Act (Chapter 131);

Commissioner-General means the person for thetime being holding the office of Commissioner-General of Labour and includes any person forthe time being holding office as an AdditionalCommissioner-General, a Commissioner ofLabour, a Deputy Commissioner of Labour, anAssistant Commissioner of Labour or a Labourofficer;

Retrospectiveeffect.

Interpretation.

Conditionsnecessary fortheprosecutionfor offencesunder thisAct.

13Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

employer means any person who employs or onwhose behalf any other person employs, anyworker and includes a body of employers(whether such body is a firm, company, localauthority or trade union), and any personwho on behalf of any other person employsany worker including a competent authorityof a business undertaking vested in theGovernment under any written law, the legalheir, successor in law, executor oradministrator and liquidator of a companyand in the case of an unincorporated bodythe president or secretary of such body, andin the case of a partnership the managingpartner or manager;

industry or service includes

(a)any trade, business, manufacture andagriculture, any undertaking oroccupation by way of trade, business,manufacture or agriculture and anybranch or section of trade, business,manufacture or agriculture;

(b)work or labour of any descriptionwhatsoever performed by persons inthe employment of a local authority,or of a corporation established by orunder any written law for carryingon an undertaking whether forpurposes of trade or otherwise;

(c)every occupation, calling or serviceof workers, and

(d)every undertaking of employers,

but does not include any industry, businessor undertaking which is carried on by anycorporation, board or other body which was

14Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

or is established by or under any written lawwhere the Government holds a majority of theshare capital with funds or capital wholly orpartly provided by the Government by way ofgrant, loan or otherwise; or any registeredsociety within the meaning of the Co-operativeSocieties Law, No. 5 of 1972;

wages or salary means

(a)the contractual wage or salary of theworker or the wage prescribed under theWages Boards Ordinance (Chapter 136)for the industry or service to which theworker belongs; and

(b)wages or basic salary together with thecost of living allowance, special livingallowance or any other similarallowance;

worker means, any person who has entered into orworks under a contract with an employer in anycapacity, whether the contract is expressed orimplied, oral or in writing and whether it is acontract of service or of apprenticeshipexcluding a contract of apprenticeship coveredunder the Tertiary and Vocational EducationAct, No. 20 of 1990 and the Employment ofTrainees (Private Sector) Act, No. 8 of 1978, ora contrcat personally to execute any work orlabour and includes any person ordinarilyemployed under any such contract whether suchperson is or is not in employment at anyparticular time and includes any person whoseservices have been terminated but does notinclude a domestic servant.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

15Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 4 of 2016

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.