Price : Rs. 29.75Postage : Rs. 9.00

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OFSRI LANKA ACT, No. 35 OF 2002

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 20, 2002

[Certified on 20th December, 2002]

Printed on the Order of Government

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 20021

[Certified on 20th December, 2002]

L. D. O. 44/2002.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PUBLICUTILITIES COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA TO REGULATE CERTAIN

UTILITIES INDUSTRIES PURSUANT TO A COHERENT NATIONAL POLICY ;

AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

PART 1

PRELIMINARY

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Public UtilitiesCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002 and shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may appoint byOrder published in the Gazette. Different dates may beappointed in respect of different provisions of this Act.

(2)This Act shall apply to the public utilities industriesset out in the Schedule to this Act, the regulation of which isvested in or assigned to the Public Utilities Commission ofSri Lanka.

(3)Parliament may by resolution amend the Scheduleto the Act by adding thereto any utilities industry or removingtherefrom any pubic utilities industry, where such addition orremoval is considered necessary or expedient in the publicinterest.

PART II

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA

2.(1) There shall be established a Commission, whichshall be called the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka(hereinafter referred to as the Commission).

Establishment ofthe Public UtilitiesCommission ofSri Lanka.

Short title, date ofoperation andapplication.

2H 016581 5,650 (2002/09)

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 20022

Members of theCommission.

Duties of theConstitutionalCouncil under thisAct.

(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal, and may sue and be sued in such name.

3. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 5, theCommission shall consist of five members appointed by theMinister with the concurrence of the Constitutional Council,of whom

(a)at least one member shall be a person who isqualified, and has experience, in the field ofengineering ;

(b)at least one other member shall be a person who isqualified, and has experience in the field of law ;and

(c)at least one other member shall be a person who isqualified, and has experience in the field of businessmanagement.

(2) The first members of the Commission shall beappointed within four months of the coming into operationof this Part and any subsequent vacancy in the Commissionshall be filled within three months of the occurrence of thevacancy.

4. (1) The Constitutional Council shall, before giving itsconcurrence to the appointment of any person as a memberof the Commission under this Act, satisfy itself that suchperson is qualified for appointment under subsection (1) ofsection 5 and is not disqualified for appointment undersubsection (2) of section 5.

(2)Decisions of the Constitutional Council to give itsconcurrence for appointment of persons as members of theCommission shall be by majority vote.

(3)The Constitutional Council may require any personbeing considered for appointment as a member under section3 to furnish it with such information as it may require for thepurpose of discharging its functions under subsection (1).

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 20023

(4)The Minister shall, within one month from the dateof occurrence of a vacancy in the Commission, transmit tothe Constitutional Council for its concurrence, names ofpersons in the order of preference, to be appointed asCommissioner. The Constitutional Council, where it concursas regards the persons to be appointed as members of theCommission, shall express its concurrence to the Minister atleast one month prior to the date before which the Minister isrequired to make such appointments.

5. (1) The members of the Commission shall be personswith ability and integrity and have shown capacity inaddressing problems relating to, engineering, law, economics,business management, accountancy or administration

(2) A Person shall be disqualified from being appointed,or continuing as a member of the Commission if

(a)he or she is not a citizen of Sri Lanka ; or

(b)he or she has been convicted of a criminaloffence ; or

(c)he or she is, or has been an undischarged bankruptor has made any arrangement with his or hercreditors ; or

(d)he or she is, or has been within three years prior tohis or her nomination for appointment, a member ofParliament ; or

(e)he or she is a member of a Provincial Council or anylocal authority ; or

(f)he or she holds any post in any political partyrecognized for the purposes of parliamentaryelections ; or

(g)he or she or a connected person, has any financial orother interest amounting to a conflict of interest,directly or indirectly, in any company or undertakingwhich carries on any public utilities industry.

Qualifications &c.of members of theCommission.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 20024

Resignation,removal and termof office, ofmembers of theCommission.

6.(1) A member of the Commission may resign fromoffice by letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister, andsuch resignation shall take effect from the date on which theresignation is accepted in writing by the Minister.

(2) The Minister may remove a member of theCommission from office after an address of Parliamentsupported by a majority of the total number of members ofParliament (including those not present) has been presentedto the Minister for such removal, after compliance with theprocedure set out in section 7.

(3) The term of office of a member of the Commissionshall be five years from the date of appointment :

Provided however, that the first members of theCommission, other than the member who is appointed as theChairman, shall hold office for periods of four, three, twoyears and one year respectively, as the Minister shalldetermine.

(4) Where a member of the Commission vacates officeby death, resignation or other cause, the Minister shall, withthe concurrence of the Constitutional Council, appoint, havingregard to the provisions of sections 5 and 7, another suitableperson in his or her place, and the person so appointed shallhold office for the remainder of the terms of office of themember whom he or she succeeds.

(5) A member of the Commission whose term of office isdue to end otherwise than by removal shall be eligible forreappointment for not more than one further term of office(whether concecutive or otherwise).

(6) Members of the Commission shall be paid suchremuneration as may be determined by a resolution ofParliament and such remuneration shall be charged to the Fundof the Commission. Members of the Commission shallexercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions of the commission on a part-time basis, inaccordance with the terms and conditions of their respectiveletters of appointment.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 20025

(7) A person shall not, for a period of three years after heor she ceases to be a member of the Commission, acquire,hold or maintain, directly or indirectly, any office,employment, consultancy arrangement or business in SriLanka where he or she may be liable to use or discloseinformation acquired by him or her in the exercise,performance and discharge of the powers, duties and functionsof the Commission, and if he or she acquires any such interestsinvoluntarily or by way of succession or testamentarydisposition, he or she shall divest himself or herself of suchinterest, within two months of the acquisition of such interest.

7.The Minister shall not remove a member of theCommission from office unless

(a)the Minister has sent a notice to the member that itis proposed to remove such member from office onany one or more of the following grounds, namely,that he or she

(i) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made anyarrangement with his or her creditors; or

(ii) is found or declared to be of unsound mindunder any law in force in Sri Lanka; or

(iii) has ceased to be qualified to continue as amember, or is disqualified from continuing asa member ; or

(iv) has refused or failed to discharge his or herfunctions for a period of three months or more;or

(v) is guilty of misbehavior,

accompanied by full particulars relating to theproposed grounds for removal, and has afforded themember an opportunity of making representationsagainst the proposed removal ;

Procedure forremoval ofmember fromoffice.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 20026

Chairman of theCommission.

(b)the Minister, having considered any representationsmade by the member, has reported to Parliament,that the proposed removal of the member, on thegrounds specified in the notice sent to the memberis justified and has forwarded, together with thereport, the representations made by the member, toParliament;

(c)Parliament, having considered the report of theMinister and the representations made by themember, has passed an address, supported by amajority of the total number of members ofParliament (including those not present), for suchremoval.

8. (1) The Minister shall appoint one of the members ofthe Commission to be the Chairman of the Commission(hereinafter referred to as The Chairman).

(2) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairmanby letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister and theresignation shall take effect from the date on which it isaccepted, in writing, by the Minister.

(3) The Chairman shall cease to be the Chairman if he orshe is removed from the office of member of the Commissionunder section 6.

(4) The term of office of the Chairman shall be five years.

(5) The Chairman shall not, on vacation of the office ofChairman, be eligible for reappointment as Chairman.

(6) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 7, theChairman shall, within one month of his or her appointment,nominate a member in writing, to be the Deputy Chairman todischarge the functions of the Chairman during his absencefrom office due to illness or any other cause.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 20027

Meetings of theCommission.9. (1) The Chairman shall summon all meetings of theCommission. Any member of the Commission may, by writtennotice, request the Chairman to call a meeting of theCommission and the Chairman shall not, otherwise than forgood reason, refuse to do so.

(2) The Commission may decide any matter, which isdetermined by the Chairman to be urgent with the agreementof the majority of the members.

(3) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of theCommission and in the absence of the Chairman at anymeeting, the Deputy Chairman shall preside at such meeting.

(4) The quorum for a meeting of the Commission shall bethree members including the Chairman. In the absence of theChairman, the quorum shall be three members including theDeputy Chairman.

(5)All matters for decision by the Commission shall bedecided by a majority of the votes of the members of theCommission. The decision supported by the votes of amajority of the members of the Commission on any matter,shall be deemed to be the decision of the Commission on thatmatter.

(6)All decisions of the Commission, supported byreasons, shall be in writing and the seal of the Commissionaffixed thereto in accordance with paragraph (c) ofsection 10.

(7)In case there is an equality of votes on any matter tobe decided by the Commission, the Chairman shall have acasting vote.

(8)Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Commission may regulate the procedure in regard to themeetings of the Commission and the transaction of businessat such meetings.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 20028

Seal of theCommission.

(9)No act, decision or proceeding of the Commissionshall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existenceof any vacancy in its membership or defect in the appointmentof any member thereof.

10. The seal of the Commission

(a)shall be determined by the Commission and may bealtered in such manner as may be determined by theCommission;

(b)shall be in the custody of such person as theCommission may determine from time to time;

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument or documentexcept with the sanction of the Commission and inthe presence of two members of the Commissionwho shall sign the instrument or document in tokenof their presence.

PART III

APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR-GENERAL, DEPUTY DIRECTORS-GENERAL AND OTHERS STAFF

11.(1) The Commission shall within three months ofthe appointment of its first members, and thereafter whenevera vacancy arises, appoint a person to be the Director-Generalof the Commission (hereinafter referred to as the Director-General) who shall be the Chief Executive officer of theCommission. The Commission shall determine the conditionsof employment including remuneration of the Director-General.

(2) The Commission may appoint one or more DeputyDirectors-General as it considers necessary with responsibilityfor a specific industry.

Director-Generaland DeputyDirectors-Generalof theCommission.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 20029

(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of section 5and subsection (7) of section 6 shall, mutatis mutandis, applyin relation to the appointments of the Director-General andthe Deputy Directors-General.

(4) The Director-General shall, subject to the generaldirection and control of the Commission, be charged with theconduct of the day to day activities of the Commissionrequired for the exercise of its powers, performance of itsduties and functions and the administration and control ofthe staff of the Commission.

(5) The Commission may delegate to the Director-Generalonly its decision making powers in relation to theadministration and control of its staff other than thoseconcerning the Director-General.

(6) The Director-General shall attend meetings ofCommission. However, he shall not attend a meeting duringsuch time any matter relating to him or her or to theappointment of a successor to him or her is discussed. Heshall not be entitled to vote at such meetings.

(7) The Director-General may, with the approval of theCommission, delegate to a Deputy Director-General or anystaff of the Commission, any power, function or duty whichhas been validly delegated to him or her, except the power ofDelegation conferred on him or her by this section, and suchDeputy or staff shall exercise such powers and perform suchfunctions and discharge such duties in accordance with ageneral or specific direction of the Director-General.

(8) The Commission may remove from office the Director-General or any Deputy Director-General appointed undersubsection (1) or (2), as the case may be.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200210

Staff of theCommission.

Official secrecy.

12. (1) The Commission

(a)shall appoint a Secretary to undertake a corporatesecretarial role inter alia;

(b)may appoint such other staff as it considers necessaryfor the exercise of its powers and performance of itsfunctions and duties;

(c)may dismiss and exercise disciplinary control oversuch staff;

(d)shall fix the rates at which such staff shall beremunerated;

(e)shall determine the terms and conditions of serviceof such staff; and

(f)may establish and regulate provident funds orschemes for the benefit of such staff and makecontributions to any such funds or schemes fromthe Fund of the Commission

(2) Staff shall include the Director-General and DeputyDirectors-General for the purpose of this section.

(3) The Commission may make rules in respect of all orany of the matters referred to in subsection (1).

13. (1) Every member of the Commission, the Secretarythe Director-General, Deputy Director-General (if any), andother Staff of the Commission shall, before taking up office,sign a declaration of secrecy in such form, in such mannerand before such authority as may be prescribed by the Minister.All agents, consultants and advisors of the Commission shallbe required by the Commission to adhere to such secrecyrequirements.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200211

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence and on convictionafter sumary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonmentof either description for a period not exceeding six monthsor to both such fine and imprisonment.

PART IV

OBJECTIVES, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS

14. (1) The Commission shall exercise, perform anddischarge its powers, functions and duties under this Act andany other industry Act reasonably with fairness, impartialityand independence and in a manner that is timely, transparent,objective and consistent with this Act and such other Act.

(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (1),the Commission shall exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, functions and duties conferred on or assigned to itby or under this Act and any other industry Act, in a mannerwhich it considers is best calculated

(a)to protect the interests of all consumers;

(b)to promote competition;

(c)to promote efficiency in both the operations of, andcapital investment in, public utilities industries;

(d)to promote an efficient allocation of resources inpublic utilities industries;

(e)to promote safety and service quality in publicutilities industries;

(f)to benchmark, where feasible, the utilities servicesas against international standards; and

(g)to ensure that price controlled entities actingefficiently, do not find it unduly difficult in financingtheir public utilities industries.

Objectives of theCommission.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200212

Powers of theCommission torequireinformation.

15.(1) The Commission shall have the following powersas reasonably required to carry out its functions :

(a)to request any person, including a regulated entity,to furnish to the Commission periodically, or as andwhen required by the Commission, any information,books, accounts or other documents which arerequired by the Commission and are in the custodyor under the control of that person.

(b)to summon to attend at a public hearing held undersection 18 any person who, in the opinion of theCommission, may be able to give evidence in relationto any matter before the Commission.

(2) Any person to whom a request for information has beenmade under this section shall duly furnish the Commissionwith the information, books, accounts or other documents.

(3) Any person who without reasonable excuse fails tofurnish any information, books accounts or other documentsrequired of him or her by the Commission under subsection(2), shall be guilty of an offence and upon conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding one million rupees and where the offence is acontinuing offence, to an additional fine of fifty thousandrupees for each day during which such offence continues :

Provided however, that a person referred to in this sectionshall not be compelled to produce a document which he orshe could not be compelled to produce in civil proceedingsbefore a court or to furnish information which he or she couldnot be compelled to give in evidence in any such proceedings.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5), anyinformation with respect to any particular business which

(a)has been obtained under or by virtue of any of theprovisions of this Part;

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200213

General powers ofthe Commission.

(b)relates to the affairs of any individual or to anyparticular business; and

(c)is stated in writing, at the time of provisions, to beconfidential or commercially sensitive,

shall not, during the lifetime of that individual or for solong as that business continues to be carried on, bedisclosed by the Commission without the written consentof the individual or business.

(5)Subsection (4) shall not apply to any disclosure ofinformation

(a)which is required by a Court of law; or

(b)if the Commission is of the opinion that thedisclosure is required for the public benefit; or

(c)which is made for the purpose of enabling a licenseeto comply with a condition of its license under or byvirtue of which it is required to disclose theinformation to another person.

For the purpose of this Act any information contained inan electronic record, printed on a paper, stored, recorded orcopied in optical or magnetic media and produced by whatevermeans, shall be deemed to be also a document.

16. Without prejudice to the powers expressly conferredon the Commission by this Act, the Commission shall havethe power

(a)to engage, subject to section 13, from time to timethe services of consultants or advisors as it mayconsider necessary to assist in the discharge of itsfunctions and remunerate such persons out of theFund of the Commission in such manner and at suchrates as may be determined by the Commission;

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200214

Functions of theCommission.

(b)to enter into agreements with regulated entities;

(c)to acquire and hold property movable andimmovable, and to sell, lease, mortgage, exchange,or otherwise dispose of, the same;

(d)to enter into such contracts as may be necessary forthe exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions;

(e)to acquire such right, privileges, licences andauthorities as may be necessary for the effectivedischarge of its functions ;

(f)to levy fees ; and

(g)generally to do all such other acts and things as areincidental to or consequential upon the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions under this Act and any other industry Act.

17.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commissionshall, among other things,

(a)exercise, perform and discharge the powers, functionsand duties conferred on or assigned to the Commissionby or under this Act or any industry Act ;

(b)consult, to the extent the Commission considersappropriate, any person or group who or which maybe affected, or likely to be affected, by the decisionsof the Commission ;

(c)advise the Government, as the Commission deemsappropriate, on all matters concernig any industryfalling within the purview of this Act ;

(d)collect, record and disseminate, subject to section15 (4), information concerning any public utilitiesindustries ;

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200215

(e)prepare within six months of its establishment aregulatory manual containing a code of good practicegoverning the functions of the Commission andrevise it as and when required ;

(f)exercise licensing, regulatory and inspectionfunctions in respect of all matters provided for inany industry Act ;

(g)enforce the provisions of licences, contracts andother instruments issued under the authority of anyindustry Act ;

(h)regulate tariffs and other charges levied by regulatedentities where required by any industry Act ;

(i)determine by mediation disputes arising in any publicutilities industry ;

(j)set and enforce technical and other standards relatingto the safety, quality, continuity and reliability of thepublic utilities industries ; and

(k)undertake such other incidental or ancillary activitieswhich the Commission may consider appropriate forthe effective discharge of any of its functions.

18. (1) The Commission may, in discharging the functionsassigned to it by or under this Act or any other industry Act,and where it deems necessary in the public interest hold apublic hearing in order to investigate or determine any matter.The public hearing shall be held in any manner not inconsistentwith the principles of natural justice.

(2) The Commission shall, for the purposes of a publichearing referred to in subsection (1), have the power

(a)to procure and receive all such evidence, written ororal and to examine all such persons as witnesses,as the Commission may think necessaey or desirableto procure or examine ;

Public hearing.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200216

(b)to require the evidence (whether written or oral) ofany witness to be given on oath or affirmation andto administer or cause to be administered by anofficer authorized in that behalf by the Commission,an oath or affirmation to every such witness ;

(c)to summon any person residing in Sri Lanka to attenda public hearing of the Commission to give evidenceor produce any document or other thing in his or herpossession and to examine him or her as a witnessor to require him or her to produce any document orother thing in his or her possession ;

(d)to admit any evidence, whether written or oralnotwithstanding the provisions contained in theEvidence Ordinance.

(3)Any person who has been summoned or whoseinterests are likely to be affected by any matter before theCommission may appear in person or by authorizedrepresentative.

(4)Every person who gives evidence at such publichearing shall, in respect of such evidence, be entitled to allthe privileges to which a witness giving evidence before acourt of law is entitled in respect of evidence given by him orher before such court.

(5)The proceedings at such a pubic hearing shall be opento the public and the minutes, including a record of theevidence given and a statement of all facts taken intoconsideration, shall be kept by the Commission and madeavailable to the public.

(6)Every offence of contempt committed against, or indisrespect of, the authority of the Commission shall bepunishable by the Court of Appeal as though it were an offenceof contempt committed against, or in disrespect of theauthority of that Court, and the Court of Appeal is herebyvested with jurisdiction to try every such offence.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200217

(7) An act done or ommitted to be done in relation to theCommission, whether in the presence of the Commission, orotherwise, shall constitute an offence of contempt against, orin disrespect of, the authority of the Commission, if such actwould, if done or omitted to be done in relation to the Courtof Appeal have constituted an offence of contempt against,or in disrespect of, the authority of such Court.

(8)Any person

(a)who fails without cause to appear before theCommission at the time and place mentioned in thesummons issued by the Commission ; or

(b)who refuses to be sworn, or affirmed or having beenduly sworn or affirmed refuses or fails without causeto answer any question lawfully ;

(c)who refuses or fails without cause, to produce orshow to the Commission any document or other thingwhich is in his or her possession or power and whichis in the opinion of the Commission necessary forarriving at the truth of the matter being inquired intoby the Commission,

shall be guilty of the offence of contempt against, or indisrespect of the authority of the Commission.

(9) During or at the conclusion of a public hearing theCommission may

(a)make an order or award with reasons therefor relatingto the matter before it or part thereof, or give adirection with resons therefor ;

(b)dismiss any matter or part of a matter or refrain fromfurther hearing or from determining the matter orpart thereof, if it appears that the matter or partthereof is trivial or vexatious or that furtherproceedings are not necessary or desirable in thepublic interest ;

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200218

(c)generally give all such directions and do all suchthings as are necessary or expedient for expeditiousand just hearing and determination of the matterbefore it.

(10)Every order or award made and every directiongiven in pursuance of paragraph (a) of subsection (9) shall bepublished in the Gazette, and a copy of every such order, awardor direction shall be served on each party to the public hearing.

19. (1) An order, award or direction made by theCommission under section 18 shall, subject to subsection (2),be final.

(2) An appeal shall lie by any person aggrieved from anorder, award or direction made under section 18 on a questionof law, to the Court of Appeal.

(3) An appeal under subsection (2), shall be by writtenpetition and shall

(a)be presented in triplicate to the Commission withinthirty days after the date of the communication bywhich the order, award or direction was notified tothe appellant ;

(b)set forth the order, award or direction of theCommission and the question of law to be argued ;

(c)make any necessary party a respondent to suchappeal ; and

(d)be accompanied by a fee of one thousand repees tobe made payable to the Fund of the Commission.

(4) Where a petition of appeal is presented to theCommission in the manner and within the time specified insubsection (3), the Commission shall

(a)transmit, or cause to be transmitted to the Court ofAppeal a copy of the petition together with the record

Finality of ordersmade undersection 18 subjectto appeal on aquestion of law.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200219

of the proceedings in wich the order, award ordirection referred to in the petition was made or given ;

(b)issue, or cause to be issued notice of the appeal tothe respondents named in the petition of appealtogether with a copy of that petition ; and

(c)file or cause to be filed of record a copy of thepetition.

(5) The Court of Appeal may in determining such questionof law, confirm, vary or annul the order, award or direction ofthe Commission or may remit the matter to the Commissionwith the decision of that Court on the question of law withsuch directions as may be deemed appropriate.

20.A copy of any rule, order, award, direction or otherdocument made by or in the costody of the Commission andcertified by the Chairman to be a true copy thereof shall, inany court, be evidence of the rule, order, award, direction orother document without proof of the signature of the Chairman.

21.Any person who without lawful authority contravenesor fails to comply with an order, award or direction of theCommission shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liableon conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to afine not exceeding one million rupees and where the offenceis a continuing offence to an additional fine of five hundredthousand rupees for each day during which such contraventioncontinues.

PART V

COMPETITION

22.The Commission shall, in relation to each publicutilities industry, regulate and inquire into anti-competitivepractices, monopolies, acquisitions and abuses of a dominantposition, and merger situations and may carry out aninvestigation, either of its own motion or on a complaint orrequest made to it by any person, with respect to

Contravention ofan order, award ordirection.

Evidence ofdocuments.

Commissions

competition

functions.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200220

(a)the existence or suspected existence of any anti-competitive practices ;

(b)the acquisition, existence or suspected existence ofabuse of a dominant position which may affectdomestic trade or economic development in one ormore markets in which a regulated entity operates ;or

(c)the creation or suspected creation of a mergersituation,

on becoming aware of the same, in consultation with anyregulated entity affected or likely to be affected, thecomplainant and any Consumer Consultative Committeeestablished.

23. (1) For the purposes of section 22

(a)(i)any agreement in writing, oral or by conduct,involving a regulated entity ;

(ii)any decision by regulated entities actingtogether ; or

(iii)any practice or conduct of one or more regulatedentities,

which affects or is likely to affect domestic orinternational trade and the object or effect of which isto prevent, restrict or distort competition in Sri Lankashall constitute an anti-competitive practice ;

(b)the provisions of section 23 (1) (a) shall apply inparticular, to agreements, decisions, practices orconduct which

(i)directly or indirectly fix purchase or sellingprices ;

Criteria forCommissionscompetitionfunction.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200221

(ii)eliminate or substantially damage a competitorin a market ;

(iii)prevent the entry of a competitor into a market ;

(iv)deter or prevent a person from engaging incompetitive conduct in a market ; or

(v)unduly limit or control a consumers access to,or ability to transfer to or from, a regulatedentity ;

(c)a dominant position shall be taken to exist if theprescribed percentage of a utility network is used orprovided by, or the prescribed percentage of a utilityservice is provided by or to

(i)the same person ; or

(ii)members of a group of persons, includingconnected bodies corporate ;

(d)conduct that may, in particular, constitute an abuseof a dominant position if it

(i)amounts to directly or indirectly imposingunfair purchase or selling prices ;

(ii)eliminates or substantially damages acompetitor in a market ;

(iii)prevents the entry of a competitor into a market ;

(iv)deters or prevents a person from engaging incompetitive conduct in a market ; or

(v)unduly limits or controls a consumers accessto, or ability to transfer to or from, regulatedentities ;

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200222

(e)a merger situation shall be taken to exist if a person,including a body corporate, acquires or proposes toacquire, directly or indirectly, any shares or assetsof any other person which results or would result ina change of control of that other person

(i)the object or effect of which is that the personstaken together are or are likely to be or wouldbe in a dominant position in a market in anypublic utilities industry ; or

(ii)where both persons are engaged, exclusively orotherwise, in the provision of, and hold adominant position within the same utilitynetwork or utility service in a public utilitiesindustry, in the same or different geographicalareas, even if the circumstances in (i) above arenot satisfied ;

(f)any regulated entity which is of the opinion or oughtreasonably to be of the opinion that it may fall withinthe scope of the activities set out in section 22 whichthe Commission is empowered to investigate shallnotify the Commission immediately,

(2) In this section

control means direct or indirect control of the wholeor parts of one or more other persons ;

utility network means a network or system, howeverdefined in any industry Act, for the provision ofutility services ; and

utility services means the provision of goods orservices in the public utilities industries.

24. (1) Where, upon investigation, the Commission issatisfied that an anti-competitive practice or merger situationexists but that it does not operate or is not likely to operateagainst the public interest, the Commission shall by order,authorize that anti-competitive practice or merger situationsubject to such conditions as it may consider necessary orexpedient.

Commissionscompetitionenforcementpowers.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200223

(2) Where, upon investigation, the Commission is satisfiedthat a dominant position exists but that no abuse of thatdominant position exists, the Commission shall by order,declare that no abuse of a dominant position has occurred,subject to such conditions, as it may consider necessary orexpedient.

(3) Where, upon investigation, the Commission is satisfiedthat

(a)a merger situation exists, is likely to operate againstthe public interest and that a merger has not yet takenplace, the Commission may by order prohibit themerger situation ;

(b)Without prejudice to paragraph (a), in anti-competitive practice or merger situation exists andthat it operates against the public interest, or an abuseof a dominant position exists, the Commission mayby order provide for

(i)the carrying on of any activity or thesafeguarding of any assets by the appointmentof a person to conduct or supervise the conductof such activities or safeguarding such assetson such terms and with such powers as may bespecified in the order ;

(ii)the termination of any anti-competitive practiceor abuse of a dominant position or the de-mergerof a merger situation in such manner as may bespecified in the order ; and

(iii)such action as the Commission may considernecessary in the circumstances for the purposeof remedying or preventing the resulting adverseeffects, subject to such conditions as it mayconsider necessary or expedient.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200224

(4) In determining for the purpose of this section whetheran anti-competitive practice or merger situation operates oris likely to operate against the public interest, the Commissionshall take into account all matters which appear to theCommission to be relevant to the matter under investigationand shall have special regard to the desirability of

(a)maintaining and promoting effective competitionbetween regulated entities ; and

(b)promoting the interests of consumers in relation tothe market in which the anti-competitive practice ormerger situation operates, or is likely to operate; and

in addition, in the case of a merger situation

(c)giving effect to the principle that the number ofregulated entities which are under independentcontrol should not be so reduced as to prejudice theCommissions ability, in carrying on its functions tomake comparisons between different regulatedentities in the same public utilities industry.

(5) The Commission shall give any regulated entity, whichis the subject of an inquiry or investigation held by theCommission under section 22, an opportunity to be heard andto produce oral or documentary evidence.

25. (1) Where the Commission reasonably believes thatan activity identified under section 22 exists, without prejudiceto section 15, the Commission shall have the power exercisedby an officer of the Commission authorized in that behalf, onreasonable grounds, with an entry warrant issued by aMagistrate and on production, if required, thereof

(a)to enter, inspect and search at all reasonable hoursof the day the premises in which any regulated entityis carrying on its business or any other premises ;and

Powers of entry,inspection andsearch.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200225

(b)to inspect, take copies of or seize and detain anyrelevant records or documents of that regulatedentity,

and no person shall obstruct any officer acting in theexercise of his or her powers under this section.

26. (1) The Commission is required to ensure that so faras possible, having regard to any relevant differences betweenthe provisions concerned, question arising under this Part inrelation to the regulation of competition in the public utilitiesindustries are dealt with, in a manner which is consistent withthe treatment of corresponding question arising under therelevant Act.

(2) In determining a question under this Part, theCommission shall act so far as is compatible with theprovisions of this Part, with a view to securing that there wouldbe no inconsistency between the principles applied, and anydecision reached, by the relevant authority in determining thatquestion and the Commission shall, in addition, have regardto any relevant decision or statement of the relevant authority.

(3) In this section relevant authority means the statutoryregulatory authority charged, under a relevant Act, withequivalent competition regulation functions for industriesother than the public utilities industries.

27.(1) Any person who fails to comply with a relevantobligation shall be guilty of an offence under this Act andshall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistratebe liable

(a)where such person is not a body corporate, to a finenot less than one million and not more than tenmillion rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding seven years orto both such fine and imprisonment ;

Principles to beapplied.

Offences andpenalties.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200226

(b)where such person is a body corporate, to a fine notless than ten million and not more than hundredmillion rupees ; and

(c)in either case, where the offence is a continuingoffence, to an additional fine of five hundredthousand rupees for each day during which suchcontravention continues,

and the court may in addition order such persons to refrainfrom carrying on those activities which are required tohave been terminated, or to do such other acts as arerequired to be done, under the Commissions earlier orderfor such period as may be determined by the court or untilsuch person complies with such order made under thatsection.

(2) The Commission may publish or cause to be publishedin such manner as it sees fit, the names and addresses of allpersons convicted under this Act.

(3) Where any offence is committed by a body of persons,then

(a)if the body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector and officer of such body corporate ; and

(b)if the body of persons is a firm, every partner of thatfirm,

shall be guilty of an offence, provided that such director,officer or partner shall not be deemed to be guilty of thatoffence if he or she establishes to the satisfaction of thecourt that such offence was committed without hisknowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to preventthe commission of such offence.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200227

(4) In this section, relevant obligation means anobligation cast on any person under this Part, or theobligations under section 15 where applicable in this Part, oran order of the Commission made under this Part, or acts incontravention of such order.

PART VI

CONSUMER PROTECTION

28.The Commission shall in the exercise of its powersunder any industry Act or any regulation made thereunder,protect the rights of the consumer

(a)against the marketing of goods and services whichare hazardous to life and property ;

(b)against unfair trade practices ;

(c)to be heard and to be assured that their interests willreceive due consideration ; and

(d)to consumer education.

29.(1) The Commission shall, after consultation withthe Minister, appoint a Consumer Consultative Committee.

(2)The composition of the Committee shall be asprescribed by regulation.

(3)The functions of the Committee shall be to

(a)advise the Commission on appropriate standards tobe prescribed or determined under this Act ;

(b)monitor whether the needs of consumers of goodsor services provided by any public utilities industryare being satisfied ; and

(c)promote awareness of the standards prescribed ordetermined under this Act and the rights ofconsumers with respect to those standards.

Consumerprotection.

ConsumerConsultativeCommittee

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200228

PART VII

POLICY GUIDELINES

30.(1) The Cabinet of Ministers shall in consultationwith the Minister in charge of a public utilities industry,formulate where it sees fit, general policy guidelines and issuesuch guidelines to the Commission through the Minister

(a)on any matter identified in or under such industryAct for which general policy guidelines may bemade ;

(b)on the need for the supply of public utility servicesunder such industry Act in order to attain nationaltargets for sustainable economic growth in respectof, among other things

(i)different geographical areas encompassing ruralareas ; and

(ii)different socio-economic groups ;

(c)on measures taken by the Government to facilitatethe needs identified under paragraph (b) ;

(d)on setting down the priorities and attaining theobjectives specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).

(2) Where any general policy guideline issued undersubsection (1) results in the need for a regulated entity tosubsidize the provision of any service of a public utilitiesindustry to any socio-economic group or to a geographicalarea, the Commission shall, in implementing the policyguidelines, ensure that

(a)the government compensates such regulated entityfor all loss and expenses caused to that regulatedentity by reason of its compliance ; and

Minister to issuegeneral policyguidelines.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200229

(b)adequate financial provision is made by theGovernment before such regulated entity undertakesany necessary activities.

(3) The Minister shall

(a)within three months of the end of each calendar yearsubmit a report to Parliament setting out the actionhe or she has taken in respect of implementing thepolicy guidelines during the said calendar year ; and

(b)prior to issuing the general policy guidelines undersubsection (1), lay such policy guidelines beforeParliament for information.

PART VIII

FINANCE

31.(1) The Commission shall have its own Fund.

(2)There shall be paid into the Fund of the Commission

(a)all such sums of money as may be reasonablyrequired by the Commission to perform its functionsand duties under this Act and any other industry Act,voted upon by Parliament during the first year ofthe establishment of the Commission ;

(b)all such sums of money as are recovered by theCommission as levies under industry Acts ;

(c)all such sums of money as are received by theCommission in the exercise, performance anddischarge, of its powers, duties and functions underthis Act or any other industry Act, including feesreceived by the Commission for the grant or renewalof licences under those Acts ;

Fund of theCommission.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200230

(d)all such sums of money as are received by theCommission by way of loans, gifts or grants fromany source whatsoever ; and

(e)all such sums of money as are authorized or requiredto be paid into the Fund by any provisions of thisAct or any other industry Act.

(3)There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commission

(a)all such sums of money as are required to defrayany expenditure incurred by the Commission in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powersduties and functions under this Act or any otherindustry Act ; and

(b)all such sums of money as are required or authorizedto be paid out of the Fund by any provision of thisAct or any other industry Act.

(4) The Commission may, with the approval of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance, invest suchmoneys as are not immediately required for its purposes, insuch securities as the Commission may consider fit andtransfer or sell such securities.

32.The Commission may borrow temporarily, by wayof overdraft or otherwise, such sums of money as theCommission may reasonably require for performing ordischarging its duties and functions under this Act or any otherindustry Act :

Provided that the aggregate of the amounts outstanding inrespect of any temporary loans raised under this section shallnot at any time exceed such sum as may be determined by theMinister in consultation with the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance.

Power to borrow.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200231

Provision relatingto expenditure.33.(1) Any excess of the revenue of the Commissionin any year over its expenditure for that year shall be carriedforwards to meet its expenditure in subsequent years.

(2)The Commission shall, not later than September ofeach year, cause to be published in the Gazette, a statementsetting out its estimated expenditure for the next financialyear.

(3)The Commission may revise its estimatedexpenditure for any year in that year and shall cause everysuch revision to be published in the Gazette.

(4)The expenditure of the Commission for any year, shallnot exceed by ten per centum of its estimated expenditure (asrevised from time to time), for that year.

34.(1) The financial year of the Commission shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Commission shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Commission. Separateaccounts shall be maintained in respect of loans received.

(3) The Auditor-General shall audit the accounts of theCommission.

(4) The Auditor-General and any person assisting him orher in the audit of the accounts of the Commission, shall haveaccess to all such books, deeds, contracts, accounts, vouchersand documents as the Auditor General may consider necessaryfor the purposes of such audit, and shall be furnished by theCommission or its officers with such information within theirknowledge as may be required for such purposes.

(5) The Auditor-General shall examine the accounts ofthe Commission and furnish a report

(a)stating whether he or she has or has not obtained allthe information and explanations required by himor her ;

Accounts andaudit.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200232

(b)stating whether the accounts referred to in the reportare properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fairview of the affairs of the Commission ; and

(c)drawing attention to any item in the accounts whichin his or her opinion may be of interest to Parliamentin any examination of the activities and accounts ofthe Commission.

(6) The Auditor-General shall transmit the report andstatement prepared by him under subsection (5), to theCommission.

(7)For the purpose of meeting the expenses incurred byhim or her in the audit of the accounts of the Commission,the Auditor-General shall be paid out of the Fund of theCommission, such remuneration as the Commission maydetermine. Any remuneration received by the Auditor-Generalunder this subsection shall, after deduction therefrom of anysums paid by him or her to any qualified auditor or auditorsemployed by him or her for the purposes of such audit, becredited to the Consolidated Fund.

PART IX

GENERAL

35.(1) The Commission and the relevant person at eachof the following :

(a)the Central Environmental Authority ;

(b)the Urban Development Authority ;

(c)the Telecommunication Regulatory Commission ;and

(d)such other regulatory body as may be designated bythe Minister for the purposes of this section,

shall, in the case of the persons referred to in paragraphs(a), (b) and (c), not later than six months after the

Co-operationbetweenCommission andother bodies.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200233

establishment of the Commission, and in the case of thepersons referred to in paragraph (d), not later than sixmonths after they are designated under that paragraph,make arrangements and prepare a written memorandumwith a view to securing

(i)co-operation and exchange of informationbetween the Commission and each of thosebodies ; and

(ii)consistent treatment of matters which comewithin the scope of the functions of theCommission and each of those bodies, insofaras such treatment does not contravene theprovisions of this Act or any other law.

(2)As soon as practicable after a written memorandumis prepared, and whenever any revision of it is subsequentlyagreed upon as being appropriate by the Commission and eachof the bodies referred to in subsection (1), the Commissionshall send a copy of the written memorandum, or the revisedmemorandum, as the case may be, to the Minister for his orher information.

(3) The relevant person in relation to

(a)the Central Environmental Authority, shall be itsGeneral Manager ;

(b)the Urban Development Authority, shall be itsGeneral manager ;

(c)the Telecommunication Regulatory Commission,shall be its chief executive officer ; and

(d)a body designated under paragraph (d) ofsubsection(1) shall be its chief executive officer.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200234

36.(1) No suit or prosecution shall lie against

(a)the Commission for any act which in good faith isdone or omitted to be done, by the Commission underthis Act or any other industry Act ;

(b)any member, secretary, Director-General, DeputyDirector-General (if any), Staff, Consultant orAdvisor of the Commission for any act which ingoods faith is done or omitted to be done, by him orher under this Act or any other industry Act.

(2) Any expenses incurred by the Commission in any suitor prosecution brought by , or against, the Commission beforeany court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commissionand any costs paid to, or recovered by, the Commission inany such suit or prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund ofthe Commission.

(3) Any expenses incurred by any member of theCommission, Secretary, Director-General, Deputy Director-General (if any), Staff, Consultant or Advisor thereof, in anysuit or prosecution brought against him or her in any court inrespect of any act which is done, or purported to be done, byhim or her under this Act or any other industry Act or on thedirection of the Commission shall, if the court holds that theact was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of theCommission, unless such expense is recovered by him in suchsuit or prosecution.

37.(1) The Commission shall within three months ofthe end of each financial year, prepare a report of its activitiesduring that year and its proposed activities in the followingyear, and shall transmit a copy of such report together with acopy of the audited accounts of the Commission for that year,to the Minister.

Protection ofaction.

Annual report.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200235

(2) The Minister on receipt of a report prepared undersubsection (1)

(a)shall cause a copy of such report to be placed beforeParliament ;

(b)may require the members of the Commission toclarify any matter arising from such report toParliament or a Committee of Parliament ; and

(c)may require the Commission to publish such reportand accounts in such manner as she or he considersappropriate to bring them to the attention of thepublic.

(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1)every annual report shall contain

(a)a general survey of developments during the year towhich the report relates in respect of matters fallingwithin the scope of the Commissions function andin particular, developments in the promotion ofconsumer interests ;

(b)details of enforcement order (if any) made by theCommission during that year ; and

(c)details of development and expansion of the publicutilities industries in Sri Lanka.

38.(1) The Commission may make rules in respect ofall or any matters for which rules are authorized or requiredby this Act to be made.

(2)Every rule made under subsection (1) shall come intoforce upon publication in the Gazette.

39.The provisions of this Act and the regulations, rulesor orders made thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding

Provision forconflict withother writtenlaws.

Power ofCommissionto make rules.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200236

anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other relevantAct other than this Act and in the event of any conflict betweenthe provisions of this Act and the provisions of any otherrelevant Act the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

40.The Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, maymake such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Act, as he may deem necessary with a view to providingfor any unforeseen or special circumstances, or to determiningor adjusting any question or matter, for the determination oradjustment of which no provision or no effective provision ismade in this Act.

41.All members and staff of the Commission shall bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning and for thepurposes of the Penal Code.

42The Commission shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

43.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

44.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Act means an Act of Parliament ;

annual report means annual report prepared undersection 37 ;

Central Environmental Authority means the CentralEnvironmental Authority established by theNational Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980 ;

Members andStaff of theCommissiondeemed to bepublic servants.

Commissiondeemed to be aschedulesinstitution for thepurpose of theBribery Act.

Adjustment ofCommission tomake ruoles.

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200237

Chairman includes the Deputy Chairman appointedunder section 8 (6) ;

connected person in relation to any person means aspouse, child, brother or sister of that person ;

Constitutional Council means the ConstitutionalCouncil established under Article 41A of theConstitution of the Republic of Sri Lanka ;

consumer means any person who buys or avails ofany goods or services, as the case may be, for aconsideration which has been paid or promised orpartly paid and partly promised, or under anysystem of deferred payment and includes

(i)any user of such goods or beneficiary of suchservices other than the person who buys oravails of such goods or services, as the casemay be, for consideration paid or promised,or under any system of deferred paymentwhen such use is made or services areavailed of with the approval of the first-mentioned person ;

(ii)any prospective buyer or beneficiary of suchgoods or services, as the case may be ;

financial year means the calendar year ;

industry Act means an Act that governs any specificpublic utilities industry the regulation of which isvested in or assigned to the Commission ;

Minister means the Minister in charge of the subjectof Policy Development and Implementation ;

notice means notice in writing ;

prescribed means prescribed by the Minister orCommission, as the case may be, by regulation ;

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200238

prescribed percentage in relation to the provision ofa utility network or utility services means thegreater of forty per centum or the percentageprescribed, if any, by regulations made by theMinister in charge of the subject of Commerce ;

public utilities industry for the purpose of this Act,means any public utilities industry the regulationof which has been vested in or assigned to theCommission ;

regulated entity means a company or undertakingwhich, subject to the provisions of any industryAct, is engaged in the provision of public utilitiesservices under a valid licence, exemption,concession, or contract granted by theCommission ;

relevant Act means the Consumer Protection Act,No. 1 of 1979, the Fair Trading Commission Act,No. 1 of 1987 and the Control of Prices Act(Chapter 173) or any Act replacing any of them,or such other Act containing equivalentcompetition regulation provisions for industriesother than the public utilities industries ;

Telecommunication Regulatory Commission meansthe Telecommunication Regulatory Commissionestablished by the Sri Lanka TelecommunicationsAct, No. 25 of 1991 ;

unfair trade practice means a trade practice whichfor the purpose of promiting the sale, use or supplyof any goods or for the provision of any serviceadopts an unfair method or unfair or deceptivepractice including any of the following practices,namely

(1)the practice of making any statement,whether orally or in writing or by visiblerepresentation which

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200239

(a)falsely represents that the goods are ofa particular standard, quality, quantity,grade, composition, style or model ;

(b)falsely represents that the services areof a particular standard, quality orgrade ;

(c)makes a false or misleadingrepresentation concerning the need for,or the usefulness of any goods orservices ;

(d)gives false or misleading factsdisparaging the goods, services or tradeof another person ; and

(2)permits the sale or supply of goods intendedto be used, or are of a kind likely to be used,by consumers, knowing or having reason tobelieve that the goods do not comply withthe standards prescribed by any industry Actor any regulation made thereunder relatingto performance, composition, contents,design, construction, finishing or packagingas are necessary to prevent or reduce the riskof injury to the person using the goods ;

Urban Development Authority means the UrbanDevelopment Authority established by the UrbanDevelopment Authority law, No. 41 of 1978.

SCHEDULE[Section 1 (2)]

1.Electricity industry ; and

2.Water service industry.

Public Utilities Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 35 of 200240

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.