PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

: i. ae eed Ory
3rd Session 1967-68 -~ = N
E A / XN e\\
“1 A

“SF tob-6-30 |.

Public Examinations Act,

No. 25 of 1968

Date of Assent : June 16, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoverNMENT Press, CeryLon. To _ be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, CoLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PuBLICATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price : 50 cents Postage: 20 cents


Public Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968

L. D.—O. 13/62.

An ACT TO MAKE MORE EFFECTIVE PROVISIONS FOR THE
PROPER CONDUCT OF PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS, FOR
THE PUNISHMENT OF OFFENCES COMMITTED IN
CONNECTION WITH SUCH PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS,
AND FOR ALL MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: June 16, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows :—

4. This Act may be cited as the Public
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.

2. (1) The Commissioner of Examinations, here-
after in this Act referred to as ‘‘ the Commissioner ’’,
and the other officers of the Department of
Examinations shall be responsible for the
administration of this Act.

(2) The Commissioner may delegate any of his
powers or duties under this Act or any regulation
made thereunder, to the Deputy Commissioner or to
any Assistant Commissioner or to any Superintendent
of Examinations of the Department of Examinations.

8. (1) There shall be a Schools Examinations
Advisory Committee and a Technical Examinations
Advisory Committee, constituted by the Minister in
peer anee with regulations that may be made in that

ehalf.

(2) The Minister may, in accordance with regula-
tions made in that behalf, constitute any other
Advisory Committee in respect of any particular
public examination or a group of public examinations.

4. (1) The Commissioner shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-section (3), have the power to
organize and conduct— |

(a) General Education Examinations and
Technical Education Examinations other
than those pertaining to Higher Educational
Institutes, and

t®—'£ 5920—3,300 (8/67)

Short title.

Administration
of this Act,

Advisory
Committees.

Powers of the
Commissioner,


Impersonation
at public
examinations.

Question papers
to be. secret
documents.

2 Public Exuminations Act, No. 25 of 1968

(b) any other Government examinations held by
Government departments or examinations
held by Government-sponsored bodies.

(2) The Commissioner shall have the power to issue
certificates or awards to candidates who are successful
at any examination referred to in sub-section (1).

(3) The examinations referred to in sub-section (1)

shall be conducted on syllabuses and books prescribed—

(a) in the case of General Education Examinations,

by the Director of Education in consultation

with the Schools Examinations Advisory
Committee ;

(b) in the case of Technical Education Examinations,
by the Director of Education in consultation
with the Technical Examinations Advisory
Committee ;

(c) in the case of examinations referred to in para-
graph (b) of sub-section (1), by the
Government department or the Government-
sponsored body concerned, in consultation
with the Director of Education.

5. (1) Any person who—

(z) not being a candidate entitled to sit for any
public examination, fraudulently or
dishonestly, sits for such examination as a
candidate entitled to sit therefor, or

(b) being a candidate entitled to sit for such exami-
nation, fraudulently or dishonestly, enters in
his answer script the index number which 1s
allotted to any other candidate,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) In the case of a fraudulent or dishonest entry
of an index number under paragraph (b) of sub-section
(1), the ‘‘ other candidate’’ referred to in that
paragraph shall also be guilty of an offence under
this Act if he aided, abetted or connived at such
fraudulent or dishonest entry.

6. (1) Every question paper that is set for any
public examination shall, for the purposes of this Act,
be a secret document from the time such paper is set
until the lapse of half an hour from the time fixed for
the commencement of the answering of such paper by
candidates at that examination, and the words “‘ secret
document ’’ wherever it appears hereafter in this Act
shall be construed accordingly.


Public Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968 3

(2) Any person who, fraudulently or dishonestly,
delivers a secret document or part thereof, or commu-
nicates any information relating to the contents of a
secret document or part thereof, to any other person
who is not a person to whom he is authorized to deliver
such document or communicate such information, shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act.

7. (1) If any examiner appointed for a public
examination or a person entrusted with the filling up
of mark registers relating to such examination,
fraudulently or dishonestly, divulges any information
relating to the answer scripts or mark registers to any
other person who is not a person to whom he is
authorized to divulge such information, he shall be
euilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) If any person who is entrusted with the duty
of collecting answer scripts at any public examination,
fraudulently or dishonestly, makes any erasures, 1nter-
polations, or any other alterations in any such answer
script, he shall be guilty of an offence wnder this Act.

(3) If any person who is entrusted with the duty
of preparing, tabulating or checking the mark registers
of candidates at any public examination, fraudulently
or dishonestly, makes any erasures, interpolations or
any other alterations in any such mark register, he
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(4) If any person who is conducting or supervising
any public examination on behalf of the Commissioner
or who is an invigilator at such examination, fraudu-
lently or dishonestly, aids or assists, directly or in-
directly, any candidate to answer a question paper
at such examination, he shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.

8. Jf any person who is entrusted with the duty
of printing or making by manual or mechanical means
any secret document or any other document relating
to any public examination, or any person whose duty
is to assist such first-mentioned person in his duties,
fraudulently or dishonestly secretes, makes away with
or disposes of such secret document or such other docu-
ment or part thereof or makes a copy of such secret
. document or such other document or part thereof, he
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act,

Divulging of
information
relating to, or
making fraudu-
lent alterations
in, aDswer
scripts or mark
registers,

Theft or dispo-
sal of secret
documents, &c.


Destruction or
tampering with
secret document,
&e.

Fraudulent mis.
delivery of

secret docu-
ment, &c,

Being in pos-
session of, and
sale of, secret
documents.

Dishonesty at
public exami-
nation.

Divulging of
information
relating to
examiners, and
dishonest trans-
mission of
answer scripts
to particular
examiners,

4 Public Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968

9. If any person who is charged with the receipt,
custody or despatch of any secret document, or any
answer script, mark register or other document
relating to a public examination, fraudulently or
dishonestly, breaks open or destroys any sealed packet,
package, box, safe or other receptacle containing any
such document or takes out any such document or
part thereof therefrom, he shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.

10. If any person entrusted with the delivery or
transmission of any secret document: or any answer
script, mark register or other document relating to any
public examination, fraudulently or dishonestly,
delivers or transmits such document to any person
who is not a person to whom he is authorized to deliver
or transmit such document, he shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.

41. If any person, except with lawful authority,
whereof the burden of proof shall lie on him, has in
his possession, or distributes or sells or offers for sale
or distribution, any secret document or a copy thereof
or a part of such document or copy or what is pur-
ported to be a secret document or copy thereof or part
of such document or copy, he shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.

12. (1) If any candidate at any public examina-
tion copies from or holds dishonest communication
with any other person or uses dishonest means in the
answering of any question paper, such candidate shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) If any person, at a public examination, fraudu-
lently or dishonestly has in his possession any answer
script or part thereof or any document which purports
to be an answer script or part thereof, which has been
written or prepared fraudulently or dishonestly, he
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

43. If any person, fraudulently or dishonestly,—

(z) communicates any information regarding the
identity of any examiner appointed or to be
appointed to set any question paper, or any
information relating to the transmission of
question papers or answer scripts, to any
person who is not a person to whom he is
authorized to communicate such information,
or


Public Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968 5

(b) transmits for the purpose of assessment a parti-
cular answer script to a particular examiner
being an examiner to whom he is not
authorized to transmit such answer script, or

(c) is in possession of any document containing or
purporting to contain the marks or the
results relating to a public examination,

he shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

44, (1) If any person uses as genuine any schedule
of results, pass list, certificate, or other document
issued by the Commissioner, which has been altered,
defaced, or otherwise tampered with, he shall be guilty
of an offence under this Act.

(2) If any person uses as genuine a certificate or
other document purporting to be a certificate or other
document issued by the Commissioner, and which is
not a genuine certificate or other document so issued,
yee person shall be guilty of an offence under this

ct.

45. Whoever abets another person to commit an
offence under this Act, shall himself be guilty of an
offence under this Act.

16. Whoever attempts to commit an offence under
this Act and in such attempt does any act towards the
“ commission of the offence, he shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.

17. Every offence under this Act or any regulation
made thereunder shall be triable summarily by a
Magistrate and any person who is convicted of such
an offence shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two
thousand rupees and to a term of imprisonment of
either description not exceeding one year.

18. Notwithstanding anything in the Criminal
Procedure Code, every offence under this Act shall
be a cognizable offence within the meaning and for
the purposes of that Code.

_ 19. No prosecution under this Act shall be entered
in respect of an offence under this Act except with the
written sanction of the Commissioner.

20. The Commissioner shall have the power—

(a) to set out the conditions, rules, and restrictions
to which persons who offer themselves as
candidates for public examinations shall be
subject;

Use of faked
documents.

Abetment of
offences.

Attempts to
commit
offences.

Punishment for
offences under
this Act,

Offences to be
cognizable,

Prosecution
only with
consent of
Commissioner.

Powers of the
Commissioner
with regard t
disciplinary
control.

Se


Peete emai ill LE LE ON TCE LT aL TT OTT: LOR tt ee eee cen teey ee, |

6 Public Ewaminations Act, No. 25 of 1968

(0) of disciplinary control, in his absolute discretion,
over examiners, invigilators, candidates and
all persons engaged by him for the purpose
of the conduct of public examinations at any
stage;

(c) to impose, in his absolute discretion, after such. ~
inquiry as may be made in that behalf, any
restrictions or disabilities in regard to sitting
for public examinations by candidates or to
cancel or impound any certificates issued to
any candidate, where such candidate has
violated any rule, condition or restriction
referred to in paragraph (a) or been con-
victed of an offence under this Act or any
regulation made thereunder.

Oath of 24. Except in the performance of any duty or

amc function or the exercise of any power under this Act
or any regulation made thereunder, every person
entrusted with any power, duty or function in connec-
tion with any public examination shall preserve and
aid in preserving secrecy with regard to all matters
relating to such examination that may come to his
knowledge, and shall not communicate any such matter
to any person other than the person to whom he is
authorized to communicate it, or offer or permit any
unauthorized person to have access to any secret
document or other document in his possession, custody ; °
or control. Every such person employed in the
performance of any duty or function or the exercise
of any power under this Act or any regulation made
thereunder relating to any public examination shall,
before acting in such capacity, take and subscribe
before a Justice of the Peace or a Commissioner for
Oaths an oath of secrecy in a form prescribed by the
Commissioner. The Commissioner may prescribe
different forms of oaths of secrecy for different
persons in accordance with the functions that are to
be performed by such persons.

Regulations. 22. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
3 purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the
principles and provisions of this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1),
. the Minister may make regulations for or in respect
_ of any of the following matters :— |
(2) all matters in respect of which regulations are -
required or authorized to be made;


Public Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968 7

(b) the nature and scope of public examinations
and the certificates, duplicates of such certi-
ficates or awards, which may be given to
successful candidates;

(c) the mode of appointment and the duties and
emoluments of examiners and the payment
and other conditions subject to which
examiners may be appointed;

(d) all matters relating to the standard of public
examinations and the mode of conduct of
such examinations;

(e) the constitution, powers, duties and functions
of—

(1) the Schools Examinations Advisory
Committee ; ;

(ii) the Technical Examinations Advisory
Committee; and

(iii) any other committee which the Minister
may set up in relation to any specified
public examination or group of public
examinations.

(3) No regulation made under this Act shall have

effect until it is approved by the Senate and the House

“-of Representatives and notification of such approval
is published in the Gazette.

28. In this Act, unless the context otherwise Interpretation.
requires—

‘“‘examiner’’, in relation to any public
examination, means a person who is
appointed to set a question paper or a
person who is appointed to read answer
scripts and assign marks to them;

‘“‘ Higher Educational Institute’ has the same
meaning as in the Higher Education Act,
No. 20 of 1966;

‘““ public examination’’ means any examination
referred to in paragraph (a) or paragraph (0)
of sub-section (1) of section 4 of this Act;

>

regulation ’
Minister.

means a regulation made by the
