PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 08, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th of April, 2022]

SURCHARGE TAX ACT, No. 14 OF 2022

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 20221

Short title

[Certified on 08th of April, 2022]

L.D.O. 2/2022

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF SURCHARGE TAX AND

FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14of 2022.

2. (1) There shall be levied, subject to the succeedingprovisions of this Act, a tax to be called Surcharge Tax(hereinafter referred to as the tax) from

(a) any individual, partnership or company, whosetaxable income calculated in accordance with theprovisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of2017, exceeds rupees two thousand million, for theyear of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020, atthe rate of twenty five per centum on the taxableincome of such individual, partnership or company,for such year of assessment:

Provided however, the income of a partner derivedfrom a partnership shall not be taken into accountwhen calculating the taxable income of such partneras an individual under this paragraph, if the tax hasbeen paid by the partnership on such taxable income;and

(b) each company of a group of companies, of whichthe aggregate of the taxable income of allsubsidiaries and the holding company in that groupof companies, calculated in accordance with theprovisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of2017, exceeds rupees two thousand million, for theyear of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020, atthe rate of twenty five per centum, on the taxable

Imposition ofSurcharge Tax

2Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

income of each such company after deducting thegains and profits from dividends received from asubsidiary which is part of such taxable income ofeach such company, for such year of assessment,notwithstanding that the taxable income of any oneof such companies does not exceed rupees twothousand million:

Provided however, if a company is liable to pay the tax interms of paragraph (b), such company shall not be liable to paythe tax in terms of paragraph (a).

(2) In calculating the aggregate of the taxable income underparagraph (b) of subsection (1), any subsidiary or any holdingcompany of such group of companies which has a nil amountof taxable income, due to losses or unrelieved losses, shallnot be taken into account.

(3) Where the Commissioner-General has approved analternative period of twelve months under the provisions ofthe Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017, for the purpose ofmaintaining accounts of any company liable to pay the taxunder this Act, such approved period shall be deemed to bethe year of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020, for thepurposes of this Act.

(4) Every individual, partnership, company and thesubsidiaries and the holding company of every group ofcompany liable to pay the tax under this Act, shall pay the taxin two equal installments on or before, the twentieth day ofApril and twentieth day of July of 2022, to the Commissioner-General.

(5) The tax shall be collected by the Commissioner-Generaland shall be remitted to the Consolidated Fund within fifteendays from the date of collection.

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 20223

(6) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in anyother written law,

(a) the tax levied under this Act shall be deemed to bean expenditure in the financial statement relating tothe year of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020;

(b) no deduction shall be granted in calculating thetaxable income under the Inland Revenue Act, No.24 of 2017, for any year of assessment, for thepayment of the tax under this Act;

(c) no deduction shall be granted in calculating the ValueAdded Tax on the supply of financial services underthe Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002, for thepayment of the tax under this Act.

(7) For the purpose of this section taxable income

(a) in relation to a company which has entered into anagreement with the Board of Investment of Sri Lankaunder section 17 of the Board of Investment of SriLanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 and has become liable toincome tax determined in accordance with suchagreement, after the expiration of its period of taxexemption set out in such agreement means the profitbefore income tax of such company as per the auditedfinancial statement;

(b) in relation to an individual, a partnership, a companyand the subsidiaries and the holding company of agroup of companies other than the companiesreferred to in paragraph (a), shall have the samemeaning assigned to such expression under section3 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017.

4Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

3. (1) Every individual, partnership, company and thesubsidiaries and the holding company of every group ofcompany chargeable with the tax under this Act shall on orprior to April 20, 2022, furnish in writing to the Commissioner-General, a tax return in the specified form containing suchparticulars as may be specified by the Commissioner-General.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall specify

(a) the form for tax returns;

(b) the information to be furnished on the tax returnand attachments if any, required to be filed withthe tax return; and

(c) the manner of filing.

(3) For the purpose of this Act, a tax return furnished undersubsection (1) shall be treated as a tax return under theprovisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 andshall result in a self-assessment.

4. (1) Where any individual, partnership, company or thesubsidiaries and the holding company of any group ofcompanies is liable to pay the tax under this Act, fails to paysuch tax, as provided for in this Act, such individual,partnership, company or subsidiaries and the holdingcompany of the group of companies shall be deemed to be adefaulter of the tax under this Act.

(2) It shall be lawful for an assessment to be made in thename of the partnership and the amounts thereon shall berecoverable out of the assets of the partnership, or from anypartner, or from any agent of the partnership.

Default inpayment of thetax

Tax return shallbe furnished

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 20225

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),the provisions of Chapter IX , Chapter X, Chapter XI, ChapterXII, Chapter XIII, Chapter XIV, Chapter XV, Chapter XVI,Chapter XVII, Chapter XVIII of the Inland Revenue Act, No.24of 2017 shall, mutatis mutandis, be applicable to theadministration, record keeping and information collection,tax returns, assessments, objections and appeals, liability forand payment of tax, interest, recovery of tax, penalties andcriminal proceedings under this Act.

(2) Every reference to income tax in any such provisions ofthe Inland Revenue Act, No.24 of 2017, shall be deemed to bea reference to the tax charged and levied in terms of theprovisions of this Act.

(3) Any default assessment, amended assessment oradditional assessment shall not be made in respect of anindividual, a partnership, a company or the subsidiaries andthe holding company of a group of companies after the thirtyfirst day of December, 2024:

Provided however, above time limit shall not apply formaking any amended assessment based on a decision ofobjection or appeal.

6. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Commissioner-General shall have the same meaningassigned to such expression under the InlandRevenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

Company shall have the same meaning assigned tosuch expression under the Inland Revenue Act,No. 24 of 2017 but does not include anyEmployees Trust Fund, Provident Fund, PensionFund, Pension Trust Fund, Gratuity orTermination Fund including

Application ofthe certainprovisions ofthe InlandRevenue Act,No.24 of 2017

Interpretation

6Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

(a) Employees Provident Fund established undersection 2 of the Employees Provident FundAct, No. 15 of 1958;

(b) Employees Trust Fund established undersection 3 of the Employees Trust Fund Act,No. 46 of 1980;

(c) Ceylon Electricity Board Provident Fund andCeylon Electricity Board Pension Fundestablished under paragraph (j) of section 12of the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of1969;

(d) Universities Provident Fund established undersection 90 of the Universities Act, No. 16 of1978;

(e) Mercantile Service Provident Societyestablished under section 3 of the Chamber ofCommerce Ordinance (Chapter 289);

( f ) Bank of Ceylon Provident Fund established bythe Bank of Ceylon established under the Bankof Ceylon Ordinance (Chapter 397);

(g) Hatton National Bank Employees ProvidentFund established by the Hatton National BankPublic Limited Company incorporated under theCompanies Act, No. 7 of 2007;

(h) Peoples Bank Pension Trust Fund establishedunder paragraph (l) of subsection (1) of section5 of the Peoples Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961;

(i) Sri Lanka Central Bank Employees PensionFund established under paragraph (b) ofsection 10 of the Monetary Law Act(Chapter 422)

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 20227

( j) Sri Lanka Telecom Provident Fund establishedby the Sri Lanka Telecom Public LimitedCompany incorporated under the CompaniesAct, No. 7 of 2007;

(k) National Insurance Trust Fund establishedunder section 3 of the National Insurance TrustFund Act, No. 28 of 2006;

(l) Bank of Ceylon Pension Trust Fund 2014(Post 1996) established under the TrustsOrdinance (Chapter 87); and

(m) any provident fund or contributory pensionscheme approved by the Commissioner ofLabour in terms of Part IV of the EmployeesProvident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958;

group of companies means a holding company andits subsidiaries;

holding company means a company which as at theThirty First day of March 2021, owns more thanfifty per centum of the shares with voting rightsof another company, directly or indirectly, otherthan a holding company incorporated outsideSri Lanka and not registered under Chapter XVIIIof the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007;

partnership shall have the same meaning assignedto such expression under the Inland Revenue Act,No. 24 of 2017;

tax return shall have the same meaning assigned tosuch expression under the Inland Revenue Act,No. 24 of 2017;

8Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

subsidiary means a company in which as at the ThirtyFirst day of March 2021, more than fifty percentum of its shares with voting rights wereowned by another company, directly or indirectlyother than a subsidiary incorporated outside SriLanka and not registered under Chapter XVIII ofthe Companies Act, No.7 of 2007 of a holdingcompany incorporated outside Sri Lanka and notregistered under Chapter XVIII of the CompaniesAct;

year of assessment shall have the same meaningassigned to such expression under section 20 ofthe Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017.

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 20229

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.