PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

REGULATION OF ELECTION EXPENDITUREACT, No. 3 OF 2023

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th of January, 2023]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 25.00Postage : Rs. 50.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 27, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

AN ACT TO REGULATE THE EXPENDITURE INCURRED BY RECOGNIZED

POLITICAL PARTIES, INDEPENDENT GROUPS AND CANDIDATES AT EVERY

ELECTION CONDUCTED UNDER THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONSORDINANCE (CHAPTER 262); THE PROVINCIAL COUNCILS ELECTIONSACT, NO. 2 OF 1988; THE PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS ACT, NO. 1

OF 1981 AND THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1981

AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Regulation of ElectionExpenditure Act, No. 3 of 2023.

2. The provisions of this Act shall apply to every electionconducted under

(a)the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance(Chapter 262);

(b)the Provincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of1988;

(c)the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981;and

(d)the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981.

3. (1) Within a period of five days after the conclusion ofthe period of nomination specified in the Proclamation orOrder requiring the conduct of an election under any lawspecified in section 2, the Election Commission shall, inconsultation with the recognized political parties, and theindependent groups contesting such election, fix by Orderpublished in the Gazette, a sum of money in Sri Lankanrupees to be used for the purpose of calculating an authorizedamount, in accordance with the provisions of this section,for such election:

Short title

Application ofthis Act

Authorizedamount

[Certified on 24th of January, 2023]

L.D.-O. 30/2018

2Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

Provided however, in the case of a presidential election,every candidate who has not been nominated by a politicalparty shall be consulted.

(2) Such sum of money to be fixed under subsection (1)shall be calculated taking into consideration the prevailinginflation rate and the National Consumer Price Index of SriLanka.

(3) The authorized amount in relation to a candidate shallbe calculated as follows:-

(a)in the case of an election conducted under the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262), theamount in Sri Lankan rupees resulting from themultiplication of the total number of registeredvoters in the ward of the local authority contestedby the candidate, by such amount of Sri Lankanrupees as may be fixed for that election by theElection Commission under subsection (1);

(b)in the case of an election conducted under theProvincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988,the amount in Sri Lankan rupees resulting from themultiplication of the total number of registeredvoters in the administrative district contested bythe candidate, by such amount of Sri Lankan rupeesas may be fixed for that election by the ElectionCommission under subsection (1);

(c)in the case of an election conducted under theParliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981, theamount in Sri Lankan rupees resulting from themultiplication of the total number of registeredvoters in the electoral district contested by thecandidate, by such amount of Sri Lankan rupees asmay be fixed for that election by the ElectionCommission under subsection (1);

3Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

(d)in the case of an election conducted under thePresidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981, theamount in Sri Lankan rupees resulting from themultiplication of the total number of registeredvoters in the electoral districts in the Island, bysuch amount of Sri Lankan rupees as may be fixedfor that election by the Election Commission undersubsection (1).

(4) The authorized amount in relation to recognizedpolitical parties and independent groups shall be calculatedby taking into consideration the sum of money referred to insubsection (1), the total number of registered voters in thelocal authority area or the administrative district or theelectoral district or the electoral districts in the Island as thecase may be, contested by each recognized political party orindependent group at an election conducted under any lawspecified in section 2 and the number of candidatesnominated by such recognized political party or independentgroup to contest such election.

(5) The authorized amount calculated in accordance withthe provisions of subsections (3) and (4), shall be publishedin the Gazette on the same day, on which the Order undersubsection (1) is published in the Gazette.

(6) The consultation process referred to in subsection(1) may be conducted by the Election Commission throughthe relevant returning officers.

4. (1) A recognized political party, an independent groupand a candidate at an election conducted under any lawspecified in section 2, shall not incur expenditure in excessof the authorized amounts referred to in subsections (3) and(4) of section 3 as the case may be, in respect of such election.

Restriction onelectionexpenditure by arecognizedpolitical party,an independentgroup and acandidate

4Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

(2) Where a candidate incurs expenditure in excess of theauthorized amount referred to in subsection (3) of section 3in respect of such election, such candidate commits anoffence of an illegal practice within the meaning of the lawspecified in section 2 under which such election wasconducted and, shall be liable to the penalties imposed undersuch law in respect of the offence of an illegal practice,unless such candidate proves that such expenditure wasincurred without any sanction or connivance of suchcandidate.

5. (1) A recognized political party, an independent groupand a candidate at an election conducted under any lawspecified in section 2, shall not, directly or indirectly acceptor receive a donation or contribution whether such donationor contribution is in cash or kind from-

(a)a government department, a public corporation ora company incorporated under the Companies Act,No.7 of 2007 or under any former written law relatingto companies in which the government or a publiccorporation owns any shares;

(b)a foreign government, an international organizationor a body corporate incorporated or registeredoutside Sri Lanka;

(c)a company incorporated in Sri Lanka under theCompanies Act, No. 7 of 2007 or under any formerwritten law relating to companies where the foreignshareholding in such company, either direct orindirect, is fifty percent or above; or

(d)any person whose identity is not disclosed,

for the purpose of promoting or procuring the election ofsuch recognized political party, independent group orcandidate at such election.

Prohibition onthe acceptanceof certaindonations

5Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

(2) A candidate who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) commits an offence of an illegal practicewithin the meaning of the law specified in section 2 underwhich such election was conducted and shall be liable tothe penalties imposed under such laws in respect of theoffence of an illegal practice.

6. (1) Every recognized political party, independent groupand candidate at an election conducted under any lawspecified in section 2 shall within twenty-one days of thedate of publication of the result of such election, submit tothe respective authority specified in subsection (3) -

(a)a return of all donations or contributions acceptedor received by such recognized political party, anindependent group or candidate on behalf of suchrecognized political party, independent group orcandidate; and

(b)a return of all expenses incurred by such recognizedpolitical party, independent group or candidate onbehalf of such recognized political party,independent group or candidate,

for promoting or procuring the election of such recognizedpolitical party, independent group or candidate.

(2) For the purposes of this section date of publicationof the results of such election means, the date of publicationof results

(a)under section 66 of the Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Chapter 262) in the case of an electionconducted under that Ordinance;

(b)under section 60 of the Provincial CouncilsElections Act, No. 2 of 1988 in the case of anelection conducted under that Act;

Submission ofreturn ofdonations orcontributionsreceived andexpenditureincurred

6Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

(c)under section 62 of the Parliamentary Elections Act,No. 1 of 1981 in the case of an election conductedunder that Act; and

(d)under section 64(2) of the Presidential ElectionsAct, No. 15 of 1981 in the case of an electionconducted under that Act.

(3) The returns referred to in subsection (1) shall besubmitted by the recognized political party, independentgroup and candidate

(a)to the returning officer of the respective localauthority area with a copy to the ElectionCommission, in the case of an election conductedunder the provisions of the Local AuthoritiesElections Ordinance (Chapter 262);

(b)to the returning officer of the respectiveadministrative district with a copy to the ElectionCommission, in the case of an election conductedunder the Provincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2of 1988;

(c)to the returning officer of the respective electoraldistrict with a copy to the Election Commission, inthe case of an election conducted under theParliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981; or

(d)to the Election Commission, in the case of anelection conducted under the Presidential ElectionsAct, No. 15 of 1981.

(4) The return referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection(1) shall state -

(a)the amount of every donation or contributionaccepted or received by or on behalf of suchrecognized political party, independent group orcandidate, and if the donation or contribution is inkind, the estimated value of the donation orcontribution;

7Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

(b)whether such donation or contribution was by wayof gift, loan, advance or deposit; and

(c)the name, address and National Identity Cardnumber or registration number as the case may be,of the individual or body of persons incorporatedor unincorporated making such donation orcontribution.

(5) The return referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection(1) shall include expenditure incurred by or on behalf therecognized political party, independent group or candidate,whether paid or unpaid for

(a)the printing, publication, pasting, exhibition ordisplay of, advertisements, handbills, flags,drawings, photographs, placards or posters relatingto such election;

(b)the production and broadcast, on radio or televisionof advertisements relating to such election;

(c)the production and publication in newspapers,journals, social media, digital hoardings or anyother digital media, or other publications ofadvertisements relating to such election;

(d)the hiring or use of any premises or equipment forthe holding of meetings relating to such election;

(e)the hiring of vehicles for activities relating to suchelection other than expenditure for the hiring ofvehicles for the transport of the candidate; and

(f)the provision of fuel for the running of thosevehicles,

8Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

together with bills and receipts confirming the same, and ifthe above services were obtained without payment, thenames and the addresses of the persons from whom suchservices were obtained shall be included:

Provided however, the expenditure incurred by or onbehalf of the recognized political party, independent groupor candidate for

(a)the transport of the candidate within the area forwhich the election is being held; and

(b)the stationery, telephone or other means ofcommunication,

shall not be included in the return referred to in paragraph(b) of subsection (1).

(6) The returns referred to in subsection (1) shall be signedby the secretary to the recognized political party, groupleader of the independent group or the candidate as the casemay be and accompanied by a declaration signed by suchsecretary, group leader or candidate and attested by a Justiceof the Peace, to the effect that the information in such returnsis to the best of the knowledge of such secretary, groupleader or candidate, true and correct.

7. (1) On receipt of the returns and declarations submittedunder section 6

(a)the respective returning officer, in the case of anelection conducted under the Local AuthoritiesElections Ordinance (Chapter 262), the ProvincialCouncils Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988 or theParliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981; and

(b)the Election Commission, in the case of an electionconducted under the Presidential Elections Act, No.15 of 1981,

Publication ofnotice relating toreceipt ofreturns anddeclarations

9Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

shall cause a notice to be published in at least one nationalnewspaper in the Sinhala, Tamil and English languagesstating that the returning officer or the Election Commission,as the case may be, has received the returns and declarationssubmitted by the recognized political party, independentgroup or candidate named in the notice and indicating theplace and time at which such returns and declarations maybe inspected by any person.

(2) The notice referred to in subsection (1), shall bepublished within ten days after the expiry of the time periodspecified in subsection (1) of section 6.

(3) The returning officer and the Election Commissionshall permit a person to inspect the returns and declarationmade by a recognized political party, an independent groupor a candidate at the place and time mentioned in the noticepublished under subsection (1) and shall allow such personto take copies of such returns or declaration on payment of afee of such amount as may be determined by the ElectionCommission.

8. Every candidate, at an election conducted under anylaw specified in section 2, who

(a)fails, without reasonable cause, to comply with theprovisions of subsection (1) of section 6; or

(b)makes any statement in any such return submittedunder subsection (1) of section 6 or in a declarationmade under subsection (6) of section 6, being astatement which such person knows, or oughtreasonably to have known, to be false,

commits an offence of an illegal practice within the meaningthe law specified in section 2 under which such election wasconducted, and shall be liable to penalties specified by suchlaw for the commission of an illegal practice.

Offence of anillegal practice

10Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

9. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -

administrative district means, the administrativedistrict established under the AdministrativeDistricts Act (Chapter 392);

donation or contribution accepted or received onbehalf of a recognized political party, anindependent group or a candidate means,such donation or contribution which isaccepted or received directly or indirectlywith the express or implied consent of therecognized political party, the independentgroup or candidate;

election means, an election conducted under

(a) the Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Chapter 262);

(b) the Provincial Councils Elections Act,No. 2 of 1988;

(c) the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1of 1981;

(d) the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of1981;

electoral district means, an electoral districtspecified in a Proclamation under Article97 of the Constitution and for the time beingin force; and

local authority means, a Municipal Council,Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha.

10. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Interpretation

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

11Regulation of Election ExpenditureAct, No. 3 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.