PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENT (AMENDMENT)ACT, NO. 46 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 22nd November, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 25, 2011

1 Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2011

[Certified on 22nd November, 2011]

L.D.O. 57/2007.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENTACT, NO. 46 OF 2000

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Agrarian Development(Amendment) Act, No. 46 of 2011.

2.The Agrarian Development Act, No. 46 of 2000(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after section 1 thereof,of the following Part which shall have effect as PART I ofthe principal enactment:

PART I

TENANT CULTIVATORS OF PADDY LANDS

1A. A person being a citizen of Sri Lankashall, from and after the date of the cominginto operation of this Act, be deemed to be atenant cultivator within the meaning and forthe purposes of the principal enactment, if, atany time during the period commencing onthe eighteenth day of August two thousandand ending on the day immediately precedingthe date of the coming into operation of thisAct,

(a)such person had cultivated an extentof paddy land under an agreement,whether written or oral, entered priorto, or on, the eighteenth day of Augusttwo thousand;

Short title.

Insertion of newPart I in the Act,No. 46 of 2000.

Personsdeemed to betenantcultivatorsfor thepurposes ofthis Act.

Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 20112

(b)such person, being in terms of theprovisions of section 1D, a successor, ofa tenant cultivator who is deceased oris permanently disabled, who had beenevicted from the extent of paddy landwhich had previously been cultivatedby such deceased or disabled tenantcultivator.

1B. (1) Where at any time during the periodcommencing on the eighteenth day of Augusttwo thousand and ending on the dayimmediately preceding the date of the cominginto operation of this Act, the nature of thepossession of any extent of paddy land specifiedin section 1A has changed by reason of anysale, transfer or upon any Order of any Court,no person shall, even though such person isdeemed to be the tenant cultivator by virtue ofthe provisions of section 1A, be placed inpossession of any such extent of paddy land orbe given possession of any such extent:

Provided however, such tenant cultivatoras is referred to above, may make an applicationin writing, in that behalf to the Commissioner-General of Agrarian Services setting out withdocumentary proof, the reason which preventshim from being placed in or given possessionof the extent of paddy land of which he hasbeen deemed to be the tenant cultivator. TheCommissioner-General shall, after such inquiryas may be required in the circumstances andon consideration of the facts before him andupon summoning such person to make anyfurther explanation as he considers necessary,make order that such person shall therefor bepaid compensation in lieu of placing suchperson in or giving such person possession ofthe relevant extent of paddy land.

Procedure tobe followedwherepossession ofthe extent ofpaddy landcannot beawarded to apersondeemed to bea tenantcultivator.

3 Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2011

(2) Regulations shall be made specifyingthe criteria to be taken into account in makingan order for the payment of compensation interms of the above proviso and the basis onwhich the amount to be paid as compensationis to be determined.

1C. Where a person who pursuant to apermit issued under the Land DevelopmentOrdinance (Chapter 469)

(a)holds an extent of paddy land subjectto the condition that such permitholder himself shall cultivate suchextent of paddy land; and

(b)leases out such extent of paddy land toa person who cultivates such extent ofpaddy land,

the person so cultivating such extent of paddyland shall not be deemed to be a tenantcultivator within the meaning and for thepurpose of the principal enactment.

1D. (1) The rights of a tenant cultivatorunder the principal enactment in respect of anextent of paddy land shall in the event of thedeath or permanent disability of such tenantcultivator, devolve on the surviving spouse ofsuch tenant cultivator and failing such spouse,on only one of the children of such tenantcultivator:

Provided that in the latter instance, if thereis more than one child, the child whose solemeans of living is cultivation, shall be preferredto the others:

Provided further, if there is more than onechild, whose sole means of living iscultivation, the oldest from amongst suchchildren shall be preferred to the others.

Where thelessee of anextent ofpaddy landshall not bedeemed to bea tenantcultivator.

Devolutionof rights oftenantcultivators.

Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 20114

(2) The rights of a tenant cultivator of anextent of paddy land which is cultivated, eitherjointly or in rotation with any other tenantcultivator, who dies or becomes permanentlydisabled, shall in relation to such extent, bedevolved in accordance with the provisions ofthis section.

1E. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsection 1D, any tenant cultivator, other thanthose who cultivate an extent of paddy landjointly or in rotation with any other tenantculitvator or cultivators, may nominate anymember of his family as the successor who shallbe entitled to succeed to the rights of suchtenant cultivator under this Act in respect ofthe extent of paddy land he culitvates, in theevent of his death or permanent disability.

(2) Any nomination of successor may at anytime be cancelled by the tenant caltivator whomade such nomination and a fresh nominationof a successor may be made by such tenantcultivator.

(3) The nomination of a successor and thecancellation of any such nomination shall beeffected by a tenant cultivator in a documentsubstantially in the prescribed form executedin duplicate and witnessed in the presence ofthe Government Agent or the DivisionalSecretary or the Registrar of Lands or a NotaryPublic or a Justice of Peace, who is in chargeof, or is engaged in, official duties in respectof the area within which the extent of paddyland relating to the nomination or cancellation,is situated.

(4) No stamp duty shall be charged or leviedon the execution of a document specified insubsection (3).

Nominationof asuccessorby a tenantcultivator.

5 Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2011

(5) The original and the duplicate of thedocument executed in accordance with theprovisions of subsection (3) shall be submittedfor registration to the Commissioner-Generalby the respective officer referred to insubsection (3) in the presence of whom thedocument is executed. Any such documentshall not be valid unless and until it has beenduly registered by the Commissioner-General.

(6) The Commissioner-General shall returnthe original of the document submitted to himunder subsection (5) after registration, to thetenant cultivator making the nomination orcancellation and keep the duplicate thereof,for the purpose of maintaining records. Suchrecords shall be inspected by any person uponpaying the prescribed fee.

(7) After the registration of a documentspecified under subsection (3) whereby a personis nominated as the successor to the rights of atenant cultivator under this Act in respect ofany extent of paddy land, a document specifiedin that subsection whereby any other person isnominated as the successor to those rights shallnot be registered unless the nomination effectedby the registered document has been dulycancelled by the registration of a document ofcancellation. In one and the same document theregistered nomination may be cancelled andanother nomination in lieu thereof may be made.In that event the document in which suchcancellation and nomination are combined maybe registered and shall upon due registrationoperate both as a cancellation of the previouslyregistered nomination and as the nomination ofa new nominee.

Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 20116

(8) Where an application under subsection(3) of section 53 is made to the Commissioner-General, to amend an Agricultural LandsRegister by entering the name of a new tenantcultivator therein, in the event of the death orpermanent disability of a tenant cultivator, adocument, if any, nominating a successor tothe rights of the tenant cultivator undersubsection (1), or cancelling any suchnomination under subsection (2), shall be takeninto account by the Commissioner-General andupon verifying the facts of the application, heshall make order to the Agrarian DevelopmentCouncil of the area within which the paddyland relating to such application is situated, tomake entries required to include the name ofthe applicant as the new tenant cultivator ofthe relevant paddy land.

(9) Regulations shall be made prescribingthe procedure for registration of a documentspecified under subsection (3), including theregisters which shall be kept for maintainingrecords of the documents submitted to theCommissioner-General under this section.

(10) For the purposes of this section memberof the family means the spouse or a son or adaughter of the tenant cultivator, whose mainoccupation is cultivation and whose onlysource of income is derived from the extent ofpaddy land cultivated by the tenant cultivator.

1F. (1) Where a tenant cultivator of anyextent of paddy land dies or becomespermanently disabled, and if there is nosuccessor in terms of the provisions of section1D or 1E, to inherit the rights of such deceasedor permanently disabled tenant cultivator, asthe case may be, in respect of such extent, the

Where thereis nosuccessor.

7 Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2011

landlord being the owner of such extent may,if he so desires, take possession of such extentof paddy land and cultivate the same as theowner cultivator of such extent:

Provided that prior to cultivating such landas the owner cultivator, the landlord shall givewritten notice to the Commissioner-General,of his intention so to cultivate such extent ofpaddy land as owner cultivator.

(2) If it is proved to the satisfaction of theCommissioner-General, that the tenantcultivator has died or has become permanentlydisabled and there is no successor of the familyin terms of the provisions of section 1D or 1E, toinherit the rights of the deceased or ofpermanently disabled tenant cultivator, heshall permit the owner of such extent of paddyland to occupy and cultivate such extent asthe owner cultivator thereof.

1G. (1) Where the tenant cultivator of anextent of paddy land has died or has becomepermanently disabled, no person who is notentitled to the rights of a tenant cultivator inrespect of such extent of paddy land shalloccupy and use such extent of paddy land.

(2) Where a person uses or occupies anextent of paddy land in contravention of theprovisions of subsection (1), the Commissioner-General shall in writing, order such person tovacate such extent, on or before such date asshall be specified in such order. If such personfails to comply with such order, he shall beevicted from the relevant extent of paddy landin accordance with the provisions of section 8.

Person notentitled torights of adeceased orpermanentlydisabledtenantcultivator inrespect ofany extent ofpaddy landnot to use oroccupy same.

Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 20118

1H. (1) Where on the death or permanentdisability of a tenant cultivator of any extentof paddy land, there is a dispute as to the personon whom the rights of such tenant cultivatorunder this Act should devolve, the parties tothe dispute shall first refer such dispute to theCommissioner-General for determination, afterhaving given written notice of such dispute tothe Commissioner-General by registered post.

(2) On receipt of the notice under subsection(1), the Commissioner-General shall refer thedispute to an Agrarian Tribunal and direct suchTribunal to hold an inquiry for the purpose ofdetermining the person on whom the rights ofthe deceased or permanently disabled tenantcultivator shall devolve.

(3) The determination of the AgrarianTribunal shall be communicated by registeredpost to the Commissioner-General with copiesto the parties to such dispute.

3.The Headings PART I and Rights of persons whocultivate paddy lands appearing immediately after section1 of the principal enactment are hereby replaced by thefollowing:

PART IA

RIGHTS OF TENANT CULTIVATORS OF PADDY LANDS.

4.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figuressection 6 of the words and figures section 1A, whereverit appears in that section.

5.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

Replacement ofthe Headings ofPART I of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

Commissioner-General todeterminedisputesregardingdevolution ofrights oftenantcultivators.

Repeal ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

9 Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2011

6.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(1)by the repeal of subsection (6) thereof andsubstitution therefor of the following:

(6) The landlord of the extent of paddyland and the person evicted shall be given anopportunity of being heard in person or througha representative, at an inquiry held by therespective Agrarian Tribunal. On the conclusionof the inquiry, the decision of the AgrarianTribunal shall be communicated in writing byregistered post to the Commissioner-General, thelandlord and the person evicted.;.

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (6)thereof of the following new subsections:

(6A) The landlord or the person evicted whois aggrieved by the decision of the AgrarianTribunal may, within thirty days of thecommunication of the decision to him, appealtherefrom to the Board of Review establishedunder section 42A either on a question of law orfact. Such appeal shall be submitted to theCommissioner-General within the time periodallowed for such appeal and the Commissioner-General shall forthwith refer such appeal to thePanel appointed under subsection (1) of section42A to be heard and concluded by a Board ofReview established under the provisions ofsubsection (5) of section 42A.

(6B) The Board of Review established undersubsection (5) of section 42A shall inquire intoall appeals referred to such Board undersubsection (6A) and inform the parties theretoand the Commissioner-General in writting byregisterd post of its decision thereon.

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 201110

(6C) The landlord or the person evicted whois aggrieved by the decision of the Board ofReview may, within thirty days of thecommunication of the decision to him, appealto the High Court of the Province against suchdecision on a question of law. A copy of theappeal shall be sent to the Commissioner-General by registered post at the time when theappeal is made.

(6D) Where no appeal is made against thedecision of the Board of Review within the timeallowed therefor, such decision shall be final.;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (7) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(7) Where at any inquiry referred to insubsection (6B) the Board of Review decidesthat

(a)eviction has taken place and no appealhas been made under subsection (6C)against such decision within the timeallowed therefor or the High Court ofthe Province has, in an appeal madeunder subsection (6C) confirmed thedecision of the Board of Review; or

(b)eviction has not been taken place andthe High Court of the Province has, inan appeal made under subsection (6C),varied the decision of the Board ofReview and confirmed the fact thateviction has in fact taken place,

then, in any one of the above situations

(i)the person evicted shall beentitled to have the use andoccupation of the extent ofpaddy land restored to him; and

11 Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2011

(ii)the Commissioner-Genetal shallon receipt of the decision of theBoard of Review or the High Courtof the Province, as the case maybe, by an order in writting requireall persons in occupation of theextent of paddy land in dispute tovacate such extent on or beforesuch date as shall be specified insuch order, and if such persons failto comply with such order, theyshall be evicted from such extentin accordance with the provisionsof section 8; and

(iii)the landlord of such extent shallbe required to pay damages atsuch rate as may be prescribed tothe person mentioned in sub-paragraph (i), for each day duringwhich such person in respect ofwhom an order has been made,continues to occupy such extentafter the date specified in suchorder, unless the Board of Reviewor the High Court of the Provincehas determined that such personwas evicted without theknowledge, consent orconnivance of the landlord..

7.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figuressection 6 wherever those words and figures appear of thewords and figures section 1A.

8.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

Repeal ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 201112

9.Section 39 of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(1) The Commissioner-General shallappoint for every administrative district or forone or more administrative districts one or moreAgrarian Tribunals consisting of one personappointed from among retired judges who havehad more than seven years experience, or retiredpublic officers who have had seven yearsexpenrience at executive level in the field ofagrarian services.;

(2)in subsection (2) thereof by the substitution for thewords Where a member of an Agrarian Tribunalof the words Where the person appointed to theAgrarian Tribunal;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(3) Every person appointed to the AgrarianTribunal shall, unless he earlier vacates office,hold office for a period of three years:

Provided that

(a)a person appointed in place of a personwho has died, resigned or been removedfrom office, shall hold office for theunexpired period of the term of office ofthe person whom he succeeds; and

(b)a person appointed in place of a personwho is absent from Sri Lanka or is ill, shallhold office for the period of absence orillness of such person. ;

Amendment ofsection 39 of theprincipalenactment.

13 Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2011

(4)by the repeal of subsection (4) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(4) A person vacating office by effluxion oftime shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(5)by the repeal of subsection (5) thereof; and

(6)by the repeal of subsection (9) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(9) An Agrarian Tribunal shall inquire intoand conclude all applications and complaintsreferred to it under this Act within a period of sixmonths from the date of receipt of suchapplication or complaint and shall inform theparties thereto and the Commissioner-Generalby registerd post of its decision thereon..

10.Section 40 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

11.Section 41 of the principal enectment is herebyamended

(1)in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution for thewords any such application, complaint or appealhas not preferred an appeal to the Court of Appealof the words any such application or complainthas not preferred an appeal to the Board of Review;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:

(2) Where any such party has preferred anappeal to the Board of Review against thedecision of the Agrarian Tribunal within thirtydays of the receipt by him of the decision of theAgrarian Tribunal, the decision of the Board ofReview once given, shall be given effect to..

Repeal ofsection 40 ofthe principalenactment.Amendment ofsection 41 of theprincipalenactment.

Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 201114

12.Section 42 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

42. Any party aggrieved by the decision ofan Agrarian Tribunal on any application orcomplaint referred to it under this Act, maymake an appeal to a Board of Reviewestablished under section 42A, within thirtydays from the date of receipt of such decision..

13.The following new Part is inserted immediately aftersection 42 of the principal enactment and shall have effectas Part IVA of that enactment:

PART IVA

BOARDS OF REVIEW

42A. (1) The Judicial Service Commissionshall appoint a Panel of not more than ninepersons from among the persons who have awide knowledge in the fields of law and agrarianservices for the purpose of establishing Boardsof Review for a period of three years.

(2) Where a member of the Panel vacatesoffice by reason of death, resignation, removalfrom office, absence from Sri Lanka or illness,another person shall be appointed in his placesubject to the provisions of subsection (1).

(3) (a) A person appointed in place of amember who had died, resigned or beenremoved from office shall hold office for theunexpired portion of the term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

(b) A person appointed to act for a memberwho is absent from Sri Lanka or is ill, shallhold office for the period of absence or illnessof the member whom he succeeds.

Replacement ofsection 42 of theprincipalenactment.Right ofAppeal.

Insertion of newPart IVA in theprincipalenactment.

Boards ofReview.

15 Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2011

(4) One of the members of the Panel shall beappointed as the Chairman of the Panel.

(5) (a) There shall be established for thepurpose of this Act, such number of Boards ofReview as may be determined by theCommissioner-General.

(b) The Commissioner-General shallderermine from among such number of Boardsof Review, the number of Boards which arerequired for any particular AdministrativeDistrict, depending on the requirement of suchDistrict:

Provided that, the number of Boardsdetermined by the Commissioner-General asbeing operated within an AdministrativeDistrict shall not exceed three such Boards.

(6) It shall be the duty of any Board ofReview established under subsection (5) toentertain appeals of any aggrieved partyreferred to such Board of Review under theprovisions of this Act and the proceedings inrespect of any such appeal shall be concludedwithin a period of six months from the date ofreceipt of any such appeal by the Board ofReview.

(7) Each Board of Review, shall comprisethree members selected by the Chairman fromamong the members of the Panel appointedunder subsection (1) for the purpose ofexercising the power conferred on a Board ofReview under subsection (6). The Chairmanmay select himself as a member of any particularBoard of Review.

Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 201116

(8) Where the Chairman of the Panel is amember of a Board of Review constituted underthis section then he, or where he is not a memberof a Board, then such member of the Board asmay be nominated by such Chairman, shall bethe President of such Board of Review.

(9) There shall be appointed to each Boardof Review a Secretary, who shall in respect ofevery appeal heard by the Board, keep a recordof all such proceedings before the Board asrelates to that appeal.

(10) A Board of Review may examine anywitness on oath if it thinks fit so to do, and maysummon any person to appear before it or toproduce any documents which may be relevantin the opinion of the Board.

(11) The documents, notices or summonsissued under the hand of the President of aBoard of Review or the Secretary of a Board ofReview, shall be deemed to have been issuedby that Board of Review.

(12) When a Board of Review, has issued ordeemed to have issued summons on any personand such person,

(a)fails without reasonable cause to appearbefore the Board of Review at the timeand place mentioned in the summons;or

(b)refuses without reasonable cause to besworn or affirmed, or having been dulysworn or affirmed, refuses or failswithout reasonable cause to answer anyquestion put to him by a member of theBoard of Review touching the mattersto be heard and determined by suchBoard, or willfully gives a false answerto any such question; or

17 Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2011

(c)refuses or fails without reasonable causeto produce before the Board of Reviewany document which is in hispossession and which he has beenrequired to produce,

such person shall be guilty of an offence underthis Act and shall on conviction after summarytrial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine notexceeding rupees ten thousand or toimprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding three months or to both suchfine and imprisonment.

(13) Regulations may be made in regard tothe allowances to be paid and procedure to befollowed at the meeting of a Board of Review.

42B. (1) Where any party to any such appealhas not preferred an appeal to the High Courtof the Province against the decision of theBoard of Review within thirty days of thereceipt by him of the notice of the decision ofthe Board of Review, the decision of the Boardof Review shall be given effect to.

(2) Where any such party has preferred anappeal to the High Court of the Provinceagainst the decision of the Board of Review,within thirty days of the receipt by him of thedecision of the Board of Review, the decisionof the High Court of the Province given inrepeal thereof, shall be given effect to..

14.Section 53 of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(1)by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

(3) An application to amend theAgricultural Lands Register by entering thename of a new tenant cultivator, in the case of

When thedecision of aBoard ofReview shallbe executed.

Amendmentof section 53of theprincipalenactment.

Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 201118

the death or permanent disability of the tenantcultivator of an extent of paddy land includedin the Register shall be made in writing to theCommissioner-General, accompanied by a letterfrom the owner consenting to the registration ofthe applicant as the tenant cultivator in respectof that extent of paddy land, and theCommissioner-General shall make order thereon:

Provided however, where the applicantproves to the satisfection of the Commissioner-General that he is the successor in terms of theprovisions of section 1D or 1E, to the tenancyrights of the deceased or permanently disabledtenant cultivator, the Commissioner-Generalshall make such order notwithstanding theconsent of the owner.;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)thereof of the following subsection:

(3A) The Commissioner-General shall takesteps to conduct annually, a census of the tenantcultivators of paddy lands with a view toannually updating the Agricultural LandsRegisters.;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (8) thereof.

15.Section 101 of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(1)by the insertion immediatly after the definition ofthe expression evict of the followingdefinition:

High Court of the Province means the High Courtestablished for the Province in terms of Article154P of the Constitution;.

Amendment ofsection 101 ofthe principalenactment.

19 Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2011

(2)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression statutory tenant of the followingdefinition:

permanent disability in relation to a personmeans the

(a)loss of both hands; or

(b)loss of both legs; or

(c)loss of eye sight of both eyes; or

(d)loss of one hand and one leg; or

(e)loss of one leg and eye sight of oneeye; or

(f)loss of one hand and eye sight ofone eye; or

(g)body paralysis; or

(h)being of unsound mind;.

16.The principal enactment is hereby amended by thesubstitution for the words Court of Appeal wherever thosewords appear in the principal enactment, of the words HighCourt of the Province.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Generalamendment tothe principalenactment.

Agrarian Development (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 201120

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.