PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
~ SRI LANKA

TURNOVER TAX
(AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 31 OF 1992

[Certified on 27th May, 1992] om

Printed on the Orders of Government

‘Published as a Supplement to Part II cf the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 29, 1992

PRINTED AT THE DEPAKTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO RE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price - 66 cents. | Postage : Re. 1.00


Turnover Tax (Amendment)
Act No. 31 of 1992

[Certified on 27th May, 1992]
L.D,—O, 65/91 |

An ACT TO AMEND THE TURNOVER Tax Act, No. 69 or 1981

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1. This Act may be cited as the Turnover Tax (Amenc-
ment) Act, No. 31 of 1992.

2. The following new section is hereby inserted, imme-
diately after section 48 of the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of
1981, and shall have effect as section 48a of that Act: —

Noe 48a. (1) Where any registered manufac-
id cg turer (hereinafter in this section referred to
of turnover as the “first-mentioned manufacturer ”), has
ra during any quarter commencing on or after
paid on 5

machinery or October ds 1991, paid,—

equipment.

(i) to another registered manufacturer
(hereinafter in this section referred
to as the “second-mentioned manu-
facturer”), in respect of any trans-
action entered into during that
quarter, any sum which includes
turnover tax, or

(ii) to the Director-General of Customs
under section 12, during that quarter,
any turnover tax,

in respect of machinery or equipment used
by the first-mentioned manufacturer in his
business of manufacture of any article, the
turnover tax so included, or, so paid, as the
case may be, shall, notwithstanding the
provisions of section 47 or section 48, be
deducted, to the extent it can be so deduct-
ed, from any turnover tax payable by the
first-mentioned manufacturer in respect of
his turnover arising from the sale of such
article :
Provided that—

(a) the amount of the deduction shall not

exceed five per centum of the turn-

over tax 80 included or so paid ;


Turnover Tax (Amendment)
Act No. 31 of 1992

(b) the. deduction shall, subject to the
provisions of paragraph (d), be made
- first from the turnover tax payable
in respect of such turnover for the
quarter immediately succeeding the
quarter in which the use of such
machinery or equipment for such
menufacture commenced, and then
from the turnover tax payabie in
respect of such turnover, for the next
succeeding quarter and so on .

(c) the deduction of the turnover tax so
‘included or so paid shall not be
made—

(i) if such turnover tax is in respect
of machinery or equipment
used in any business of manu-
facture of excepied articles
or in any business which is
exempt from turnover tax
under section 4;

| (ii) unless the first-mentioned manu-
facturer has obtained a
voucher, as required hy section
46(2), from the second-men-
tioned manufacturer, or, a
voucher from the Director-
General of Customs, in respect
of such sum so paid or of turn-
Over tax so paid, as the case
may be, and

(iii) from the turnover tax payable
in respect of such turnover
for any quarter if the use ot

. Such machinery or equipment
in such business ceases in such
quarter,


Turnover Tax (Amendment) 3
Act No. 31 of 1992

(d) any turnover tax so included or so
paid, as the case may be, by any
person prior to his registration as a
registered manufacturer, shall be
deducted first from the turnover tax
in respect of such turnover payable
for the quarter in which such person
becomes chargeable to turnover tax,
and then from the turnover tax 1n
respect of such turnover payable for
the next succeeding quarter and so
on.

(2) The residue of the turnover tax which
is deductible 1n accordance with the provi-
sions of subsection (1), after its deduction
from the turnover tax in respect of the turn-
over referred to in subsectior. (1) for each
of the twenty quarters reckoned from the
quarter for which the deduction was first
made shall, subject to the provisions of sec-
tion 49. he refunded :

Provided that no refund shall be made
unless the machinery or equipment referred
to in subsection (1) has been used in the
business of manufacture referred to in sub-
section (1), in each of the twenty quarters
referred to in this subsection. ’.

3. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. revel in
case of

inconsistency,
