PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES
ACT, No. 61 OF 1979

[Certified on 8th October, 1979}

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 12, 1979

[PROVTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SHE LANKA
170 BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVE. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMEO

+ 65 cents,                                      Postage: 25 cents


Essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979

[Certified on 8th October, 1979]
L. D—O. 48/79.

An Acr 10 Prove FoR THE DECLARATION oF SERVICES
Provivep sy Cerrar GovernMent DEPARTMENTS, PUBLIC
Corporations, Loca AUTHORITIES AND CO-OPERATIVE
octets as ESSENTIAL Pusuic SERVICES; AND FOR
‘MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Essential Public Services
Act, No. 61 of 1979,

2. (1) Where the President is of the opinion that—

(@) any service provided by any category of persons
employed in any Government department or
Public corporation or local authority or co-operative
society or branch thereof being a department or
corporation or local authority or co-operative
society which is engaged in the provision of any
of the services specified in the Schedule to this Act,
is likely to be impeded or interrupted ; and

(®) the maintenance of the service provided by that
category of persons is essential to the life of the
community,

he may, in consultation with the appropriate Minister and
by Order published in the Gazette, declare that service to
be an essential public service.

(2) During the continuance in force of an Order made
under subsection (1) declaring the service provided by any
category of persons employed in a Government department
or public corporation or local authority or co-operative
society or branch thereof being a department or public
corporation or local authority or co-operative society
engaged in the provision of any of the services specified
in the Schedule to this Act, to be an essential public
‘Service—

(@) any person who, on the day immediately preceding
the date of such Order, was employed in that
department or public corporation or local authority
or co-operative society for the purposes of that
service or who after that date is employed by that
department or publie corporation or local authority
or co-operative society for the purposes of that

2A 44180-16,100 (19/09)

Short title.

President may
declare
services
provided by
ertain
Government
departments,
public
corporations,
local autho-
rities or co-
operative
societies to be
essential
public
services.


Essential Public Services Act, No, 61 of 1979

service, fails or refuses to attend at his place of
work or at such other place as may from time to
time be designated by the head of that department
or public corporation or local authority or ¢o-
operative society or a person acting under the
authority of such head or fails or refuses to perform
such work as he may be directed by the head of the
department or public corporation or local authority
or co-operative society or by a person acting under
the authority of such head to perform or fails or
refuses to perform such work within such time as
is in the opinion of the head of that department or
public corporation or local authority or co-operative
society reasonable for the performance of such
work ; or

(®) any person who in any manner—

(i) impedes, obstructs, delays or restricts the
carrying on of that service; or

(ii) impedes, obstructs or prevents any other
Person employed in that department or
public corporation or local authority or
co-operative society for the purposes of that
service from attending at his place of work ;
or

(iii) incites, induces or encourages any other person
employed in that department or public
corporation or local authority or co-operative
society for the purposes of that service to
refrain from attending at his palce of wor!
or

(iv) compels, incites, induces or encourages any
other person employed in that department or
Public corporation or local authority or com
‘operative society for the purposes of that
service to depart from his place of work ; oF

(¥) prevents any other person from accepting
employment in, or in connection with, the
carrying on of that service ; or

(c) any person who, by any physical act or by any speech
or writing incites, induces or encourages any other
Person to commit any act specified in paragraph
(b) of this subsection (whether or not such other
Person commits in consequence any act 0

specified),


Essential Public Services Act, No, 61 of 1979        2

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act,

3. (1) Every Order made under subsection (1) of section
2 shall come into operation on the date of its publication in
the Gazette and shall, subject to the succeeding provisions
of this section, be in operation for a period of one month
from such date, without prejudice however, to the earlier
Fevocation of that Order or to the making of a further Order
at or before the end of that period.

(2) Upon the publication in the Gazette of an Order made
under subsection (1) of section 2, such Order shall be placed
forthwith before Parliament and where Parliament is on
the date of publication of that Order in the Gazette
separated by any such adjournment or prorogation as will
not expire within ten days, a Proclamation shall be issued
for the meeting of Parliament within ten days from the
date of publication of such Order and Parliament shall
accordingly meet and sit upon the day appointed by that
Proclamation, and shall continue to sit and act in like
manner as if it had stood adjourned or prorogued to that
day.

(8) Every Order made under subsection (1) of section 2
shall expire after a period of fourteen days after the publi-
cation of such Order in the Gazette, unless such Order is
approved by a resolution of Parliament :

Provided that if Parliament is on the date of publication
of such Order in the Gazette separated by any such adjourn-
Ment or prorogation as is referred to in subsection (2), then
such Order shall expire at the end of a period of ten days
from the date on which Parliament shall meet and sit,
unless approved by a resolution of Parliament at such
meeting.

4. (1) Every person who commits an offence under this
Act shall, on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to rigorous imprisonment for a term not
less than two years and not exceeding five years or to a
fine not less than two thousand rupees and not exceeding
five thousand rupees or to both such imprisonment and

fine,
(2) Where a person is convicted by any court for an

offence under this Act, the court may, in addition to any
other penalty that it imposes under subsection (1), make

one or both of the following orders :—

(q) that all property, movable or immovable, of the
person convicted shall be forfeited to the Republic ;

Operation,
he. of Order

under
section 2(1).


Application of
section 15 (2)
oractNo. 18
or aie

commited or
‘omitted to be
done in
furtherance of
asirike nota
defence in any
prosecution
Under this
Act,

‘This Act to
prevail over
ther written

Interpretation,

4        Essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979

(®) in any case where the person convicted is registered
in any register maintained under any written law
fas entitling such person to practise any profession
or vocation, that the name of such person be
removed from such register,

if the court is of opinion that there are sufficient grounds
fo ne making of any such order.

(3) Where the court makes order under paragraph (a)
of subsection(2) in respect of any person, every alienation
or disposal of property made by such person after the date
of publication of an Order under subsection (1) of section
2 in relation to any service provided by such person, shall
be deemed to have been, and to be, null and void.

5. Subsection (2) of section 15 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall not apply to any person
convicted of an offence under this Act.

6. Where any person is prosecuted for an offence under
this Act, it shall not be a defence for him to prove that any
act or omission constituting the offence was done or
omitted to be done by him in furtherance of a strike
commenced by a trade union to which such person belongs.

1. The provisions of this Act shal have effect notwith-
standing anything contained in any other writen law and
accordingly in the event of any conflict or inconsistency
between the provisions of this Act and such other written
Jaw, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

8 In this Act—

“co-operative society” means any society registered or
deemed to be registered under the Co-operative
Societies Law, No. § of 1972;

“head "—

(a) in relation to a co-operative society, means the
President of that co-operative society ;

() in relation to a local authority, means the
Mayor or Chairman of that local authority
or the Special Commissioner appointed to

ainiistor the affairs of that local authority 5


Essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979         6

(©) in relation to a public corporation, means the
Chairman of the Board of Directors of such
corporation and includes the General Manager
of that corporation ;

“local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council, Town Council or Village Council and
includes any Authority created and established by
or under any law to exercise, perform and discharge
powers, duties and functions corresponding or
similar to the powers, duties and functions
exercised, performed and discharged by any such
Couneil ;

“public corporation” means any corporation, board or
other body which was or is established by or under
any written law other than the Companies
Ordinance, with funds or capital wholly or partly
provided by the Government by way of grant, loan
or otherwise.

SCHEDULE

1. The supply, preservation and distribution of articles of food
or drink,

2 The supply or distribution of fuel, including petroleum
Products and gas.

3. The supply of electricity.

4. Public transport services for passengers or goods.

5. Water supply.

6. Postal, telephone, telegraph and broadcasting services.

7, All service, work or labour, of any description whatsoever,
necessary or required to be done in connection witl—

(a) the discharge, carriage, landing, storage, delivery and
removal of articles of food or drink, or of coal, oil or
fuel, from vessels within any port as defined for the
purposes of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) ;

(®) the maintenance, and the reception, care, feeding and
treatment, of patients in hospitals, nursing homes, dispen-
saries, and other similar institutions;


6 © Essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979

(©) any undertaking maintained by any local authority for
‘water supply, electricity, drainage and sewerage, fire and
‘ambulance services, conservancy and scavenging (includ-

ing the removal and disposal of night-soil) ;

(@) the provision and maintenance of facilities for transport
services by road, rail or air, including roads, bridges,
culverts, airports, ports and railway lines.

8 The services provided by all Co-operative Societies and
Unions.
