PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ACTIVE LIABILITY MANAGEMENT

ACT, No. 8 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 28th of March, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 29, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Active Liability Management Act, No. 8 of 2018

[Certified on 28th of March, 2018]

L.D.O. 36/2017.

AN ACT TO AUTHORISE THE RAISING OF LOANS IN OR OUTSIDESRI LANKA FOR THE PURPOSE OF ACTIVE LIABILITY MANAGEMENT

TO IMPROVE PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT IN SRI LANKA AND TO

MAKE PROVISIONS FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Active LiabilityManagement Act, No. 8 of 2018 and shall come in to operationon such date as the Minister may appoint by Order publishedin the Gazette.

2.The objective of this Act shall be to manage publicdebt to ensure the financing needs and payment obligationsof the Government are met at the lowest possible cost overthe medium to long term consistent with a prudent degreeof risk.

3.The Parliament may, during a particular financial yearfrom time to time, by resolution, approve to raise sums ofmoney, the total of which shall not exceed ten percentum ofthe total outstanding debt as at the end of the precedingfinancial year, as a loan whether in or outside Sri Lanka, interms of the relevant laws for moneys to be raised includingthe provisions of the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422), theLocal Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417), RegisteredStocks and Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420), or the ForeignLoans Act, No. 29 of 1957, for and on behalf of the Governmentfor the purposes of refinancing and pre-financing of publicdebts of the Government.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Raising loans forthe purpose ofmanagement ofpublic debt.

Objective.

2Active Liability ManagementAct, No. 8 of 2018

4.(1) The Minister shall with approval of the Cabinetof Ministers and subject to the provisions of section 3 of thisAct and section 114 of the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422),decide on matters pertaining to and incidental to therefinancing and pre-financing of public debts including

(a) the sum of money to be raised by a loan;

(b) the mode of raising such loan; and

(c) the manner in which such payment obligations of theGovernment are settled as he may deem fit includingthe buying-back of existing debt and switchingexisting debt with new debt.

(2) The decision made by the Minister under subsection(1) shall be communicated in writing to the Registrarthrough the Minister assigned the subject of Central Bankof Sri Lanka.

(3) The Registrar may, subject to the terms of suchcommunication and to any directions as the Minister mayissue in that behalf

(a) make all such arrangements as may be necessary toraise such loan; and

(b) effect such arrangements to settle obligations of theGovernment upon the most favourable terms that maybe obtained in the interest of the Government.

5.Any loan raised for and on behalf of the Governmentfor the purposes of refinancing and pre-financing of publicdebts of the Government shall be exempted from theapplication of the provisions of section 2 (1) (b) of theAppropriation Act, No. 30 of 2017 and also from theapplication of the provisions of any annual AppropriationAct which is enacted after the date of commencement of theAppropriation Act, No 30 of 2017.

Exemption fromthe applicationof the provisionsof theAppropriationAct.

Settlement ofobligations ofthe Government.

3Active Liability Management Act, No. 8 of 2018

6.(1) Any loan raised under this Act where

(a)the monetary unit is Sri Lanka rupees shall beretained in one or more accounts maintainedby the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury asmay be nominated by the Secretary to theTreasury, in writing, on that behalf, at theCentral Bank of Sri Lanka or at a licensedcommercial bank subject to the provisionsof section 107 of the Monetary Law Act(Chapter 422);

(b)the monetary unit is foreign currency shall beretained in one or more accounts maintaindby the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury asmay be nominated by the Secretary to theTreasury, in writing, on that behalf, at theCentral Bank of Sri Lanka.

(2) The principal money and the interest, if any, which isin any account maintained at the Central Bank of Sri Lankaor at a licensed commercial bank shall be part of theConsolidated Fund as assets of Sri Lanka but as a ring-fencedaccount.

(3) The Moneys retained under subsection (1) shall onlybe used for the purposes of refinancing and pre-financing ofpublic debts in achieving the objective of this Act.

7.Details of all loans raised, money retained in theaccounts maintained at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka or at alicensed commerical bank and the settlement of obligationsof the Government made under the provisions of this Actshall be incorporated in the reports relating to theGovernments fiscal performance, which are required to betabled in Parliament under the Fiscal Management(Responsibility) Act, No. 3 of 2003.

8.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, all documents or instruments made or used underthe provisions of this Act shall be free from stamp duty.

Reporting underthe FiscalManagement(Responsibility)Act, No. 3 of2003.

Loans a chargeuponConsolidatedFund.

Exemption fromstamp duties.

4Active Liability ManagementAct, No. 8 of 2018

9. (1) No member of the Monetary Board or officer orservant of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka shall be liable forany damage or loss suffered by the Central Bank of Sri Lankaunless such damage or loss was caused by his misconduct orwillful default.

(2) Every member of the Monetary Board and everyofficer or servant of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka shall beindemnified by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka from all lossesand expenses incurred by him in or about the discharge ofhis duties, other than such losses and expenses as theMonetary Board may deem to have been occasioned by hismisconduct or willful default.

10. (1) The Minister may make regulations on the adviceof the Monetary Board, in respect of all matters required bythis Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare authorised by this Act to be made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister maymake regulations in respect of all or any of the followingmatters:-

(a)the conditions subject to which debt may berefinanced and pre-financed;

(b)the manner and the procedures applicable to therefinancing and pre-financing of debt; and

(c)any other matters as may be necessary for thepurpose of achieving the objective of this Act.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication, or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

Protection foracts done ingood faith.

.

Regulations.

Active Liability ManagementAct, No. 8 of 20185

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, withinthree months after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval.Any such regulation whichis not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as fromthe date of its disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette.

11. The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazettedelegate to the Secretary to the Treasury any power conferredon the Minister by this Act except under sections 4 and 10subject to such conditions, reservations and restrictions asmay be specified in the Order.

12. Any person who contravenes any provision of thisAct commits an offence under this Act and shall be liable onconviction after summary trial by a Magistrate, toimprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a finenot less than three million rupees and not exeeding tenmillion rupees or where the offence has resulted in monetaryloss or a loss which is quantifiable in monetary terms to theGovernment, to a fine equivalent to twice the value of suchloss or to both such imprisonment and fine.

13.In the event of any conflict or inconsistency betweenthe provisions of this Act and the provisions of any otherwritten law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

14.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Central Bank of Sri Lanka means the Central Bank ofSri Lanka established under the Monetary Law Act(Chapter 422);

Delegation ofpowers of theMinisterassigned thesubject ofFinance.

Offences.

This Act toprevail overother laws.

Interpretation.

6Active Liability ManagementAct, No. 8 of 2018

financial year means a period of twelve monthscommencing on First of January and ending onThirty First of December;

licensed commercial bank means a bank licensed underthe provisions of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988to carry out commercial banking activities;

Minister means the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance;

Monetary Board means the Monetary Board of theCentral Bank of Sri Lanka established under theMonetary Law Act (Chapter 422);

pre-financing includes financial arrangements made inadvance to restructure an existing outstanding debtin order to change the conditions and terms of suchdebt;

public debt means all financial obligations attendantto loans raised or guaranteed and securities issuedor guaranteed by the Government and includesinterest on that debt, sinking fund charges, therepayment or amortization of debt and allexpenditure in connection with the raising of theloans on the security of revenues of the Governmentand on the service and redemption of the debtthereby created;

refinancing includes the substitution of an existingoutstanding debt or debts with another debt ordebts; and

Registrar means the Registrar appointed under theprovisions of the Registered Stocks and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420).

Active Liability ManagementAct, No. 8 of 20187

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

8Active Liability ManagementAct, No. 8 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.