Price : Rs. 24.25Postage : Rs. 11.25

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MUTUAL ASSISTANCE IN CRIMINALMATTERS ACT, No. 25 OF 2002

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 25, 2002

[Certified on 22nd October, 2002]

Printed on the Order of Government

1Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

[Certified on 22nd October, 2002]

L.D.O.43/95.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE RENDERING OF ASSISTANCE IN CRIMINAL

MATTERS BY SRI LANKA AND SPECIFIED COUNTRIES; AND FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Mutual Assistance inCriminal Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002.

PART I

APPLICATION OF THE ACT AND REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE

2. (1) The Minister may, by Order published in theGazette, declare that the provisions of this Act, shall apply inrespect of any Commonwealth country specified therein.

(2) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall comeinto force on the date of publication of such Order in theGazette or on such later date as may be specified therein.

(3) Where an agreement has been entered into betweenSri Lanka and any Non-Commonwealth country, whetherbefore or after the date of commencement of this Act, formutual assistance in criminal matters, the Minister may, byOrder published in the Gazette, declare that the provisions ofthis Act shall apply in respect of such Non-Commonwealthcountry, subject to such limitations and conditions as theMinister may, having regard to the terms of such agreement,deem expedient to specify in the Order, for the purpose onlyof giving effect to the terms of such agreement.

(4) Every Order made under subsection (3) shall recitethe terms of the agreement in consequence of which it wasmade, and shall come into force on the date of publication ofthe Order in the Gazette or on such later date as may bespecified therein, and shall remain in force so long only asthe agreement in consequence of which the Order was maderemains in force.

2H 0164505,650 (2002/07)

Application of theAct.

Short title.

2Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(5)Every Order made under subsection (1) or subsection(3) shall as soon as convenient after its publication in theGazette, be brought before Parliament for approval. Any Orderwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescindedwith effect from the date of its disapproval, but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(6)Notification of the date on which an Order undersubsection (1) or subsection (3) is deemed to be rescindedshall be published in the Gazette.

(7)Every Commonwealth country or Non-Commonwealth country in respect of which an Order is madeunder subsection (1) or subsection (3) and is for the time beingin force is hereinafter referred to as a specified country.

3.The object of this Act is to facilitate the provision andobtaining, by Sri Lanka of assistance in criminal matters,including

(a)the location and identification of witnesses orsuspects ;

(b)the service of documents ;

(c)the examination of witnesses ;

(d)the obtaining of evidence, documents or otherarticles ;

(e)the execution of requests for search and seizure ;

(f)the effecting of a temporary transfer of a person incustody to appear as a witness ;

(g)the facilitation of the personal appearance ofwitnesses ;

(h)the provision of documents and other records ;

Object of the Act.

3Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

Central Authority.

Applicationsmade by aspecified country.

Refusal ofassistance.

(i)the location, of the proceeds of any criminalactivity ;

(j)the enforcement of orders for the payment of finesor for the forfeiture of freezing of property.

4. The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Justice shall be the Central Authority for thepurposes of this Act (hereinafter referred to as the CentralAuthority).

5.An application made to the Central Authority by theappropriate authority of a specified country requestingassistance in relation to a criminal matter falling within ajurisdiction of a criminal court in that country, shall not beentertained by the Central Authority, unless

(a)such application is made substantially in theappropriate Form set out in the Schedule to thisAct; and

(b)such application is accompanied by such documentsas may be specified for that purpose by the CentralAuthority.

6. (1) A request by the appropriate authority of a specifiedcountry for assistance under this Act shall be refused, in wholeor in part, if, in the opinion of the Central Authority

(a)the request relates to the prosecution or punishmentof a person in respect of an act or omission which, ifit had occurred in Sri Lanka would not haveconstituted an offence under the law of Sri Lanka ;

(b)the request relates to the prosecution or punishmentof a person for an offence of a political character ;

4Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(c)the request relates to the prosecution or punishmentof a person in respect of an act or omission which, ifit had occurred in Sri Lanka, would have constitutedan offence only under the military law of Sri Lanka ;

(d)the request relates to the prosecution of a person foran offence where, such person has been acquitted orconvicted in accordance with the law of Sri Lankain respect of that offence or another offenceconstituted by the same act or omission as thatconstituting the offence ;

(e)compliance with the request would be contrary tothe Constitution of Sri Lanka or prejudicial tonational security, international relations or publicpolicy ;

(f)based on substantial grounds, compliance with therequest would facilitate the prosecution orpunishment of, or cause prejudice to, any person onaccount of his race, religion, language, caste, sex,political opinions or place of birth :

Provided that it shall be lawful for the Central Authorityto entertain a request relating to an act or omission whichwould not have constituted an offence under the law of SriLanka had it occurred in Sri Lanka, if, in the opinion of theCentral Authority, such act or omission is of a serious nature,and is a criminal matter within the meaning of this Act.

(2)For the purposes of subsection (1), an offence shallbe deemed not to be an offence of a political character, if it isan offence within the scope of an International Convention towhich both Sri Lanka and the specified country making therequest are parties and which imposes on the parties theretoan obligation to extradite or prosecute a person accused ofthe commission of that offence.

5Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

PART II

ASSISTANCE IN RELATION TO LOCATING AND IDENTIFYING PERSONS

7. (1) Where the Central Authority receives a requestfrom the appropriate authority of a specified country, for hisassistance in locating a person who

(a)is suspected to be involved in; or

(b)is able to provide evidence or assistance in,

any criminal matter falling within the jurisdiction of a criminalcourt in such specified country and who is believed to be inSri Lanka, or if the identity of such person is not known, hisassistance in identifying and locating such person, the CentralAuthority may in his discretion, refer such request to theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Defence and request him to cause such inquiries tobe made as may be necessary to comply with the request ofthe appropriate authority, and upon receipt of a report of theinquiries from such Secretary, shall cause such report to besent to the appropriate authority of the specified countrymaking the request.

(2) Where there are reasonable grounds to belive that aperson who

(a)is suspected to be involved in ; or

(b)is able to provide evidence or assistance in,

any criminal matter falling within the jurisdiction of a criminalcourt in Sri Lanka, is in a specified country, the CentralAuthority may in his discretion request the appropriateauthority in such specified country to assist in locating suchperson and if his identity is not known, to assist in identifyingand locating such person.

Assistance inrelation tolocating andidentifyingpersons.

6Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(3) A request under subsection (2), shall specify thepurpose for which such assistance is required and shall provideany other information that may facilitate the identification orlocation of such person.

PART III

ASSISTANCE IN RELATION TO THE SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND

OTHER DOCUMENTS

8. (1) Where the Central Authority receives from theappropriate authority of a specified country

(a)a summons or other process requiring a person toappear as defendant or attend as a witness in criminalproceedings in that country ;

(b)a document issued by a court exercising criminaljurisdiction in that country and recording a decisionof the court made in the exercise of that jurisdiction,

together with a request that it be served on a person in SriLanka, the Central Authority may in his discretion, send suchprocess or document to the Magistrates Court within whosejurisdiction such person is residing.

(2)Where the appropriate authority has, in his requestto the Central Authority, specified the mode of service, theMagistrate of the Magistrates Court to which such processor document has been sent under subsection (1), shall causesuch process or document to be served, wherever practicable,in accordance with such request unless such mode isinconsistent with the laws of Sri Lanka. Where the mode ofservice specified in the request is inconsistent with the lawsof Sri Lanka, the Magistrate shall cause such process ordocument to be served in accordance with the laws of SriLanka.

Request by aspecified countryfor service of anyprocess ordocument in SriLanka.

7Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(3)Where such process or document is served on theperson to whom the request relates the Magistrate shall transmitto the Central Authority, a certificate setting out when and howit was served, and shall, where available, attach thereto, anacknowledgement signed by the person on whom it was served.

(4)If such process or document cannot be duly servedon the person to whom the request relates, the MagistratesCourt to which such process or document was sent undersubsection (1) shall, subject to subsection (5), return suchprocess or document to the Central Authority with a statementgiving such information as the Court possesses as to thewhereabouts of such person and unless the Central Authorityis satisfied that such person is not residing in Sri Lanka, heshall deal with such process or document under subsection(1). Where the Central Authority is satisfied that such personis not residing in Sri Lanka, he shall return such process ordocument to the appropriate authority in the specified countrymaking the request.

(5)If the Magistrate of the Magistrates Court to whomthe process or document is sent under subsection (1), issatisfied that such person is residing within the jurisdictionof another Magistrates Court in Sri Lanka, he shall send suchprocess or document to the Magistrate of that other court andshall inform the Central Authority that he has done so.

(6)The Magistrate of the Magistrates Court to whichthe process or document is sent under subsection (5), shallproceed as if it had been sent to such court under subsection(1). The Magistrate shall after it has been served on the personto whom the request relates, transmit to the Central Authoritya certificate setting out when and how it was served and shall,where available, attach thereto, an acknowledgement signedby the person on whom it was served.

(7)The Central Authority shall on receipt of a certificateunder subsection (3) or subsection (6), transmit the same tothe appropriate authority of the specified country making therequest.

8Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(8)The Service of any such process referred to inparagraph (a) of subsection (1), on any person shall not imposeany obligation on such person under the law of Sri Lanka tocomply with it.

9. (1) The Central Authority may, in the case of

(a)a summons requiring a person charged with anoffence to appear before a court in Sri Lanka ; and

(b)a summons or order requiring a person to attendbefore a court in Sri Lanka for the purpose of givingevidence in criminal proceedings,

issued or made by a court in Sri Lanka, request the appropriateauthority of a specified country in which such person is residentto have such summons or order served on such person in thespecified country, and may in such request, specify the mode ofservice of such summons or order.

(2)Where the appropriate authority of a specified countryto whom a request has been made under subsection (1) informsthe Central Authority that the summons or order to which therequest relates has been served on a person resident in suchspecified country and transmits a duly authenticated reportof such service, the Central Authority shall cause such reportto be sent to the court issuing or making such summons ororder, and such report shall be admissible in evidence and thestatements made therein shall be deemed to be correct, unlessthe contrary is proved.

PART IV

ASSISTANCE IN RELATION TO TAKING OF EVIDENCE AND

PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS OR OTHER ARTICLES

10.(1) Where the appropriate authority of a specifiedcountry makes a request to the Central Authority that

(a)evidence be taken in Sri Lanka ; or

Request by theCentral Authorityfor service in aspecified country.

Request by aspecified countryfor evidence to betaken anddocuments and tobe produced in SriLanka.

9Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(b)documents or other articles in Sri Lanka be produced,

for the purposes of a proceeding in relation to a criminal matterin the specified country, the Central Authority may in hisdiscretion refer such request to a Magistrate, authorized by ageneral or special order made by the President of the Court ofAppeal to take such evidence or to receive such documentsor articles, and shall, upon receipt of such evidence, documentsor articles from such Magistrate, transmit the same to theappropriate authority of the specified country.

(2)Every request made under subsection (1) by theappropriate authority of a specified country shall, so far ascircumstances of the case permit, specify

(a)the names and addresses or the official designationsof the witnesses to be examined ;

(b)the questions to be put to the witnesses or the subjectmatter about which they are to be examined ;

(c)whether it is desired that the witnesses be examinedorally or in writing ;

(d)any provision of the law of the specified country asto privileges or exemptions from giving evidencewhich appear relevant to the request ; and

(e)any special requirements of the law of the specifiedcountry as to the manner of taking evidence relevantto its admissibility in that country ;

(f)whether it is desired that the original of a documentbe produced or whether a certified copy of thedocument would be sufficient.

(3) Where the taking of evidence or the production ofdocuments or other articles under subsection (1) has beenauthorized

(a)the Magistrate specified in the authorization maytake the evidence on oath of each witness appearing

10Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

before such Magistrate to give evidence in relationto such matter, and such Magistrate shall

(i)cause the evidence to be taken in writing andcertify that the evidence was taken by suchMagistrate ; and

(ii)cause the evidence so certified to be sent to theCentral Authority ;

(b)a Magistrate may, require the production before him,of the documents or other articles and, where thedocuments or other articles are so produced, theMagistrate shall send the documents, or where it isimpracticable to send such documents to the CentralAuthority or where the request relates only to copiesof such documents, copies of such documentscertified to be true copies by the Magistrate, or theother articles, as the case may be, to the CentralAuthority.

(4)The evidence of any witness may be taken in thepresence or absence of the person to whom the proceeding inthe specified country relates or his legal representative, if any.

(5)The Magistrate conducting a proceeding undersubsection (3) shall permit

(a)the person to whom the proceeding in the specifiedcountry relates ;

(b)the appropriate authority of the specified country,

to have legal representation at the proceeding before theMagistrate.

(6)The certificate of the Magistrate under subsection (3)shall state whether legal representation was permitted at theproceedings conducted under that subsection and whether any

11Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

of the following persons were present at the time the evidencewas taken or the documents or other articles were produced :

(a)the person to whom the proceeding in the specifiedcountry relates or his legal representative, if any ;

(b)any other person giving evidence or producingdocuments or other articles or his legalrepresentative, if any.

(7)The provisions of the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979 relating to the compelling of attendanceof witnesses and the production of documents by witnessesshall apply in relation to a Magistrates Court which isauthorized to take such evidence.

(8)The Central Authority shall cause the certificate ofthe Magistrate sent to him under subsection (3) to betransmitted to the appropriate authority of the specified country.

(9)A person who is required to give evidence, or producedocuments or other articles, for the purposes of a proceedingin relation to a criminal matter in a specified country shallnot be compelled to answer a question, or produce a documentor article, that the person is not compelled to answer orproduce, as the case may be, in such proceeding in thespecified country.

(10)A duly authenticated foreign law immunitycertificate shall be admissible in proceedings under this sectionas prima facie evidence of the matters stated in such certificatebut shall not, without the consent of the appropriate authority,be used for any purpose other than for the purposes of theCriminal matter specified in the request.

11.(1) The Central Authority may, at the request of acourt exercising criminal jurisdiction in Sri Lanka, requestthe appropriate authority of a specified country to arrangefor

(a)evidence to be taken in the specified country ; or

Request byCentral Authorityfor evidence to betaken in anddocuments &c. tobe produced in aspecified country.

12Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(b)documents or other articles to be produced in thespecified country,

for the purposes of a proceeding in relation to a criminal matterin that court.

(2) Where the Central Authority receives, from theappropriate authority in a specified country, in response to arequest made by him under subsection (1)

(a)any evidence taken in such specified country ;

(b)any document or other article produced in suchspecified country,

such evidence, document or article shall be admissible in anyproceeding to which such request relates but shall not, withoutthe consent of such appropriate authority, be used for thepurpose other than for the purposes of the criminal matterspecified in such request.

PART V

ARRANGEMENTS FOR PERSONS TO GIVE EVIDENCE OR ASSIST

INVESTIGATIONS

12.(1) Where a proceeding or an investigation relatingto a criminal matter has commenced in a specified country,and the appropriate authority of that specified country requeststhe removal of a prisoner who is in Sri Lanka, for the purposesof giving evidence at a hearing in connection with suchproceeding or of giving assistance in relation to suchinvestigation, as the case may be, being of the opinion thatsuch prisoner is capable of giving evidence relevant to suchproceeding, or of giving assistance in relation to suchinvestigation, as the case may be, the Central Authority may,if he is satisfied that

(a)such person has consented to giving evidence in suchproceeding or to being removed to such specifiedcountry for the purposes of giving assistance in relationto such investigation, as the case may be ; and

Request by aspecified countryfor prisoner in SriLanka to giveevidence or assistinvestigation.

13Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(b)the specified country has given any undertakingsrequired by the Central Authority, in respect of suchprisoner, including undertakings as to meeting thecosts of travel of the prisoner to the specified countryand as to the period for which such prisoner shall beheld in custody in the specified country,

direct in writing, the release of such prisoner from prison forthe purposes of removal to the specified country and makearrangements for the travel of such prisoner to the specifiedcountry.

(2) A direction by the Central Authority undersubsection(1) with respect to a prisoner shall be deemed toauthorize

(a)the release of such prisoner from the prison in whichhe is held in custody and the delivery of suchprisoner, in the custody of a prison officer, in oroutside Sri Lanka, into the custody of a personrepresenting the appropriate authority of thespecified country requesting the removal of suchprisoner ;

(b)the bringing of the prisoner back to Sri Lanka andhis delivery, in the custody of a prison officer, intothe custody of the prison from which he was releasedfor the purposes of removal to the specified country.

(3)Where a prisoner who is serving a term ofimprisonment in Sri Lanka is released from prison pursuantto a request made by a specified country under subsection(1), any period during which such prisoner is held in custodyin such specified country in connection with such request,shall be deemed to be a period spent in serving the term ofimprisonment which he was serving prior to his release forremoval to the specified country.

(4)Where

(a)a proceeding or an investigation relating to a criminalmatter has commenced in a specified country ;

14Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

Request by theCentral Authorityfor prisoner orother person inspecified countryto give evidenceor assist aninvestigation.

(b)the appropriate authority in the specified countryrequests the attendance, of a person (not being aprisoner) who is in Sri Lanka, at a hearing inconnection with that proceeding or for the purposesof giving assistance in relation to such investigation,as the case may be ;

(c)there are reasonable grounds to believe that theperson, is capable of giving evidence relevant to suchproceeding, or of giving assistance in relation to suchinvestigation, as the case may be ; and

(d)the Central Authority is satisfied that

(i)such person has consented to travel to suchspecified country, to give evidence in suchproceeding or to give assistance in relation tosuch investigation as the case may be ; and

(ii)the appropriate authority in the specifiedcountry has given any undertaking required bythe Central Authority with respect to suchperson, including undertakings as to meetingthe costs of travel of such person to thespecified country,

the Central Authority may, in his discretion, makearrangements for the travel of that person to the specifiedcountry.

13.(1) Where a proceeding or investigation relating toa criminal matter has commenced in Sri Lanka and the CentralAuthority is of the opinion that a person who is in a specifiedcountry, is

(a)a prisoner in such specified country ;

(b)capable of giving evidence relevant to thatproceeding or of giving assistance in relation to suchinvestigation as the case may be ; and

15Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(c)has given, or is likely to give, his consent to beingremoved to Sri Lanka for the purposes of givingevidence in such proceeding or of giving assistancein relation to such investigation, as the case may be,

the Central Authority may, in his discretion, request theappropriate authority in the specified country to authorise theremoval of such person to Sri Lanka, to give evidence at ahearing in connection with that proceeding or to giveassistance in relation to such investigation, as the case maybe.

(2) A person removed to Sri Lanka from a specifiedcountry, pursuant to a request made by the Central Authorityunder subsection (1) shall, while such person is in Sri Lankaor travelling to or from Sri Lanka pursuant to such request,be held in such custody as the Central Authority may, inwriting direct. A direction given under this subsection shallbe deemed to authorize the holding in custody of the personto whom such direction relates.

(3)The provisions of the Prisons Ordinance relating tothe conditions of imprisonment of persons imprisoned in aprison in Sri Lanka, their treatment during imprisonment andtheir transfer from prison to prison shall apply so as far asthey are capable of application, in relation to a person held incustody pursuant to a direction by the Central Authority undersubsection (2).

(4) Where

(a)a person is held in custody pursuant to a directionmade by the Central Authority under subsection (2) ;and

(b)the appropriate authority in the specified countryfrom which such person was removed to Sri Lankarequests the release of such person from custody,

the Central Authority shall direct that such person be releasedfrom custody.

16Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

Immunity fromprosecution &c. ofpersons brought toSri Lanka.

(5)Any person who escapes from lawful custody whileheld in custody in Sri Lanka pursuant to a request made bythe Central Authority under subsection (1) shall be guilty ofan offence under this Act and shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable to rigorousimprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years.

(6)Where a proceeding or an investigation relating to acriminal matter has commenced in Sri Lanka and the CentralAuthority is of the opinion that a person (not being a prisoner)who is in a specified country

(a)is capable of giving evidence relevant to thatproceeding or of giving assistance in relation to suchinvestigation, as the case may be; and

(b)has consented to travel to Sri Lanka, to give evidencein such proceeding or to give assistance in relationto such investigation, as the case may be,

the Central Authority may, in his discretion, request theappropriate authority of the specified country to makearrangements for the travel of that person to Sri Lanka.

14. Where

(a)a person is in Sri Lanka pursuant to a request madeby the Central Authority to the appropriate authorityof a specified country under subsection (6) of section13 ; or

(b)a person, being a prisoner, has been removed to SriLanka pursuant to a request made by the CentralAuthority to the appropriate authority of a specifiedcountry, under subsection (1) of section 13,

to give evidence in a proceeding relating to a criminal matteror to give assistance in an investigation relating to a criminalmatter, such person shall not be detained prosecuted or

17Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

Request by aspecified countryfor search andseizure.

punished in Sri Lanka for any offence that is alleged to havebeen committed or was committed, prior to that person'sdeparture from such specified country pursuant to suchrequest

(i)in the case of a person who, not being aprisoner, is in Sri Lanka for the purposes ofgiving evidence in a proceeding relating to acriminal matter or of assisting in a investigationrelating to a criminal matter, unless such personhas remained in Sri Lanka for a period of atleast fifteen days after he had been notified bythe Central Authority that his presence was nolonger necessary for such proceeding orinvestigation and had an opportunity of leavingSri Lanka ; and

(ii)in the case of a person who being a prisoner, inSri Lanka for the purposes of giving evidencein a proceeding relating to criminal matter orof assisting in a investigation relating to acriminal matter, until after he has returned tothe specified country from which he wasremoved to Sri Lanka.

PART VI

ASSISTANCE IN RELATION TO SEARCH AND SEIZURE

15. (1) Where

(a)a proceeding or investigation relating to a criminalmatter involving a serious offence has commencedin a specified country ;

(b)there are reasonable grounds to believe that a thingrelevant to the proceeding or investigation is locatedin Sri Lanka ; and

18Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(c)the appropriate authority of such specified countryrequests the Central Authority to arrange for the issueof a search warrant in relation to that thing,

the Central Authority may, in his discretion, authorise a policeofficer in writing, to make an application to the Magistratewithin whose jurisdiction that thing is believed to be located,for the search warrant requested by the appropriate authorityof such specified country.

(2) Where a police officer authorised under subsection(1) has reason to believe that the thing to which the requestrelates is, or shall, at a specified time, be

(a)in the clothing that is worn by a person ; or

(b)otherwise in a persons immediate control ;

the police officer may

(i)lay before such Magistrate such informationon oath setting out the grounds for such belief ;and

(ii)apply for the issue of a warrant under thissection to search the person for that thing.

(3) Where an application is made under subsection (2),the Magistrate may, subject to subsection (6), issue a warrantauthorising a police officer (whether or not named in thewarrant), with such assistance, and by such force, as isnecessary and reasonable

(a)to search the person for such thing ; and

(b)to seize anything authorised to be seized by thewarrant and found in the course of the search thatthe police officer believes, on reasonable grounds,to be relevant to the proceeding or investigation.

19Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(4) Where a police officer authorised under subsection(1) has reason to believe that the thing to which the requestrelates is, or shall, at a specified time, be, upon any land, orupon or in any premises, the police officer may

(a)lay before such Magistrate such information on oathsetting out the grounds for such belief ; and

(b)apply for the issue of a warrant under this section tosearch the land or premises for that thing.

(5) Where an application is made under subsection (1),the Magistrate may, subject to subsection (6), issue a warrantauthorising a police officer (whether or not named in thewarrant), with such assistance, and by such force, as isnecessary and reasonable

(a)to enter upon the land, or upon or into the premises ;

(b)to search the land or premises for such thing ; and

(c)to seize anything authorized to be seized by thewarrant and found in the course of the search thatthe police officer believes, on reasonable grounds,to be relevant to the proceeding or investigation.

(6) A Magistrate shall not issue a warrant under thissection unless

(a)the informant or some other person has given to theMagistrate either orally or by affidavit, such furtherinformation if any, as the Magistrate requiresconcerning the grounds on which the issue of thewarrant is sought ; and

(b)the Magistrate is satisfied that there are reasonablegrounds for issuing the warrant.

20Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(7) There shall be stated in a warrant issued under thissection

(a)the purpose for which the warrant is issued, includinga reference to the nature of the criminal matter inrelation to which the search is authorised ;

(b)whether the search is authorised at any time of theday or night or during specified hours of the day ornight ;

(c)a description of the kind of things authorised to beseized ; and

(d)the date (not being later than one month after theissue of the warrant) on which the warrant ceases tohave effect.

(8) If, during a search under a warrant issued under thissection, for anything of the kind specified in the warrant, thepolice officer finds any other thing that such police officerbelieves on reasonable grounds

(a)to be relevant to the proceeding or investigation inthe specified country or to afford evidence as to thecommission of an offence in Sri Lanka ; and

(b)is likely to be concealed, lost or destroyed if it is notseized,

the warrant shall be deemed to authorise such police officerto seize such other thing.

(9) Where a police officer finds as a result of a search inaccordance with a warrant issued under this section, any otherthing which such police officer believes on reasonablegrounds, to be relevant to the proceeding or investigation inthe specified country, such police officer shall deliver suchother thing into the custody and control of the Inspector -General of Police in Sri Lanka.

21Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

Request by SriLanka for searchand seizure.

(10) Where a thing is delivered into the custody andcontrol of the Inspector-General of Police under subsection(9), the Inspector-General of police shall arrange for suchthing to be kept for a period not exceeding one month fromthe day on which the thing was seized, pending a direction inwriting from the Central Authority as to the manner in whichthe thing is to be dealt with, which may include a directionthat the thing be sent to an authority of a specified country.

(11) The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code Act,No. 15 of 1979 relating to the execution of search warrantsissued under that Act shall, in so far as they are not inconsistentwith the preceding provisions of this section, apply to theexecution of warrants issued under this section.

(12) The Magistrate issuing a warrant under this sectionshall, subject to the provisions of subsection (9), cause anything seized in the course of a search in accordance with suchwarrant together with a certificate setting out the place andcircumstances of the seizure and the custody of such thingsafter its seizure, to be forwarded to the Central Authority fortransmission to the appropriate authority of the specifiedcountry making the request for such search warrant.

16. Where a proceeding or investigation relating to acriminal matter is commenced in Sri Lanka, and the CentralAuthority has reasonable grounds to believe that any thingrelevant to such proceeding or investigation is located in aspecified country, he may request the appropriate authorityof such specified country to apply for, and obtain, a warrantor other authority authorizing the search for, and seizure of,such thing, or any other thing that is, or may be relevant tosuch proceeding or investigation, and to transmit to himanything seized in the course of any search authorized bysuch warrant.

22Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

Request by aspecifiedcountry fortracingproceeds ofcrime.

PART VII

TRACING PROCEEDS OF CRIME AND ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS

17. Where

(a)a person has been charged with, or convicted of, oris suspected on reasonable grounds of havingcommitted, a serious offence in a specified country ;

(b)there are reasonable grounds to believe that anyproperty derived or obtained, directly or indirectly,from the commission of that offence, is in Sri Lanka ;

(c)the appropriate authority in such specified countryrequests the Central Authority for assistance inidentifying, locating or assessing the value of, suchproperty,

the Central Authority may in his discretion, give the assistancerequested wherever it is practicable to do so.

18. Where

(a)a person has been charged with, or convicted of, oris suspected on reasonable grounds of havingcommitted, a serious offence in Sri Lanka ;

(b)there are reasonable grounds to believe that anyproperty derived or obtained, directly or indirectly,from the commission of that offence is in a specifiedcountry,

the Central Authority may, in his discretion, require theappropriate authority in such specified country for assistancein identifying, locating, or assessing the value, of suchproperty.

Request by SriLanka for tracingproceeds of crime.

23Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

Request by aspecified countryfor enforcementof orders of court.

19. (1) Where

(a)a court in a specified country has, in a proceedingrelating to a criminal matter, made an order

(i)forfeiting any property or having the effect offorfeiting or confiscating any property ;

(ii)imposing a fine or other pecuniary penalty onany person or requiring that person to paycompensation to any other person ;

(iii)restraining any person or all persons fromdealing with any property ; and

(b)there are reasonable grounds to believe that theproperty with respect to which such order is made islocated in Sri Lanka or that any property located inSri Lanka is available for the satisfaction of thatorder ;

(c)the appropriate authority of such specified countryhas requested the Central Authority for assistancein enforcing such order in Sri Lanka ; and

(d)the Central Authority is satisfied that such order isin force and not subject to any further appeal in thespecified country,

the Central Authority may, in his discretion, require theAttorney-General to apply for the registration of the order inthe High Court established under Article 154P of theConstitution for the Province in which such property islocated.

(2) Where the Attorney-General applies to the High Courtfor the registration of an order in pursuance of an authorizationunder subsection (1), the court shall register such order.

24Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

Requests by SriLanka forenforcement oforders of court.

(3) Where an order is registered in the High Court inpursuance of an application under subsection (2), a copy ofthe amendments to the order (whether made before or afterthe registration) shall be registered in the same manner as theorder, and the amendments shall have effect only upon suchregistration.

(4) An order or an amendment of an order shall beregistered in the High Court, by the registrar in accordancewith any rules of court made in that behalf, with a copy ofthat order or amendment duly authenticated in accordancewith the provisions of section 21.

(5) An order and any amendments thereto registered inthe High Court under subsection (4) shall have effect, andmay be enforced, in all respects, as if it were an order madeby that court.

(6) Where the High Court is satisfied that any orderregistered under subsection (2) has ceased to have effect inthe specified country in which it was made, it shall cancelsuch registration.

(7) Any property forfeited or confiscated, or any fine orpecuniary penalty or compensation recovered, by reason ofthe enforcement of an order registered under this section shall,notwithstanding anything in any other law, be dealt with insuch manner as the Central Authority may specify for thepurposes of giving effect to the request.

20. Where

(a)a court in Sri Lanka has, in a proceeding relating toa criminal matter, made an order

(i)forfeiting any property or having the effect offorfeiting or confiscating any property ;

(ii)imposing a fine or other pecuniary penalty onany person or requiring that person to paycompensation to any other person ;

25Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(iii)restraining any person or all persons fromdealing with any property ; and

(b)the Central Authority has reasonable grounds tobelieve that the property with respect to which suchorder is made or the property available to satisfy suchorder is located in a specified country,

the Central Authority may, in his discretion, request theappropriate authority of such specified country to makearrangements for the enforcement of such order in suchspecified country.

PART VIII

GENERAL

21. (1) In a proceeding under this Act, arising directly orindirectly from a request made under this Act, a documentduly authenticated shall be admissible in evidence.

(2) A document shall be deemed to be duly authenticatedfor the purposes of subsection (1), if

(a)it purports to be signed or certified by a Judge,Magistrate or Officer in, or of, a specified country;and

(b)it purports to be authenticated by the oath of a witnessor an officer of the Government of the specifiedcountry or to be sealed with the official or publicseal of the specified country or of a Minister of Stateor of a Department or officer of the Government ofthe specified country.

22. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters, which are required by this Act to be prescribed orin respect of which regulations are authorized or required tobe made.

Authentication ofdocuments.

Regulations.

26Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shall comeinto operation on the date of such publication or on such laterdate as may be specified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Every regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which a regulation is sodeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

23.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act the Sinhala text shall prevail.

24.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

appropriate authority in relation to a specified countrywhich is

(a)a Commonwealth country means the person,howsoever described, designated to receive andtransmit requests for assistance in criminalmatters, by or under any law of that country ;

(b)a Non-Commonwealth country means theperson, howsoever described, designated toreceive and transmit requests for assistance inany agreement between Sri Lanka and suchnon-Commonwealth country for mutualassistance in criminal matters or in any law ofsuch country giving effect to such agreement ;

Commonwealth Country means a country within theCommonwealth, and includes a colony, territory,protectorate or other dependency of such country,or a ship or aircraft registered in such country ;

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

27Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

criminal matter means violations of any law, whetherof Sri Lanka or of a specified country, and includesviolations of the law of Sri Lanka or a specifiedcountry relating to taxation, exchange control orcustoms or securities or money laundering ;

duly authenticated in relation to a document, means adocument authenticated as provided for insection 21 ;

foreign law immunity certificate means a certificategiven or a declaration made, by the appropriateauthority of a specified country or under the law ofa specified country, certifying or declaring that,under the law of that specified country, personsgenerally or a specified person, could or could not,either generally or in specified proceedings or eithergenerally or in specified circumstances, be requiredto answer a specified question, or to produce aspecified document ;

Non Commonwealth Country means a country outsidethe Commonwealth and includes a colony, territory,protectorate or other dependency of such country,or a ship or aircraft registered in such country, andshall be deemed to include the Hong Kong SpecialAdministration Region of the Peoples Republic ofChina ;

serious offence means of offence punishable withdeath or with imprisonment for a term not less thanone year.

28Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

SCHEDULE(section 5)

FORM A[section 7(1)]

TO THE CENTRAL AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA.

Whereas (state name of suspect/witness/other person* ifknown) : is suspected to be involved in/is able to provide evidence/assistance*in (state criminal matter falling within jurisdiction of criminal courtin Specified Country):

And whereas there are reasonable grounds to believe that theaforesaid (State name of suspect witness/other person* if known) isin Sri Lanka:

This is to request your assistance in locating the aforesaid (State name of Suspects/witness/other person* if known).

Appropriate Authority of Specified Country.

FORM B[Section 7(1)]

TO THE CENTRAL AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA.

Whereas a person whose identity is not known and the availableinformation about whom is specified hereunder, is suspected to be involvedin/is able to provide evidence/assistance* in (state criminal matterfalling within jurisdiction of criminal court in Specified Country) :

And whereas there are reasonable grounds to believe that the aforesaidperson is in Sri Lanka :

This is to request your assistance in identifying and locating such person.

Appropriate Authority of Specified Country.

29Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

FORM C[section 8(1)]

TO THE CENTRAL AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA

Whereas proceedings have been instituted in (state name ofcourt in specified country) in respect of (state criminal matterfalling within jurisdiction of criminal court in Specified Country) :

And whereas summons/process/document* has been issued in suchproceedings for service on (state name of defendant/witness/otherperson)*:

And Whereas there are reasonable grounds to believe that the aforesaid(state name of defendant/witness/other person*) is in Sri Lanka :

This is to request your assistance to serve that summons/process/document* (a copy of which is attached hereto) on the aforesaid (state name of defendant/witness/other person*). Where mode service isspecified in the manner specified hereunder.

Appropriate Authority of Specified Country.

FORM D[section 10(1)]

TO THE CENTRAL AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA

Whereas proceedings have been instituted in the court of (statename of court in specified country) in respect of (state criminalmatter falling within jurisdiction of criminal court in Specified Country) :

And Whereas there are reasonable grounds to believe that (statename of witness) who is capable of giving evidence relevant to suchproceedings/producing (state name of document or other thing)relevant to such proceedings* is in Sri Lanka :

This is to request you to arrange for :

(a)the taking of the evidence of the aforesaid (state nameof witness required to be examined) : or

(b)the production of the aforesaid (describe the documentor other thing required to be produced),

in Sri Lanka for the purposes of the aforesaid proceedings and for thetransmission of such evidence, document or other thing to me.

Appropriate Authority of Specified Country.

30Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

FORM E[section 12(1)]

TO THE CENTRAL AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA

Whereas proceedings have been instituted in the Court of(statename of court) in specified country)/investigations have been commencedin (state name of specified country)* in respect of (state the criminal matter falling within jurisdiction of criminal court inSpecified Country) :

And whereas there are reasonable grounds to believe that (statename of prisoner) who is currently serving a sentence of imprisonment in (state place of imprisonment in Sri Lanka) is capable of givingevidence relevant to such proceedings/giving assistance in relation to suchinvestigation* :

This is to request you to arrange for the removal of the aforesaid(state name of prisoner) to (state name of specified country) forthe purposes of giving evidence relevant to such proceedings/givingassistance in relation to such investigation*.

Appropriate Authority of Specified Country.

FORM F[section 12(4)]

TO THE CENTRAL AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA

Whereas proceedings have been instituted in the court of (statename of court in specified country)/investigations have been commenced in (state name of specified country)* in respect of (statethe criminal matter falling within jurisdiction of criminal court in SpecifiedCountry) :

And whereas there are reasonable grounds to believe that (statename of witness) who is presently in Sri Lanka is capable of giving evidencerelevant to such proceedings/giving assistance in relation to suchinvestigation*:

This is to request you to arrange for the removal of the aforesaid (state name of witness) to (state name of specifiedcountry) for the purposes of giving evidence relevant to such proceedings/giving assistance in relation to such investigation*.

Appropriate Authority of Specified country.

31Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

FORM G[section 15(1)]

TO THE CENTRAL AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA

Whereas proceedings have been instituted in the court of (statename of court in specified country)/investigations have been commenced in (state name of specified country)* in respect of (statethe nature of the serious offence) :

And whereas there are reasonable grounds to believe that (statethe description of article or thing) which is relevant to such proceedings/investigation* is located in Sri Lanka :

This is to request you to arrange for the issue of a search warrant for thesearch and seizure of (state the description of article or thing) andthe transmission of the same to me.

Appropriate Authority of Specified Country.

FORM H[Section 17]

TO THE CENTRAL AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA

Whereas (state name of suspect/offender)* has been chargedwith/convicted of/suspected of having committed* (state natureof serious offence) in (state name of specified country :

And whereas there are reasonable grounds to believe that (describe property, if known) derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, fromthe commission of that offence, is in Sri Lanka :

This is to request you for your assistance in locating/identifying/assessing

32Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

the value of* (describe property if known).

Appropriate Authority of Specified Country.FORM I[Section 19(1)]

TO THE CENTRAL AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA.

Whereas (state name of court in specified country) has inproceedings instituted in respect of (state criminal matter) made orderforfeiting/confiscating (describe property)/imposing a fine orother pecuniary penalty on any person or requiring that person to paycompensation to any other person/restraining any person from dealingwith (describe property):

And whereas there are reasonable grounds to believe that (describe property) with respect of which that order is made is located in SriLanka/ that property located in Sri Lanka is available for satisfaction of thatorder* :

This is to request your assistance in enforcing that order (a copy of whichis attached hereto).

Appropriate Authority of Specified Country.

*Delete whatever is inapplicable.

33Mutual Assistance in Criminal MattersAct, No. 25 of 2002

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.