PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

REGULATION OF INSURANCE INDUSTRY(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 3 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 07th February, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 11, 2011

1Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 4 of Act,No. 43 of 2000.

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

[Certified on 07th February, 2011]

L.D.O. 13/2010

AN ACT TO AMEND THE REGULATION OF INSURANCE INDUSTRYACT, NO. 43 OF 2000

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Regulation of InsuranceIndustry (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2011.

2.Section 4 of the Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended as follows:

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal ofparagraph (c) of that subsection and the substitutiontherefor of the following paragraph:

(c)the Registrar-General of Companies ; ; and

(2) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words of the Schedule to this Act, and forthe words members its of the Board,, of the wordsof the First Schedule to this Act and of the wordsmembers of the Board,, respectively.

3.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b) ofthat section of the following new paragraph:

(bb)register persons as loss adjusters;; and

2Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (d) ofthat section, of the following new paragraph:

(dd)enter into any bi-lateral or multi-lateralmemorandum of understanding pertaining tothe sharing of information, with any local orforeign person;.

4.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal ofparagraph (b) of that subsection and the substitution thereforof the following paragraph:

(b)all such sums of money as shall be paid asregistration fees under sections 14, 81, 83 and89C of this Act;.

5.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)thereof, of the following new subsection:

(1A). Notwithstanding the provisions containedin subsection (1), the National Insurance Trust FundBoard established by the National Insurance TrustFund Act, No. 28 of 2006 shall be deemed to be:

(a)a person registered under this Act to carry oninsurance business in Sri Lanka ; and

(b)an Insurer registered under the provisions ofthis Act to carry on insurance business fromthe date of coming into operation of thisAct.;

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords for long term insurance business or for bothgeneral and long term insurance business. of thewords for long term insurance business.;

3Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

(3)in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution for thewords and figures the Social Security Boardestablished by the Social Security Board Act, No.17 of 1996 and the National Insurance Trust FundBoard established by the National Insurance TrustFund Act, No. 28 of 2006. of the words and figuresthe Social Security Board established by the SocialSecurity Board Act, No. 17 of 1996..

6.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, as follows:

(1) in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitution for thewords less than the prescribed amount;, of thewords less than such amount as determined by theBoard by rules made in that behalf;; and

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b)thereof, of the following new paragraph:

(bb)has in its Board of Directors persons who arenot subject to any one or more of thedisqualifications specified in the SecondSchedule to this Act;.

7.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, as follows:

(1)in paragraph (h) thereof, by the substitution for thewords section 13; and, of the words section 13;;

(2) in paragraph (i) thereof, by the substitution for thewords three years., of the words three years; and;and

(3)by the addition immediately after paragraph (i)thereof, of the following new paragraph:

(j)such other documents and information as maybe determined by the Board..

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.

4Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Insertion of newsection 31A inthe principalenactment.

No personbe appointeda director ofan insurer orcontinue as adirector incertaincircumstances.

8. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 15 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 15A of that enactment:

15A.Every insurer shall be required withinthree years of being issued with a licence undersection 15 of this Act, to have itself listed on alicensed stock exchange..

9.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

10.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, as follows:

(1)in paragraph (g) thereof, by the substitution for thewords direction given by the Board, of the wordsdirection given or determination made by theBoard ; and

(2)in paragrph (h) thereof, by the substitution for thewords in its, application for registration;, of thewords in its application for registration or in anyinformation or document submitted to the Board;.

11.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

12.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 31 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 31A of that enactment:

31A.A person shall not be appointed,elected or nominated as a director of an insureror continue as a director of an insurer, if suchperson is subject to any one or more of thedisqualifications specified in the SecondSchedule to this Act..

Repeal ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 15A inthe principalenactment.

Repeal ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Insurer tobe listed on alicensedstockexchange.

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

5Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Amendment ofsection 32 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsections 33A,33B, 33C, 33Dand 33E of theprincipalenactment.Conditionsrelating totheappointmentof directorsof an insurer.

Insurer toinform Boardof proposedappointment,nominationor election ofdirectors.

13.Section 32 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)of that section, of the following new subsection:

(1A) The disqualifications specified in the SecondSchedule to this Act, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to andin relation to a person employed as a specified officerunder subsection (1)..

14.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 33 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 33A, 33B, 33C, 33D and 33E ofthat enactment:

33A.(1) A director or an employee of aninsurer shall not be appointed, elected ornominated as a director of another insurer,except where such insurer is a subsidiarycompany or an associate company of the firstmentioned insurer.

(2) An employee of an insurer may beappointed, elected or nominated as a directorof that insurer, subject however to the conditionthat the number of employees that may be soappointed, elected or nominated as directors,shall not exceed one-third of the total numberof members of the Board of Directors of thatinsurer.

33B.(1) Every insurer shall submit to theBoard along with the Form required to be filedwith the Registrar-General of Companies, anotice in such form and manner as shall bedetermined by the Board, giving informationabout each person sought to be appointed,elected or nominated as a director of the insurer,prior to the making of such appointment,election or nomination, as the case may be,and obtain the Boards approval for the same.

6Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Appointments,elections ornominationsof directorsof an insurerto beapproved bythe Board .

(2) Where the Board receives a notice froman insurer under subsection (1) informing it ofa proposed appointment, election ornomination of a person as a director of suchinsurer, the Board shall within thirty days ofreceipt of such notice and having regard to theprovisions of section 33A, and to thedisqualifications specified in the SecondSchedule to this Act, approve or refuse toapprove such appointment, election ornomination, as the case may be, and inform theinsurer of its decision along with its reasonsfor reaching such decision. It shall also be theduty of the insurer to communicate to the personconcerned, who is sought to be appointed,elected or nominated, as a director, the decisionof the Board.

(3) Any person aggrieved by a decisiongiven by the Board under subsection (2), maysubmit an appeal against such decision to theBoard which shall be referred by the Board to aPanel of Review, consisting of three personsappointed by the Minister, from among personswho have experience and shown capacity inthe field of insurance, financial managementor law. The Panel of Review shall havingconsidered the grounds on which the appeal isbeing made and any other matters which in itsopinion merits consideration, make a decisioneither confirming the refusal or approving theappointment, election or nomination, as thecase may be, of such person as a director of theinsurer concerned.

33C.(1) An insurer shall not appoint, elector nominate as a director of such insurer aperson whose appointment, election ornomination has not been approved by theBoard under section 33B of this Act.

7Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Removal of adirector whois ineligibleto hold officeas a director.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1), a person whose name has beensubmitted to the Board for approval undersubsection (1) of section 33B, may be appointed,elected or nominated as a director of the insurer,pending the receipt of the decision of theBoard. However, where the Board refuses togrant approval and the insurer communicatesto the person concerned, the decision of theBoard, such person shall from the date of suchcommunication, cease to hold office as adirector of the insurer, subject to any decisionthe Board may reach upon any objections thatmay have been tendered by the personconcerned, under subsection (3) of section 33B,against the decision of the Board refusing togrant approval.

(3) It shall be the duty of an insurer to informthe Board forthwith of every appointment,election or nomination of a director, whoseappointment, election or nomination, as thecase may be, was approved by the Board.

33D.(1) An insurer shall, immediatelyupon becoming aware that a director of suchinsurer has become subject to any one or moreof the disqualifications specified in the SecondSchedule to this Act or has become ineligibleto continue to hold office as a director of theinsurer, inform the Board of such fact.

(2) Where the Board receives anyinformation under subsection (1) about adirector or where the Board becomes aware atany time that a person appointed, elected ornominated as a director of an insurer hasthereafter become disqualified under any oneor more of the disqualifications specified inthe Second Schedule to this Act or hasotherwise become ineligible to continue to

8Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

hold office as a director of an insurer, the Boardshall

(a)direct the insurer concerned, in writing,to remove such person from the officeof a director within such period as maybe specified in such direction; and

(b)in writing, notify the person who is tobe removed of the fact of such removal,with a copy of the direction issued tothe insurer regarding the same annexedto such notification.

(3) The insurer to whom a direction is issuedunder subsection (2) shall, within the periodspecified in the direction

(a)remove the person from the office ofdirector; and

(b)take such steps as are necessary toinform the shareholders of the insurerand the Registrar-General ofCompanies of such removal.

(4) The removal of a director in accordancewith a direction issued under paragraph (a) ofsubsection (2) shall, notwithstanding theArticles of Association of the insurer, take effectfrom the date of receipt by the director of thenotification of removal sent by the insurer.

(5) Any person who is aggrieved by theremoval of such person from the office of adirector under subsection (3) of this section,may within fourteen days of being notified ofsuch removal, appeal therefrom to the Court ofAppeal. The Court of Appeal may on appealmade under this section, confirm, revise, modifyor set aside the decision against which the

9Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Failure tocomply to bean offence.

Repeal ofsection 35 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 37 of theprincipalenactment.

appeal is made and may make such order as theinterests of justice may require.

33E. An insurer who fails to comply withany direction given under paragraph (a) ofsubsection (2) of section 33D within the periodspecified in such direction and a director whohas been served with a notice under paragraph(b) of that subsection who continues to functionas a director thereafter, shall each be guilty ofan offence under this Act and shall be liable onconviction after summary trial before aMagistrate to a fine not exceeding five hundredthousand rupees and shall in addition beliable

(a)in the case of the insurer, to a further fineof one hundred thousand rupees, for eachday that the insurer continues to commitsuch offence after conviction; and

(b)in the case of a director of the insurer,to a further fine of rupees one hundredthousand for each day such directorcontinues to function as director, afterconviction..

15.Section 35 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

16.Section 37 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following subsection:

(1) For the purpose of examining whether the interestsof the policy holders are being adequately safeguardedevery insurer shall be required to file with the Board:

(a)all policy forms to be issued by such insurer,prior to its issue;

10Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Amendment ofsection 49 of theprincipleenactment.

Amendment ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment.

(b)any amendments to be made to any policyforms already issued; and

(c)where required to do so by a notice in writing,copies of any policy forms already issued..

17.Section 47 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words by the Board by rules made in thatbehalf., of the words by the Board.; and

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words required by the rules made by theBoard in that behalf, , of the words required bythe Board,.

18.Section 48 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,from all the words from in accordance with rules to thewords as the Board may determine., of the words in suchmanner and within such period after the close of the financialyear, as the Board may determine..

19.Section 49 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (b) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words return containing such information as may bedetermined by the Board by rules made in that behalf. ofthe words return containing such information and duringsuch periods of time, as may be determined by the Board..

20.Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words the provisionsof section 162 of the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, of thewords the provisions of section 173 of the Companies Act,No. 7 of 2007,.

Amendment ofsection 47 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 48 of theprincipalenactment.

11Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Amendment ofsection 60 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 61 of theprincipalenactment.Publishingof returnssubmitted tothe Board.

Amendment ofsection 56 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 78 of theprincipalenactment.

21.Section 56 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words abstracts as maybe determined by the Board by rules made in that behalf.,of the words abstracts as may be determined by the Boardand within such period as the Board may determine..

22.Section 60 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the proviso to that section, by the substitutionfor the words any particular insurer, unless the insurer has,of the words any particular insurer or broker, unless theinsurer or the broker has.

23. Section 61 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

61.An insurer may with the prior writtenapproval of the Board, publish any returnsubmitted to the Board under this Act or a trueand accurate abstract of such return, for purposeof publicity..

24.Section 78 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words an individual and for the words allindividuals, of the words any person and of thewords all persons, respectively ; and

(2)in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words any individual, of the words anyperson.

25.Section 80 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of that section, bythe substitution for the words a policy or policiesof insurance, of the words policies of insurance;and

Amendment ofsection 80 of theprincipalenactment.

12Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Amendment ofsection 83 of theprincipalenactment.

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section

(a)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) ofthat paragraph, for the words specifiedofficer, of the words the principal officer;and

(b)in sub-paragraph (ii) of that paragraph, forthe words an associated or subsidiarycompany, of the words an associate,subsidiary or a holding company.

26.Section 81 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (c) of that section,by the substitution for the words paragraph (d) ofsection 80;, of the words paragraph (d) ofsubsection (1) of section 80;; and

(2)in paragraph (h) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words a certified copy of the professionalindemnity insurance policy or policies issued, ofthe words a certified copy each of the professionalindemnity policies of insurance issued.

27.Section 83 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the substitution for the words on an applicationbeing made in that behalf to the Board, of thewords on an application being made in that behalfto the Board not more than three months but notless than two months prior to the date of expiry ofits registration;

(2)in paragraph (a) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words a professional indemnity policy ofinsurance for the ensuing period, of the words

Amendment ofsection 81 of theprincipalenactment.

13Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Amendment ofsection 84 of theprincipalenactment.

a certified copy each of the professional indemnitypolicies of insurance for the ensuing period issuedby two or more insurers; and

(3)in paragraph (d) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words such other documents, of the wordssuch other documents and information .

28.Section 84 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (b) of thatsubsection, and the substitution therefor ofthe following paragraph:

(b)the broker has failed to comply with oracted in contravention of anydirections issued by the Board underthis Act;;

(b)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(b) of that subsection, of the following newparagraph:

(bb)the broker has ceased to be of goodfinancial standing;;

(c)by the repeal of paragraph (c) of thatsubsection, and the substitution therfor of thefollowing paragraph:

(c) (i)a director or the principal officer ofthe broker; or

(ii)a director or the chief executiveofficer of an associate, a subsidiary

14Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

or a holding company of suchbroker,

becomes a director, a shareholder or anemployee of an insurer;

(d)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(c) of that subsection, of the following newparagraphs:

(cc)the broker becomes a shareholder of anyinsurer;

(ccc)the broker has contravened anyprovision of this Act or any regulationor rule made or any condition imposedby the Board, under this Act;; and

(e)by the repeal of paragraph (e) of thatsubsection, and the substitution therefor ofthe following paragraph:

(e)the broker has furnished false,misleading or inaccurate informationor has concealed or failed to disclosematerial facts in the application forregistration or renewal of registration,as the case may be, or in any statementor document submitted to the Board.;and

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection:

(1A) The provisions of subsections (2), (3), (4),(5), (6) and (7) of section 18 of this Act shall, mutatismutandis, apply to and in relation to thecancellation or suspension of a registration underthis section.; and

15Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Insertion of newsection 84A inthe principalenactment.

Board maydirect certainmeasures tobe taken inlieu of actingunder section84.

Amendment ofsection 85 of theprincipalenactment.

(3)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words of this Act shall apply, of the wordsof this Act shall, mutatis mutandis, apply.

29.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 84 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 84A of that enactment:

84A.Notwithstanding the provisions ofsection 84, the Board may in lieu of takingany action under that section on any one ormore grounds referred to therein, and wherethe nature of the act or omission is not of suchgravity as to warrant taking action under thatsection, direct the broker to take suchmeasures that the Board may considerappropriate, to

(a)rectify and set right any consequenceresulting from such act or omission ;and

(b)comply with the provisions of this Actor any regulation or rule madethereunder or any conditions imposedor any directions given by the Board,under this Act..

30.Section 85 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words two or more registered insurersapproved by the Board, of the words two or moreinsurers, ;

(2) in subsection (2) of that section and in the provisoto that subsection, by the substitution for the wordssuch policy and for the words the policy, of thewords such policies and of the words thepolicies respectively ; and

16Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

(3)in subsection (3) of that section

(a) by the substitution for the words The policyobtained and for the words in either- ofthe words The policies obtained and of theword of-, respectively: and

(b) by the substitution in paragraph (b) of thatsubsection, for the words by the Board., ofthe following words by the Board,whicheveris higher..31.Section 86 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:

(3) Every broker shall furnish to the Board,returns, containing such information and withinsuch period of time as may be determined by theBoard.; and

(2)by the addition at the end of that section, of thefollowing new subsection:

(6) Every broker shall submit to the Boardannually a certified copy each of the professionalindemnity policies of insurance issued by two ormore insurers as required by section 83 of thisAct..

32.Section 88 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words paid by an insurerto a broker or insurance agent,, of the words paid by aninsurer to a broker or an insurance agent or by a broker to aninsurance agent,.

Amendment ofsection 88 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 86 of theprincipalenactment.

17Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Insertion of PartVIIIA in theprincipalenactment.

Prohibitionagainst actingas a lossadjusterwithout aCertificate ofRegistration.

Qualificationsforregistration.

Applicationforregistrationand issue ofcertificate.

33.The following new Part is hereby insertedimmediately after section 89 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as PART VIIIA of that enactment:

PART VIIIA

REGISTRATION OF LOSS ADJUSTERS

89A.(1) No person shall act or hold out asa loss adjuster to any insurer, unless such personis the holder of a Certificate of Registration asa loss adjuster, issued by the Board under thisAct.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1), a person who is not a residentof Sri Lanka and who has obtained thenecessary legal recognition as a loss adjusterfrom the relevant authority in the countrywhere such person is resident, is permitted tofunction as a loss adjuster within Sri Lanka,provided such function is being carried on witha person in Sri Lanka who has been dulyregistered as a loss adjuster under the provisionsof this Act.

89B.No person shall be eligible to beregistered as a loss adjuster under this Act,unless such person possesses suchqualifications and experience as may bedetermined by the Board by rules made in thatbehalf.

89C.(1) An application for registration asa loss adjuster shall be made to the Board insuch form as shall be provided for that purposeby the Board and be accompanied by suchdocuments, information and fee as shall bedetermined by the Board by rules made in thatbehalf.

18Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Revocationofregistration.

(2) On receipt of an application undersubsection (1), the Board shall, havingconsidered the particulars stated therein andwhere it deems necessary having given theapplicant an opportunity of being heard, informthe applicant by written notice whether theapplicant is eligible to be registered as a lossadjuster or not. Upon registration of any personas a loss adjuster, such person shall be issuedwith a Certificate of Registration and be subjectto such terms and conditions as shall bespecified in the certificate.

(3) A Certificate of Registration issued bythe Board shall authorize its holder to carry onsuch activity as specified therein and aCertificate issued shall not be transferred toany other person nor be used for the benefit ofany other person.

(4) Any transfer or use of a Certificate ofRegistration by the holder thereof incontravention of the provisions of subsection(3), shall be null and void, and the Board shallhave the power to revoke such registration withimmediate effect.

(5) The Board may at any time add to, varyor revoke any term or condition specified in aCertificate of Registration issued to a lossadjuster or add any new terms or conditionsthereto.

89D.(1) The Board may revoke aCertificate of Registration issued to a lossadjuster, where the Board is satisfied that suchloss adjuster

(a)has acted in contravention of anyprovisions of this Part of this Act, orany rules or regulations madethereunder;

19Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Board tograntopportunityto showcause beforea rejection.

(b)has acted in breach of any term orcondition specified in the Certificateof Registration issued by the Boardunder this Act;

(c)has made any statement in anyapplication, account, writteninformation or document submittedto the Board by such loss adjuster,which was later found to be false,inaccurate or misleading or it isdiscovered that the loss adjuster hasconcealed or failed to disclose somematerial facts that would have affectedthe decision of the Board in assessinghis suitability as a loss adjuster; or

(d)has since the grant of the Certificateof Registration, been found to bedisqualified for the grant of suchregistration.

(2) A loss adjuster who is aggrieved by thedecision of the Board under subsection (1) mayappeal therefrom to the Court of Appeal andthe provisions of section 19 of this Act shallmutatis mutandis apply to and in relation tosuch an appeal.

89E.(1) An application made under thisAct for registration as a loss adjuster shall notbe rejected by the Board without giving noticein writing to the applicant to show cause withinsuch period as shall be specified in such notice,as to why such application should not berejected.

(2) Where any applicant for a registration

(a)fails to show cause within the timespecified in the notice issued undersubsection (1); or

20Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

(b)fails to show sufficient causeacceptable to the Board,

the application made shall be rejected by theBoard..

34.Section 90 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the word Companywherever such word appears in the section, of the wordperson.

35.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 92 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 92A of that enactment:

92A.Any person who acts or holds outas a loss adjuster without being duly registeredunder this Act, shall be guilty of an offenceand shall on conviction after summary trialbefore a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not lessthan fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonmentfor a term not less than one year or to both suchfine and imprisonment..

36.Section 93 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words or any rule madeunder this Act;, of the words or any regulation, rule ororder made under this Act or any conditions imposed ordeterminations made by the Board under this Act,.

37.Section 94 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and appoint as its principal officer,of the words and with the approval of the Board,appoint as its principal officer,; and

Insertion of anew section 92Ain the principalenactment.

Carrying onthe functionof a lossadjusterwithoutbeing dulyregistered, tobe anoffence.

Amendment ofsection 93 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 94 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 90 of theprincipalenactment.

21Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Insertion of anew section 94Ain the principalenactment.

Board to beinformed ofany alterationin theparticularssubmittedwith anapplicationforregistration.

Insertion of newsection 95A inthe principalenactment.

Board torequireincrease ofpaid-up sharecapital.

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection:

(1A) The disqualifications specified in theSecond Schedule to this Act, shall mutatis mutandisapply to and in regard to the disqualificationsapplicable to a person employed as a principalofficer under subsection (1)..

38. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 94 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 94A of that enactment:

94A.Where after the registration of anyperson as an insurer, broker or loss adjuster, asthe case may be, any alteration or a change ismade in the information or particularscontained in an application made by thatperson under section 14, section 81 or section89C of this Act, it shall be the duty of suchinsurer, broker or the loss adjuster, as the casemay be, to forthwith furnish to the Board a fullauthenticated statement of such alteration orchange..

39.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 95 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 95A of that enactment:

95A.The Board shall have the authorityby rules made in that behalf, to require the paidup share capital of insurers and brokers to beincreased and it shall be the duty of all insurersand brokers, as the case may be, to complywith such requirement..

40.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 96 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 96A and section 96B of thatenactment:

Insertion of newsections 96A and96B in theprincipalenactment.

22Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Amendment ofsection 99 of theprincipalenactment.

96A. The Board may with a view tosafeguarding the interests of policy holdersand potential policy holders, issue directionsto insurers, brokers and loss adjustors, as thecase may be, and it shall be the duty of everysuch insurer, broker and loss adjustor, as thecase may be, to comply with any directions soissued.

96B.Any determination of the Boardwhich is not required to be made by rules madein that behalf and which relates to insurers,brokers or loss adjustors, as the case may be,shall immediately upon such determinationbeing made, be communicated to all suchinsurers, brokers and loss adjustors, as the casemay be, to whom such determination relates..

41.Section 97 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words served on anyinsurer,, of the words served on any insurer or broker,.

42.Section 98 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the substitution for the words policy of longterm insurance business, of the words policy oflong term insurance business or general insurancebusiness; and

(2)in the marginal note to that section, by thesubstitution for the words arising under long terminsurance business, of the words arising underlong term or general insurance business.

43.Section 99 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section ; and

Board togivedirections.

Determinationmade to becommunicatedforthwith.

Amendment ofsection 97 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 98 of theprincipalenactment.

23Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Replacement ofsection 100 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 102 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 113 ofthe principalenactment.

Prohibitionagainstcarrying onbusinessother thanthose forwhich alicence orregistration isissued.

(2)in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words means a document inviting and forthe words includes any document which containsinformation, of the words means an invitationappearing in any media, including by anyelectronic means, inviting and of the wordsincludes any information, respectively.

44.Section 100 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:

100.No insurer or broker shall without theprior written approval of the Board, carry onany insurance business other than, in the caseof an insurer, the specified class or sub-class ofinsurance business or in the case of a broker,the class of insurance business, in respect ofwhich such insurer or broker has obtained fromthe Board under this Act a licence orregistration, as the case may be..

45.Section 102 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words in accordance with the guidelines issued tothe end of that subsection, of the words in accordance withthe rules pertaining to takeovers and mergers made underthe Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act,No. 36 of 1987, wherever applicable..

46.Section 113 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words he or she shall,, of the words such insurershall,.

47. Section 114 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in the definition of the expression insurance agent,by the substitution for the words an individual,of the words a person;

Amendment ofsection 114 ofthe principalenactment.

24Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

(2)in the definition of the expression insurer by thesubstitution for the words company registered inthat definition of the words person registered;

(3)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression licensed commercial bank, of thefollowing new definition:

licensed stock exchange means a stock exchangelicensed under the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987;;

(4)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression local authority security, of thefollowing new definition:

loss adjuster means a person who has specializedknowledge in investigating and who is assessinglosses arising from insurance claims andregistered as a loss adjuster under the provisionsof this Act.

(5)by the repeal of definition of the expressionRegistrar of Companies, and the substitutiontherefor of the following definition:

Registrar-General of Companies means a personby name or by office appointed to be or to act asthe Registrar-General of Companies undersection 471 of the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007and includes any Deputy-Registrar General orAssistant Registrar-General appointed under thatsection;; and

(6)in the definition of the expression SecuritiesExchange Commission of Sri Lanka by thesubstitution for the words Securities ExchangeCommission wherever those words appear in thatdefinition, of the words Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka.

25Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Amendment ofthe Schedule tothe principalenactment.

Addition of newSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

48.The Schedule to the principal enactment is herebyamended by the re-numbering of that Schedule as the FirstSchedule to that enactment.

49.The following new Schedule is hereby addedimmediately after the re-numbered First Schedule to theprincipal enactment and shall have effect as the SecondSchedule to that enactment:

SECOND SCHEDULE[Section 31A]

DISQUALIFICATIONS FOR BEING A DIRECTOR OF AN INSURER

A person shall not be eligible to be appointed, elected ornominated as a director of an insurer, if such person:

(a)does not possess academic or professionalqualifications or have effective experience ininsurance, finance, business or of any other relevantdiscipline;

(b)has served as a member or an employee of the Boardat any time during the period of three years priorto being appointed, elected or nominated as adirector of the insurer;

(c)has been convicted by any competent court in SriLanka or of any other country, for a crime committedin connection with financial management or of anyoffence involving moral turpitude;

(d)has been declared an undischarged insolvent or abankrupt under any law of Sri Lanka or of any othercountry;

(e)has failed to satisfy any judgment or order given byany competent court in Sri Lanka or of any othercountry, pertaining to the repayment of a debt;

(f)has been declared by a competent court in Sri Lankaor of any other country, to be of unsound mind;

26Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

(g)has been removed or suspended by an order of aregulatory or supervisory authority from serving asa director, chief executive officer or any otherposition of authority in any insurance company,broker, bank, financial institution or corporatebody, within or outside Sri Lanka; or

(h)has been a director, chief executive officer,principal officer, specified officer or held any otherposition of authority in any insurance company,broker, bank, financial institution or corporatebody

(i)whose licence or other authority granted foroperating as an insurance company or brokeror bank or financial institution, has beensuspended or cancelled ; or

(ii)which has been wound up or is being woundup, or which is being compulsorilyliquidated.

within or outside Sri Lanka..

50.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

51.Where on the date of the coming into operation ofthis Act, a director or the chief executive officer of a holdingcompany of any broker registered under section 82 of theprincipal enactment, is a director, shareholder or an employeeof an insurer, then, notwithstanding the amendment made tosection 84 of the principal enactment by section 28 of thisAct, the registration of such broker shall not be suspendedor cancelled nor a renewal of such registration be refused,without the director or the chief executive officer concernedbeing granted by the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka, areasonable period of time within which to dispose of theshares being held or relinquishing such directorship oremployment, as the case may be.

Registeredbrokers having adirector or thechief executiveofficer of aholdingcompany ofsuch broker as adirector,shareholder oran employee ofan insurer.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

27Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

52. (1) Every insurer who on the date of the cominginto operation of this Act holds a valid licence issued undersection 15 of the principal enactment, shall be required withinfive years from the date of the coming into operation of thisAct, to have itself listed on a stock exchange licensed underthe Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act,No. 36 of 1987 after having where so required to fulfill thesegregation requirements specified in section 53 of this Act.

(2) It shall be the duty of an insurer upon obtaining alisting on a stock exchange as required by subsection (1) ofthis section, to forthwith inform the Insurance Board of SriLanka of such fact by a written communication.

(3) A failure by an insurer to comply with the requirementsimposed by this section may, notwithstanding anything tothe contrary contained in any provisions of the principalenactment, be a ground for the suspension or cancellation ofthe licence issued to such insurer.

53. Where on the date of the coming into operation ofthis Act, an insurer is engaged in carrying on both long terminsurance business and general insurance business in termsof a valid licence issued by the Insurance Board of Sri Lankaunder the principal enactment, such insurer shall be requiredwithin four years from the date of the coming into operationof this Act, to segregate the long term insurance businessand the general insurance business being carried on by it,into two seperate companies.

Insurers holdinga licence to belisted on alicensed stockexchange.

Insurers tosegregate theirlong term andgeneralinsurancebusiness.

28Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment)Act, No. 3 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.