PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 25.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 26, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd of May, 2023]

RATHANATISSA PEACE FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 5 OF 2023

1Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

[Certified on 23rd of May, 2023]

L.D.O. (Inc.) 1/2021

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RATHANATISSA PEACE FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as theRathanatissa Peace Foundation has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout its objects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Foundation according to the rules agreed to, by itsmembers.

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant such application.

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Rathanatissa PeaceFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theRathanatissa Peace Foundation (hereinafter referred to asthe Foundation), and shall hereafter be admitted as membersof the body corporate hereby constituted shall have perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the RathanatissaPeace Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the bodycorporate), and by that name may sue and be sued with fullpower and authority to have, and use a common seal and toalter the same at its pleasure.

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Service Organization within the meaning and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations

Incorporationof theRathanatissaPeaceFoundation

Short title

Preamble

2Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

3. (1) Subject to the provisions of any other written law,the general objects for which the body corporate isconstituted are hereby declared to be

(a)to provide monetary or other assistance in the formof building materials, workmanship for theconstruction and improvement of religious places;

(b)to organize leadership programmes for children,young persons and youth;

(c)to save and rescue cattle from slaughter; and

(d)to assist any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or any Provincial Council pursuant toa written request made by such Ministry orDepartment of the Government or any ProvincialCouncil in the development of educational,religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the body corporate shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, gender, politicalopinion, place of birth or such other ground.

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout in such manner so as not to create any conflict betweenthe work of the body corporate and any work being carriedout simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor ProvincialCouncil

Generalobjects of thebodycorporate

3Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any otherwritten law and the rules made under section 7, themanagement and administration of the affairs of the bodycorporate shall be carried out by a Management Council(hereinafter referred to as the Council) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

(2) (a) The members of the Management Council of theFoundation holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act shall, subject to therules made under paragraph (b), function as an Interim Councilof the body corporate until the first Council is appointed orelected within the period specified in paragraph (d) and inthe manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the InterimCouncil shall have the power to make rules for the interimadministration of the body corporate and for election orappointment of the members of the first Council of the bodycorporate, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act orany other written law:

Provided, the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) ofsection 7 shall mutatis mutandis apply to the rules madeunder subsection (1).

(c) Any decision of the Interim Council shall be taken bythe majority of its members present at any meeting.

(d) The first Council of the body corporate shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Council including thepatrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a periodof three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisorshall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after thelapse of the said period of three years.

Management ofthe affairs of thebody corporate

4Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Council shall, having regard to the rules of thebody corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryfor the promotion or furtherance of the objects of the bodycorporate or any one of them, including the power

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may by requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate and to dealwith or dispose of the same as may be deemedexpedient with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the body corporate, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of thebody corporate;

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations from localor foreign sources in cash or kind :

Provided that, the Council shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

Powers of thebody corporate

5Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accouts inany bank;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the body corporate, insuch manner as the Council may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto the body corporate or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and other employees of the bodycorporate and exercise disciplinary control overthem and to pay them such salaries, allowances andgratuities as may be determined by the bodycorporate;

(h)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the body corporate;

(i)to organise lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of the bodycorporate;

(j)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the body corporate; and

(k)to do all other things as are authorised by this Actto achieve objects of the body corporate.

6Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Council orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appoinment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate andof the Council, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Council and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate; and

(g)generally, the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

Rules of thebody corporate

7Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

(3) The rule made under subsection (1), shall be publishedin the Gazette within three months upon making of suchrules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate within threemonths after its publication in the Gazette be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any rule which is not so approvedshall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of suchdisapproval but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any rule is sodisapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Council shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants forand on account of the body corporate shall be deposited inone or more banks approved by the Council to the credit ofthe body corporate subject to the provisions of section 6(c):

Provided, for the purposes of this section, bank meansa bank licensed as a licensed commercial bank under PartI of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe body corporate in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

Fund of thebody corporate

Register ofmembers

8Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section a qualified auditormeans

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11.(1) The Council shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the body corporate for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountscertified by a qualified auditor and details of all contractsand agreements entered into by the body corporate in termsof the rules made under section 7 to the Secretary of theMinistry of the Minister assigned the subject of Educationand to the Registrar of Voluntary Social ServicesOrganizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,No. 31 of 1980, before the expiration of six months of theyear succeeding the year to which such report relates.

Accounts andAuditing

Annual Report

9Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign and localmoneys received by the body corporate during the financialyear shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the body corporate for the purposeof this Act and subject to the rules of the body corporatemade under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange, or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise howsoever tothe members of the body corporate.

15.(1) The Seal of the body corporate shall not beaffixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presenceof two members of the Council, who shall sign their names tothe instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Council as may be decided by theCouncil.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation

Seal of the bodycorporate

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Application ofmoneys andproperty

10Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the body corporate, butshall be given or transferred to any other institution havingobjects similar to those of the body corporate, and which isby the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the appropriateinstitution to which the property remains after the satisfactionof all the debts and liabilities of the body corporate to begiven or transferred shall be determined by the members ofthe body corporate with the approval of the Registrar ofVoluntary Social Services Organizations appointed under theVoluntary Social Services Organizations (Registration andSupervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 immediately before thedissolution at a general meeting by the majority of votes ofthe members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orany other body corporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Saving of therights of theRepublic

11Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

12Rathanatissa Peace Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.