PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI BALABHIVURDHI WARDANA SOCIETY(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 12 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th of February, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 01, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

[Certified on 19th of February, 2024]

L.D.O. (Inc. 14/2013)

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI BALABHIVURDHI WARDANA SOCIETY

WHEREAS a Society called and known as theSri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout its objects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Society according to the rules agreed to, by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was established and has applied to be incorporatedand it will be for the public advantage to grant the saidapplication:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri BalabhivurdhiWardana Society (Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024.

2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the SriBalabhivurdhi Wardana Society (hereinafter in this Actreferred to as the Society) and shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the body corporate hereby constituted shall haveperpetual succession under the name and style of theSri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society (hereinafter referred toas the body corporate) and by that name may sue and be suedwith full power and authority to have, and use a common sealand to alter the same at its pleasure.

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Service Organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

Short title

Preamble

Incorporationof the SriBalabhivurdhiWardanaSociety

2Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

3. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate isconstituted are hereby declared to be

(a) to carryout various commemorative activities inmemory of Arahath Mahinda who was instrumentalin the setting up of the Budha Sasana in Sri Lanka;

(b) to assist the relevant authorities to undertake roaddevelopment and housing schemes, the constructionand improvement of hospitals, educational centers,schools, pirivenas and community centers;

(c) to assist the relevant authorities to establish, equipand maintain pre-school and libraries;

(d) to engage in the dissemination of Dhamma,internationally and the dissemination of BuddhistPhilosophy and the Buddhist way of life amongBuddhists and to establish friendly relations withother Buddhist Organizations in Sri Lanka or abroad;

(e) to assist the relevant authorities to provide medicalaid, food and housing to the poor, the destitute andthe sick;

(f) to assist the relevant authorities to establish andmaintain orphanages and homes for the aged andsocial welfare centers and to provide welfare facilitiesfor deaf, dumb and the blind and disabled persons;

(g) to grant financial assistance or scholarships to thevoluntary workers who are engaged in the attainmentof the objects of the body corporate;

(h) to assist the relevant authorities to provide bursaries,scholarships, prizes, donations, financial aid and otherassistance to needy and deserving students for theadvancement of education and knowledge;

Generalobjects of thebodycorporate

3Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

(i) to collaborate with any other institution ororganization, whether foreign or local, having objectssimilar to those of the body corporate; and

(j) to sponsor and conduct conferences, seminars,workshops, group studies and lectures and to print,publish and distribute books, journals, leaflets,newspapers and magazines which the body corporatemay consider desirable for the promotion andadvancement of its objects.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the body corporate shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, political opinion,place of birth or any of such grounds.

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout in such manner so as not to create any conflict betweenthe work of the body corporate and any work being carriedout simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

.5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rulesmade under section 7, the management and administrationof the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by aGoverning Council (hereinafter referred to as the Council)consisting of such number of office bearers as may be specifiedby the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The members of the Council of the Societyholding office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act shall, function as an InterimCouncil of the body corporate until the first Council is

appointed or elected in the manner provided for by rulesmade under section 7.

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor ProvincialCouncil

Management ofaffairs of thebody corporate

4Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

(b) The Interim Council shall have the power to makerules for the interim administration of the body corporateand for election or appointment of the members of the firstCouncil of the body corporate.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Council shall be taken bythe majority of its members present at any meeting.

(d) The first Council of the body corporate shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Council including thepatrons and advisers, if any shall be appointed or elected fora period of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Council shall having regard to the rules of thebody corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate or otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate and to dealwith or dispose of the same as may be determined

Powers of thebody corporate

5Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

by the Council with a view to promoting the objectsof the body corporate;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the body corporate, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of thebody corporate;

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations from localor foreign sources in cash or kind :

Provided that, the Council shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the body corporate, insuch manner as the Council may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto the body corporate or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and other employees of the body

6Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

corporate and exercise disciplinary control overthem and to pay them such salaries, allowances andgratuities as may be determined by the bodycorporate;

(h)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for thepurposes of the body corporate; and

(i)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the body corporate.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by such members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Council orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of the various officers, agentsand servants of the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate andof the Council, notices and agenda of such meetings,the quorum and the conduct of business thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Council and the body corporate;

Rules of thebody corporate

7Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate; and

(g)generally, the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

(3) Any rule made under subsection (1), shall be publishedin the Gazette within three months upon making of suchrules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Council shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9. (1) The body corporate shall have its own fund and allmoneys received by way of gifts, bequests, donations,subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for and on accountof the body corporate shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Council to the credit of the body corporatesubject to the provisions of section 6 (c).

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe body corporate in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

Register ofmembers

Accounts andAuditing

Fund of thebody corporate

8Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by the Auditor General in terms of the provisionsof Article 154 of the Constitution and be certified by theAuditor General or a qualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section a qualified auditormeans

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11.(1) The Council shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the body corporate for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountscertified by the Auditor General or a qualified auditor to theSecretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs and to theRegistrar of Voluntary Social Service Organizationsappointed under the Voluntary Social Service Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980, beforethe expiration of six months of the year succeeding the yearto which such report relates.

Annual Report

9Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign and localmoneys received by the body corporate during the financialyear shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Society existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Society on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentaty disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the body corporate for the purposesof this Act and subject to the rules of the body corporatemade under section 7 with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14. The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise howsoever tothe members of the body corporate.

15.(1) The Seal of the body corporate shall not beaffixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presenceof two members of the Council, who shall sign their names tothe instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the council as may be decided by thecouncil.

Debts due byand payable tothe Society

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Seal of the bodycorporate

Application ofmoneys andproperty

10Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporatethere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the body corporate,but shall be given or transferred to any other institutionhaving objects similar to those of the body corporate, andwhich is by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributingany income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic orany other body corporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Propertyremaining ondissolution

11Sri Balabhivurdhi Wardana Society(Incorporation) Act, No. 12 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.