PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NEW VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITYFOR PLANTATION REGION ACT, No. 32 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 04th of October, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 28.00Postage : Rs. 35.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 05, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

[Certified on 04th of October, 2018]

L.D.O. 52/2016

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN AUTHORITY TO

BE CALLED AND KNOWN AS THE NEW VILLAGES DEVELOPMENTAUTHORITY FOR PLANTATION REGION TO DEVELOP NEW VILLAGES

IN THE PLANTATION REGION OF SRI LANKA; AND FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the New VillagesDevelopment Authority for Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of2018, and shall come into operation on such date as theMinister may appoint (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date) by Order published in the Gazette.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NEW VILLAGES DEVELOPMENTAUTHORITY FOR PLANTATION REGION.

2.(1) There shall be established an Authority whichshall be known as the New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region (hereinafter in this Act referred to asthe Authority).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued inthat name.

3. The Authority shall be responsible for co-coordinating the planning and implementation ofdevelopment projects under this Act within the areas in theplantation region as may be declared by the Minister with the

Short title andthe date ofoperation.

Establishment ofthe New VillagesDevelopmentAuthority forPlantationRegion.

Designated areasof the Authority.

2New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

concurrence of the relevant Ministers as designated areasby Order published in the Gazette.

4.The objects of the Authority shall be to

(a)ensure inclusion of the plantation communityin the designated areas into the socialmainstream by socio, economic, cultural andinfrastructure development in the plantationregion; and

(b)empower the plantation community in thedesignated areas socially and economicallyin order to enable them to contribute to thenational development process.

5.The Authority may, for the purpose of discharging itsfunctions, exercise all or any of the following powers, subjectto the provisions of any other written law:-

(a)enter into contracts or agreements with any personincluding a Government Department, LocalAuthority, public corporation or any otherinstitution, whether private or public, to enable theAuthority to exercise, perform and discharge itspowers, duties and functions under the Acteffectively;

(b)accept grants, gifts or donations, whether in cash orotherwise, from persons or bodies of persons withinor outside Sri Lanka and apply them in the dischargeof its functions under the Act:

Provided that, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other provisions of this Act, theAuthority shall obtain prior written approval of theDepartment of External Resources, in respect of allforeign grants, gifts or donations;

Objects of theAuthority.

Powers of theAuthority.

3New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(c)open and maintain current, savings or depositaccounts in any State bank or State financialinstitution as may be determined by the Authority;

(d)invest in State banks and State financial institutionsany funds not immediately required for the purposesof the Authority in such manner as the Authoritymay think appropriate;

(e)purchase and hold any movable or immovableproperty or give on lease, mortgage, pledge, sell orotherwise dispose of any movable or immovableproperty purchased or held by the Authority for thepurposes of the Authority; and

(f)maintain any office, branch office or stores outsidethe designated areas and execute outside suchdesignated areas any such work as may be necessaryfor the discharge of functions under the Act.

6.The functions of the Authority shall be to-

(a)implement plans, programmes and projects ofthe Government for the development of newvillages in the designated areas in consultationwith the Minister;

(b)co-ordinate with other national, provincial anddistrict level implementing agencies in theplantation region in working towards theachievement of the objects of the Authority;

(c )ensure participation of community basedorganizations in the plantation region in theformulation and implementation in thedesignated areas, of plans, programmes andprojects of the Government for thedevelopment of new villages;

Functions of theAuthority.

4New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(d)facilitate the issuance of title deeds for thelegal occupants of the houses in the Estateswithin the designated areas to grant themownership of such houses;

(e)provide assistance to the youth in the estatesector in the designated areas to enter thetertiary and higher educational institutions fortheir educational development;

(f)work with Provincial Council Ministries andother regional level offices of the GovernmentMinistries to facilitate the provision ofessential services to the communities in thedesignated areas;

(g)promote alternative livelihood opportunitiesand provide necessary guidance and inputsin respect thereof to the Estate communitiesin the designated areas;

(h)empower the different community groups inthe estate sector including women, children,elders and differently abled people to uplifttheir livelihood;

(i)ensure that descendants of legal occupantsof the houses in Estates are provided with allfacilities that are enjoyed by such legaloccupants in Estates in the designated areas;

(j)strengthen conservation measures at all levels,both preventive and remedial, aimed atminimizing physical degradation of land andwater resources and eliminating environmentalpollution in the designated areas;

(k)identify hazardous sites, in consultation withthe National Building Research Organization

5New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

and the National Disaster ManagementCentre, in the designated areas and convertthem into alternative productive use, therebyprotecting them from illegal occupation forresidential purposes; and

(l)promote the provision of adequate socialservices and adequate sustainableinfrastructure facilities in the designated areas.

PART II

MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE AUTHORITY

7.The affairs of the Authority shall be managed andadministered by a Board of Management (hereinafter referredto as the Board) consisting of the following :-

(a)seven ex-officio members, namely-

(i)an officer of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Hill Country NewVillages, Infrastructure and CommunityDevelopment and nominated by the Secretaryto such Ministry;

(ii)an officer of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance andnominated by the Secretary to such Ministry;

(iii)an officer of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Plantation Industriesand nominated by the Secretary to suchMinistry;

(iv)an officer of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Public EnterpriseDevelopment and nominated by the Secretaryto such Ministry;

Board ofManagement ofthe Authority.

6New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(v)an officer of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Provincial Councilsand Local Government and nominated bythe Secretary to such Ministry;

(vi)an officer of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Housing andConstruction and nominated by theSecretary to such Ministry;

(vii)an officer of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Land and nominatedby the Secretary to such Ministry;

(b)six members who shall be appointed by the Minister(hereinafter referred to as Appointed Members)from among persons possessing expertise in thefields of infrastructure development, communitydevelopment, finance and provincial administration.One of these members shall be appointed from thePlanters Association of Ceylon to represent theplantation companies. 8.(1) The Minister shall, from among the appointedmembers, appoint -

(a)one member to be the Chairman of the Board;and

(b)one member to be the Vice-Chairman of the Board.

(2) The Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall hold office for aperiod of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointmentsubject to the provisions of section 7. (3) The Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall not engage inany paid employment outside the duties of his office, withoutthe approval of the Minister.

Chairman andVice-Chairmanof the Board.

7New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(4) The Chairman or Vice-Chairman may at any time resignfrom office by letter addressed to the Minister, and suchresignation shall be effective from the date on which it isaccepted by the Minister.

(5) The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove theChairman or Vice-Chairman from their respective offices.

(6) Where the Chairman is temporarily unable to performthe duties of his office due to ill health, other infirmity, absencefrom Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appointthe Vice Chairman to act as Chairman.

(7) Where both the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman aretemporarily unable to perform the duties of their offices dueto ill health, other infirmity, absence from Sri Lanka or anyother cause, the Minister may appoint any other appointedmember to act as Chairman in addition to such membersnormal duties as an appointed member.

(8) Where the office of Chairman or Vice-Chairman becomesvacant upon the death, removal from office, or resignation bythe holder of that office, the Minister may appoint a memberof the Board to perform the duties of such office, until anappointment is made under subsection (1).

9.(1) The Minister shall, prior to appointing a person asa member of the Board, satisfy himself that such person hasno financial or other interest in the affairs of the Authority, asis likely to affect prejudicially, the discharging of his functionsas a member of the Board.

(2) The Minister shall also satisfy himself, from time totime, that no member of the Board has since being appointedto the Board acquired any such interest.

(3) A member of the Board who is in any way, directly orindirectly, interested in any contract made or proposed to bemade by the Authority shall disclose the nature of his interestat a meeting of the Board and such disclosure shall be

Financialinterest of themembers of theBoard.

8New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

recorded in the minutes of the Authority and such membershall not participate in any deliberation or decision of theAuthority with regard to that contract.

(4) For the purposes of this section, a member of the Boardincludes the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman, an ex-officiomember and an appointed member of the Board.

10.A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Board, if such person

(a)is or becomes a Member of Parliament, of anyProvincial Council or of any Local Authority;

(b)is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)directly or indirectly holds or enjoys any right orbenefit under any contract made by or on behalf ofthe Authority;

(d)has any financial or other interest as is likely to affectprejudicially the discharge by such person of thefunctions as a member of the Board;

(e)absents himself from three consecutive meetings ofthe Board, without obtaining prior approval of theBoard therefor;

(f)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any othercountry, found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(g)is a person who, having been declared as insolventor bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or inany other country, is an undischarged insolvent orbankrupt; or

(h)is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any othercountry.

Disqualificationsto be a memberof the Board.

9New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

Provisionsrelating toappointedmembers.

11.(1) Every appointed member of the Board shall,unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a period of three years, and shall beeligible for re-appointment, unless removed on disciplinarygrounds.

(2) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove anyappointed member from office.

(3) Any appointed member may resign from office at anytime by letter addressed in that behalf to the Minister andsuch resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted bythe Minister.

(4) (a) In the event of the death, resignation or removalfrom office of any appointed member, the Minister may, havingregard to the provisions of this Act in relation to theappointment of that particular appointed member, appointanother member to act in his place.

(b) The Minister shall appoint a member for the purposesof paragraph (a) within one month of the occurrence of thevacancy.

(c) The member appointed under paragraph (a) shall holdoffice for the unexpired period of the term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

(5) Where any appointed member is temporarily unable toperform the duties of the office due to ill health or absencefrom Sri Lanka or for any other reason, the Minister may,having regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of section 7,appoint another person to act in his place.

(6) Subject to the preceding provisions, an appointedmember may continue to hold office after the lapse of theperiod of three years referred to in subsection (1), until he isre-appointed or a new member is appointed in his place bythe Minister.

10New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

Meetings of theBoard.12. (1) The Chairman shall, if present, preside at everymeeting of the Board. Where the Chairman is absent, theVice-Chairman shall preside at such meeting. Where both theChairman and the Vice-Chairman are absent from any meeting,the members present shall elect a Chairman for that meetingfrom among themselves.

(2) All matters for decision by the Board shall be dealt withat a meeting of the Board and shall be determined by themajority of the members present and voting.

(3) In the event of an equality of votes on any questionconsidered at a meeting, the Chairman of that meeting shallhave a casting vote in addition to his original vote.

(4) All decisions of the Board shall be supported byreasons, in writing and the seal of the Authority shall beaffixed thereto.

(5) Any member of the Board may, by written notice,request the Chairman to call a meeting and the Chairman shallnot, otherwise than for justifiable reasons, refuse to do so.

(6) The Director-General of the Authority appointed undersection 16 shall summon all meetings of the Board.

(7) No act, decision or proceedings of the Board shall bedeemed to be invalidated by reason only of the existence ofany vacancy of the Board or any defect in the appointment ofany member thereof.

(8) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be fivemembers.

(9) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Board may regulate the procedure in regard to themeetings of the Board and the transaction of business atsuch meetings.

13.(1) The seal of the Authority shall be as determinedby the Board.The seal of theAuthority.

11New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(2) The seal of the Authority

(a)may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Board;

(b)shall be in the custody of such person orpersons as the Board may determine;

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument without the sanction of the Boardand except in the presence of two members ofthe Board, both of whom shall sign theinstrument or document in token of theirpresence.

(3) The Board shall maintain a register of documents towhich the seal of the Authority has been affixed.

14.(1) The Board may invite experts on a relevant subjectmatter to any meeting of the Board for the purpose of obtainingtheir views on such subject matter for the effective dischargeof the functions of the Board.

(2) The Board shall have the absolute discretion ofaccepting or rejecting the views of the experts.

(3) The experts shall have no voting rights.

15.The members of the Board and the experts may bepaid such remuneration for attendance at meetings of theBoard, as may be determined by the Minister with theconcurrence of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

PART III

APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND STAFF OF THEAUTHORITY

16.(1) The Minister shall, on the recommendation of theBoard, appoint to the staff of the Authority a Director-General(hereinafter referred to as the Director-General), who shallbe the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority.

Board to inviteexperts tomeetings.

Remunerationfor attendingmeetings of theBoard.

Director-General of theAuthority.

12New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(2) The Director- General shall, subject to the general orspecial directions and supervision of the Board

(a)be charged with the administration of the affairs ofthe Authority including the administration andcontrol of the staff;

(b)be responsible for the execution of all decisions ofthe Board;

(c)carry out all such functions as may be assigned tohim by the Board; and

(d)function as the Secretary to the Board and also asthe Chief Accounting Officer of the Authority.

(3) The Director- General shall be entitled to be presentand speak at any meeting of the Board, but shall not beentitled to vote at such meeting.

(4) The DirectorGeneral may, with the written approvalof the Board, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,delegate in writing to any officer of the Authority any of hispowers, duties or functions and such officer shall exercise,perform or discharge such power, duty or function subjectto the general or special direction of the DirectorGeneral.

(5) The Minister may remove the Director-General fromoffice-

(a)if he becomes permanently incapable of performinghis duties; or

(b)if he has done any act which, in the opinion of theMinister, is of a fraudulent or illegal character or isprejudicial to the interests of the Authority; or

(c)if he has failed to comply with any directions issuedby the Authority.

13New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(6) The term of office of the Director-General shall bethree years from the date of appointment and shall, unlessremoved from office under subsection (5), be eligible for re-appointment.

(7) The office of the Director-General shall become vacantupon the death, removal from office under subsection (5) orresignation by letter in that behalf addressed to the Ministerby the holder of that office.

(8) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the Director-General, the Minister may appoint a member of the Board toperform the duties of the Director-General until anappointment is made under subsection (1).

17.(1) The Authority may appoint as staff of theAuthority such number of officers and other employees asmay be necessary for the efficient discharge of its functions.

(2) The Authority may, in respect of the officers andemployees appointed to the Authority under subsection (1)

(a)determine the terms and conditions of employmentof such officers and employees;

(b)fix the rates at which such officers and employeesshall be remunerated in keeping with relatedguidelines of the Government;

(c)exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss suchofficers and employees; and

(d)establish staff welfare and social security schemesfor the benefit of such officers and employees andmake contribution to any such schemes.

(3) The Board may make rules in respect of all or any ofthe matters referred to in subsection (2).

Staff of theAuthority.

14New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(4) The Authority shall not, however, appoint as an officeror other employee of the Authority, any person who hasbeen dismissed from any previous position held by suchperson in the public or private sector.

18.(1) At the request of the Authority, any officer inthe public service may, with the consent of that officer andthe Secretary to the Ministry under which that officer isemployed and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Public Administration, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority for such period asmay be determined by the Authority or with like consent, bepermanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsection 14(2) of the National Transport Commission Act,No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and inrelation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsection 14(3) of the National Transport Commission Act,No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and inrelation to such officer.

(4) Where the Authority employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which hehas agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,any period of service with the Authority by that person shallbe regarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

19.(1) At the request of the Authority, any officer orother employee of a public corporation may, with the consentof such officer or employee and the governing board of suchcorporation, be temporarily appointed to the staff of theAuthority for such period as may be determined by theAuthority, or with like consent be permanently appointed

Public officersto be appointedto the Staff ofthe Authority.

Appointment ofofficers andother employeesof publiccorporations tothe Staff of theAuthority.

15New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

to the staff of the Authority on such terms and conditions,including those relating to pension or provident fund rights,as may be agreed upon by the Authority and the governingboard of such corporation.

(2) Where any person is appointed, whether temporarilyor permanently, under subsection (1) to the staff of theAuthority, he shall be subject to the same disciplinary controlas any other member of the staff of the Authority.

(3) For the purpose of this section governing board inrelation to a public corporation means the Board of Directorsor other body in which the administration and managementof that public corporation has been vested.

PART IV

FINANCE

20.(1) The Authority shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted uponfrom time to time by Parliament for the use ofthe Authority;

(b)all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Authority in the exercise, performanceand discharge of its powers and functionsunder this Act;

(c)all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Authority by way of loans, donations,gifts or grants from any source whatsoever;

(d)all such sums of money received byalienating, leasing or renting of propertyowned by the Authority.

Fund of theAuthority.

16New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authorityall such sums of money required to defray the expenditureincurred by the Authority in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

21.The Authority may open and maintain any accountwith any bank as it may think appropriate and such accountshall be operated in accordance with prevailing financialregulations of the Government pertaining to financialtransactions of public corporations.

22.(1) The financial year of the Authority shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Authority shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of the income, expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other financial transactions of the Authority.

(3) For the purpose of presenting a true and fair view ofthe financial performance and financial condition of theAuthority, the Authority shall prepare the accounts inaccordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standardsadopted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of SriLanka under the Sri Lanka Accounting and AuditingStandards Act, No. 15 of 1995.

(4) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.

23.Moneys belonging to the Authority may, with theapproval of the Minister and with the concurrence of theMinister assigned the subject of Finance, be invested inGovernment approved securities.

24.(1) The Authority may, with the written consent ofthe Minister and the Minister assigned the subject of Financeand in accordance with the terms of any general authoritygiven, borrow or obtain on credit such sums as the Authoritymay require for meeting the obligations of the Authority.

Authority tomaintainaccounts.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts.

Investment offunds.

Borrowingpowers of theAuthority.

17New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(2) The aggregate of the amount outstanding in respectof any loans raised by the Authority under this section shallnot at any time exceed such amount as may be determinedby the Minister.

25.The Authority shall, with the concurrence of theMinister assigned the subject of Finance, be exempt fromthe payment of any tax on the income or profits of theAuthority to such extent as is permitted in terms of the InlandRevenue Act, No.24 of 2017.

PART V

GENERAL

26.(1) The Authority shall, within six months of theend of each financial year, submit to the Minister an annualreport of the activities carried out by the Authority duringthat financial year and cause a copy of each of the followingdocuments relating to that year to be attached to the report

(a)the audited accounts of the Authority for the yearalong with the Auditor-Generals report; and

(b)a report of proposed activities for the yearimmediately following the year to which suchreport and accounts relate.

(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the report anddocuments submitted under subsection (1) beforeParliament, within six months from the date of receipt ofsuch report.

27. Every member of the Board and every officer andother employee of the Authority shall, before entering uponhis duties, sign a declaration pledging to observe strictsecrecy in respect of all matters connected with the affairs ofthe Authority, which has come to his knowledge in the

Exemption ofAuthority frompayments ofduties.

Annual Report.

Declaration ofsecrecy.

18New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

performance or exercise of his powers and functions underthis Act and shall, by such declaration, pledge himself notto disclose any such matter, except

(a)when required to do so by a court of law; or

(b) when required to do so under any written law.

28.(1) The Board may, in writing and subject to suchconditions as may be specified therein, delegate to theDirector-General or any officer of the Authority any of thepowers or functions of the Authority and the Director-Generalor such officer shall exercise or perform such power orfunction in the name and on behalf of the Authority.

(2) The Board may, notwithstanding any delegation madeunder subsection (1), by itself exercise or perform any poweror function so delegated and may at any time revoke anysuch delegation.

29.(1) The Minister may, from time to time, issue to theAuthority such general or special directions in writing as tothe exercise and performance of its powers and functions soas to give proper effect to the Government policy relating tothe objects of the Authority, and it shall be the duty of theAuthority to give effect to such directions.

(2) The Minister may direct the Authority to furnish tohim in such form as he may require, returns, accounts andany other information relating to the work of the Authority,and it shall be the duty of the Authority to give effect tosuch directions.

30. The Director-General and the officers and otheremployees of the Authority shall be deemed to be publicofficers within the meaning of and for the purposes of thePenal Code (Chapter 19).

Delegation ofpowers of theAuthority.

Directions bythe Minister.

Officers andother employeesof the Authoritydeemed to bepublic officers.

19New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

31. The Authority shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning and for the purposes of theBribery Act (Chapter 26) and the provisions of that Act shallbe construed accordingly.

32. (1) Where any private land or any interest inany private land within any designated area is required bythe Authority for any of its purposes and the Minister byOrder published in the Gazette, approves the acquisition ofsuch land for such purpose, such land or any interest insuch land shall be deemed to be required for a publicpurpose and may accordingly be acquired under the LandAcquisition Act (Chapter 460) and be transferred to theAuthority.

(2) Any sum payable as compensation for the acquisitionof any land or any interest in such land under subsection (1)for the Authority, shall be paid by the Authority.

33.(1) Any expenses incurred by the Authority in anysuit or prosecution brought by or against it before any Court,shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority and any costspaid to or recovered by the Authority in any such suit orprosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

(2) Expenses incurred by any member of the Board, theDirector -General or any officer or other employee of theAuthority in any suit or prosecution brought against suchperson before any Court or Tribunal in respect of any actwhich is done or purported to be done by such person underthe provisions of this Act or any other written law or on thedirection of the Authority shall, if the court holds that suchact was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of theAuthority, unless such expenses are recoverable by suchperson in such suit or prosecution.

34.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are authorized by this Act to be made.

Authoritydeemed to be aScheduledInstitution.

Compulsoryacquisition ofland.

Expenses in suitor prosecutionto be paid out ofthe Fund.

Regulations.

20New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) (a) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, withinthree months after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval.

(b) Any such regulation which is not so approved shallbe deemed to be rescinded as from the date of its disapproval,but without prejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette.

35.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Boardmay make rules in respect of all or any of the followingmatters:

(a)the meetings of the Authority and the procedureto be followed at such meetings; and

(b)any other matter connected with themanagement of the affairs of the Authority.

(2) Every rule made by the Board shall be published inthe Gazette.

36.(1) Every person who

(a)obstructs, without any justifiable or lawfulbasis, any person acting in the exercise of hispowers under this Act or any regulation madethereunder;

Power of theBoard to makerules.

Offences andpenalties.

21New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

(b)being a person acting under the authority ofthis Act, behaves or conducts himself in avexatious or provocative manner, whileexercising or discharging any power orfunction under this Act;

(c)contravenes any of the provisions of this Actor any regulation made thereunder, or fails tocomply with any direction given to him underthe provisions of this Act; or

(d)fails to furnish any return or information incompliance with any requirement imposedon him under this Act or knowingly makesany false statement in any return orinformation furnished by him,

shall commit an offence.

(2) Every person who commits an offence undersubsection (1) shall, on conviction after summary trial beforea Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousandrupees or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding onemonth or to both such fine and imprisonment.

37. For the purposes of this Act

development project means, any activitywhether public or private which generatesproduction, income, employment orimproves economic, social or environmentalconditions in the designated areas;

Disaster Management Centre means, theDisaster Management Centre establishedunder the Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005;

Estates means, the areas of land where tea,rubber, coconut or oil palm are cultivatedin more than 20 acres with more than 10resident labourers;

Interpretation.

22New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

implementing agencies means, the governmentMinistries and Departments that are assignedwith the task of implementing variousprogrammes of the Government at national,provincial, district and divisional levels;

Minister means, the Minister assigned thesubject of Hill Country New Villages,Infrastructure and CommunityDevelopment;

National Building Research Organizationmeans, the National Building ResearchOrganization functioning under the Ministryof the Minister assigned the subject ofDisaster Management;

new villages means, the villages that are set upby replacing the existing line room housingin Estates with single houses and improvedbasic infrastructure facilities within thoseEstates;

plantation community means, the legalresidents comprising workers and non -workers living in the Estates;

plantation companies means, the plantationcompanies incorporated by a certificate ofincorporation issued under section 15(1) ofthe Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 asrepealed and replaced by Act, No. 7 of 2007,in terms of section 2 of the Conversion ofPublic Corporations or Government OwnedBusiness Undertakings into PublicCompanies Act, No. 23 of 1987, and inrespect of which long term lease agreementshave been entered into with the JanathaEstate Development Board (JEDB) or the Sri

23New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

Lanka State Plantation Corporationestablished by the Sri Lanka StatePlantations Corporation Act, No. 4 of 1958,as the case may be, for the management ofidentified tea, rubber and coconut estatesfor a given period;

Plantation Region means, the areas comingunder the Divisional Secretarys Divisionsin the Districts of the Central, Uva,Sabaragamuwa, Southern, Western, NorthCentral and North Western Provinces, wherethe resident labourers live in the Estates inwhich tea, rubber, coconut or oil palm iscultivated;

relevant Ministers means, the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance, theMinister assigned the subject of PlantationIndustries, the Minister assigned thesubject of Public Enterprise Developmentand the Minister assigned the subject ofLands who have been legally mandated tooversee the utilization of estate lands.

38.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

24New Villages Development Authorityfor Plantation Region Act, No. 32 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.