PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 17.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 25, 2014.

[Certified on 24th April, 2014]

Printed on the Order of Government

VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 7 OF 2014

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 20141

2PL 0080903000 (03/2014)

[Certified on 24th April, 2014]

L.D. O. 4/2014

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2014 and shall be deemed tohave come into operation on January 1, 2014.

2. Section 3 of the Value Added Tax Act, No.14 of 2002(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended as follows:-

(a)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) thereof;

(b)in the renumbered subsection (1) of that section, bythe repeal of paragraph (f) and the substitutiontherefor of the following:-

(f) any person or a partnership having totalsupplies for any consecutive period of threemonths in any calendar year of not less thanrupees two hundred and fifty million, includingthe supplies under the preceding paragraphsof this section and any supplies exemptedunder Part II of the First Schedule:;

(c)by the repeal of the second proviso to that sectionand the substitution therefor of the following:-

Provided further, the chargeability to taxreferring to any registered person specified inparagraph (f) shall be subject to the exemptiongranted under section 8, subject to the conditionsspecified therein:;

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Amendment ofsection 3 of Act,No.14 of 2002.

2Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 2014

(d)immediately after subsection (1) of that section, bythe insertion of the following:-

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (f), the totalsupplies means, the aggregate value ofsupplies of-

(i) any person or partnership engaged inthe wholesale or retail business whilecarrying on other business of similarnature in one place or different placesunder one or more registrations for thepurposes of this Act; and

(ii) with regard to any subsidiary orassociated company of a group ofcompanies, engaged in the wholesaleor retail business, the aggregate valueof supplies of each company of thegroup, other than any company notengaged in the wholesale or retailbusiness..

3.Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words in the FirstSchedule to this Act as such supplies and imports are nottaxable unless zero rated under section 7. of the following:-

in the First Schedule to this Act as such supplies andimports are not taxable unless zero rated undersection 7:

Provided that, in the case of a registered personreferred to in paragraph (f) of section 3 of this Act, thevalue of the supply of goods exempted under this Actmade by such registered person directly or on behalfof any other person, which is in excess of twenty fiveper centum of the total supply of such registered personother than zero rated supplies and where the supply is

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 20143

made by the importer himself, the value of such supplyof goods subject to Special Commodity Levy, shallnotwithstanding the provisions contained in theSpecial Commodity Levy Act, No. 48 of 2007 bedeemed to be treated as liable supplies of suchregistered person and chargeable to tax at the ratespecified in section 2 of this Act using the fraction onthe tax inclusive consideration:

Provided further, in the case of a registered person -

(a) who supplies pharmaceuticals, specified asexempted in PART II of the First Scheduleto this Act; or

(b) who supplies software dedicated productsincluding computers and computeraccessories, exceeding seventy five percentum of the total value of suppliesrespectively of such registered person underparagraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this proviso,as the case may be, such registered personshall not be liable to tax on any deemedliable supplies referred to in this section..

4.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words is not less than rupees five hundred millionof the words is not less than rupees two hundred and fiftymillion.

5.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after the first provisoto subsection (1) of that section, of the following:-

Provided further, any tax invoice shall not be issued onthe supplies considered as deemed liable supplies referredto in section 8 of this Act..

6.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (11)of that section, the following:-

(12) in the case of a person engaged in the insurancebusiness and carrying on both long term insurance

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

4Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 2014

business and general insurance business, and whosegregates such long term insurance business and thegeneral insurance business into two separate companies,as required by section 53 of the Regulation of InsuranceIndustry (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2011, the balance, ifany, of the amount unabsorbed input credit relating tothe business of general insurance as at the date of suchsegregation, shall notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other provision of this Act, but subject tothe preceding provisions of this section, be treated as anunabsorbed input credit by the company carrying on thegeneral insurance business after such segregation.

(13) any unabsorbed input credit of any bankestablished under the Banking Act, No.30 of 1988 orFinance Company licensed under the Finance BusinessAct, No.42 of 2011, relating to the liable business of suchbank or finance company as at the date of acquisition ormerger of such bank or finance company, as the case maybe, shall be allowed to be claimed subject to theprovisions of this Act, and in accordance with theguidelines issued by the Central Bank for this purpose..

7.Section 25C of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (4) by the repeal of that subsectionand the substitution therefor of the following:-

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained insubsection (1), any person to whom this Chapterapplies-

(a) may in writing communicate to theCommissioner-General, his intention tocalculate subject to the provisions ofsubsection (5), the tax to which he is liable inrespect of any month commencing on or afterJuly 1, 2003 but for the period prior to January1, 2014. The provisions of subsection (5)

Amendment ofsection 25C ofthe principalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 20145

shall however be applicable for the periodsubsequent to the communication in writingto the Commissioner-General whichcommunication shall not be revocable.

(b) shall for any month commencing fromJanuary 1, 2014, be subject to the provisionsof subsection (5)..

8.Section 25D of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words a tax credit shallbe allowed of the words and figures a tax credit shall beallowed for any taxable period prior to January 1, 2014.

9.Section 40 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (iii) of the proviso tothat section and the substitution therefor of the following:-

(iii) as regards movable property

(a) for any taxable period ending prior to January1, 2014, where tax for more than four taxableperiods is in default, the tax for four taxableperiods only to be selected by theCommissioner-General shall rank in priorityto any lien or encumbrance created bona fidefor value prior to the date of default of suchtax; and

(b) for any taxable period commencing on orafter January 1, 2014, where the tax for morethan taxable periods for five years is in default,the tax for taxable periods within five yearsonly to be selected by the Commissioner-General, shall rank in priority to any lien orencumbrance created bona fide for value priorto the date of default of such tax..

Amendment ofsection 25D ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 40 of theprincipalenactment.

6Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 2014

10.Section 71 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of item (ii) of subsection (2) of thatsection and the substitution therefor of the following:-

(ii) (a) ten per centum for the period prior to January1, 2014;

(b) Six per centum for any period from or afterJanuary 1, 2014

of the tax collected by the Director-General ofCustoms on importation of goods referred to insubsection (3) of section 2 on or before the fifteenthday of the month immediately succeeding that monthand each month thereafter..

11.Section 83 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the definition of the expression internationaltransportation by the addition immediately after paragraph(c) thereof, of the following new paragraph:-

(d)from an international airport in Sri Lanka to anotherinternational airport in Sri Lanka by way of airtransportation..

12.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in Part II thereof as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (a) of that Part, -

(a) by the repeal of item (i) and the substitutiontherefor of the following:-

(i) wheat, wheat flour or powdered milk;;

(b) by the repeal of item (iii) and the substitutiontherefor of the following:-

(iii) ayurvedic preparations which belongto the Ayurveda Pharmacopoeia orayurvedic preparations (otherthan

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 71 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 83 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 20147

cosmetic preparations) or unani, siddhaor homeopathic preparations (otherthan cosmetic preparations identifiedunder the Harmonized CommodityDescription and Coding SystemNumbers for custom purposes) and rawmaterials for such preparations with therecommendation of the Commissionerof Ayurveda;;

(c) by the repeal of item (viii) and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

(viii)agricultural tractors or road tractorsfor semi-trailers prior to January 1,2014;;

(d) in item (xxii), by the repeal of sub item (vi)and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:-

(vi) bowsers, bulldozers, graders, levelers,excavators, firefighting vehicles, gullybowsers, semi-trailers for road tractors,machinery, equipment used for garbagedisposal activities or garbage trucks;;

(e) by the addition immediately after item (vii)the following new item:-

(viii) ties and bows or designer pens;;

(f) by the addition immediately after item (xxiii)of the following items:-

(xxiv) frozen bait, fish hooks/rods/ reels ,fishing tackle and marine propulsionengines identified under theHarmonized CommodityDescription and Coding SystemNumbers for Custom proposes.;

8Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 2014

(xxv) copper cables for telecom industry -

- imported where such copper cablesare not available is Sri Lanka; or -

-purchased from a localmanufacturer..

(2)in paragraph (b) of that Part:-

(i) by the repeal of item (xiii) and thesubstitution therefor of the following item:-

(xiii) imported unprocessed timber logs,ships , rattans or any article subjectto the Special Commodity Levyunder the Special Commodity LevyAct, No. 48 of 2007 subject to thecondition that such goods are soldby the importer himself without anyprocessing except adaptation forsale;;

(ii) by the repeal of item (xxxi) and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

(xxxi) telecommunication servicessubject to the telecommunicationlevy under the TelecommunicationLevy Act, No. 21 of 2011;;

(iii) by the addition immediately after item (xLvi)of the following new items:-

(xLvii) desiccated coconut, rubber, latex,tea including green leaf, rice, riceflour, bread, eggs , liquid milk sofar as such products aremanufactured locally;

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 20149

(xLviii) machinery or equipment for tea orrubber industry or agriculturaltractors or road tractors for semi-trailers, so far as such products aremanufactured locally;

(xLix) services by any headquarters orregional head offices of institutionsin the international networkrelocated in Sri Lanka as exemptedfor income tax purposes undersection 7 of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 10 of 2006, so far as suchreceipts are in foreign currencyreceived.

(L) locally manufactured ayurvedicpreparations which belong to theAyurveda Pharmacopoeia orAyurveda preparations (other thancosmetic preparations) or unani,siddha or homeopathicpreparations (other than cosmeticpreparations)..

(3)in item (xvi) of paragraph (c) of that Part by thesubstitution for the words machinery identifiedunder of the words and figures machinery priorto January 1, 2014 identified under.

13.In the principal enactment, -

(a)by the substitution for the word Commissionerwherever that word appears of the words SeniorCommissioner;

(b)by the substitution for the words DeputyCommissioner wherever such words appear of theword Commissioner;

Generalamendment tothe principalenactment.

10Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 2014

(c)by the substitution for the word Senior Assessorwherever such word appears of the words SeniorCommissioner or Deputy Senior Commissioner;

(d)by the substitution for the word Assessorwherever such word appears of the words Assessoror Assistant Commissioner.

14.Any person who is authorized to collect the ValueAdded Tax as provided for in this Act during any periodcommencing from January 1, 2014 and ending on the dateon which the Certificate of the Speaker is endorsed in respectof this Act shall be deemed to have acted with due authorityand such collection shall be deemed to have been, and to be,validly made and such person is hereby indemnified againstall actions civil or criminal, in respect of such collection :

Provided that, the aforesaid provisions shall not affectany decision or Order made by any Court or any proceedingspending in any Court in respect of any tax collected asprovided for in this Act during such period.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Validation.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 7 of 201411

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.