PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SAMASTHA LANKA SASANARAKSHAKAMANDALAYA (INCORPORATION)

ACT, No. 16 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th April, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 17.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 25, 2014

1Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 2014

2PL 006619 2,050 (03/2012)

Short title.

[Certified on 24th April, 2014]

L.D.O. (Inc.) 18/2012.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SAMASTHA LANKA SASANARAKSHAKAMANDALAYA

WHEREAS a Board called and known as the "SamasthaLanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya" has heretofore beenformed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout its objects and transacting all matters connected withthe said Board according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Board has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and itwill be for the public advantage to grant the said application:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Samastha LankaSasanarakshaka Mandalaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theSamastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya (hereinafterreferred to as the the Board) and shall hereafter be admittedas members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall bea body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation")with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the"Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya" and by thatname may sue and be sued, with full power and authority tohave and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

Preamble.

Incorporation ofthe SamasthaLankaSasanarakshakaMandalaya.

2Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 2014

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the voluntary social services organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Coporation.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be to:

(a)assist the relevant authorities to take steps topromote wellbeing of Buddha Sasana;

(b)assist the relevant authorities to take steps topromote the development of Bikku society;

(c)assist the relevant authorities in promoting thedevelopment and rehabilitation of the BuddhistTemples situated in remote areas;

(d)assist the relevant authorities in ensuring a cordialrelationship between the Buddhist monks and thelay Buddhists;

(e)assist the relevant authorities to develop "DhammaSchool Education;

(f)assist the relevant authorities to act for the welfareof the teachers and students of Dhamma Schools;

(g)assist the relevant authorities to enhance and protectthe Buddhist heritage from external influences;

(h)assist the relevant authorities to propagate Buddhistcustoms among the Buddhist adherents and takenecessary steps to protect the same; and

(i)coordinate with, supervise and provide guidelinesto the district and provincial branches of theCorporation to achieve the objectives of theCorporation.

General objects ofthe Corporation.

3Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 2014

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carried outin such manner so as not to create conflict between the workof the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to other provisions of this Act theManagement and administration of the affairs of theCorporation shall be carried out by a Executive Committee(hereinafter referred to as the Committee) consisting ofsuch number of office bearers as may be specified by therules made under section 7.

(2) (a)The Committee of the Society that hold office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall function as the Committee of the Corporationuntil the first Board is appointed or elected in the mannerprovided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The first Committee of the Corporation shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee includingthe patrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradviser shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the deathresignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The perosn elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

Corporation toensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor Province.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 2014

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherence of the objects of the Corporation or any oneof them including the power to:

(a)purchase, acquire, hold, take or give lease or hiremortgage, pledge, sell exchange or otherwisealienate, encumber or dispose of any immovableproperty for the purposes of the Corporation;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the Corporation, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of theCorporation;

(c)accept grants, gifts, donations and bequests in cashor in kind:

provided that, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other provisions of this Act, theBoard shall obtain prior written approval of theDepartment of External Resources of the Ministryof the Minister to whom the subject of Finance isassigned, in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations;

(d)invest its funds, and to open, maintain and closecurrent, deposit and savings accounts in any bank;

(e)borrow or raise any money from any bank orinstitution approved by the Executive Committee,for the purposes of the Corporation in such mannerand upon such security as the Executive Committeemay think fit; and

General Powerof theCorporation.

5Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 2014

(f)appoint, employ transfer, remunerate, exercisedisciplinary control over and dismiss officers andservents required for the carrying out of the objectsof the Corporation.

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Committee orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the Corporation;

(d)The procedure to be follwed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee, orany sub-committee thereof, notices and agenda ofsuch meetings, the quorum the conduct ofbusiness thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Committee and the Corporation;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of theCorporation and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

6Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 2014

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in thelike manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times besubject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be publishedin the Government Gazette.

8.The Committee shall maintain a register of membersin which name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on accountof the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Committee to the credit of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and libilities andall other transactions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

Register ofmembers.

Fund of theCorporation.

Accounts andAuditing.

7Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 2014

(4) For the purposes of this section, "qualified auditor"means

(a)an individual who being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute establisehd by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issuedby the Councial of such Institute.

11.(1) The Committee shall prepare a report of theactivities of the corporation for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountsto the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned thesubject of Buddha sasana and Religious Affairs and to theRegistrar of Voluntary Social Services Organization(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 beforethe expiration of six months of the year succeeding the yearto which such report relates.

(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign andlocal moneys received by the Corporation during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Board existing on theday preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall bepaid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts dueto, subscriptions and contributions payable to the Board onthat day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes ofthis Act.

Debts due byand payable tothe Board.

Annual Report.

8Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 2014

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,movable or immovable, which may become vested in it byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary dispositionor otherwise, and all such property shall be held by theCorporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to therules of the Corporation made under section 7, with fullpower to sell, mortgage, lease exchange or otherwise disposeof, the same.

14.The moneys and property of the Corporation howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall bepaid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,bonus or profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of theCorporation.

15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Committee who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody ofan office bearer of the Committee as may be decided by suchCommittee.

16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation but shallbe given or transferred to any other institution havingobjects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is bythe rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income orproperty among its or members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Seal of theCorporation.

9Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 2014

Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic and of any body politic or corporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toreveal in case ofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

10Samastha Lanka Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 16 of 2014

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.