PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PENAL CODE (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 16 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th April, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 10.75Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 28, 2006

1Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

2PL 0006085,650 (08/2005)

Short title.

[Cartified on 24th April, 2006]

L. D.O. 14/2003

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PENAL CODE ; TO PROVIDE FOR CERTAIN NEWOFFENCES ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH ORINCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Penal Code (Amendment)Act, No. 16 of 2006.

2.Section 2 of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) (hereinafterreferred to as the principal enactment) is hereby amendedas follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from for every act or omission tothe end of that subsection, of the following :

for every act or omission committed

(a)wholly or partly within Sri Lanka ;

(b)within the territorial waters or air space of SriLanka ;

(c)on board any ship or aircraft registered in SriLanka, wherever it may be at the time of thecommission of such act or such ommission ;

(d)within the premises of a Sri Lankan missionor the residence of the Head of such mission,diplomatic agent or any other member of suchmission, situated outside Sri Lanka ; or

(e)within any premises occupied on behalf of,or under the control of, the Government of SriLanka, or any statutory body established inSri Lanka and situated outside Sri Lanka,

contrary to the provisions thereof, of which he shallbe guilty.

Amendment ofsection 2 ofChapter 19.

2Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(2) A national of Sri Lanka shall be liable topunishment under this Code and not otherwise, forevery act or omission contrary to the provisionsthereof, committed outside Sri Lanka of which heshall be guilty, whether or not such national enjoysdiplomatic immunity in respect of such act oromission, which is granted by a foreign State byreason of his diplomatic status in such State.;

(3)by the substitution, for the marginal note to thatsection, of the following marginal note :

Liability for offences under the Code.;

3.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 286A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as sections 286B and 286c of suchenactment :

286B. (1) A person who provides a serviceby means of a computer shall take all such stepsas are necessary to ensure that such computerfacility is not used for the commission of an actconstituting an offence relating to the sexualabuse of a child.

(2) A person referred to in subsection (1) whohas knowledge of any such computer facilityreferred to in subsection (1) being used for thecommission of an act constituting an offencerelating to the sexual abuse of a child, shallforthwith inform the officer in charge of thenearest police station of such fact and give suchinformation as may be in his possession withregard to such act and the identity of the allegedoffender.

Insertion of newsections 286B and286C in theprincipalenactment.

Duty ofpersonprovidingservice bycomputer topreventsexual abuseof a child.

3Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

(3) A person who contravenes the provisionsof subsections (1) or (2) shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable toimprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding two years or to a fine or to bothsuch imprisonment and fine.

(4) In this section, child means a personunder eighteen years of age.

286C. (1) Any person who, having thecharge, care, control or possession of anypremises, has knowledge of such premisesbeing used for the commission of an actconstituting the abuse of a child, shall forthwithinform the officer in charge of the nearest policestation of such fact.

(2) Any person referred to in subsection (1)who fails to inform the officer in charge of thenearest police station of the fact that suchpremises is being used for the commission ofan act constituting the abuse of a child shall beguilty of an offence and shall on conviction beliable to imprisonment of either description fora term not exceeding two years or to a fine or toboth such imprisonment and fine.

(3) In this section, child means a personunder eighteen years of age..

4. Section 308A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition, immediately after subsection (2)of that section of the following Explanation:

Explanation : injuries includes psychological ormental trauma..

5.Section 345 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1) by the substitution for Explanation 2 to that sectionof the following Explanation :

Amendment ofsection 345 of theprincipalenactment.

Duty toinform of useof premisesfor childabuse.

Amendment ofsection 308A of theprincipalenactment.

4Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

Explanation 2 : For the purposes of this section anassaultmay include any act that does notamount to rape under section 363 or gravesexual abuse under section 365B.

(2) by the addition, immediately after Explanation 2 tothat section, of the following Explanation :

Explanation 3 : injuries includes psychological ormental trauma..

6.The heading appearing immediately before section350 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed and thefollowing new heading substituted therefor:

OF KIDNAPPING, ABDUCTION, SLAVERY, ETC.

7.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 358 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 358A of that enactment :

358A. (1) Any person who

(a)subjects or causes any person to besubjected to debt bondage orserfdom ;

(b)subjects or causes any person to besubjected to forced or compulsorylabour ;

(c)subjects or causes any person to besubjected to slavery ; or

(d)engages or recruits a child for usein armed conflict,

shall be guilty of an offence.

Debtbondage,serfdom,forced orcompulsorylabour,slavery andrecruitmentof childrenfor use inarmedconflict.

Insertion of newsection 358A inthe principalenactment.

Replacement ofthe headingKidnapping andAbduction.

5Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

(2) Any person who is guilty of an offenceunder paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of subsection (1),shall on conviction be liable to imprisonmentof either description for a term not exceedingtwenty years and to a fine. Where the offence iscommitted under paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) ofsubsection (1) in relation to a child or wherethe offence is committed under paragraph (d)of subsection (1), be liable to imprisonment ofeither description for a term not exceeding thirtyyears and to a fine.

(3) In this section

debt bondage means the status orcondition of a debtor arising from apledge by the debtor of his personalservices or of those of a person underhis control as security for a debt, ifthe value of those services asreasonably assessed is not set - offagainst the debt and the length andnature of those services are undefined;

forced or compulsory labour meansall work or service which is exactedfrom a person under the threat of anypenalty and for which such person hasnot offered himself voluntarily,except

(a) any work or service exacted byvirtue of any law for the timebeing relating to compulsorymilitary service in relation towork or service of a purelymilitary character ;

(b) any work or service whichforms part of the normal civicobligations of the citizens of afully self-governing country;

6Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

(c) any work or service exactedfrom any person as apunishment imposed by acourt of law, provided that thesaid work or service is carriedout under the supervision andcontrol of a public authorityand that the said person is nothired to be or placed, at thedisposal of private individuals,companies or associations;

(d) any work or service exacted incases of emergency, that is tosay, in the event of war or of acalamity or threatenedcalamity, such as fire, flood,famine, earthquake, violentepidemic of epizootic diseases,invasion by animal, insect orvegetable pests, and in generalany circumstance that wouldendanger the existence or thewell-being of the whole or partof the population;

(e) minor services of a kind which,being performed by themembers of the community inthe direct interests of the saidcommunity, and therebyconsidered as normal civicobligations incumbent uponthe members of thecommunity, provided that themembers of the community ortheir direct representativesshall have the right to beconsulted in regard to the needfor such services;

7Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

serfdom means the condition or statusof a tenant who is by law, custom oragreement bound to live and labouron land belonging to another personand to render some determinateservice to such other person whetherfor reward or not and is not free tochange his status ;

slavery means the status or conditionof a person over whom any or all ofthe powers attaching to the right ofownership are exercised; and

child means a person under eighteenyears of age..

8.Section 360C of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

360C. (1) Whoever

(a)buys, sells or barters or instigatesanother person to buy, sell or barterany person or does anything topromote, facilitate or induce thebuying, selling or bartering of anyperson for money or otherconsideration;

(b)recruits, transports, transfers, harboursor receives any person or does anyother act by the use of threat, force,fraud, deception or inducement or byexploiting the vulnerability of anotherfor the purpose of securing forced orcompulsory labour or services, slavery,servitude, the removal of organs,prostitution or other forms of sexualexploitation or any other act whichconstitutes an offence under any law ;

Replacement ofsection 360C ofthe principalenactment.

Trafficking.

8Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

(c)recruits, transports, transfers, harboursor receives a child or does any otheract whether with or without theconsent of such child for the purposeof securing forced or compulsorylabour or services, slavery, servitudeor the removal of organs, prostitutionor other forms of sexual exploitation,or any other act which constitutes anoffence under any law,

shall be guilty of the offence of trafficking.

(2) Any person who is guilty of the offenceof trafficking shall on conviction be punishedwith imprisonment of either description for aterm not less than two years and not exceedingtwenty years and may also be punished withfine and where such offence is committed inrespect of a child, be punished withimprisonment of either description for a termnot less than three years and not exceedingtwenty years and may also be punished withfine.

(3) In this section,

child means a person under eighteenyears of age ;

forced or compulsory labour has thesame meaning as in section 358A;

slavery has the same meaning as insection 358A; and

exploiting the vulnerability ofanother means impelling a personto submit to any act, takingadvantage of such person'seconomic, cultural or othercircumstances..

9Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

9.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 360C of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as sections 360D and 360E of thatenactment:

360D. Whoever, for the purpose of placingany person in adoption

(i)arranges for, or assists, a child to travelto a foreign country without theconsent of his parent or lawfulguardian;

(ii)obtains the consent, whether writtenor oral of a pregnant woman, for moneyor any other consideration, for theadoption of the unborn child of suchwoman;

(iii)recruits a woman or a couple to bearchildren;

(iv)being a person concerned with theregistration of births, knowinglypermits the falsification of any registerused for the registration of births orany birth record contained in any suchregister;

(v)engages in procuring children fromhospitals, shelters for women, clinics,nurseries, day care centres or otherchild care institutions or welfarecentres, for money or otherconsideration or procures a child foradoption from any such institution orcentre, by intimidation of the motheror any other person; or

Offencesrelated toadoption.

Insertion of newsections 360D and360E in theprincipalenactment.

10Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

(vi)impersonates the mother or assists insuch impersonation,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall onconviction be punished with imprisonment ofeither description for a term not exceedingtwenty years or to a fine or to both suchimprisonment and fine..

(2) In this section child means a personunder eighteen years of age.

360E. (1) Whoever, whether within Sri Lankaor from outside Sri Lanka solicits by whatevermeans

(a)a person under eighteen years of age;or

(b)any person believing such person tobe under eighteen years of age,

for the purpose of sexual abuse of a child,commits the offence of soliciting a child andshall on conviction be liable to imprisonmentof either description for a term not exceedingten years or to a fine, or to both suchimprisonment and fine..

10.Section 364 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion, immediately after Explanation 3of that section, of the following new explanation :

Explanation 4 : injuries includes psychological ormental trauma.

11.Section 365 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

Amendment ofsection 364 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 365 of theprincipalenactment.

Soliciting achild.

11Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2006

(1)by the substitution for the word Explanation inthat section of the following:

Explanation (1) ;

(2)by the addition, immediately after Explanation 1 ofthat section, of the following newExplanation :

Explanation (2) : injuries includes psychologicalor mental trauma..

12.Section 365A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after the end of thatsection, of the following explanation:

Explanation : injuries includes psychological ormental trauma..

13.Section 365B of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) in sub section (2) of that section(a)by the substitution in paragraph (a) of thatsubsection for the words seven years of thewords five years;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of thatsubsection for the words ten years of thewords seven years;

(2)by the addition, immediately after the end ofsubsection (2) of that section, of the followingexplanation :

Explanation : injuries includes psychologicalor mental trauma.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Amendment ofsection 365 A ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 365 B ofthe principalenactment

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.