PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF LABOURSTUDIES ACT, No. 12 OF 2010

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th October, 2010]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 10.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 08, 2010

1National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

2PL 0051504090 (08/2010)

[Certified on 06th October, 2010]

L.D.O. 59/2006.

AN ACT TO ESTABLISH A NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF LABOUR STUDIES; TO

ESTABLISH A BOARD OF GOVERNORS FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF

THE INSTITUTE; TO ESTABLISH TECHNICAL COMMITTEES AND ADIVISION OF STUDIES FOR TRADE UNIONS; TO CONDUCT RESEARCH,

CARRY OUT SURVEYS AND PROVIDE TRAINING FOR THE PROMOTION OF

LABOUR STUDIES IN SRI LANKA; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the National Institute ofLabour Studies Act, No. 12 of 2010.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF LABOUR STUDIES

2.(1) There shall be established, in accordance withthe provisions of this Act, an Institute which shall be calledthe National Institute of Labour Studies (hereinafter referredto as the Institute).

(2) The Institute shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3.The objects of the Institute shall be

(a)to implement workers education programmes withthe collaboration of local or foreign institutes, totake measures to ensure welfare of workers in orderto make them active partners in the developmentprocess;

(b)to conduct seminars, workshops, conferences andmeetings on labour studies and publish magazines,journals, periodicals and books in relation thereto;

Short title.

Establishment ofthe NationalInstitute ofLabour Studies.

Objects of theInstitute.

2National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

(c)to undertake research, carry out surveys andprovide courses of studies relating to labourstudies;

(d)to establish and maintain libraries and informationservices;

(e)to work in close collaboration with institutions,organizations, associations and societies bothnational and foreign, with similar objectives;

(f)to conduct courses including Diploma Courses onLabour Studies with the assistance of Universitiesand similar institutions and award certificates anddiplomas where so required; and

(g)to engage in and promote activities aimed atmaintaining industrial harmony.

4.The Institute shall have such powers as may benecessary for the discharge of its objects and functions andin particular shall have the power to do all or any of thefollowing:

(a)to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge and sell or otherwise dispose of,any movable or immovable property;

(b)to open and maintain current, savings or depositaccounts in any bank or banks;

(c)to accept grants or donations from persons or bodiesof persons, whether in or outside Sri Lanka;

(d)to enter into or perform, all such contracts as maybe necessary for the exercise of its powers or thedischarge of its functions;

Powers of theInstitute.

3National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

(e)to invest any money belonging to the Instituteincluding any unapplied income, in any securityor to invest any such money in the purchase ofimmovable property in Sri Lanka or vary suchinvestments, or to place in fixed deposits in anybank; any portion of such money as are not requiredfor immediate expenditure;

(f)to borrow such sums of money as may be necessaryfor the purpose of discharging its functions;

(g)to enter into agreements with other institutions,whether in Sri Lanka or abroad, having objectswholly or partly similar to those of the Institute forthe exchange and training of personnel, researchand advisory services; and generally, for suchpurposes as may be in furtherance of their commonobjectives;

(h)to appoint, employ, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control over and dismiss such officersand servants as are necessary for the discharge ofthe functions of the Institute under this Act;

(i)to charge fees for the services and assistanceprovided by the Institute; and

(j)to do all such other things which in the opinion ofthe Institute are necessary to facilitate the dischargeof its functions.

5.(1) The administration, management and control ofthe affairs of the Institute shall be vested in the Board ofGovernors of the Institute (hereinafter referred to as theBoard).

(2) The Board shall for the purpose of administering theaffairs of the Institute exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, duties and functions conferred or imposed on orassigned to the Institute by this Act.

Administrationof the Instituteto be vested inthe Board.

4National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

6.(1) The Board shall consist of the following :

(a)six ex-officio members, namely

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Labour;

(ii)Commissioner-General of Labour;

(iii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of IndustrialDevelopment or his representative;

(iv)a representative from the General Treasury;

(v)The Director-General of the Institute; and

(vi)a representative from the Universitiesnominated by the University GrantsCommission established by the UniversitiesAct, No. 16 of 1978;

(b)thirteen members appointed by the Minister(hereinafter referred to as the appointed members),namely

(i)an officer, not below the rank of a SeniorAssistant Secretary, of the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject of PublicAdministration, nominated by that Minister;

(ii)an officer, not below the rank of a SeniorAssistant Secretary of the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofEducation, nominated by that Minister;

(iii)an officer, not below the rank of a SeniorAssistant Secretary of the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofVocational Training, nominated by thatMinister;

Constitution ofthe Board.

5National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

(iv)four members representing trade unions;

(v)four members representing employers; and

(vi)two members distinguished in the field ofLabour Studies.

(2) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof subject of Labour shall be appointed by the Minister asthe Chairman of the Board and the Commissioner-Generalof Labour shall be as the Vice-Chairman of the Board.

(3) The Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall hold officefor a term of three years and shall be eligible forreappointment.

(4) If the Chairman is by reason of illness or absence fromSri Lanka, temporarily unable to perform the duties of hisoffice, the Minister shall appoint Vice-Chairman to act inhis place.

(5) If the Vice-Chairman is by reason of illness or absencefrom Sri Lanka, temporarily unable to perform the duties ofhis office, the Minister may appoint another member to actin his place.

(6) A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor from continuing as a member of the Board, if he

(i)is, or becomes a member of Parliament or a memberof a Provincial Council or a member of a LocalAuthority as the case may be; or

(ii)directly or indirectly, holds or enjoys any right orbenefit under any contract made by or on behalf ofthe Institute; or

(iii)has any financial or other interest as is likely toaffect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Board.

6National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

(7) The members of the Board holding office on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement of thisAct shall continue to hold office until such time the Board isreconstituted under section 6 of the Act.

7.It shall be the duty of the Board to advice the Ministeron any or all of the matters related to the objects of theInstitute and or any such matter referred to the Board foradvice by the Minister.

8.(1) The Minister may give special or general directionsin writing as to the performance of the duties and the exerciseof the powers of the Board, and the Board shall give effect tosuch directions.

(2) The Minister may in consultation with the Boardexempt any member of trade union from the payment of a fee.

9.(1) An appointed member of the Board shall holdoffice for a period of three years from the date of suchappointment.

(2) The Minister may if he considers it expedient to doso, by Order published in the Gazette, remove, with reasonsassigned therefor, any appointed member of the Board fromoffice.

(3) An appointed member of the Board in respect of whoman Order under subsection (2) is made by the Minister shallvacate his office on the date of the publication of such Orderin the Gazette.

(4) An appointed member of the Board may at any timeresign his office by a letter addressed to the Minister.

(5) In the event of a vacancy occurring in themembership of the Board as a result of any appointedmember vacating office by death, resignation, removal fromoffice or otherwise, another person shall, having regard tothe provisions of section 6, be appointed to fill suchvacancy.

Duties of theBoard.

Term of office.

Power of theMinister to givespecial orgeneraldirections to theBoard.

7National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

(6) Where another person is appointed to fill a vacancycaused by the death, resignation, removal from office orotherwise of an appointed member, the person so appointedshall hold such office for the unexpired period of the term ofoffice of the member of the Board whom he succeeds.

(7) Where any appointed member is by reason of illness,infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka temporarily unable toperform his duties, for a period of not less than three months,another person may having regard to the provisions of section6, be appointed to act in his place.

(8) Any appointed member of the Board, who is absentwithout leave from three consecutive meetings of the Boardshall be deemed to have vacated his office.

10.(1) The Chairman or in absence of the Chairman,the Vice-Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board.In the absence of the Chairman or Vice-Chairman from anymeeting of the Board, the members present at such meetingshall nominate one member from amongst those present, topreside at such meeting.

(2) In the event of an equality of votes at any meeting ofthe Board, the Chairman, Vice-Chairman or the memberpresiding at such meeting shall in addition to his vote, havea casting vote.

(3) The meetings of the Board shall be convened by theChairman and shall be held as frequently as is necessary forthe purpose of effectively discharging the functions of theInstitute under this Act.

(4) The quorum for meeting of the Board shall be fivemembers.

(5) The Board may pay any member with the approval ofthe Minister, such remuneration or allowance, as may bedecided by the Board with the concurrence of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance.

Meetings of theBoard.

8National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, regulationsmay be made by the board regulating the procedure to befollowed with regard to the conduct of its meetings and thetransaction of business at such.

(7) The Board shall in the exercise of its powers, theperformance of its duties and the discharge of its functions,be subject to and act in accordance with such directions asthe Minister may from time to time issue.

11.(1) The Board may delegate to any member of theBoard any of the powers and duties.

(2) The member to whom such powers and duties havebeen delegated shall exercise and perform such powers andduties subject to the general or special directions of theBoard, which may be issued from time to time.

12.Subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of section10 the Board shall have the power to act notwithstandingany vacancy in its membership and no act or proceedings ofthe Board shall be invalid by reason only of the existence ofany such vacancy or any defect in the appointment of amember thereof.

13.The seal of the Board

(a)shall be in the custody of the Chairman of the Board;

(b)shall be of such design and shall be approved bythe Board and may be altered in such manner asmay be determined by the Board; and

(c)shall not be affixed to any document except in thepresence of two members of the Board, both of whomshall sign the document in token of their presence.

Delegation ofpowers andduties of theBoard.

Proceedings ofthe Board not tobe invalid byreason of anyvacancy ordefect in theappointment ofmember.

Seal of theBoard.

9National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

STAFF OF THE INSTITUTE

14.Subject to the provisions of this Act and anyregulations made thereunder, the Board shall have thepower to

(a)appoint, dismiss, and exercise disciplinary controlover the officers and servants of the Institute;

(b)fix the wages or salaries or other remuneration ofthe staff;

(c)determine the terms and conditions of service ofsuch staff; and

(d)establish and regulate schemes for the benefit ofsuch staff.

15.(1) The Board shall appoint a person to be theDirector-General of the Institute, who shall be the ChiefExecutive Officer of the Institute for a period of three yearsand eligible for reappointment if the Board decides.

(2) The Director-General shall execute or perform suchpowers, functions and duties as may be delegated to him bythe Board.

(3) The Board may appoint such other Directors as maybe necessary for the purposes of the Institute.

16.(1) The Board may appoint such number of TechnicalCommittees as are necessary for the purpose of carrying outthe functions under this Act.

(2) A Technical Committee appointed by the Board shallcarry out its functions and fulfill its obligations as stipulatedin the terms of reference given to such Technical Committeeby the Board.

Staff of theInstitute

Appointment ofthe Director-General.

Establishment ofTechnicalCommittees.

10National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

(3) The Board shall determine the period of office of eachTechnical Committee and reconstitute the same wherevernecessary.

(4) The Board may where it consider it necessary so todo, co-opt as a member to a Technical Committee any personwho possesses the required knowledge and experience inthe relevant field.

(5) The Technical Committee shall comprise of threemembers. Namely, a representative each of the employees,the employers and the public sector.

(6) The Board shall nominate one member to be theChairman of the Committee.

(7) The Board may pay to any member or co-opted memberof a Technical Committee with the approval of the Minister,such remuneration or allowance, as may be decided by theBoard.

17.(1) There shall be established a Division of Studiesfor Trade Unions (hereinafter referred to as the Division ofStudies) for the implementation of the objects set out insubsection(4). The Division of Studies shall commence thedischarge of its functions from such date as the Ministermay by Order published in the Gazette appoint .

(2) The Board shall appoint a Director who shall functionas the Divisional Head of the Division of Studies.

(3) The Board shall appoint officers and servants as mayrequired for the purposes of the Division of Studies.

(4) The objects of the Division of Studies shall be to

(a)provide training for members of Trade Unions,employees, employers, representatives of employersand employees and public servants; and

Establishment ofa Division ofStudies forTrade Unions.

11National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

(b)conduct training courses, seminars, workshopson labour laws, trade unions, finance, commerce,trade, supply of goods and services, labourmanagement and such other courses which in theopinion of the Board will facilitate development oftrade unions.

(5) The Divisional Head of the Division of Studies andofficers and servants shall act under the general or specialdirections of the Director-General of the Institute.

(6) The Board may establish such number of branches ofthe Division of Studies in the regions as are required in itsopinion for the achievement of the objects of the Divisionof Studies.

18.(1) The Institute may make rules in respect of all orany matter for which rules are authorized or required by thisAct to be made.

(2) Every rule made by the Institute under subsection (1)shall not have effect until it is approved by the Minister andis published in the Gazette.

19.Where the Institute employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which hehas agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,any period of service to the Institute by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

20.(1) At the request of the Board, any officer in thepublic service serving in the Ministry of the Minister may,with the consent of the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister given with the concurrence of the Chairman of thePublic Service Commission and of that officer, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Institute for such period as maybe determined by the Board, or with like consent, bepermanently appointed to such staff.

Rules.

Service to theinstitute deemedto be a service tothe Governmentfor the purposesof certaincontracts.

Appointment ofpublic officersto the staff ofthe Institute.

12National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

FINANCE

21.(1) The Institute shall have its own fund.

(2) There shall be credited to the fund of the Institute

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by Parliament for the use of the Institute;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theInstitute in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions; and

(c)all such sums of money as may be received by theInstitute by way of loans, donations, gifts or grantsfrom any source whatsoever, whether in or outsideSri Lanka.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Institute

(a)all such sums of money as are required to defrayany expenditure incurred by the Institute in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions under this Act; and

(b)all such sums of money as are required to be paidout of such fund, by or under this Act.

22.The financial year of the Institute shall be thecalendar year.

Fund of theInstitute.

Financial year ofthe Institute.

13National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

23.The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to and in relation to, the audit of the accounts of theInstitute.

GENERAL PROVISIONS

24.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofmatters for which regulations are required or authorized bythis Act to be made or which are required by this Act to beprescribed.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette bebrought before Parliament for approval and any regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescindedwith effect from the date of such disapproval, but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

25.Any expenses incurred by any person broughtagainst him before any court in respect of any act which isdone by him under this Act or on the direction of the Boardshall, if the Court holds that the act was done in good faith,be paid out of the fund of the Institute.

26.The Institute shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution, within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

Audit ofAccounts.

Regulations.

Expensesincurred by anyperson to bepaid by theInstitute.

The Institutedeemed to be ascheduledInstitutionwithin themeaning of theBribery Act.

14National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

Officers andservants of theInstitute deemedto be publicservants.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Interpretation.

27.All members, officers and servants of the Instituteshall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning,and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

28.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

29.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Labour Studies shall include the subjects ofindustrial relations, national or internationallabour standards, laws relating to labour, tradeunions, employer-employee relations,employer-employee representative ororganizations, worker education, humanresource management and developmentadministration, business management,productivity, manufacturing, trade marketing,social development and any study, project,programme, research, consultancy, survey,seminar, workshop, conference, training courseor similar work related to labour economics orany other subject relevant thereto as shall beprescribed by the Minister.

15National Institute of Labour StudiesAct, No. 12 of 2010

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.