PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

OFFICE ON MISSING PERSONS(ESTABLISHMENT, ADMINISTRATION ANDDISCHARGE OF FUNCTIONS)ACT, No. 14 OF 2016

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd August, 2016]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 26, 2016

1 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

2PL 0100323061 (06/2016)

[Certified on 23rd August, 2016]

L.D.O- 32/2016

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE ON MISSINGPERSONS; TO PROVIDE FOR THE SEARCHING AND TRACING OF MISSINGPERSONS; TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO RELATIVES OF MISSINGPERSONS; FOR THE SETTING UP OF A DATABASE OF MISSING PERSONS;

FOR SETTING OUT THE PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES APPLICABLE

TO THE POWERS AND FUNCTIONS ASSIGNED TO THE SAID OFFICE; AND

TO PROVIDE FOR ALL MATTERS WHICH ARE CONNECTED WITH

OR INCIDENTAL TO, THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF

THIS ACT.

WHEREAS there have been incidents of missing personsincluding those missing as victims of abduction, personsmissing in action or otherwise missing in connection witharmed conflicts, political unrest and civil disturbances:

AND WHEREAS relatives of missing persons are entitled toknow the circumstances in which such persons went missing,and the fate and whereabouts of such missing persons:

AND WHEREAS it is recognised that the establishment ofan Office on Missing Persons is necessary to take allnecessary measures to search and trace missing persons; toprotect the rights and interests of missing persons and theirrelatives; and towards ensuring non-recurrence:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Office on MissingPersons (Establishment, Administration and Discharge ofFunctions) Act, No. 14 of 2016.

Preamble

Short title anddate ofoperation.

2 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operationon such date as the Minister may appoint, by Order publishedin the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

2. The objectives of the Office on Missing Persons(Establishment, Administration and Discharge ofFunctions) Act is to ensure that all necessary measures aretaken

(a)to provide appropriate mechanisms for searchingand tracing of missing persons, and to clarify thecircumstances in which such persons went missing,and their fate ;

(b)to make recommendations to the relevant authoritiestowards reducing the incidents of missing personswithin the meaning of this Act;

(c)to protect the rights and interests of missing personsand their relatives as provided for in this Act;

(d)to identify proper avenues of redress to which suchmissing persons or their relatives may have recourse.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE ON MISSING PERSONS

3. (1) There shall be established an Office which shallbe called and known as the Office on Missing Persons(hereinafter referred to as the OMP)

(2) The OMP shall be a body corporate having perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued inits corporate name.

(3)The head office of the OMP shall be situated inColombo. The OMP may, from time to time, establish suchnumber of regional offices as may be necessary, to achieveits mandate.

Establishment ofthe Office onMissing Persons(OMP).

Objectives of theAct.

3 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

4.(1)(a) The OMP shall consist of seven members whoshall be appointed by the President on therecommendation of the ConstitutionalCouncil.

(b) One of the members of the OMP shall, on therecommendation of the ConstitutionalCouncil, be appointed by the President as theChairman of the OMP:

Provided that the Constitutional Councilmay recommend more than one name forconsideration by the President, to beappointed as the Chairman of the OMP.

(2) In making recommendations for the appointment ofmembers to the OMP, the Constitutional Council shall, havedue regard to:-

(a)ensuring that the composition of the OMP reflectsthe pluralistic nature of the Sri Lankan society; and

(b)ensuring that the members of the OMP shall bepersons with previous experience in fact finding orinvestigation, human rights law, internationalhumanitarian law, humanitarian response, or possessother qualifications relevant to the carrying out ofthe functions of the OMP.

5. (1) The President shall appoint, within fourteen daysof receiving the recommendations of the ConstitutionalCouncil for such appointments, the Chairman and theMembers of the OMP.

(2) In the event the President fails to make the necessaryappointments within such period of fourteen days

(a)the persons recommended to be appointed asmembers of the OMP, shall be deemed to have beenappointed as members of the OMP; and

Constitution andcomposition ofthe OMP.

Chairman andmembers of theOMP.

4 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(b)the person whose name appears first in the list ofnames recommended to be appointed as theChairman, shall be deemed to have been appointedas the Chairman of the OMP,

with effect from the date of expiry of such period.

(3) The Chairman of the OMP shall be its Chief ExecutiveOfficer.

6.Every member of the OMP shall hold office for aperiod of three years, unless he vacates office prior to theexpiration of such term.

7.(1) Any member who vacates his office, otherwisethan by, removal under subsection (3), shall be eligible tobe considered for re-appointment for one further term of threeyears only:

Provided that no person shall be entitled to be appointedas a Member of the OMP for more than two terms of office.

Provided further, that the period in which a Member isappointed as an acting Member shall not be considered as aterm of office within the meaning of this subsection.

(2) The office of a member shall become vacant-

(a) upon the death of such member;

(b) upon such member resigning such office bywriting addressed to the President;

(c) upon such member being removed from office onany ground specified in subsection (3) hereof; or

(d) on the expiration of such members term of office.

(3) A member of the OMP may be removed from office bythe President, if such person

(a)is adjudged an insolvent by a court of competentjurisdiction;

Term of officeof members.

Removal ofmembers.

5 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(b)is found to have a conflict of interest, which in theopinion of the President, formed on therecommendation of the Prime Minister, made inconsultation with the Speaker and the Leader ofthe Opposition, conflicts with his duties as a memberof the OMP;

(c)is unfit to continue in office by reason of infirmityof mind or body;

(d)is declared to be of unsound mind by a court ofcompetent jurisdiction;

(e)is convicted of an offence involving moralturpitude; or

(f)absents himself from three consecutive meetingswithout previously obtaining leave of the OMP.

(4) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairmanby letter addressed to the President.

(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), the termof office of the Chairman shall be the period of membershipof the OMP.

(6)(a) If the Chairman of the OMP becomes temporarilyunable to perform the duties of his office, byreason of illness or other infirmity or due toabsence from Sri Lanka or any other such reason,the President may appoint any other member ofthe OMP to act in his place.

(b) If a Member of the OMP becomes temporarilyunable to perform the duties of his office, byreason of illness or other infirmity or due toabsence from Sri Lanka or any other such reason,the President may appoint any other person to actin his place.

6 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(c) The provisions of sections 4 (1) and 5 shall applyin respect of any person appointed to act asChairman or Member.

(7) No act or proceeding of the OMP shall be deemed tobe invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancyamong its members, or defect in the appointment of anymember thereof.

8.(1) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of theOMP. In the event of his absence from any meeting, themembers of the OMP present at such meeting shall elect oneof their membership to preside at such meeting.

(2) The Chairman of the OMP shall, in addition to hisown vote, have a casting vote.

(3) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the OMPmay make rules, to regulate the procedure in regard to theconduct of meetings of the OMP, and the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings.

9.The quorum for meetings of the OMP shall be fourmembers.

PART II

POWERS, DUTIES AND MANDATE OF THE OMP

10.(1) The OMP shall have the mandate-

(a) to search for and trace missing persons andidentify appropriate mechanisms for the sameand to clarify the circumstances in which suchpersons went missing;

(b) to make recommendations to the relevantauthorities towards addressing the incidenceof missing persons;

Meetings ofOMP.

Quorum.

Mandate of theOMP.

7 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(c) to protect the rights and interests of missingpersons and their relatives as provided for inthis Act;

(d) to identify avenues of redress to which missingpersons and relatives of missing persons areentitled and to inform the missing person (iffound alive) or relative of such missing personof same;

(e) to collate data related to missing personsobtained by processes presently being carriedout, or which were previously carried out, byother institutions, organizations, GovernmentDepartments and Commissions of Inquiry andSpecial Presidential Commission of Inquiryand centralize all available data within thedatabase established under this Act;

(f) to do all such other necessary things that maybecome necessary to achieve the objectivesunder the Act.

(2) The mandate of the OMP shall extend to missingpersons notwithstanding the time period in which suchperson became a missing person.

11.The OMP shall have the following general powers-

(a) to enter into agreements, as are necessary toachieve the mandate of the OMP, with anyperson or organization;

(b) to make rules to ensure the effectivefunctioning of the OMP;

(c) to issue from time to time, rules and guidelines,which may include gender-sensitive policies,to be followed by all staff of the OMP relatingto the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions;

General Powersof the OMP.

8 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(d) to appoint and dismiss staff and consultantsand to request secondment of public officersto the OMP;

(e) to establish from time to time, and in additionto those Units and Divisions specificallymentioned in this Act, such Committees and /or Divisions and / or Units as are required for theeffective administration and functioning of theOMP, and shall also have the power to delegatesuch powers and functions as are necessary tosuch Committees, Divisions and Units.

12.The OMP shall have the following investigativepowers:-

(a)to receive, from any relative of a missing person, orany other person or organization, complaintsrelating to missing persons, irrespective of whensuch person may have become a missing person;

(b)to initiate an inquiry and/or investigation into thewhereabouts and/or circumstances of disappearanceof a missing person pursuant to a complaint madeto the OMP or on the basis of information receivedfrom previously established Commissions ofInquiry, Commissions on missing persons orCommissions which have inquired into allegationsrelating to disappearances or missing persons:

Provided however, that the OMP may grantpriority to-

(i)incidents of missing persons that haveoccurred most recently;

(ii)incidents in which there is substantialevidence already available; or

(iii)such incidents that are, in the opinion of theOMP, of public importance;

Powers ofInvestigation.

9 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(c)to take all necessary steps to investigate cases ofmissing persons, including but not limited to thefollowing

(i)to procure and receive statements, written ororal, and to examine persons as witnesses,including video-conferencing facilities;

(ii)to summon any person present or residing inSri Lanka to be present before the OMP toprovide a statement or produce any documentor other thing in his possession;

(iii)to admit, notwithstanding anythingcontained to the contrary in the EvidenceOrdinance, any statement or material, whetherwritten or oral, which might be inadmissiblein civil or criminal proceedings;

(iv)to establish a process to accept confidentialinformation or information in camera, ifrequired, to help ensure personal security forvictims and witnesses;

(v)to establish a process to accept informationon the condition of confidentiality.

(d)to apply to the appropriate Magistrates Courthaving territorial jurisdiction, for an order of Courtto carry out an excavation and/or exhumation ofsuspected grave sites, and to act as an observer atsuch excavation or exhumation, and at otherproceedings, pursuant to the same;

(e)to request assistance necessary for the achieving ofits mandate, from any State, governmental,provincial, or local authority or agency, or anyofficer thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the

10 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

contrary in any other written law or regulation madethereunder, any such authority, agency or officer towhich a request for assistance is made by the OMPshall forthwith render such assistance. Suchassistance shall include but not be limited toproviding information and producing documentsin the possession of such authority, agency orofficer;

(f)to authorize in writing a specified officer of theOMP, to enter without warrant, at any time any placeof detention, police station, prison or any otherplace in which any person is suspected to bedetained, or is suspected to have previously beendetained in, whether by judicial order or otherwiseand make such examinations therein or makesuch inquiries from any person found therein, toascertain the conditions of detention and retain anydocuments or objects, as may be necessary;

For the purposes of this paragraph, the Ministerassigned the subject of Justice shall make guidelinesfor the conduct of the search and place it beforeParliament within a period of three months;

The OMP shall inform the Inspector General ofPolice within twenty four hours of conducting thesearch without a warrant;

(g)to make an application to the Magistrate havingterritorial jurisdiction, for the issuance of a searchwarrant, to enable Police or specified officers of theOMP, to search any premises suspected to containevidence relevant to an investigation beingconducted by the OMP, and to examine, makecopies of, extract from, seize and retain, any objectthat is deemed necessary for the purposes of anyinvestigation being conducted by the OMP;

(h)to refer, after due consultation with the complainant,to the police or any other relevant law enforcement

11 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

authority all cases of missing persons that have beenbrought before the OMP not falling within thedefinition of the expression missing persons asdefined in this Act;

(i)where it appears to the OMP that an offence withinthe meaning of the Penal Code or any other law,has been committed, that warrants investigation,the OMP may, after consultation with such relativesof the missing person as it deems fit, in dueconsideration of the best interests of the victims,relatives and society, report the same to the relevantlaw enforcement or prosecuting authority: suchreport will provide information relating to themissing persons civil status (such as the name, ageand gender of the missing person), the place(s) ordistrict(s) in which the missing person was last seenand the date thereof:

Provided that where a witness consents, the OMPmay also inform the relevant authority, of the detailsof such witness, in order to enable such relevantauthority to secure a statement from such witnessto be used in the process of investigation.

13.(1) The OMP shall be charged with the followingfunctions:-

(a) (i)Pending an ongoing investigation, where theOMP has sufficient material to conclude thatthe person to whom a complaint relates is amissing person, it shall issue an interim reportto the relative of such missing person, to sucheffect, in order to enable the Registrar Generalto issue a Certificate of Absence;

(ii)Upon the conclusion of an investigation, wherethe OMP concludes that the person to whom acomplaint relates is a missing person or is

Functions andduties of theOMP.

12 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

deceased it shall issue a report to the relative ofsuch missing person, to such effect, in order toenable the Registrar General to issue a Certificateof Absence or a Certificate of Death as the casemay be;

(iii)where further investigations reveal that aconclusion reported in an interim report or reportis erroneous, the OMP shall notify the relativeof the same, and simultaneously inform theRegistrar General of such further development;

(iv)in providing interim reports, reports, orinformation to a relative of a missing person, theorder of priority between relatives shall be theorder specified in section 27;

(v)interim reports and reports shall only be issuedto facilitate the issuance of Certificates ofAbsence during the operation of the Registrationof Deaths (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 19 of2010 or such other law which permits theissuance of Certificates of Absence by theRegistrar General.

(b)to provide to any relative of a missing person orany other complainant, wherever the OMP is ableto do so, information relating to the whereaboutsof a missing person, if found to be alive, subject tothe consent of the person found alive;

(c)to provide relatives of a missing person, informationrelating to the status of an ongoing investigation,pertaining to such missing person, unless the OMPis of the view that such would hinder the ongoinginvestigation or that it is not in the best interests ofthe missing person:

13 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

Provided that where the relatives of the missingperson are deceased or unknown or the OMP isunable to locate such relatives, the OMP mayprovide updates with regard to such investigationto an appropriate authority or organisation.

(d)at the conclusion of an investigation the OMP shall,subject to the provisions of section 15(1)-

(i) where the missing person is deceased or hiswhereabouts are unknown, inform the relativesof the missing person and other complainant asthe case may be, of the circumstances in whichsuch person went missing and his fate;

(ii) where the missing persons whereabouts areknown, subject to sub-paragraph (b) inform therelatives of the missing person of thecircumstances in which such person wentmissing.

(e)to provide, or facilitate the provision of,administrative assistance, and welfare servicesincluding where required, psycho-social support,to the relatives of the missing person;

(f)to recommend that the relevant authority grantreparations to missing persons and / or relatives ofmissing persons, including but not limited tocompensation and / or recommend the provision ofother administrative and welfare services includingpsycho-social services;

(g)to develop and enforce a system for victim andwitness protection:

Provided that the provisions hereof shall notprejudice the rights of parties or the OMP to seek

14 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

appropriate orders in terms of the Assistance to andProtection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses Act,No. 4 of 2015;

(h)to create, manage and maintain a database whichwill include all particulars concerning missingpersons;

(i)to inform victims, relatives, witnesses and otherinformants who provide information to the OMP,of their right to directly refer matters to relevantauthorities, including their right to report seriouscrimes to the relevant law enforcement orprosecuting authority and of the availability of anymechanism through which they may make claimsfor administrative relief;

(j)to take appropriate steps towards creating publicawareness of the causes, incidence and effects ofmissing persons, and towards creating publicsupport for fulfilling the needs of the relatives ofmissing persons and facilitating their access toeconomic, psycho-social, legal and administrativesupport;

(k)to make recommendations to the relevantauthorities, relevant to its mandate, includingrecommendations relating to-

(i) the prevention of future disappearances, basedon patterns identified in the course of the workof the OMP;

(ii) the means and methods of commemoration andacknowledgment;

(iii) the handling of unidentifiable remains andidentifiable remains;

15 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(iv) the handling of cases in which eithercircumstances or whereabouts of missingpersons cannot be clarified;

(v) the publishing of information on issues ofmissing persons for public knowledge with dueconsideration to all relevant laws pertaining toconfidentiality and protection of data;

(vi) the development of national laws andregulations related to missing persons; and

(vii) reparations, psycho-social support and othermeans to improve social and economicconditions of victims and relatives of missingpersons:

Provided that in making the saidrecommendations under paragraph (k) the OMP shallconsult as it deems appropriate, relatives of missingpersons and / or organisations representing missingpersons.

(2) The findings of the OMP shall not give rise to anycriminal or civil liability.

14.In exercising its powers under this Act the OMPshall ensure that the rights of missing persons and relativesof missing persons shall be enforced on a basis of equalitywithout regard to status and without discrimination on anygrounds whatsoever.

15.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anywritten law, except in the performance of his duties underthis Act, every member, officer, servant and consultant ofthe OMP shall preserve and aid in preserving confidentialitywith regard to matters communicated to them in confidence.The provisions of the Right to Information Act, No. 12 of2016, shall not apply with regard to such information.

OMP to ensurethe rights ofmissing personsand relatives.

Confidentialityof information.

16 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(2) No member, officer, servant or consultant of the OMPshall be required to produce, whether in any court orotherwise, any material communicated to him in confidencein the performance of his duties under this Act, except asmay be necessary for the purpose of carrying out or givingeffect to, the provisions of this Act.

(3) The OMP shall take all necessary steps includingtechnical safeguards to ensure the security of all its databasesand data.

PART III

SECRETARIAT, TRACING UNIT, VICTIMS AND WITNESS PROTECTIONDIVISION OF THE OMP

16.(1) The OMP shall have a Secretariat which shall becharged with the responsibility for the administration of theaffairs of the OMP.

(2) There may be appointed by the OMP, such officersand staff as may be necessary to assist the OMP in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers, dutiesand functions as set out in this Act.

(3) The members of the OMP (for the limited purpose oftheir functions under this Act) and the officers and staff ofthe OMP, shall be deemed to be public servants for thepurposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19), the Bribery Actand the Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 14).

(4) The OMP shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

17.(1) There shall be a Tracing Unit of the OMP, whichshall be responsible for tracing and searching for missingpersons and for assisting in clarifying the circumstances ofsuch disappearance, and the whereabouts and fate of suchmissing person.

The Secretariatof the OMP.

OMP TracingUnit.

17 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(2) The Tracing Unit shall be headed by an ExecutiveOfficer appointed by the OMP and shall include competent,experienced and qualified investigators, including thosewith relevant technical and forensic expertise.

18.(1) There shall be a Victim and Witness ProtectionDivision within the OMP that shall protect the rights andaddress the needs and concerns of victims, witnesses andrelatives of missing persons.

(2) The Victim and Witness Protection Division shall beheaded by an Executive Officer appointed by the OMP.

(3) The Division shall take all appropriate measures toensure the protection of victims and witnesses who engagewith the OMP.

(4) The Victim and Witness Protection Division mayprovide or facilitate the provision of administrative servicesand welfare services including psycho-social support tovictims, witnesses and relatives of missing persons.

(5) The Victim and Witness Protection Division shallinform victims and witnesses of all the uses or potentialuses, of information provided.

(6) The Victim and Witness Protection Division may co-ordinate with other law enforcement agencies where it deemsnecessary.

PART IV

FINANCE

19.The State shall provide the OMP with adequate fundsto enable the OMP to discharge the functions assigned to itby this Act. Such funds shall be charged on the ConsolidatedFund.

OMP Victim andWitnessProtectionDivision.

Finances.

18 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

20.The salaries of the members of the OMP shall bedetermined by Parliament and shall be charged on theConsolidated Fund, and shall not be diminished during theirterms of office.

21.The OMP may raise funds

(a) by obtaining grants, gifts or endowments fromwithin Sri Lanka; and

(b) to achieve its mandate by obtaining grants, gifts orendowments from outside Sri Lanka:

Provided that the funds under paragraph (b) arechanneled through the Department of External Resources.

22.(1) The financial year of the OMP shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The OMP shall cause proper accounts to be kept of itsincome and expenditure, and assets and liabilities. Theaccounts of the OMP shall be audited by the Auditor Generalin terms of Article 154 of the Constitution.

23.The OMP shall, subject to the provisions of section15 (1), submit annual reports to Parliament, and shall alsocause such reports to be made public.

PART V

GENERAL

24.(1) If any person-

(a)fails without cause to appear before the OMPpursuant to summons issued by the OMP; or

(b)refuses without cause to answer any questionput to him by the OMP; or

Salaries of OMPmembers.

OMP to raisefunds.

Financial year.

Reporting.

Offences.

19 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

(c)refuses or fails without cause to comply withthe requirements of a notice or written order ordirection issued or made to him, by the OMP; or

(d)upon whom a summons is served, refuses or failswithout cause to produce any document or otherthing, which is in his possession or control; or

(e)resists or obstructs an officer authorized underthis Act in the exercise by that officer of thepowers conferred on him; or

(f)knowingly hinders or obstructs the OMP in thefulfillment or execution of its powers,obligations and duties; or

(g)performs any act aimed at improperlyinfluencing or interfering with the work of theOMP; or

(h)threatens, intimidates or improperly influences,or attempts to threaten, intimidate or improperlyinfluence any person who has co-operated, or isintending to co-operate with the OMP; or

(i)discloses any confidential information incontravention of the provisions of this Act; or

(j)without reasonable excuse fails to comply withany other order of the OMP,

such person shall be guilty of an offence of contempt againstthe authority of the OMP.

(2) Where it appears that a person is guilty of an offence ofcontempt the OMP shall report such matter to the Court ofAppeal. Every offence of contempt committed against theauthority of the OMP shall be punishable by the Court ofAppeal as though it were an offence of contempt committedagainst the Court of Appeal.

20 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

25.(1) (a) No order, decision, act or omission of theOMP or any member, officer or servant thereof shall bequestioned in any proceedings or any court of law, save andexcept in proceedings under Article 126 or 140 of theConstitution.

(b) The writ jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appealby Article 140 of the Constitution in relation to any order,decision, act or omission of the OMP or any member, officeror servant thereof, shall be exercised by the Supreme Courtand not by the Court of Appeal.

(2) Other than in the circumstances provided for in sub-section (1) of this section -

(a)no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be institutedagainst any member of the OMP or any officeror servant appointed to assist the OMP, other thanfor contempt against the authority of the OMP,for any act which in good faith is done or omittedto be done, by him, as such member or officeror servant;

(b)no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be institutedagainst any member of the OMP in respect of anyreport made in good faith by the OMP under thisAct or against any other person in respect of thepublication by such person of a true account ofsuch report;

(c)no proceedings civil, criminal or administrative,shall be instituted against any person consequent,to such person in good faith providing evidence ordocumentation to the OMP.

26.(1) The OMP may make rules for matters for whichrules are required to be made under this Act.

Rules.

Protectionfrom Action.

21 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

Interpretation.

(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be tabled beforeParliament and shall be published in the Gazette within areasonable period not exceeding three months.

27.Unless the context otherwise requires, in this Act -

missing person means a person whose fate orwhereabouts are reasonably believed to beunknown and which person is reasonablybelieved to be unaccounted for and missing-

(i)in the course of, consequent to, or inconnection with the conflict which tookplace in the Nothern and EasternProvinces or its aftermath, or is a memberof the armed forces or police who isidentified as missing in action; or

(ii)in connection with political unrest or civildisturbances; or

(iii)as an enforced disappearance as definedin the International Convention onProtection of All Persons from EnforcedDisappearances;

relative of a missing person shall in relation tosuch missing person include the followingpersons

(i)spouse;

(ii)children including adopted children,non-marital children, or step children;

(iii)parents (including step-mother, step-father, adopter);

22 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

(iv)full or half brother or sisters or adoptedbrothers or sisters;

(v)father / mother- in-law, brother/sister-in-law, sons/daughters-in-law; (vi)grandchildren and grandparents.

28.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil Texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

23 Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,Administration and Discharge of Functions)Act, No. 14 of 2016

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.