PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01.

Price : Rs. 15.00 Postage : Rs. 6.75

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of December 20, 2002

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 18th December, 2002]

Printed on the Order of Government

CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA ACT, No. 34 OF 2002

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 20021

2H 0171335,650 (11/2002)

[Certified on 18th December 2002]

L.D.O. 6/2000.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CIVIL AVIATIONAUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA ; FOR THE TRANSFER OF ALL PROPERTY,

CONTRACTS, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OFCIVIL AVIATION TO THE CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY OF SRILANKA ; FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL OFCIVIL AVIATION ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Civil AviationAuthority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 34 of 2002, and shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may appoint byOrder published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT AND CONSTITUTION OF THE CIVIL AVIATIONAUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA

2.(1) There shall be established an authority called theCivil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred toas the Authority).

(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3.(1) The Authority shall consist of the followingmembers :

(a)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Defence ;

(b)a representative of the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance, nominated by thatMinister ;

Constitution of theAuthority.

Establishment ofthe Civil AviationAuthority of SriLanka.

Short title anddate of operation.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 20022

(c)five persons appointed by the Minister of whom notless than two shall have considerable experience orknowledge in the field of civil aviation ; and

(d)the Director-General.

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the members of theAuthority, to be its Chairman and one other member to be itsVice-Chairman.

(3) The Minister shall in appointing a member underparagraph (c) of subsection (1), satisfy himself that suchmember has no financial or other interest in any airline oraviation related business that is likely to prejudicially affectthe discharge of his or her functions as such member, andfurther shall also satisfy himself from time to time that suchmember has no such interest.

(4) The Chairman may by written authority, authorizeany member of the Authority to perform any of the functionsconferred upon him as Chairman.

(5) The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act, shallapply to and in relation to the members of the Authority, itsmeetings and the seal of the Authority.

4.A member of the Authority who is directly or indirectlyinterested in any decision that is to be taken on any transactionor project of the Authority, shall disclose the nature of suchinterest at the meeting of the Authority where such decisionis being taken. The disclosure shall be recorded in the minutesof the meeting and such member shall not thereafter take partin any deliberation or decision of the Authority with regard tothat transaction or project.

5.The Director-General shall not undertake anyemployment or assignment (contractual or otherwise) for aperiod of one year after ceasing to hold office as a member ofthe Authority with any entity in the aviation industry whichhas been subjected to regulatory control by the Authorityduring the tenure of his office as such member.

Prohibition fromcertainundertakings for alimited period.

Members todisclose anyinterest in anydecision to bemade by theAuthority.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 20023

Appointment ofCommittees.

Powers, functionsand duties of theAuthority.

6.(1) The Authority may appoint from among its ownmembers or from among persons as it may deem fit suchnumber of committees it considers appropriate for thepurpose of assisting it in the exercise of its powers under thisAct.

(2) The Authority may, subject to such terms andconditions as it may deem fit, delegate to any such committeeconstituted under subsection (1), all or any of its powers andany power so delegated may be exercised by such committeein the name and on behalf of the Authority.

(3) Notwithstanding the delegation of all or any of itspowers to a committee under subsection (2), the Authoritymay exercise any power so delegated.

PART II

POWERS, FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF THE AUTHORITY

7.The Authority shall, in a manner consistent with theobligations of Sri Lanka under the Convention, exercise,perform and discharge the following powers, functions andduties

(a)subject to any directions issued by the Minister,regulate civil air operations within the territory ofSri Lanka and the operations of Sri Lanka registeredaircrafts outside the territory of Sri Lanka, inaccordance with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law ;

(b)assist the Minister in the formulation of the NationalAviation Policy of Sri Lanka ;

(c)prepare an aviation development plan for Sri Lankain accordance with the National Aviation Policy ofSri Lanka and the directions issued by the Ministerin regard to the same ;

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 20024

(d)provide the strategic direction for the developmentof civil aviation and coordinate the activities of allparties involved ;

(e)develop and promulgate or adopt by reference asappropriate, clear and concise aviation safetyrequirements and practices and procedures,implement effective enforcement strategies to securecompliance by all persons of the Standards and suchaviation safety requirements and practices andprocedures ;

(f)encourage, through comprehensive and timelyaviation safety advice and by fostering an awarenesswithin the aviation community of the importance ofaviation safety, a greater degree of acceptance bythe aviation community of its obligation to maintainhigh standards of aviation safety ; provide aviationsafety education and training for persons involvedin civil aviation activities ;

(g)issue certificates, licences, permits and any otherlegal authority or document required to be issued byor under the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law ;

(h)initiate investigations on aircraft accidents and anyother related incidents and arrange for theestablishment and provision of search and rescueoperations ; conduct inquiries with regard to anyflight safety hazards and take remedial action ;

(i)investigate, examine and report on the operation anddevelopment of, commercial air services to and fromSri Lanka and promote the development of airtransport generally for the benefit of the public, andfor this purpose establish and provide facilities andservices for the collection, analysis, publication anddissemination of information relating to airtransportation ;

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 20025

(j)assist in such manner as may be required by theMinister, with international air services negotiationsand consultations and monitor and ensure the properimplementation of the provisions of the air servicesagreements ;

(k)provide information relating to air navigation andair transport by means of publications issued by theAuthority or by any other means, publishaeronautical maps and charts ; establish air routesand ensure proper provision of the aeronauticalinformation service and the aeronauticaltelecommunication service ;

(l)establish, with the approval of the Minister, specificprograms for civil aviation in Sri Lanka for theimplementation of Standards in matters offacilitation, aviation security, environmentalprotection, carriage of dangerous goods and anyother related field where global harmonization isdesirable ;

(m)co-ordinate, with the International Civil AviationOrganization in the implementation by Sri Lanka ofthe Standards and the registration of agreements andarrangements, promote Sri Lankas participation atregional and global aviation organizations andrepresent or cause to represent Sri Lankainternationally in matters relating to civil aviationwith the approval of the Minister ;

(n)advise the Minister on matters relating to civilaviation and on the adoption and implementation ofinternational aviation agreements, treaties andconventions ;

(o)own and hold on behalf of the State, anyproperty duly vested and transferred to theAuthority ;

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 20026

(p)utilize the property of the Authority both movable andimmovable in such manner as the Authority may thinkexpedient including the raising of loans by mortgagingsuch property with the approval of the Minister ;

(q)engage in any activity, either alone or in conjunctionwith other civil aviation authorities or internationalagencies or organizations, for the purpose ofpromoting and developing civil aviation;

(r)enter into contracts for the supply of goods, servicesor materials or for the execution of works or anyother contracts as may be necessary for the exercise,performance and discharge of the powers, duties andfunctions of the Authority ;

(s)make recommendations to the Minister on the chargesand fees to be levied for certificates, licences, permitsor any other legal authorities or documents issued orgiven, and for services provided, by or under theprovisions of this Act or any other written law ;

(t)select and employ personnel necessary to carry outthe functions and duties of the Authority anddetermine and adopt the salaries and terms ofconditions of service of the employees of theAuthority, including staff welfare schemes andtraining programs ;

(u)obtain the services of consultants and advisors,appoint attorneys and agents as shall be necessaryto carry out the functions of the Authority ;

(v)engage qualified personnel as required on contractand provide for their remuneration consistent withindustry standards ;

(w)exercise such other powers as may be necessary forthe discharge of its functions and the performanceof its duties under this Act and any function or dutyassigned to or delegated to the Authority by theMinister by Order made in that behalf ;

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 20027

(x)initiate and carry out surveys into any aspect of civilaviation ;

(y)carry out any duties that may be entrusted ordelegated to the Authority under any other writtenlaw ; and

(z)perform such other functions as the Minister maydirect from time to time.

8.On and after such date as the Minister shall appointby Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to asthe transfer date) :

(a)all movable and immovable property transferred toand vested in the Director-General of Civil Aviationappointed under section 20 of the Air NavigationAct, and which is in his possession on the dayimmediately preceding the transfer date, shall betransferred to and vest in the Authority with effectfrom such date ;

(b)all contracts, leases or tenancy agreements enteredinto by, with or for the Director-General of CivilAviation appointed under section 20 of the AirNavigation Act, and subsisting on the dayimmediately preceding the transfer date, shall witheffect from such date be deemed to be contracts,leases or tenancy agreements entered into by, withor for the Authority ; and

(c)all rights, obligations, interests, debts and liabilitiesof the Director-General of Civil Aviation appointedunder section 20 of the Air Navigation Act, subsistingon the day immediately preceding the transfer date,shall with effect from such date, be deemed to berights, obligations, interests, debts and liabilities ofthe Authority.

Transfer andvesting ofproperty &c. inthe Authority.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 20028

9.The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette,transfer to and vest in the Authority the Aerodromes specifiedin the Second Schedule and the aeronautical facilities and theland appertaining thereto specified in the Third Schedule tothis Act. Different Orders may be made in respect of thetransfer and the vesting of different Aerodromes and theaeronautical facilities and land appertaining thereto asspecified in those Schedules.

10.The Authority shall have the right to recover andreceive any moneys that on the day immediately before thetransfer date were due and owing to the Director-General ofCivil Aviation appointed under section 20 of the AirNavigation Act, for or on account of services provided bysuch Director-General of Civil Aviation or that would, afterthe transfer date, have become due to the State if such transferhad not taken place.

PART III

APPOINTMENT AND POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTORGENERAL OF CIVIL AVIATION

11.(1) The Cabinet of Ministers shall on therecommendation of the Minister, appoint a fit and properperson preferably with experience or knowledge in civilaviation to be the Director-General of Civil Aviation (in thisAct referred to as the Director-General) who shall be thechief executive officer of the Authority.

(2) The Director-General, shall be subject to such termsand conditions of employment as shall be determined by theCabinet of Ministers, and shall carry on all such duties andfunctions assigned to him by or under this Act or any otherwritten law, and be charged with the general administrationof the functions of the Authority.

(3) The Director-General shall not be removed from officeexcept with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers.

Appointment andpowers and dutiesof the DirectorGeneral of CivilAviation.

Authoritys rightto recover debtsand liabilities.

Transfer ofaerodromes andcertain buildingsand landsspecified in theSecond and ThirdSchedules.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 20029

Fund of theAuthority.

(4) Where the Director-General is termporily unable toperform the duties of the office due to ill-health, absence fromSri Lanka or for any other cause, the Cabinet of Ministersmay, on the recommendation of the Minister, and havingregard to the provisions of subsection (1) of this section,appoint a suitable person to act in his place during such periodof absence.

PART IV

FINANCE

12.(1) The Authority shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Authority

(a)all such sums of money charged as fees by theAuthority or the Director-General as the case maybe, for the issue, validation, renewal, extension andvariation of any certificate, licence, permit or anyother legal authority or document issued under theprovisions of this Act or any other written law ;

(b)all such sums of money received by the Authority orthe Director-General as the case may be, by way ofcharges levied for services provided by the Authorityunder the provisions of this Act or any other writtenlaw ;

(c)all such sums of money received by the Authority inthe exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, functions and duties under the provisionsof this Act, or any other written law ;

(d)all such sums of money as may be voted upon fromtime to time by Parliament for the use of theAuthority ; and

(e)all such sums of money as may be received by theAuthority by way of loans, donations, gifts and grantsfrom any source whatsoever.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200210

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority allsuch sums of money required to

(a)defray expenditure incurred by the Authority in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers,functions and duties under this Act and any otherwritten law ;

(b)be paid as contribution from Sri Lanka to theInternational Civil Aviation Organization set upunder the Convention or any other internationalorganization ; and

(c)defray other expenses which are authorized orrequired to be paid out of the Fund by any provisionof this Act, and any other written law.

13.The Authority may open and maintain an account oraccounts with such bank or banks as it may thinks appropriate,and such account or accounts shall be operated in accordancewith prevailing financial regulations of the Governmentpertaining to financial transactions of public corporations.

14.(1) The financial year of the Authority shall be thecalendar year.

(2) the Authority shall cause proper books of accounts tobe kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liablitlitiesand all other financial transactions of the Authority.

(3) For the purpose of presenting a true and fair view ofthe financial performance and financial condition of theAuthority, the Authority shall prepare the accounts undersubsection (2), in accordance with the Sri Lanka AccountingStandards adopted by the Institute of Chartered Accountantsof Sri Lanka under the Sri Lanka Accounting and AuditingStandards Act, No. 15 of 1995.

(4) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.

Authority tomaintain accounts.

Financial year andaudit of accounts.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200211

15.(1) The Authority shall at the end of each financialyear, submit to the Minister an annual report of the activitiescarried on by the Authority during that financial year, andcause a copy each of the following documents relating to thatyear to be submitted to the Minister

(a)the Auditor-Generals report;

(b)the audited balance sheet ;

(c)the audited operating account; and

(d)the cash flow statement.

(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the documentssubmitted under subsection (1) before Parliament prior to endof the year immediately following the year to which suchreport and accounts relates.

16.Moneys belonging to the Authority may, with theapproval of the Minister and with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance, be invested inGovernment approved securities.

17.The Authority may, with the consent of the Ministerand the Minister in charge of the subject of Fiance in writingand in accordance with the terms of any general authoritygiven, borrow by way of overdraft or otherwise, or negotiateor obtain on credit terms such sums as the Authority mayrequire for meeting the obligations of the Authority, or forexercising, performing and discharging its powers, duties andfunctions under this Act or any other written law :

Provided however, the aggregate of the amountoutstanding in respect of any loans raised by the Authorityunder this section shall not at any time exceed such amountas may be determined by the Minister.

Annual Report.

Investment offunds.

Borrowing powersof the Authority.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200212

PART V

STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

18.(1) The Authority may appoint such officers andservants as it may consider necessary for the efficient dischargeof its functions.

(2) The Authority may, in respect of the officers andservants appointed to the Authority under subsection (1)

(a)exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss suchofficers and servants ;

(b)fix the rates at which such officers and servants shallbe remunerated ;

(c)determine the terms and conditions of employmentof such officers and servants ; and

(d)establish a staff welfare and social security schemefor the benefit of such officers and servants and makecontributions to any such scheme.

(3) The Authority may make rules pertaining to all or anyof the matters referred to in subsection (2).

19.(1) At the request of the Authority any officer inthe public service may, with the consent of that officer andthe Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Authority for such period as may bedetermined by the Authority or with like consent, bepermanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to such officer.

Staff of theAuthority.

Public officers tobe appointed tothe staff of theAuthority.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200213

(3) Where any officer in the public service ispermanently appointed to the staff of the Authority theprovisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatismutandis, apply to and in relation to such officer.

20.(1) The Authority may employ any public officerwho is in the service of the Department of CivilAviation (in this section referred to as the Department)and who seeks employment with the Authority and theprovisions of this section shall apply in respect of suchemployment.

(2) Every public officer who is serving in the Departmentwho is appointed to the Authority under subsection (1) andwho has not less than ten years pensionable service on thelast date of his service in the Department shall be deemed tohave retired from the public service on that date, and shall beeligible for such a pension under the Minutes on Pensions, aswould have been awarded to him had he retired on the groundof abolition of office on that date.

(3) Where a public officer has less than ten yearspensionable service and is appointed to the Authority undersubsection (1), he shall be deemed to have retired from thepublic service on the last date of his service in theDepartment, and he shall be eligible for such a gratuity aswould have been awarded to him under the Minutes onPensions, had he retired on the ground of abolition of officeon that date.

(4) (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3),where any public officer is appointed to the staff of theAuthority under that subsection and serves theAuthority for a period of not less than the relevant period ofservice, his or her service in the Authority for the relevantperiod of service shall, for the purposes of the Minutes onPension, be deemed to be pensionable service under theGovernment.

Public officers inthe Department ofCivil Aviation tobe employed bythe Authority.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200214

(b)A person to whom this subsection applies shall atthe end of the relevant period of service, be eligible to theaward of a pension of such amount as is equal to the pensionthat would have been awarded to him had he retired frompublic service on the ground of abolition of office at the endof the relevant period of service.

(c) or the purposes of this subsection relevant periodof service means the period which a person would have toserve in the public service to complete ten years pensionableservice in the public service, had he remained in the publicservice after the date of his appointment to the staff of theAuthority.

(5)Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of thissection and anything to the contrary in any other written law,where a public officer of the Department becomes anemployee of the Authority under this section

(a)if such officer is eligible for a pension he shall notbe paid such pension during the period of hisemployment with the Authority ;

(b)if such officer is eligible for a gratuity under theprovisions of section 2A (1) (i) of the Minutes onPensions, such gratuity shall not be paid to himduring the period of his employment with theAuthority but shall be credited on the first day of hisemployment in the Authority or the date on whichhe becomes eligible to a pension, as the case maybe, to his account, in a welfare and social securityscheme established under paragraph (d) ofsubsection (2) of section 18 of this Act, and in theevent of such amount not being credited to theaccount on such day or date interest on such amountat the rate of ten per centum per annum from thefirst day of the employment in the Authority or fromthe date on which he becomes eligible to a pension,as the case may be, to the date of crediting suchamount in such account, shall be added to suchamount when it is credited to such account ;

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200215

Damage toproperty of theAuthority to be an

For the purpose of computation of the periodten years from the date of his retirementreferred to in section 2A (1) (ii) of the said Minutes,the date of his retirement shall be deemed to be thelast date of his employment with the Authority;and

(c)if such officer is eligible for the receipt of any sumof money under the Public Service Provident FundOrdinance, such sum shall not be paid to him, butshall be credited to his account in an approved fundof the Authority.

(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3)of this section, a person referred to therein in the eventof becoming eligible to the payment of a pension, shallnot be entitled to the payment of a gratuity under thatsubsection.

PART VI

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

21.(1)Every person who wilfully removes, destroysor damages any property belonging to the Authority or hindersor prevents such property being used or operated in the mannerin which it is intended to be used or operated, shall be guiltyof an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine notexceeding in Sri Lankan rupees the equivalent of ten thousandSDR or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two months,or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2)In any prosecution for an offence under subsection(1), the court may on application being made in that behalfby the Authority, in addition to the penalty referred to insubsection (1), order for the payment by the accused to theAuthority such amount as may be determined in the order, ascompensation for damages caused.

offence.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200216

22.Every person who obstructs or hinders any officer orservant of the Authority acting in the discharge of his dutiesunder the provisions of this Act or any regulations or rulesmade thereunder, shall be guilty of an offence and shall beliable on conviction to a fine not exceeding the equivalent inSri Lankan rupees of ten thousand SDR or to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding two months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

23.Any person who fails to comply with a written requestmade under subsection (1) of section 32 or furnishes any falseinformation or return shall be guilty of an offence under thisAct, and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceedingthe equivalent in Sri Lankan rupees of ten thousand SDR orto imprisonment not exceeding two months or to both suchfine and imprisonment.

24.(1) In every case where any damage is caused toany property of the Authority by any aircraft or by any personemployed in or about an aircraft, the cost of making good thedamage shall be recovered by the Authority from the owner,operator or the person in charge of the aircraft, either jointlyor severally or jointly and severally.

(2)In the process of recovering damages as referred toin subsection (1), the Authority may, where necessary, detainsuch aircraft until the cost of making good the damage donehas been paid to the Authority, or any security as determinedby the Authority as being sufficient to cover the cost has beengiven for the amount due.

(3)The Authority may, where it considers appropriate,waive in whole or in part any of the charges or feespayable in respect of any aircraft, detained under subsection(2).

25.(1) Any person who contravenes or fails to complywith any provisions of this Act or any regulation or rule madethereunder shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

Recovering fordamages done toproperty of theAuthority.

General penalty.

Hindering orobstructing anofficer or servantto be an offence.

Failure to furnishinformation.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200217

(2)Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)for which no penalty is expressly provided for by this Act,shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistratebe liable to a fine not exceeding in Sri Lankan rupees theequivalent of ten thousand SDR or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding two months or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

26.The Authority may, having regard to thecircumstances in which an offence was committed, compoundany offence under this Act, for a sum not exceeding one thirdof the maximum fine imposable for such offence, and whereany prosecution has been entered against any such offender,the Authority shall compound such offence at anytime beforejudgment is entered after having obtained the consent ofcourt.

27.Where an offence under this Act, or any regulationsor rules made thereunder is committed by a body of persons,then

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everyperson who at the time of the commission of theoffence was a director, General Manager, Secretaryor other similar officer of that body ; or

(b)if that body is not a body corporate every personwho at the time of the commission of the offencewas the President, Manager, Secretary or othersimilar officer of that body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he provesthat such offence was committed without his knowledge orthat he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commissionof such offence.

28.No court shall take cognizance of any offence underthis Act or any regulation or rules made thereunder, exceptwith the sanction of the Attorney-General.

Attorney-Generals sanctionbeing required.

Offencescommitted by abody of persons.

Compoundingof offences.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200218

PART VII

GENERAL

29.Every member of the Authority and all officers andservants of the Authority shall, before entering upon his duties,sign a declaration pledging to observe strict secrecy in respectof all matters connected with the affairs of the Authority, whichhas come to his knowledge in the performance or exercise ofhis duties and powers, and shall by such declaration pledgehimself not to disclose any such matter, except

(a)when required to do so by a court of law ; or

(b)for the purpose of exercising or discharging the powersand duties under this Act or any other written law.

30.(1)The Authority may in writing and subject tosuch conditions as may be specified therein, delegate to anyofficer or servant of the Authority any of its powers, functionsor duties under this Act or any regulation or rule madethereunder, and any such officer or servant shall exercise,perform or discharge such power, function or duty in the nameand on behalf of the Authority.

(2) The Authority may, notwithstanding any delegationmade under subsection (1), itself exercise, perform ordischarge any power, function or duty so delegated and mayat anytime revoke any such delegation.

31.(1) The Minister may give from time to time, to theAuthority such general or special directions in writing as tothe exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,functions and duties and it shall be the duty of the Authorityto give effect to such directions.

(2) The Minister may from time to time, direct theAuthority to furnish to him in such form as he may require,returns, accounts and any other information with respect tothe work of the Authority, and it shall be the duty of theAuthority to give effect to such directions.

Directions by theMinister.

Declaration ofsecrecy.

Delegation ofpowers.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200219

32.(1) For the purpose of enabling the Authority toexercise, perform and discharge its powers, functions andduties under this Act, the Authority or any person authorizedin that behalf by the Authority may by notice in writing, requireany person to furnish to the Authority or to the personauthorized, within such period as shall be specified in suchnotice, all such returns or information as shall be specified insuch notice.

(2)It shall be the duty of any person who is required tofurnish any return or information by a notice issued undersubsection (1), to comply with such requirement within thetime specified in such notice, except where such person isprecluded from making such return or divulging suchinformation under the provisions of any law.

(3)The Authority or any member thereof, the Director-General or any officer or servant of the Authority shall notdisclose to any person or use any returns or informationacquired under subsection (1), except when required to do soby a court of law or for the purpose of exercising, performingor discharging the powers, functions or duties under this Act,or any other written law.

33.The equivalent in Sri Lankan rupees of SDR forpurpose of imposing a fine for an offence under Part VI ofthis Act, shall be made on the basis of the value of the rupeedetermined in terms of SDR, for the date proceeding the dateof the commission of the offence in respect of which suchfine is being imposed.

34.All members of the Authority, the Director-Generaland the officers and servants of the Authority shall be deemedto be public servants within the meaning of and for thepurposes of the Penal Code.

35.The Authority shall be deemed to be a Scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

Returns andInformation.

Equivalent ofSDR in rupees.

Members deemedto be publicservants.

Authority deemedto be a Scheduledinstitution.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200220

36.(1) Where any immovable property is required to beacquired for any specific purpose of the Authority, and theMinister by Order published in the Gazette approves of theproposed acquisition for that purpose, that property shall forthe purpose of the application of the Land Acquisition Act,be deemed to be required for a public purpose and mayaccordingly be acquired under that Act and be transferred tothe Authority.

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immovableproperty under the Land Acquisition Act for the Authority,shall paid by the Authority.

37.(1) Where any immovable property of the State isrequired for the purpose of the Authority, such purpose shallbe deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or leaseof such property may be made under section 6 of the StateLands Ordinance, and accordingly, the provisions of thatOrdinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of suchproperty to the Authority.

(2) Where any movable property of the State is requiredfor the purpose of the Authority, the Minister may, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, transfer to and vest in the Authoritythe possession and use of such movable property.

38.(1) Any expense incurred by the Authority in anysuit or prosecution brought by or against it before any court,shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority and any costspaid to or recovered by the Authority in any such suit orprosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

(2) Expense incurred by any member, the Director-Generalor any officer or servant of the Authority in any suit orprosection brought against him or her before any court ortribunal in respect of any act which is done or purported to bedone by him or her under the provisions of this Act or anyother written law or on the direction of the Authority shall, if

Acquisition ofimmovableproperty under theLand AcquisitionAct.

State property,both movable andimmovable to bemade available tothe Authority.

Expenses in suitor prosecution tobe paid out of theFund.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200221

Regulations.

the court hold that such act was done in good faith, be paidout of the Fund of the Authority, unless such expenses arerecoverable by him or her in such suit or prosecution.

39.(1)The Minister may make regulations in respectof all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are authorized by this Act to be made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister mayin consultation with the Authority make regulations

(a)prescribing guidelines for determining the chargesto be made in respect of the different services andfacilities that are provided by the Authority ; and

(b)in respect of any other matters that may becomenecessary in exercising, performing and dischargingthe powers, functions and duties of the Authorityunder section 7.

(3)Every regulations made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication, or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4)Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any such regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of its disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5)Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be publishedin the Gazette.

40.(1) The Authority may make rules in respect of allor any of the matters in respect of which rules are authorizedor required by this Act to be made.

Rules.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200222

(2)No rule made by the Authority under subsection (1)shall have effect until it has been approved by the Minister,and notification of such approval is published in theGazette.

41.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

42.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Act means this Act and includes any regulations or rulesmade thereunder ;

Aerodrome means any land or water area intended to beused, whether wholly or partly for the landing anddeparture of aircrafts and all buildings, sheds,vessels, piers and other structures standing thereonor appertaining thereto ;

Air Navigation Act means the Air Navigation Act,(Chapter 365);

Convention means the Convention on InternationalCivil Aviation signed in Chicago on December 7,1944 ;

SDR means Special Drawing Right as defined by theInternational Monetary Fund ; and

Standards means Standards adopted by the Council ofthe International Civil Aviation Organization underArticle 37 of the Convention and to which Sri Lankahas not filed a difference under Article 38 of theConvention and the Recommended Practices adoptedby the Council of the International Civil AviationOrgaization under Article 37 of the Conventionwhich is duly implemented and enforced in SriLanka.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200223

43.(1) Notwithstanding anything in any other writtenlaw to the contrary, the powers, duties and functions underthe Air Navigation Act, being exercised, performed anddischarged by the Director-General of Civil Aviation appointedunder section 20 of that Act, shall, from and after the appointeddate, and so long and so long only as such Air Navigation Actis in force, be exercised, performed and discharged by theDirector-General of Civil Aviation appointed under section11 of this Act, and the Director-General of Civil Aviationappointed under section 20 of the Air Navigation Act, shall,from and after such appointed date cease to exercise, performand discharge those powers, duties and functions.

(2) From and after the appointed date, the provisions ofsection 21 of the Air Navigation Act which grants power tothe Minister to delegate to the Direct-General of Civil Aviationappointed under section 20 of that Act, any power, duty orfunction conferred or imposed upon or vested in the Ministerby or under that Act, shall, so long and so long only as suchAct is in force, be read and construed as power granted to theMinister to delegate those powers, duties or functions to theDirector-General of Civil Aviation appointed under section11 of this Act.

FIRST SCHEDULE[Section 3 (5)]

PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE AUTHORITY AND ITS MEMBERS

1. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed as a member undersection 3(1)(c) of this Act, (in this Schedule hereinafter referred to as anappointed member) or continuing as an appointed member of theAuthority

(a)if he is, or becomes a member of Parliament, any ProvincialCouncil or any local authority ;

(b)if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

(c)if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country,found or declared to be of unsound mind ;

(d)if he is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonment imposedby any court in Sri Lanka or any other country ; or

Director-Generalspowers, &c.,under AirNavigation Act tobe exercised bythe Director-General appointedunder section 11.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200224

(e)if he has been declared a bankrupt under any law in force in SriLanka or in any other country and is an un-discharged bankrupt.

2. An appointed member of the Authority shall, unless he vacates officeearlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office for a term of three yearsfrom the date of his appointment and unless he has been removed from office,be eligible for re appointment.

3. The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove an appointed memberof the Authority from office.

4. An appointed member of the Authority may at any time resign fromhis office by letter to that effect addressed to the Minister, and such resignationshall take effect upon it being accepted by the Minister in writing.

5. In the event of the vacation of office by death, resignation or removalof an appointed member of the Authority, the Minister may, having regard tothe provisions of sections 3 (1) (c) and 3 (3) of this Act, appoint any otherperson to succeed such member. Any person so appointed in place of suchappointed member shall hold office during the unexpired part of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Where an appointed member of the Authority by reason of illness,infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period not less than three months,is temporarily unable to perform his duties, it shall be the duty of such memberto inform the Minister in writing of such inability. Thereupon, the Ministermay having regard to the provisions of sections 3(1)(c) and 3(3) of this Actappoint some other person to act in his place during such period.

7. The members of the Authority may be paid such remuneration inrespect of their attendance at meetings out of the Fund of the Authority asthe Minister may, in consultation with the Minister in charge of the subjectof Finance determine.

8. (1) The Chairman shall, on his own motion or at the request of thechief executive officer of the Authority, call for a meeting of the members.

(2) The Chairman of the Authority shall, if present, preside at everymeeting of the Authority. In the absence of the Chairman, from any suchmeeting, the Vice Chairman, or in the absence of the Vice Chairman anyother member nominated by the Chairman shall preside at such meeting.

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Authority shall be four members.

(4) The person presiding at any meeting of the Authority shall, in additionto his own vote, have a casting vote.

(5) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, the Authority may regulatethe procedure in regard to the meetings of the Authority and the transactionof business at such meetings.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200225

9. No act, decision or proceeding of the Authority shall be deemed to beinvalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy in the membership ofthe Authority or any defect in the appointment of any member thereof.

10. (1) The seal of the Authority may be determined and devised by theAuthority and may be altered in such manner as may be determined by theAuthority.

(2) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody of such person as theAuthority may decide from time to time.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument except with the sanction of the Authority and in the presence oftwo members of the Authority who shall sign the instrument or document intoken of their presence.

(4) The Authority shall maintain a register of the instruments anddocuments to which the seal of the Authority has been affixed.

SECOND SCHEDULE[Section (9)]

AERODROMES

1.Katunayake Airport2.Ratmalana Airport3.Palali Airport4.Ampara Airport5.Batticoloa Airport6.Anuradapura Airport7.Weerawila Airport8.Puttalam Airport9.Koggala Airport10.Sigiriya Airport11.Katukurunda Airport12.Vavuniya Airport13.Trincomalee Airport14.Hingurakgoda Airport

THIRD SCHEDULE[Section 9]

1. The Civil Aviation Training Centre at Kandawala Road, Ratmalana,the buildings and structures thereon and the land appertaining thereto.

2. The Aeronautical Communication Transmission Station at Attidiya,Ratmalana, the buildings and structures thereon and the land appertainingthereto.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200226

3. The Radio Navigational Aid for Bandaranaike International Airportlocated at Madampella, Gampaha, the buildings and structures thereon andthe land appertaining thereto.

4. The Radio Navigation Aid for runway at Bandaranaike InternationalAirport located at Kapungoda, Pamunugama in Gampaha, the buildings andstructures thereon and the land appertaining thereto.

5. The Aeronautical Communication Receiving Station at Talangama,Battaramulla, the building and structures thereon and the land appertainingthereto.

6. The Radar Station located at Mount Pidurutalagala, the buildings andstructures thereon and the land appertaining thereto.

7. The land at Pidurutalagala, in Nuwara Eliya District where the holidaybungalows for aviation staff have been constructed, including any structuresthereon or appertaining thereto.

8. The block of land of 0.125 hectares in extent bearing parcel No. 976,which is situated in Anuradhapura New Town, No. 249 Stage II - GramasevakaDivision, of Nuwaragampalatha East Divisional Secretariat Division ofAnuradhapura District.

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 34 of 200227

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.