PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
5th Session 1969-70

Fugitive Persons Act,
No. 29 of 1969

Dete of Arent: August 3, 180



Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1989
D0. 66

[Aw Act 70 MAKE FRESH PROVISION FOR THE RETUR
‘or ruortive rensoxs nom CeYiow 70 oman
IReren HAVE BEEN MADE BY Tae GOVERNMENT OF
(Ca¥on, 70 REGULATE THE TREATMENT OF FERSONS,
icevsan on CONVICTED OP OFFENCES IN CEYLON

[Date of Assent: Angust 80, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queo's Most Excslent
Majesty, by and with the advioe and consent of the
‘Senate ind the House of Reprecantatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
‘authority of the same, as follows:—

4, ‘This Act may be cited as the Fugitive Persons
‘Act, No. 29 of 1009, aid shall come into operation on
och date as may be appointed by the Minister by
Order published in the Gozete, in this Act referred
tos the "appointed date”

PART 1
Pasuosany

2, (2), Where any extradition arrangement as
teen made by the Government of Ceylon. with an
‘thee country, then, subject, to the. provisions
Stetion 9) the Minister may by Order, in this Act
Feferred fous a" declaratory Order ", declare—

(os he prorisiona of this Atal apply to
dt Sic, ih ay RS
ye ek oie aa wp toe
) ee et ton amch) modification,
Folge Sati, Ser

Se erg ae
tee rene te eee
SUE Gil ore are
Bee leg ch

=


HH
i

i

2 Fugitiee Persons Act, No. 29 of 1960

(2) A declaratory Onder made in consequence of any
‘extradition arrangement thal rete or embody he
terms of the arrangement.

(0) A deciarstory Order made in consequence of any
-exrtdtion arrangomeat—
(@ shal be Ind before the Senate, and the House
of Representatives, for approval
(aa, 0 approved, be bial inte
46 shal ome into fore om the date of such publi
ation, or on sich later date as may De
Specie therein:
{@) shall be in force for so long, and so long only.
hol crtapent rnin fore aod”
(© shall for so long, spd so Tong onl, agi i in
ort Ye as vid and elisual Se thoagh St
swore herein enacted

(8) Where « declaratory Order coasts to be in force
‘oy wireue of the operation of the provisions af sub:
‘ection (8) (2) of this section, the Minister shall cause
Smale of sch ciation abe pblated the

(5) For the purposes of any declaratory Order, an
tethry for the extertaletont of which’ any
-counry is tesponsble may be treated as pat of that
‘Santry or, if the Government of Uat" country #0
equrets, as a separate country.

3. No dadaratory Order shall be made in conse:
‘quence of aay extradition arrangement, unless the
‘trangement—

(@) is in conformity in all respects with the provi-
U      ‘sions of this Act containing restrictions on
tie return of fugitive parse, and

(©) ia substantially in conformity with the other
provisions of tis Act, subject to” the
Inodifications, limitations or conditions, if
ny, specified in the Order for the purpose
ff.” implementing the terms of the
arrangement.



Fugitice Persons Act, No, £9 of 1969 — 3

4. (4) Forso long, and so long only, asa declara- ast
sory Shue fore ime eigen BE
Fespeck of any country, the provisions of this Act

Shall apply W, end. 16 relation to, such eointry,
Subject Uo the modification, limitations or conditions
HE any, specifed in the Order for the purpoeo of
impleiienting. te terms of the extradition arrange
Ihnt in consequence of which the Order was made,

(2) For long, and o long only, a a declaratory         .
Order made in consequence of "any cents | Res
ffegonet io or ne Bing Trt CY

(@) shal be conclusive evidence dat the arrangement
‘complies with the provision of ston 9; and

(0 shal be final and, conclsive, and shallot be}
Called in question ia any court or tribunal,

5. (1) For the purposes of this Act, any offence twat
of which a person fe accused or bas been convicted in. ==
fany designated country ie a Televant offence if—
{o) itis an ofence which, by whatsoever name or
‘designation called inthe Taw of such count
for fowerer described in that law, fail
‘within "any ofthe descriptions set gut in the

* Fie"Setedute and specified inthe
frtradition arvangemeat made. with sich
‘contr; thd

(0) the act or omission constituting the ofence, oF
the. equivalent ack or. omission, "would,
‘constitute an offence against the’ law of
Ceylon if i tok place within Ceylon ar, in
the ease of an extraterritorial oflence, in
‘corresponding eireumstanoas "outside
opin.

(2) In dotermining for the purposes of this section
whether an ofeace against the aw of any designated
ountry falls within’ any. desorption set out tn the
First Schedule, any special intent or state of mind
‘special circumstances of aggravation which may
fo necessary’ to constitute that ofence under the law
shall be dstegarded,

(8) The descriptions set out in the First Schedule
include,""in' each case, offences of attempting
tor conspiring to commit, of assisting, counselling oF



4 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1060

procuring the commission of o being scssory before
Eafe the facto the eonees therin desc tnd
of “impeding the apprehension or prosecation of
Parone gully of hoes ofencs

(#) References in. this section to the law of any”
designated country include referenees to the law of
‘any part of that country.

ere      6. (1) A fogitive person’ shall not be returned
ERR under this. Act tov tny' designated. country. or

‘committed to_or kept in eustody for the purpots of
‘such retara,if i appears tothe Minister, to te court
Of omni “orf. the Spree. Cont on an
‘order of committal

(@) that the offence of which that person is accused
owes ove ie an lece of pial

(0 thatthe request for his return, though parport-
ing to be made on account of a relevent
lence, is in fact mate Tor the purpost of
wetting or punting im en acct ot

ig race, religion, nationality, ‘caste OF
politin! opinions or

(6 that he might if retarned, be prejudiosd at his
tattle died nei
i persona serty by reason of hn ry
Feligion, "mationllty,” cate or politcal
oolions.

(2) A fugitive person accused of any offence shall
not be returned Under tis Act to any” designated
oantry, 0% committed to of kept in eantody for the

pone of such retura, If fe appears aa provided
{subsection (i) of this section, that if charged with
that oflnce in Ceylon he would be entitled tobe
Aicharged under any ral of law relating to previous
Acquita! or conviction,

(8) A fugitive person shall not be retarsed under
this ’Aeito"any desigoated country, on commited to
or kept in custody for the purpose of such return,
Snlet provision it made bylaw of that oars
or by the extradition arrangement with that country.
{or tcaring that ho wil ak onlse be has Bert bead
restored of had an" opporiunity of fetorniog’ to



Fugitive Persons Act, No. £9 of 1969 8

Ceylon, be dealt with in that country for or i respect
(fF hay oflence committed before his feturn under this
‘Bet, ber than—

| (a) the offence in respect of which his return under

‘this Act ie requested;

(®) any lesser ofence proved by the facts established
Tefore the cout of cominital; or

(0 any other oflence, being a relevant offence in
pet of which ha Mfpisier may ent
to is being so dealt with

letra ni ation to ap lec of
tical ebaracter doesnot include an offence against
the life or person of-—

(a) the Hleud of the Commonwealth; oF

(@) the head of any country, other than a com-
"mogwealth country, by’ whatevever name oF
‘Sesignation ealled,

or gay ated fence dered i ubseton (ot
fection

PART It

©               ‘PRocaxoMeS FoR REPRE

7. (1) Subject to the provisions, of this Act
relating to provisional wartants, e fugitive person
Gf any desigaated country shall ‘not be dealt with
thereunder except in. pursvance of an order of the
Minister, ig this Ace neferred to as an authority
to procesd'", ested ia pursuance of a request made
to the Minister by of on bebelf of the Government
‘of that country.

(2 Tor, sal be uriaed wth any noe
amt, forthe purposes of this section, in espett of
fogicive person af any designated country"

(@) who is accused of an offence, a warrant for
‘his aPrest issued in that ountry; or

(@) who is unlawfully at large after conviction of
‘an offence, a cartifcate of ‘the conviction
find sentence in that. country and aw state.
‘ment of the amount, if any, of that seatenoe
‘which hasbeen served,

—


6 Fugitive Persons Act, No, 29 of 1969

Aogether, in each case, with particulars ofthat person,
fi of the facts upon whic, and the lave under whic,
bein accused or was cnvicted, and evidence suftent
{o justify the isue of a warrant for his arrest under
rection 8                                  e

{@) On ressipt of such a request the Minister ma
faauo am authority to proceed, unless it appears (@
‘him chat ‘an order for the retorn of the Togitive
person concerned could not lawfully be made, or
would not in fact be made, im sesordance with’ the
provisions of this Ae.

dpc ms 8, (1) A warrant for the aret of a fgitive
EEE porto ‘arcused of s relevant ofunee, of allege Gs be

nfawiuliy at lange after conviction of Such an
fence, may be ited

(@) on the resi of an authority to proted, 0
competent Magistrate's Court; or

(© witout such an authority, by ach Conn ot
‘by any other Magistrate's Cour in sy part
ot “Ceylon, spon information that” tuch
‘erwon i or ie belied to bein or om his
Way t Ceylon

‘Any warrant iosued hy virtue of paragraph (2) of tis
sebntion in inthis Ace tft 10 ae wae

(@) A warrant of arrest under this section may be
inaued upon such evidence ag would, in the opinion
athe Char aatorze the ie ofa warrat for
the arrest of a person accused of committing &
‘corresponding olfece ot, a the casa tay be, of &
person alleged to be unlevfully at large after conve:
Hon of an offence, within. the local limits of the
jumiedietion of the Court

(9) Where a provisional warrant is isued under
this eeotion, ‘the Goure by which it i iasued shall
fortuwith give notice to the Minister, and transmit
12'him th intrmation and eins, “or, red
(Spies of the information and evidene, upon which it
was anved and the Minfster may in’ any case, and

all i he decides no wo lame an authority to proceed
"respect ofthe fugitive person to whom the warrant
relate, by onder cancel the warrant and, if that

on ts been arrested thereunder, dacharge him
rom castady



Fugitive Persons Act, No, £9 of 19697

4) Notwithstanding anything in the Criminal

pisishie Cote, & aru of arr tid der
this section may, without ao endorsement. that

refer, be exeoued in any. pare of Ceylon, whether
Such part fs within or outide the lea Limits of the
Surisliction of the Court by which it is'20 aoued,
‘and may be So exceuted by any perso to whom it
directed, or by any police olicer

(©), Whore a warrant fs fsued onder thie setion
fof the arrest of'a fugitive poteon accned ofan
enc a alg on silt pope ot
fny eter offence tn rnpet of propery aay Magis
tis’ Court in any part of Ceylon hal have the
Tike" power to anua 8 marrane to search forthe
Property sb 1f the ofenoy has been committed within
Boob Htmite of the jurisdiction of that Cour,

8. (1) A fugitive person srreited im parsaanoe of
a wartan eld under scion chal "one be i
Proviosly discharges under sub-section (3) of that
ton, be brosght as soon as pracicale before ay
Such competent’ Magistrates Court, a this. Act
Tefecrad to as" Court of committal", as may be

iitected by the warrant.

or the purposes of procadings under this
eetton a ‘Conte @ committal cal avert ike
cwers; inclading power to adjourn the case an
Teanubile to remand the fugitive person arrested
Under the warrant either in custody or on ball and
the proceedings shall be conducted aa nearly a8 ma
tevin the ike manter, af the proceedings were pros
‘eodings in respect of an offence alleged to ave
committed by that person whichis summarily teable
‘by that Court in ite capacity asa Magistrates Court.

(8) Whore the fugitive person arrested is in custod’
ty Vette of protic rare aad to aon
1 pre ha tn ee im rapes of the

tof commital may BX a reasonable period, notice
of which shal be piven by tho Court to the Minister,
tfter which he wil be discharged from custody unless
ch am ahority has been received

* (9 Whee an utr opr has en eed
in respect of the fugitive person arrested andthe
Gear’ ot committal sting, ator bearing any
fvidence tendered in aupport of th request far the


8 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 20 of 1069

return of that person or on behalf of that person,
that the offence to which the authority Telates is &
relovant ofence, and is further satished,—     7

(@) here that person is aceused of the offence, thal
the evidence would be saicent to warrant
his trial for that offencn if it has been
‘committed within the local limite of the
{Jurisdiction Of the Court; or

() where that person is alleged to be unlawful!

© whet ange After eonvstioe of the often Uk
fh has been so conic and appears to bo
woatlarge,

‘the Court shall, unless his committal is prohibited by
fany other provision of this Act, cammit bm to custody
{await hie retarn Uhereunder® and if the Court 36
‘ot so satisfied, or if the committal of that person is
> prohibited, tbe Court shall discharge him from

cosy.
vit _ 19.1) Where s fugitive person is commited to
SE cate ‘nder ection Bike Cou abl infor hse

{ordinary language of bis right to make an applica:

tion Tor habeas corpus, of to apply for review of ti
order of committal to the Supreme Court, and shall
forthe give nie of the commit’ to he

(2) A fogitive person committed to custody under
saction ® aball not be retirned under this Act

(@ in any case, until the expiration of a period
af afte Says commencing on the. day ta
‘which a order for hn committal is made:

0) if an application for Aabeos corpun, op an

OH er Abeton fay seview of th Chet of ou
alta, is made in his eae tothe Supreme
Court; S0"long as ‘proowedings on” that
‘pplication ae pending

(8) On any such application the Supreme Coart
may) without prejudice to any other joradiction of
ie Go ortr the fugitive ero maid ob
discharged from custody if it appears to the Court”
that
(@) by reason of the trivial nature of the offence of
‘which be is accused or was convicted; or



Fupitiee Persons Act, No. 29 of 1909 9

0) by reason of the pasage of time since be is
(© &Y Tig to ave eomited i or to have
fob unlawfully large, as the eae may
teror
( betuse the sceusaton against hin isnot made
(© beotfood fai inthe inert of joie,
it would, having regard to all the circumstances, be
Saf Spree tra hig
() On any such application the Supreme
aay recive Alona erdenee relevant to the ere
{Se of thelr juriedition oder secon @ or under
‘Sb-czion (of this sexton,

44. (1) Where a foie person of « digntad
ectnicy Sena far he naar sad st
eke Tener ofthe Soprane” Cou te
SESE ay ty warts order Hint be retired
tha enews
ie ald he ving”
ection ofthis bction, or the Minister decides Gndet
Seeahe Snatch cern ise
(An order shall no be made under thi ton
1 se ree tN a eet iy seng t
Seats Se tet at ne touemtion ecard
me Sneek Con
(0) Ht hat person ering wach a enn, wil
(0) 3 Be sbntence ag heed acted,
07 it Gat perms acne fe a oa, na
ger ed 7 win
Pitre eater  aprinas,
Moth ae a rel
he Mineral pot maa cre onder i
Bo Riese et erica ered
{Siuhe Alimer, on the grounds mentioned in ooo.
ell (ot selon 10, at would be ajuk ot
Seu Geers tat perce
ner ay Sito male nrdr ude
ony tg ed
salgtltaaint to ate ort iaed att
poe ele nee
Paneer ceca maerweceen
Sorat Ua       ence maton
Ta The Mier way dc oaks no order under
ible tian or the nary of 8 fopve pen some
iia ie oso of a enue made hyo
Bit ofc ueatiee Sustay Hf antber repent
Sa'ecns usaf this et oa teat for bis



10 Fugitive Persone Act, No. 20 of 1980

surrender under the Estradition Act, 1870, of the
United Kingdom, has been made by or on behalf of
‘another designated country and it appears to the
Minister, baving regard to all the olreumstancee of
the ease, 'and in partcular—

(a) the relative serioumness of the offence in

‘question;
(0 the dato on which each such request was made;

(©) the nationality or citisoneip ofthat porson and
‘is ordinary residence,
preference shouldbe given to the other request.
(Notice of, the sw of wacrantuaer thi
section shal forthwith be given tothe fugitive peron
tobe returned thereunder               ee oe

ts

42. (1) If a fugitive person of any desigaated
oor ‘commited fo sale his retorn te In eusoay
f'Gerlon under this Act after the expiration of the
featowing period, that isto s8y—

(2) in any case, the period of two months com-

(©) is Soveing onthe Eee day on which, having

Fegard to subsection (2) of section 10, he
‘ould have returned                            ’
() where a warrant for his roturn as been issued
‘tnder section 1, the period of ove month
commencing on the day on which that
srarrant was ised,
be may apply tthe Supreme Court for his discharge
1 upon any such application being made the
supreme Ey ethereal ote of
ihe "proposed “application hasbeen given tot
Miniter the Caure shall, unless suficent case
Shown 10 the contrary, by order direct the applicant
1 bo discharged from custody and. ia warrant for
Fivettn hasbeen ieued under welion 11, quash that
warrant

fi 6 lo renin tee kn
seal tamrermraing mle a et
snore gs sen fey Hes pe



Pugitive Parsons Act, No. £9 of 1969 3k

0) smn ay nd, ie pr
ret it ate arora
gear curate
Stlaee raat sr
SRS Sas
(deny ymin, hatin
crea arate a Te
tear atop aor a
i ar
nee a en ae
abdememal niois
oben os pepe at
0 ag ema TS et
poe es ed
carats nese ee
Pecans
(0) in the case of a document which parports to have
tenesiahrea arte
er aerate read
Baia evan SCout
deel Reon some
Stich Arrears
Steg erie ae
om
(4 ne ete ho
fark deat ohare
endo waa ee
fand in any such case the document is authenticated
SASS tes Sala ig
Ini ot" ay ati
‘or declaration.                “v
(Ni ne mai sl t,o

4% (1) Any fugitive person remanded or com.
cite feat ner ton bal eo
“alike Gostfttion as 4 person charged ‘with. an
‘tence before the Court of fommital in is capac
fsa Bagiatate's Cou.               mee



12 Pupitie Persons Act, No. 29 of 1960

a 1 9 cago etal
wil in ares os
Sere nish Bee cote
See Soe ee a oar
heer pegnp ban)
‘of an offence committed therein.     =       =
i osesg spay oy ba. ny

ob fae aren, ig.
PEMIESIS es cand ie
er re tebe
secre otal aed anaes ee
ptt

Teoria ea ad orca
Qu rae andes Ue a a

sy er eal oo
age aria fo gl rem fo Sa
eset es ie ee Sr a ESD
Pep pbs

45, (1) Any warrent or order to be iesud or made
ty the Minister under the foregoing provisions of his
‘Re hall be given ender the and of the Minister.

(2) Regulations may be made under this Act pres

cribing tha form of any warraat or ordr to bo issued
for made by the ‘Minister wader the. foregoing
‘rovisions of this Act

PART U1

‘Taearte OF PERGONS RETURNED FROM

10) Te sig sal ty ay pore,
eel Bats Sar eg
etc daa et tee
Soke ayes cay Sears
Sar bike

1 por hm etn pln hal.
oe ona eh atti
dace Setanta er nd
ne ce ae ns ae
ie ees
1) lnc ps of hh a ar
9 le oe ye ead
©) yg paris of scr hi Toray oe



Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1960 18

(©) any other offence in respect of which tbe Govern
ment of the designated country fram which
hho was reeurned may consent to" is being
eat with

(@) The period referred to in sub-section (2) ofthis
ston ia fltion t's pro to wha the secon

Spplies ss the period sommencing om Ube day of his

val in Ceylon on bis return as mentioned in aub

‘ection (of thin ection and ending forty te days

after the Bat subsequent day on which te has the

‘opportunity to leave Ceylon.

£8, 0 Tt son salt apy oy rem
Sed Rhine 2 eee
eae ae ee ees
lot
if nin ms eno wm hs ce
hee
a pny iin die tn see
mag sent hg fr ote fo
miaemoesastios
Se ee en aoe
ze
(eal tas eb snd x
Bel fr noe ee
se Miner mith itso pat of
keen ea tae
Se LS ea emt te
Ba
neacnanoes
se, [Thea ay mae reps ite
ell lt Dapceg my mele ai St
pop poe eer
fopee BUres
pitt mri. oe gen of te
2, is pou, St te
ira gpd fa eel tg
Cea scan feeder syed by Ur a
ens
0 an ae pig way Shale;
(frauen open hha gr,
Sree reels Sere.
no deguae prvi made by hep



1M —Fugitioe Persons Act, No. £0 of 1960

(@) for all matters in respect of which itis necesary
to supplement the provisions of this Act to
‘eet unforeseen or special ecumstances
(@) Every regulation made under this Act shall be
ahd before the Senate and the House of Representa:
tives for approval
(4 Evéry regulation made under this Act shal
‘upon ite being approved by the Senate and the Howse
(of Representatives, be published in the Gazette, aud
‘Shall come into foroe on the date of such publiestioa,
fron such later date as may be specied therein

(©) Every regulation made under this Act shall,
‘upon its coming into Toree as herein before provided,
Slag yald and eectaal as cnuph it 'were beri

40, For, the porponer of thin Act, the tom
sa Ep se te
Aependency, that is to ay       <u
(2) any elon, ro being a slny for mos extaral
(© 20) Saute a ounty. oie than te Used
Eisplon, i spun
(any sccitd state within the meaning of the
at indee cy IWbt of tbe "United
‘Kingdom; and

() any country outside. Her Majesty's Doni
© oma belag'ncoutry fe wah Hee ajay
fas jurtadieon, oF over which She extends
Bren, nigh of Her overaneat nh
ited Ringdow,
‘it being in any ease a country which is or forms part
Fay otber commonwealth country.                *

20, (1) Subject to the other provisions of this
section, the enactments specified in the Third Sched
are heraby repealed as respects Ceylon, and accordingly
‘hall cease to operate as part of the law of Ceylon.

(2) The repeals elected by sub-section (1) of thin
section shal not aflect the operation in Ceylon of the
Fugitive Ofenders Act, 1870 of the United Kingdom,
in “any cas. where, before the appointed date. &
‘warrant endorsed under seston 8of that Act of &

orisonal warrant itued ner section Sof this Act,
Eis'bem exeated Ia Ceylon?



Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1068 18

‘Provided, however, tht for the purposes of proce
ngs unde’ Unt Ack tn repost of a fags pron
fom a designated country, subsection (1) of section 6
GP this Act shall apply a8 thoogh—
+ (0) for the references to this, Act there, were
sotited references to that Act and
(© for referenos to the Court of committal and
the order of committal there wee sabstitgted
Feferenees to the Magistrale before whoa
that ‘person is brovght under section” Sof
that Rotana the onder of that Magistrate

9 tween toe errata
seston (2) of this section, thin AG ball apply to
‘Honors Grumitted before ae well as on alter the
ppointed date

2, In thie Act, unless the context, otherwise
requires

“commonwealth coantry means aay country for
The tine being’ speciied. a) the Second
Schedule;

"competent Magistrate's, Court” means a
agitate Cure having oration i
‘any area within th Ills of the district of
Colombo as defined and set out in the Fist
Schedule o the Courts Ordinance;

“ niey ” means any cooatry, wheter oF not it
{e's commonwealth coustys

designated. country "means any country ja
Tespect of which there i a deearatory Order
{or the time being in fore:

“extradition arrangement" means any

{@) who are accused of having committed
hat country any oflences which, by
‘wbstsoever ame oF desiguation calle
Th the law of that county or however
‘described in that law, fll within any
tf the descriptions set cut in the First
Schedule and. are specified in. such
rangement, testy OF agreomient; OF



16 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969

@) who are person alleged tobe wnlamll
© waite afer cobvicen of any such
‘ent in that ont

“fugitie, person" reaps a paren fund in
Ci

(@) who is aceused of having committed any

? whclevantofence ia any” "dsigated
country: oF

(©) who js alleged to be unlawlly a
‘flee eouicion ofeach olen a that
county,

and the expression
‘esignated country
‘coordinglys

AEA crud

“application for Aabeas corpus” means an ap
PP fora taanate Inthe ature of © rit
of habeas corpus;

“Minister "means the Prime Minister end
‘Minister of Defence and External Afairs;

“svi ation to the Soprone Cour,

“Schedule” means a Schedule to this Act.
[FIRST SCHEDULE (Seon 6)

Descrson op Reroute Orr

Mgrs SS a

a=. et

Ree

© etme ns

2 neo

ee

et

Sse magnesite

os                   us

yong persons ft


e’Se 8 BBB

EB ppaerseee

Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969 17
Stoaing, abandoning. epeag o ulawly detuning »
hide

‘ovo ce sternton of pray or euplng to det

‘hn teoce cooing soustaritcureney
‘he fence aac he lw ring to og

Str astenligs stain loery or ari by Tse
fis owt ee peg oe oe ase
espe of propery ivevng od

urges, houarakig or an sma fence.

ester.

‘lac or enon by mouse of reste or by abuse
itn

‘An fence agit bankrple law or campo la
alos or wil damage to pers.

‘ets dove with the intestine eodangung, elie,

‘an lense guns te low lating to dangerous ot

pt an heathy fn mar oho

Contention of inpart  exprtpoidens raig
"plse Sade pd act tue poi

SECOND SCHEDULE (Seton 2)

Commu Cotsen.



18 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1009
2, Lat,
24. atte
16. sal,
1, New Zao
Pa

19, Sia Les,

21 ‘Toman,

1A, The aod Tobago,
2. Ustad Rigen,
2%. tanta

{THIRD SCHEDULE (Section 20)

4, The Exton Acta, 17D tp 10R4—af thea
ingle

2 The Eutndion Ordnane (Cpr 47
| Tay Bnedisn (on) At (Chaper

