PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ist Session 1956-57 -

Rubber Control (Amendment)
Act, No. 16 of 1957

Date of Assent: March 28, 1957

¢ Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GovERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON: To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills): Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post OrriceE Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 15 cents. Postage: 10 cents


Rubber Control (Amendment) Act;. 3

No. 16 of 1957
L. D.—O. 61/56.

An Act TO AMEND THE RUBBER ContrRoL Act, No. 11
oF 1956.

[Date of Assent: March 28, 1957]
BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and

the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the

same, as follows:—

4. This Act may be cited as the Rubber Control
(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1957.
Amendment of

-2. Section 7 of the Rubber Control Act, No. 11 of Zmentment
1956, hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘ principal Act ’’, Act, No. 11
is hereby amended in sub-section (1) of that section of 1968.
by the substitution, for the word ‘‘ nursery.’’, of the
following : —

Short title,

~** nursery:

Provided, however, that no permit shall be
“*. required for replanting rubber for the purpose
of filling up such vacancy in a registered estate
or registered small holding as is caused by the
eradication of any rubber plant that is dead or
affected by any disease.”’

3. Section 13 of the principal Act is hereby Amendment of
amended in sub-section (9) of that section by the sub- a the
stitution, in paragraph (d) of that sub-section, for Principal Act.
all the words from “‘ expire ’’ to the end ofthat para-
graph of the following words :—

““expire on such date as shall be specified
therein.”’

4. Section 18 of the principal Act is hereby Replacement
repealed and the following section substituted ° section 8

therefor : — principal Act.

mange 18. (1) Except under the authority of
_ delivery, a permit issued by the Controller, no
ar ubber ty _- licensed dealer shall,— .

licensed dealers,
(2) where he purchases any rubber

from the registered proprietor
of any estate or small holding,
take delivery or cause or per-
mit delivery to be taken of


4. Rubber Control (Amendment) Act,
No. 16 of 1957

that rubber at any place
other than his licensed pre-
mises;

(b) where he purchases any rubber
from any other licensed ~
dealer, take delivery or cause
or permit delivery to be taken
of that rubber at any place
other than his licensed pre-
mises or the licensed premises
of that other licensed dealer;

(c) where he sells any rubber to any
licensed manufacturer, make
delivery or cause or permit
delivery to be made of that
rubber at any place other than
his licensed premises; and

(zd) where he sells any rubber to any
other licensed dealer, make
delivery or cause or permit
delivery to be made of that |
rubber at any place other than ~”
his licensed premises or the
licensed premises of that
other licensed dealer:

Provided, however, that no such
permit shall be required in any case
where a licensed dealer takes or makes

delivery or causes or permits delivery to

’ be taken or made of any rubber within
any Customs premises for the purpose
of shipment from Ceylon.

(2) No licensed dealer shall store any
rubber at any place other than his
licensed premises.’’

Insertion of 5. The following new section is hereby inserted
33a in the immediately after section 33, and shall have effect as
; pension! section 383A, of the principal Act :—

ek.
nen ' 83a. The registered proprietor of any
oth ab ber estate or small holding who, not being
in possession a licensed manufacturer or licensed
econ dealer, has in his possession such
proprietors. - quantity of rubber as he cannot reason-

ably account for shall be guilty of an
offence.”’ |


Rubber Control (Amendment) Act, 5
No. 16 of 1957 :

6. Section 47 of the principal Act is saan
amended as follows :—

(2) in sub-section (1) of that section by the
substitution, for the words, ‘‘ or licensed
premises ’’, of the words * licensed pre-

4 mises or other premises in which rubber
is or is reasonably believed to be stored ’’;

(b) in sub-section (2) of that section by the sil.
stitution, for the words ‘‘ or licensed
premises ’’, of the words “‘ or premises ”’
and

(c) in the marginal note to that section by the
omission of the word “* licensed ’’.

Amendment of
section 47 ~
of the

principal Act.
