PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 19.00 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 16, 2005

[Certified on 15th September, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

SRI LANKA TRANSPORT BOARDACT, No. 27 OF 2005

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 20051

[Certified on 15th September, 2005]

L.D. O. 31/2005.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKATRANSPORT BOARD; TO PROVIDE FOR THE REPEAL OF THE SRI LANKATRANSPORT BOARD LAW, NO. 19 OF 1978 AND FOR CONSEQUENTIALAMENDMENTS TO THE NATIONAL TRANSPORT COMMISSION ACT,NO. 37 OF 1991; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.;

WHEREAS the Motor Transport Act, No. 48 of 1957, whichestablished the Ceylon Transport Board, was repealed by theSri Lanka Central Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978, whichin turn established the Sri Lanka Central Transport Boardand Nine Regional Transport Boards to whom the task ofproviding transport services was entrusted:

AND WHEREAS the National Transport Commission Act,No.37 of 1991 established the National TransportCommission which was charged with the task of regulatingthe transport services which were being provided by theSri Lanka Central Transport Board and the PeoplisedCompanies which were formed by the conversion of certainRegional Transport Boards into companies in terms of section2 of the Conversion of Public Corporations or GovernmentOwned Business Undertakings into Public Companies Act,No. 23 of 1987:

AND WHEREAS consequent to the enactment of the NationalTransport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1996,the Vavuniya Peoplised Passenger Transport Services Ltd.and the Amalgamated Peoplised Bus Companies were formedin terms of section 46A of the National Transport CommissionAct, No.37 of 1991 for the provision of transport services.The Northern Regional Transport Company Ltd. formed interms of section 2 of the Conversion of Public Corporationsor Government Owned Business Undertakings into PublicCompanies Act, No. 23 of 1987 was also mandated to providetransport services :

Preamble.

2 PL 0005945,650 (08/2005)

2Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

AND WHEREAS it has now become necessary to vest theSri LankaTransport Board established by this Act with all theassets and liabilities and rights and obligations of theaforesaid companies and to provide for the dissolution of theSri Lanka Central Transport Board established under theTransport Board Law, No.19 of 1978 along with thedissolution of the Northern Regional Transport Board andsuch number of Regional Transport Boards established underthe aforesaid law and which have not subsequently beenconverted into public companies:

AND WHEREAS it is also required to take steps for thewinding up of the Vavuniya Peoplised Passenger TransportServices Ltd. and the Amalgamated Peoplised Bus Companiesformed in terms of section 46A of the National TransportCommission Act, No.37 of 1991 and the Northern TransportCompany Ltd. formed in terms of section 2 of the Conversionof Public Corporations or Government Owned Businessundertakings into Public Companies Act, No. 23 of 1987 :

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to make provisionfor transport services to be cost effective and efficient by theamalgamation of the various service providing organizationsand thereby centralizing the provision of all the relatedservices under one unit.

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Transport BoardAct, No. 27 of 2005 and shall come into operation on suchdate (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date) as theMinister may, by Order published in the Gazette, appoint.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 20053

PART I

SRI LANKA TRANSPORT BOARD

2.(1) There shall be established a Board which shall becalled the Sri Lanka Transport Board(hereinafter referredto as the Board) and which shall consist of the followingmembers:

(a)three ex-officio members, namely

(i)a representative of the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of transport, not below the rank ofSenior Assistant Secretary;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of ProvincialCouncils; and

(iii)a Deputy Secretary to the Treasury ; and

(b)four members appointed as Directors by the Minister(hereinafter referred to as the appointed members)from among persons who are professionally qualifiedin the fields of transport, management, law, financeor engineering.

(2) The Minister shall from amongst the appointedmembers of the Board appoint a person to be the Chairman ofthe Board.

(3) Every appointed member shall hold office for a periodof three years, unless he vacates, or is removed from, officeearlier. An appointed member who vacates office by effluxionof time shall be eligible for reappointment.

(4) If any appointed member is temporarily unable todischarge the duties of his office on account of ill health,absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister mayappoint some other person to act as member in his place.

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaTransportBoard.

4Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

(5) A member may resign from the Board by letteraddressed to the Minister. The Minister may, if he thinks itexpedient to do so, remove an appointed member from officefor reason stated.

3.The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall befour. An ex -officio member shall at all times be one of thefour members comprising the quorum. Subject to the otherprovisions of this Act, the Board may regulate its procedurein regard to the meetings of the Board and the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings.

4.Any act or proceeding of the Board shall not bedeemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of anyvacancy among its members or any defect in the appointmentof any of its members.

5.The members of the Board shall be remunerated insuch manner and at such rates as the Minister may, inconsultation with the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance, determine.

6.(1) The common seal of the Board shall be in thecustody of such person as the Board may decide from time totime.

(2) The seal of the Board may be altered in such manneras may be determined by the Board.

(3) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except in the presence of twomembers of the Board one of whom shall be an ex-officiomember of the Board, both of whom shall sign the instrumentor document in token of their presence.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instrumentsor documents to which the seal of the Board is affixed.

Quorum for andprocedure atmeeting of theBoard.

Vacancy amongmembers not toinvalidate acts ofthe Board.

Remuneration ofmembers of theBoard.

Seal of theBoard.

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 20055

7.(1) In the exercise, discharge and performance of itspowers, functions and duties, the Board shall be subject to,and act in accordance with, such general or special directionsas the Minister may from time to time issue in relation to anymatter that appears to him to affect the national interest orefficient administration of the Board.

(2) The Minister may, from time to time, order all or anyof the activities of the Board to be investigated and reportedupon by such person or persons as he may specify and, uponsuch order being made, the Board shall afford all suchfacilities, and furnish all such information, as may benecessary to carry out the order.

(3) The Minister shall, in issuing directions undersubsection (1) with regard to any matter affecting the functionsassigned to any other Minister, act in consultation with thatMinister.

8.(1) The Board may delegate to any member of theBoard or to any employee of the Board any of its powers orduties other than those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 10 and paragraphs (b), (j), (k) and (l)of subsection (1) of section 11.

(2) Every person to whom any power or duty has beendelegated under subsection (1) shall exercise or perform thepower or duty so delegated to him subject to the general orspecial directions of the Board.

9.(1) There shall be established an Advisory Committeefor the purpose of this Act.

(2) The Advisory Committee shall consist of

(a)a Deputy Secretary to the Treasury nominated bythe Secretary to the Treasury;

(b)an Additional Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject of Transport;

Ministersdirection to theBoard.

Delegation ofduties, functionsand powers bythe Board.

Central AdvisoryCommittee.

6Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

(c)the following four representatives nominated bytheir respective Institutions

(i)Institution of engineers, Sri Lanka;

(ii)Ceylon Chamber of Commerce;

(iii)Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport;

(iv)National Transport Commission; and

(d)three other members to be appointed by the Ministerin consultation with employees.

(3) The functions of the Advisory Committee shall be

(a)to make recommendations to the Minister in chargeof the subject of Transport on the appointment andremoval of the appointed members;

(b)to advise the Board on all matters referred to it bythe Minister or the Board which he or it considersnecessary or expedient for the purpose of givingeffect to the provisions of this act including on theAnnual Plan referred to in section 10;

(c)to make recommendation to the Minister pertainingto the efficient administration of the Board.

(4) The Advisory Committee shall regulate its own affairs.

(5) The quorum of an Advisory Committee Meeting shallbe three and the Advisory Committee shall elect one of itsmembers as Chairman.

(6) Every appointed member shall hold office for threeyears unless he earlier vacates office by resignation, removalor death. A member appointed to the Advisory Committeewho vacates office by the expiration of his term of officeshall be eligible for reappointment.

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 20057

(7) A member appointed to the Advisory Committee mayresign from office by a letter addressed to the Minister.

(8) Where a member appointed to the advisory Committeebecomes by reason of illness or other infirmity or absencefrom Sri Lanka, temporaily unable to perform the duties ofhis office, the Minister may appoint another person to act inplace in terms of subsection 2.

PART II

DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE BOARD

10.(1) It shall be the duty of the Board

(a)to provde in consultation with the NationalTransport Commission and relevant ProvincialTransport Authorities an efficient regular ominibusservice which is efficient and effective ensuringeconomic viability,;

(b)in order to achieve the above objective, the Boardshall prepare an annual plan embodying itsproposals identifying the manner in whichimplementation is to be carried out, along with theidentification of the relevant stakeholdersresponsible for the different proposals and the likelytime frames involved in the implementation of theentire plan. An annual budget in relation to theAnnual Plan shall also be prepared accordingly;

(c)to conduct the business of the Board in such a mannerthat the entire operations of the Board will beconducted and maintained in order to ensureviability of such operations to the maximum extentpossible;

(d) to implement any other scheme or service in thetransport sector, that will enhance the quality ofpublic transport.

Duties of theBoard.

8Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed as imposingon the Board, either directly or indirectly, any form of duty orliability enforceable by proceedings before any court ortribunal to which the Board would not otherwise be subject.

11.(1) The Board may exercise all or any of thefollowing powers :

(a)to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge, and sell or otherwise dispose of,any movable or immovable property;

(b)to employ such officers and servants as may benecessary for carrying out the work of the Board;

(c)to do anything for the purpose of advancing theskill of persons employed by the Board or theefficiency of the equipment of the Board or themanner in which that equipment is operated,including the provision by the Board and theassistance of the provision by others, of facilitiesfor training persons required to carry out the workof the Board;

(d)to provide welfare and recreational facilities, houses,hostels and other like accommodation for personsemployed by the Board;

(e)to construct, manufacture, purchase, maintain andrepair such other equipment as may be required forthe purpose of the business of the Board;

(f)to provide for passengers transported by the Boardsuch amenities as shelters or stations;

(g)to undertake carriage of newspapers, mails, parcelsor other postal articles for payment;

(h)to endeavour to provide occasional omnibusservices along routes considered by the Board to beimpracticable or difficult;

Powers of theBoard.

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 20059

(i)to provide and maintain places at which omnibusesof the Board may be halted;

(j)to enter into and perform all such contracts as maybe necessary for the performance of the duties andthe exercise of the powers of the Board;

(k)to make rules in respect of the administration of theaffairs of the Board; and

(l)to do all other things which in the opinion of theBoard are necessary to facilitate the proper carryingon of its business.

12. The Chairman of the Board shall be the AccountingOfficer of the Board.

13.The Board shall appoint a person to be the ChiefExecutive Officer of the Board who shall be a full time officercharged with the responsibility of the management of theaffairs of the Board and the proper administration of all mattersrelating to and arising out of the powers and duties of theBoard. The Chief Executive Officer shall receive suchremuneration and other benefits as may be determined by theBoard.

14.(1) At the request of the Board any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and of theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Board for such period as may be determinedby the Board with like consent, or with like consent bepermanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to, and in relation to, such officer.

The AccountingOfficer of theBoard.

Appointment ofa ChiefExecutiveOfficer.

Appointment ofPublic Officersto the staff ofthe Board.

10Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

(3)Where an officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National transportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to, and in relation to, such officer.

(4)Where the Board employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which he hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, andany period of service to the Board by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations to such contract.

15.All officers and servants of the Board shall be deemedpublic servants within the meaning and for the purposes ofthe Penal Code.

16.The Board shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

17.(1) Where any immovable property is required tobe acquired for the purposes of the business of the Board, andthe Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, approves ofthe proposed acquisition, that property shall be deemed tobe required for a public purpose and may accordingly beacquired compulsorily under the Land Acquisition Act andbe transferred to the Board.

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immovableproperty under the Land Acquisition Act for the Board shallbe paid by the Board.

Officers andservants of theBoard deemed tobe publicservants.

Board to be ascheduledinstitutionwithin themeaning of theBribery Act.

Acquisition ofimmovableproperty underthe LandAcquisition Actfor the Board.

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200511

18.(1) Where any immovable property of the State isrequired for the purpose of the business of the Board, suchpurpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for which a specialgrant or lease of such property may be made under section 6of the State Lands Ordinance, and accordingly the provisionsof that Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or lease ofsuch property to the Board.

(2) Where any movable property of the State is requiredfor the purpose of the Board, the Minister may, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, transfer to and vest in the Board thepossession and use of that property.

19.(1) the Board may with the consent of the Minister,or in accordance with the terms of any general authority givenby him, borrow temporarily, by way of overdraft or otherwise,such sums as the Board may require for meeting its obligationsor discharging its duties under this Act:

Provided, that the aggregate of the amounts outstandingin respect of any temporary loans raised by the Board underthis subsection shall not at any time exceed such sums asmay be determined by the Minister in consultation with theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(2) The Board may, with the consent of the Minister givenwith the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subjectof Finance, borrow money otherwise than by way of temporaryloan under subsection (1) for all or any of the followingpurposes :

(a)the provision of working capital;

(b)the provision of money for meeting any expensesincurred in connection with any permanent work orother thing the cost of which is properly chargeableto capital;

(c)the provision of any money required for the purposeof paying any compensation under this Act which ispayable in cash by the Board;

State propertyboth movableand immovableto be madeavailable to theBoard.

Borrowingpowers of theBoard.

12Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

(d)the redemption of any loan raised by the Board;

(e)any other purpose for which capital moneys areproperly applicable, including the repayment of anymoney temporarily borrowed under subsection (1).

(3) The Board may, with the consent of the Minister givenwith the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subjectof Finance, borrow money for any of the purposes mentionedin subsection (1) in any manner, as the Board considers fit inthe circumstance.

20. Any funds of the Board which are not immediatelyrequired for the purpose of the business of the Board may beinvested in such manner as the Board thinks proper.

PART III

FINANCE

21. (1) The Board shall in Order to ensure the financialstability of the undertakings of the Board establish andmaintain

(a)a depreciation reserve to cover the depreciation ofmovable and immovable property of the Board; and

(b)a general reserve.

(2) The sums to be carried from time to time to the creditof each of the reserves specified in subsection (1) shall be asthe Board may determine.

(3) The application of the moneys comprised in thereserves of the Board shall be as that Board may determine.

Investmentof funds ofthe Board.

Reserves.

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200513

22.(1) The revenue of the Board shall be applied indefraying the following charges and shall be so applied inthe order of priority set out hereunder :

(a)the working and establishment expenses (includingwhere applicable, allocation to the depreciationreserve), in connection with the exercise andperformance of the powers and duties chargeable torevenue account of the Board;

(b)the interest on any temporary loan raised by theBoard;

(c)the sum required to be transferred to any sinkingfund or redemption fund; and

(d)the interest on and the repayment of the principal ofany Government loan.

(2) The surplus of the revenue of the Board in any year,which remains after the charges mentioned in subsection (1)have been satisfied, shall be allocated to the general reserveof the Board.

23. The Financial year of the Board shall be the calendaryear.

24.The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionshall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Board.

25. Unless otherwise specially provided for by this Act,the provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971,shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the financial control andaccounts of the Board.

Application ofthe revenue ofthe Board.

Financial year.

Audit.

Application ofthe provisionsof the FinanceAct, No. 38 of1971.

14Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

PART IV

OFFENCES

26.(1) Any passenger in any omnibus of the Board

(a)who evades the payment of the fare due from him;

(b)who wilfully refuses or neglects on arriving at hisdestination, to quit that omnibus, hiring car or ferry;

(c)who uses or makes any obscene, indecent oroffensive language or gesture or behaves in anymanner likely to annoy or insult any person;

(d)who wilfully spoils any part of, such omnibus;

(e)who smokes or carries any lighted pipe, cigar,cigarette or article for smoking in any part of suchomnibus in which a notice prohibiting smoking isexhibited; or

(f)who throws out of such omnibus any bottle, liquidor other article or thing likely to annoy persons orto cause damage or injury to any person or property,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction by aMagistrate be liable to a fine not less than two hundred andfifty rupees and not exceeding one thousand rupees:

Provided that a prosecution shall not be instituted againstany person in respect of an offence under paragraph (a) ifsuch person pays to any officer of the Board, authorized bythe Board to receive such payments, a penalty of two hundredrupees together with double the fare due from him.

(2) Any passenger in any omnibus of the Board who

(a)does not retain with him throughout the journey theticket that is issued to him for that journey; or

Offences.

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200515

(b)fails or refuses to show or surrender such ticket whencalled upon to do so by the conductor of thatomnibus or by any other person authorized by theBoard in that behalf,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction by aMagistrate, be liable to a fine not less than two hundred andfifty rupees and not exceeding one thousand rupees:

Provided that a prosecution shall not be instituted ormaintained in respect of an offence under this subsectionagainst any such passenger if he pays to an officer of theBoard authorized by the Board to receive such payment, apenalty of two hundred rupees together with twice the faredue from him for that journey.

(3) Any person

(a)who fraudulently uses or allows any other person touse any ticket issued by or under the authority ofthe Board;

(b)who fraudulently imitates, alters, mutilates, defacesor destroys any such ticket;

(c)who, without authority from the Board, sells, suppliesor distributes, offers for sale or supply or distribution,any such ticket;

(d)who without such authority prints what purports tobe, or is capable of being used as, any such ticket;

(e)who wilfully damages or defaces any omnibus,hiring car or ferry of the Board or any part of itsequipment; or

(f)who wilfully does or causes to be done with regardto any part of such omnibus or its equipment

16Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

anything which is calculated to obstruct or interferewith the working of the omnibus or causes any injuryor discomfort to any person,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction by aMagistrate, be liable to a fine not less than two hundred andfifty rupees and not exceeding one thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingsix months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(4) Any officer or servant of the Board who, withoutauthority from the Board

(a)opens or otherwise tampers or interferes with anymachine for the issue of tickets belonging to theBoard; or

(b)alters or tampers with any bill or receipt issued bythe Board,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction by aMagistrate be liable to a fine not less than two hundred andfifty rupees and not exceeding one thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingsix months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(5) Any person who travels as a passenger in any omnibus,hiring car or ferry of the Board without having a pass in hispossession issued by the Board or without having purchaseda ticket, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on convictionby a Magistrate be liable to a fine not less than two hundredand fifty rupees and not exceeding one thousand rupees:

Provided that a prosecution shall not instituted ormaintained against any person in respect of an offence underthis subsection if that person pays to any officer of the Boardauthorized in that behalf by the Board to receive suchpayments a penalty of two hundred rupees together with twicethe fare due from him.

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200517

(6) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply withany provision of this Act or any regulation made thereunderfor which no other punishment is expressly provided in thisAct or the regulations, shall be guilty of an offence and shall,on conviction by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not lessthan five hundred rupees and not exceeding one thousandfive hundred rupees or to imprisonment of either descriptionfor a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

(7) Where any person is prosecuted for an offence underthis Act or any regulation made thereunder the burden ofproving, where relevant, that he had purchased a ticket orthat he had a valid pass in his possession shall lie on him.

(8) Any person who attempts to commit an offence underthis Act or any regulation made thereunder shall be guilty ofthat offence.

27.Any person who commits any offence punishableunder section 26 may be lawfully arrested, without anywarrant or written authority, by any officer of the Board notbelow the rank of an inspector of the Board, or by any otherperson whom such officer may call to his aid or by any policeofficer, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, and every person so arrested shallforthwith

(a)be produced before a Magistrate to be dealt withaccording to law; or

(b)where it is impracticable so to do, be handed over tothe officer in charge of the nearest police station tobe dealt with according to law:

Provided that an officer of the Board, not below the rankof an officer in charge of a depot or omnibus station of theBoard may release that person on his executing a bond, withor without a surety as that officer may direct, to appear beforea Magistrates Court if and when he is so required to do.

Arrest ofoffenders.

18Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

PART V

GENERAL

28.Any Company or other body of persons may,notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written lawor instrument relating to its functions, enter into and performall such contracts other than those relating to any handingover of transport services, with the Board necessary for theperformance of the duties and the exercise of the powers ofthe Board.

29.(1) No suit or prosecution shall lie

(a)against the Board for any act which in good faith isdone or purported to be done under this Act by theBoard; or

(b)against any member, officer, servant or agent of theBoard for any act which in good faith is done orpurported to be done by him under the Act or on thedirection of such Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Board in any suit orprosecution brought against the Board before any Court shallbe paid out of the funds of the Board. Any costs paid to, orrecovered by, the Board in any such suit or prosecution shallbe credited to the funds of the Board.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referredto in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit or prosecutionbrought against him before any Court in respect of any actdone or purported to be done by him under this Act or on thedirection of the Board, shall, if the Court holds that the actwas so done or purported to be done in good faith, be paidout of the funds of the Board unless such expense is recoveredby him in such suit or prosecution.

Power ofcompanies toenter intocontractswith theBoard

Protectionfor actiontaken underthis Act or onthe directionof the Board

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200519

30.No writ against person or property shall be issuedagainst a member of the Board in any action brought againstthe Board.

31.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister maymake regulations in respect of the following matters:-

(a)any matter in respect of which regulations areauthorized or required by this Act to be made;

(b)guidelines and procedures for recruitment of officersand employees to various positions including theminimum qualifications;

(c)matters to be included in the annual budget and theannual corporate plan; and

(d)guidelines and procedures for procurement anddisposal of assets.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of the publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is sodeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

No writ to issueagainst personor property of amember of theBoard.

Regulations.

20Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

PART VI

REPEAL AND TRANSITIONAL

32.The Sri Lanka Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978is hereby repealed.

33.On the appointed date

(1)all officers and other employees in the employmentof the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board, theNorthern Regional Transport Board, the RegionalTransport Boards, the Vavuniya Peoplised PassengerTransport Services Ltd., the Amalgamated PeoplisedBus Companies and the Northern TransportCompany Ltd. on the day immediately precedingthe appointed date shall be deemed to be employeesin the service of the Board subject to terms andconditions not less favourable than the terms andconditions attaching to their employment undertheir respective institutions. The services of suchemployees shall not be terminated otherwise thanin terms of their conditions of employment orthrough a Voluntary Retirement Scheme or on adisciplinary reason;

(2)all the movable and immovable property of theSri Lanka Central Transport Board, the NorthernRegional Transport Board, the Regional TransportBoards, the Vavuniya Peoplised Passenger TransportServices Ltd., the Amalgamated Peoplised BusCompanies and the Northern Transport CompanyLtd. on the day immediately prior to the appointeddate (including money in the funds of the respectiveinstitutions) shall vest in, and be the property of,the Board ;

(3)all such shares issued by the Vavuniya PeoplisedPassenger Transport Services Ltd., the AmalgamatedPeoplised Bus Companies and the Northern

Repeal.

Transitionalprovisionsrelating toemployeesproperty,contracts,rights,obligationsand liabilitiesof, pendingactions andapplicationby oragainst, andunsatisfieddecrees orawards infavour of oragainst, theBoard.

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200521

Transport Company Ltd. in their respectiveinstitutions, for no consideration, to their employeesor ex-employees and held by them on the dayimmediately prior to the appointed date shall vestin and be the property of Board established bysection 2 of this Act, and such employees and ex-employees or any other person presently holdingsuch shares, shall be compensated in respect of eachsuch share at its par value, notwithstanding the factthat such share is presently below the par value;

(4)all the contracts and agreements of the Sri LankaCentral Transport Board, Regional Transport Boards,the Vavuniya Peoplised Passenger Transport ServicesLtd., the Amalgamated Peoplised Bus Companies andthe Northern Transport Company Ltd. on the dayimmediately prior to the appointed date shall bedeemed to be the contracts and agreements of theBoard, and all subsisting rights, liabilities, includingall Employees Provident Fund, Employees TrustFund and gratuity liabilities, and obligations of theabove entities under such contracts and agreementsshall be deemed to be the rights, liabilities andobligations of the Board;

(5)any action, application or appeal instituted or madeby or against the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board,Regional Transport Boards, the Vavuniya PeoplisedPassenger Transport Services Ltd., the AmalgamatedPeoplised Bus Companies and the NorthernTransport Company Ltd. in any Court or tribunaland pending on the day immediately prior to theappointed date shall be deemed to be an action,application or appeal instituted or made by oragainst the Board;

(6)any decree or award entered or made by a Court ortribunal in any action, application or appealinstituted or made by or against the Sri Lanka CentralTransport Board, Regional Transport Boards, theVavuniya Peoplised Passenger Transport Services

22Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

Ltd., the Amalgamated Peoplised Bus Companiesand the Northern Transport Company Ltd. andremaining unsatisfied in whole or in part on the dayimmediately prior to the appointed date shall bedeemed to be a decree or award in favour of or againstthe Board, as the case may be, and may, subject tothe provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, or anyother enactment, in relation to the execution of adecree or award, be enforced by or against the Board.

34.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

35.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

common time table means a time table where theoperating schedules of all buses on a given routeare shown in a single panel;;

immovable property means land and includes landcovered with water, house, buildings and parts ofhouses and buildings; and

omnibus has the same meaning as in the Motortraffic Act.

PART VII

AMENDMENTS TO THE NATIONAL TRANSPORT COMMISSIONACT, NO. 37 OF 1991

36.The National Transport Commission Act, No.37 of1991 (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended in its Preamble as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (a) and the substitutionof the following paragraph therefor:-

(a)to procure from competent State sector orprivate sector omnibus services to meet the

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Interpretation.

Amendment ofthe preamble toAct, No.37 of1991.

Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 200523

actual passenger demand on a scientificallydetermined common time table; ;

(2)by the substitution in paragraph (c) thereof, for thewords unremunerative routes; of the words non-remunerative routes, services and trips;;

(3)by the repeal of paragraph (d) and the substitutionof the following paragraph therefor:-

(d)to ensure healthy competition betweenproviders of such services and to preventunfair and unproductive competition;;

(4)by the addition after paragraph (d) the followingnew paragraph :

(e)to ensure safe and comfortable transportationby omnibus to the public..

37.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section is substitutedtherefor:

18.(1) No person shall use an omnibusfor carriage of passengers for a fee or reward orseparate fare except under the authority ofpassenger service permit for the time being inforce issued by the Commission or by a personauthorized in that behalf.

(2) For the purpose of this section, the power to issue apermit to operate omnibus for the carriage of passengersbetween two or more Provinces shall be vested with theCommission..

Repeal andsubstitution ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.Registrationon grant ofpassengerservicepermits.

24Sri Lanka Transport Board Act, No. 27 of 2005

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.