PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
| SOCIALIST REPUBLIC, OF ~
| SRI LANKA

UNIVERSITIES (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 3.0F 1989

fe dt [Certified on 5th May, 1989]

Printed on the ‘Orders of Government :

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 05, 1989 .
. parivrep Ar Ba DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA |
“TQ BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT’ PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO _

Price: 75.cents Tea a oe i Postage: 75 cents


Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 1989
[Certified on 5th May, 1929]
L.D.—O. 9/89
An Act to amend the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978

BE it. enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :~

1. This Act may be cited as the Universities
(Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 1989.

2.. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 70z of the Universities Act, No. 16
of 1978 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enact-
ment”) and shall have effect as sections 707, 70c, 70n, 703,
70K, 70L,; 70M, 70N and 70p of the principal enactment :—

‘ Power of nn (1) (1) Where the Minister considers it
Pensa ., Necessary to do so, in the public interest, he
under- may by Order published in the Gazette, vest
bene of _ in the Government with effect from such
Awarding _ date as is specified in such Order, any under-
etl ' .- taking carried on by a Degree Awarding

Government, Institute. . oy

(2) Where any undertaking carried on by
_a Degree Awarding Institute is vested in
the Government by an Order made under
subsection (1), the Government shall with
effect from the date specified in such Order,
have absolute title to that undertaking free
from all encumbrances,

(3) Every Order made under subsection

_. (1) shall be laid before Parliament within

thirty days of the date specified in such

Order and if Parliament is not in session

within fifty days of the Commencement of

the session next ensuing by a motion that
such Order be approved.

(4) Where Parliament refuses to approve
an Order made under subsection (1) in
respect of an undertaking carried on by a
Degree Awarding Institute, that undertaking
shall be deemed never to have vested in the
Government by virtue of that Order and
any question which may arise as to any
right, title or interest in, or over, such
undertaking shall be determined accor-
dingly.

--D 604045— 8,925 (89/03)

Short title.

Insertion .
of new
sections

70¥, 70c, 70H,
703, 70x, 701,
70m, 70N and
70P in Act,
No. 16 of
1978.


2 Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 1989

Appointment
of

Competent
Authority.

Contracts.

of an under-

taking...

70c. (1) Where an undertaking carried on
by a Degree Awarding Institute is vested in
the Government by an Order made under
section 70r, there shall be appointed: a
Competent . Authority to manage and
administer the affairs of that undertaking.

.(2) A Competent Authority. appointed
uncer subsection -(1) to. manage and,

_admunister the affairs of an undertaking
‘earried on by a Degree Awarding Institute,

shall take possession of the property of that

undertaking.

70H. (1) Where an zidertakding carvied on |

- by a Degree Awarding Institute is vested in.

the Government by an Order made under.

: section 70F,-all the rights and liabilities

under any contract or agreement which
relaies to. the purposes of such under--

’ .. taking and subsisting on the day preceding ©

the date specified in such Order shall vest in
me Government.

9. >) The Minister may—
' Se repudiate, any liability under—

~ (i) any | contract — or ~ agreement,
_ which in his opinion, has been ©
“'S" entered into mala fide ; or

* a (ii) any contract or agreement with
a student of the Institute who
has not fulfilled the minimum

‘ee') ot) ° Yequirements specified by the
. Commission, from time to time,
for admission to a University,

or

‘ (5) review or vary the terms and condi-
_ tions of any contract or agreement
"entered into with a member of the
staff of any such Institute, having
regard to the terms and conditions
attached to corresponding posts in

Higher Educational Institutions,


Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 1989 3

' Notice of repudiation or variation shal! ke

given to the parties to the contract or agree-
ment, within six months of the date specified
in such Order. ; i

(3) Where the Minister repudiates the
liabilities under any such contract of agree-
ment those liabilities shall be deemed never
to have vested in the government.

703 (1) Any person aggrieved by an Order |

made under section 70F in respect of an
undertaking carried. on ‘by a Degree
Awarding Institute may, within fourteen
days of that Order, apply to the Minister for
revocation of such Order.

(2) The Minister shall refer any applica-

‘tion made under subsection (1) to an

‘. Advisory Board consisting of not less than

“three persons as may be appointed by the

' Minister, and such- Advisory Board shall

within sixty days advise the Minister as to
whether the Order should be revoked.

-(2) The Minister, may, after considering

- the advice tendered to him by the Advisory

Board, revoke the vesting Order in respect
of which the avplication was made.

70K. (1) The proprietors of any Institute,
the undertaking of which is vested in the
Government by an Order made under section
70F shall be entitled to reasonable compensa-
tion for such vesting.

(2) The Minister may make reculations
with regard to the’ manner of assessment of
compensation payable in respect of an under-
taking carried on by a Degree Awarding
Institute and vested in the Government by
an Order made under section ‘70Fr and the
mode in which such compensation shall be
paid. <— a

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister

under subsection (2) shall be published in
_ the Gazette and shall, as soon as convenient
after its publication:in the Gazette, be

brought before Parliament for approval

Application
for

revocation,

Compensation,


t

4 Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 1989

Offences.

Powers of
Competent
Authority.

(4) Any regulation which is not so approv-
ed shall be deemed to ve rescinded as from
the date of such disapproval but without pre-
judice to anything done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any
regulation is deemed to be rescinded under
subsection (4) shall be published in the

- Gazette.

(6) All payments to be made in respect
of any undertaking carried on by a Degree
Awarding Institute and vested in the Govern-
ment by an Order made under section 70F
shall be.charged on the Consclidated Fund.

(7) In this section “ proprietor” when

used in relation to an undertaxing carried

on by a Degree Awarding Institute means
the owners of that undertaking or any other
person authorized by the owner to enter into
contracts for the purposes of that under-
taking. . rar

70L. ‘Any a

© who refuses‘ or fails to deliver posses-
sion to a Competent Authority ap-
pointed under section 70c, of any

property. vested in the Government
.oy an ..Order made under section

ae TOF ; or

{b) who prevents or obstructs or directly
or indirectly, causes any other per-
son’to prevent or obstruct any such

- Competent’ Authority from taking
_ possession. of: any such property,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act,
and shall on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imnri-
sonment for’a period not exceeding three
years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

70M. Subject ‘to the provisions of the
Constitution, where an undertaking carried
on by a Degree Awarding Institute is vested:

in the Government by an Order made under


Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 1989 5

. Section 707, all the powers exercisable by that

‘ale

Institute under..Part IXA on the day
preceding-the date specified in such Order
(including the power to grant degrees,
deplomas and other academic distinctions in
the name of that Institute) may, with effect
from the date specified in such Order, be

"exercised by the Competent Authority

appointed to administer and manage that
undertaking subject to the provisions of that
Part, and that Institute shall cease to exercise
any such power with effect from such date.
The provisions of that Part shall, mutatis
mutandis and subject to the provisions of the

Constitution, apply to every such under-_

taking.

70n. The Minister may, in the’. public
interest and by Order published in Gazette,
transfer to any Higher Educational Institu-
tion, the whole or any part of an undertaking
vested in the Government by an Order made
under section 70F and the Competent
Authority appointed to administer and
manage such undertaking shall be deemed
to be the Dean of any faculty of such Higher
Educdtional Institution formed out of the
undertaking .or part thereof so transferred,
and shall function as such until! the election
of a Dean of such faculty in accordance with
the provisions of Part VII of this Act.

70p. In section 70F to 70n, “ undertaking ’”’

in relation to a Degree Awarding Institute

means the undertaking for developing higher
education in-such branches of learning as are
svecified i in the- ‘Order made under section 25a
in respect of such Institute and includes—

(a) all: movable antl immovable property
' thich was’ used for the purposes of
that undertaking on the day imme-
diately’ preceding the date of the
Order made under section 70F in res-

pect of that Institute ;

Transfer of
undertaking.

Interpreta-
tion.


Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of incon-
sistency.

6 Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 1939

(b) all rights, powers, privileges, and in-

- terests arising, in, or from, that pro-

! perty or undertaking and all liabili-
ties of that undertaking ; and

(c) “all-books, accounts and documents, re-
lating or appertaining to, that under-
taking or any property of that under-
taking. ’, ~ 3

3. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
