PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

TAX AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE AMNESTY
ACT, No. 47 OF 1998

{Certified on 14 th September , 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of September 18, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 9.00 Postage : Rs. 2.50


Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty
Act, No. 47 of 1998

[Certified on 14th September, 1998]
L.D.—O. 6/98.

AN ACT TO ENABLE THE INVESTMENT IN CERTAIN COMPANIES
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF INVESTMENT OF SRI LANKA, OR
THE DEPOSIT IN ANY BANK, OF MONEYS REPRESENTING
ACCUMULATED PROFITS AND INCOME, RETAINED IN OR OUTSIDE
Sri LANKA, AND IN RESPECT OF WHICH A PERSON HAS NOT
FURNISHED A RETURN OF INCOME OR WHICH HAVE NOT BEEN
DISCLOSED IN A RETURN FURNISHED BY SUCH PERSON UNDER
THE LAW RELATING TO THE IMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX, OR OF
RELEVANT FOREIGN CURRENCY HELD 8Y ANY PERSON OUTSIDE
Sri LANKA ; TO REDUCE THE LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO PAY TAX
ON SUCH DEPOSITS ; TO INDEMNIFY PERSONS AGAINST LIABILITY
TO PAY CERTAIN TAXES AND AGAINST PROSECUTIONS OR PENALTIES
FOR OFFENCES IN RELATION TO SUCH TAX LAWS OR EXCHANGE
CONTROL LAW, WITH A VIEW TO SECURING FULL COMPLIANCE, IN
THE FUTURE, BY SUCH PERSONS, WITH TAX LAWS, AND THE LAW
RELATING TO EXCHANGE CONTROL ; AND FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist °
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Tax and Foreign Exchange — Shonttitle.
Amnesty Act, No. 47 of 1998.

2. (1) This Act shall, subject to the provisions of Persons to whom
subsection (2), apply to any person who— this Act applies.

(a) under law for the time being applicable to the
imposition of income tax or surcharge on income tax,
was liable to pay income tax for any year of
assessment ending on or before March 31, 1996, in
respect of any profits or income which arose, or
accrued, on or before March 31, 1996, and who has
not furnished a return of income under the provisions
of such law for any such year of assessment or who
has not disclosed such profits or income in any return
furnished by him under the provisions of such law
for any such year of assessment ; or

> WhHéAGINA Ihnwre (‘neo mMeor.


Persons to whom
this Act Applies
may invest such
moneys in certain
specified
undertaking or
deposit such

moneys in a bank.

Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty
Act, No. 47 of 1998

(b) holds any relevant foreign currency outside
Sri Lanka.

(2) This Act shall not apply to any person in relation to
whom any investigation was pending on November 6, 1997,
for—

(a) any alleged or suspected evasion of any tax payable

(b

—

under, the law for the time being applicable to the
imposition of income tax or the Finance Act, No. 11
of 1963 or the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981, or
the National Security Levy Act, No. 52 of 1991, in
respect of any profits and income or turnover, as the
case may be, which arose or accrued to, or. was derived
by, such person on or before March 31, 1996 ; or

any alleged or suspected violation, of any provision
of the Exchange Control Act or the Prevention of
Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48 -of
1979.

(3) Every person referred to in subsection (1), not being a
person referred to in subsection (2), shall, hereafter in this
Act, be referred to as “a person to whom this Act applies”.

3. (1) Any person to whom this Act applies and who—

(a) has any relevant moneys ; or

(b) holds any relevant foreign currency may—

(i) invest, after November 5, 1997 but on or before
June 30, 1999, such relevant moneys or moneys
obtained by the conversion of such relevant
foreign currency, in the purchase of any share,
other than any existing share, in any company
which is engaged only in any specified
undertaking ;

(ii) deposit, after November 5, 1997 but on or before
December 31, 1998, such relevant moneys or
moneys obtained by the conversion of such
relevant foreign currency in any Bank, and pay


Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty 3
Act, No. 47 of 1998

to the Commissioner General and amount
(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the ‘amnesty
tax’) equivalent to fifteen per centum of the
moneys so deposited.

(2) For the purposes of this section “specified undertaking”
means any undertaking for—

@
(ii)
(iii)

(iv)
(Vv

—

(vi)
(vii)

(vill)

the manufacture or assembly of electronic products
or components for such products ;

the manufacture of ceramic products or glassware ;

the manufacture of rubber products using rubber
produced in Sri Lanka ;

the manufacture of jewellery ;

the cutting and polishing of gems or diamonds ;
light or heavy engineering ;
the construction and sale of houses ; or

the manufacture of any articles or goods or the
provision of any service, being in either case an
industry or a service designated by the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka, as being of a pioneering
nature,

carried on by a company with which an agreement has been
entered into by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka under
section 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law,
No. 4 of 1978.

4.

(a)

Any person to whom this Act applies and who has—

made any investment in accordance with the provisions
of section 3(1){)(i) ; or

Indemnification
from certain
taxes.


4 Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty

Act, No. 47 of 1998

(b) made any deposit in accordance with the provisions
of section 3(1)(b){ii) and paid the amnesty tax,

thereon ;

and made the appropriate declaration referred to in section 5,
shall not be liable—

{a) to pay—
(i) any income tax or surcharge on income tax

(ii)

(iil)

payable respectively, under the law for the
time being applicable to the imposition of
income tax or the law for the time being
applicable to the imposition of surcharge on
income tax, as the case may be, in respect of
such part of his profits and income for any
year of assessment ending on or before
March 31, 1996, as is represented by the
moneys invested in accordance with the
provisions of section 3(1)(b) (i) or deposited
in accordance with the provisions of section
3(4)(b) (it) and in relation to which the
amnesty tax has been paid ;

any wealth tax or surcharge on wealth tax
payable respectively, under the law for the
time being applicable to the imposition of
wealth tax or the law for the time being
applicable to the imposition of surcharge on
wealth tax, as the case may be, in respect of
such part of his net wealth for any year of
assessment ending on or before March 31,
1992, as had been acquired by the utilization
of such part of his profits and income as is
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) ; or

any business turnover tax under the Finance
Act, No. 11 of 1963 or any turnover tax under
the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981 or any
National Security levy under the National
Security Levy Act, No. 52 of 1991, in respect
of the turnover from which such part of the
profits and income as is referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) arose or was derived ; or


Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty 5

Act, No. 47 of 1998

(b) to a prosecution or to a penalty for any offence
under—

(i) the law for the time being applicable to the
imposition of income tax or surcharge on
income tax or wealth tax or the surcharge on
wealth tax in relation to any year of
assessment ending on or before March 31,
1996, in respect of, or in connection with,
such part of his profits and income as iS
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph
(a) or such part of his net wealth as is referred
to in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (@) ;

(ii) the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963 or the
Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981 or the
National Security levy Act, No. 52 of 1991
in respect of, or in connection with, such
part of his turnover as is referred to in
sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) ;

(iii) the Exchange Control Act, in respect of such
part of the moneys so invested or so deposited
as consists of moneys obtained by the
conversion of any relevant foreign currency.

5. (1) Every person who invests moneys in accordance
with the provisions of section 3(1)(6)() or deposits moneys
in accordance with the provisions of section 3(4)(b)(ii) and
pays the amnesty tax thereon may make a declaration in the
appropriate form set out in the Schedule to this Act, to the
Commissioner-General.

(2) Where any declaration made under subsection (1)
discloses that such investment or deposit consists wholly or
partly, of moneys obtained by the conversion of any relevant
foreign currency, the Commissioner-General shall cause a
copy of such declaration to be transmitted to the Controller
of Exchange.

Declaration to be
made to the
Commissioner-
General.


Preceding
provisions of this
Act, not to be
construed as
authorizing the
revision of any
assessment
previously made.

Persons to whom
this Act applies
not to be entitled
to certain
deductions.

Maintenance of
secrecy.

6 Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty
Act, No. 47 of 1998

6. Nothing in the preceding provisions of this Act shall
be read and construed as authorizing the revision of —

(a) any assessment made under the provisions of—

(i) the laws for the time being in force relating to the
imposition of, income tax or surcharge on income
tax or wealth tax or surcharge on wealth tax ; or

(it) the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963, the Turnover
Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981, or the National Security
Levy Act, No. 52 of 1991.

(6) any requirement imposed before march 31, 1996, on
any person to whom this Act applies and in relation to
any violation by him of any provision of the Exchange
Control Act; or

(c) any other matter,

which has become final and conclusive under the provisions
of any such law.

7. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
law, no deductions shall, for the purposes of section 30 of the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, be allowed to any person
to whom this Act applies in respect of any investment made
by him in accordance with the provisions of section 3 (1)(b)(i).

8. (1) Except in the performance of his duties under this
Act and subject to the provisions of subsection (2), every
officer or employee of, the Department of Inland Revenue,
the Department of Exchange Control and every Bank shall
preserve, and aid in presetving, secrecy with regard to all
matters that may come to his knowledge in the administration
of this Act and shal! not give, divulge or reveal, any
information whatsoever regarding any such investment or
deposit as is referred to in section 3, to any individual,
corporation, bank, court, institution, entity, department,
official , agent, representative of the Government of Sri Lanka
or to any other legal or natural person.


Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty 7
Act, No. 47 of 1998

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
Commissioner-General, the Controller of Exchange, or any
Bank, as the case may be, shall, if required to do so—

(i) by the person to whom such matter or information
relates;

(it) by any provision of any law giving effect to an
international convention on narcotics or hijacking, in
any criminal proceedings instituted under that law in
any court ;

(iii) by the competent authority of any country with which
Sri Lanka has, under the law for the time being
applicable to the imposition of income tax, entered
into any agreement for the avoiddnce of double
taxation on income, in accordance with that
agreement; or

(iv) by an order of the Supreme Court, made on application
therefor, on the ground that moneys represented by
any investment or deposit referred to in section 3 have
been, or are being used, in furtherance of an act which
constituted an offence under the Prevention of
Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48 of 1979,

communicate to such person or court in so far as such
communication is strictly necessary for the purposes of
complying with such requirement or order of court, any matter
or information which has come to his knowledge in the
administration of this Act.

(3) Any officer or employee of, the Department of Inland
Revenue, or the Department of Exchange Control or any Bank
who acts in contravention of the provisions of subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall, on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

9. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tami! texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


Interpretation.

Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty
Act, No. 47 of 1998

10. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Bank” means any commercial bank licensed or deemed
to be licensed under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988
or the National Savings Bank, established by the
National Savings Bank Act, No. 30 of 1971;

“Commissioner-General”, “net wealth”, “profits and
income” and “year of assessment” shall have the
respective meanings assigned to them by the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979;

“Board of Investment of Sri Lanka” means the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka established by the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978;

“Controller of Exchange” means the officer designated as
the Head of the Department of Exchange Control of
the Central Bank and includes an officer designated
as assistant to him;

“Exchange Control Act” means the Exchange Control Act
(Chapter 423);

“Foreign currency” means any currency other than
Sri Lankan currency and includes any currency
payable by a foreign government or institution to a
person in, or resident in, Sri Lanka in respect of his
pension or like payment due to him and all deposits,
credits and balances payable in any currency other
than Sri Lankan currency and any such drafts,
travellers’ cheques, letters of credit and bills of
exchange as are expressed or drawn in Sri Lankan
currency but payable in any currency other than Sri
Lankan currency;

“Gem” means a gem within the meaning of the National
Gem and Jewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of 1993.

“Jewellery” means Jewellery within the meaning of the
National Gem and Jewellery Authority Act, No. 50
of 1993.

“person” includes a company, a body of persons or a
partnership;


Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty 9
Act, No. 47 of 1998

“relevant foreign currency” in relation to a person means
foreign currency held on March 31, 1996 by such
person outside Sri Lanka in violation of the
provisions of the Exchange Control Act, being or
being attributable to, profits and income or not being
or not being attributable to profits and income, and
which was acquired by him outside Sri Lanka by
way of gift, donation, inheritance or any other
manner whatsoever;

“relevant money” in relation to a person means any moneys
(not being relevant foreign currency), held by such
person on March 31, 1996 in or out side Sri Lanka,
and which represent accumulated profits or income
which arose or accrued to or was derived by such
person in any year of assessment ending on or before
March 31, 1996, and in respect of which such person
has not made a return of income, or which such
person has not disclosed in any return of income
made by him, under the law for the time being
applicable to the imposition of, income tax,

“the law for the time being applicable to the Imposition of
income tax” means the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28
of 1979;

“the law for the time being applicable to the imposition of
surcharge on income tax” means the Surcharge on
Income Tax Act, No. 26 of 1982, the Surcharge on
Income Tax Act, No. 12 of 1984, the Surcharge on
Income Tax Act, No. 7 of 1989;

“the law for the time being applicable to the imposition of
wealth tax or surcharge on wealth tax” means the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, the Surcharge
on Wealth Tax Act, No. 25 of 1982 and the Surcharge
on Wealth Tax Act, No. 8 of 1989;

“turnover” and “quarter” shall have the respective meanings
assigned to them by the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of
1981.


10 Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty
Act, No. 47 of 1998

SCHEDULE (section 5)

Part I - to be furnished by persons investing in shares Tax and Foreign
Exchange Amnesty Act No............... of 1998.

DECLARATION UNDER SECTION 5

Income Tax File No. (if any)..........0......ccsceccceescceecceceeecuassaeees
Tumover Tax File No. (if any)................ccccceeecoeccceceeeseueesececenes
National Identity Card Number (if Individual).............00..0.....c.00005
Company/Partnership Registration Numbet................0cccceceeeceeeeee
1, Mr/Mrs./MisS/We. 0.0.00. eecccceececeeaseeseeeeneceececuueessaeeeeeseranes

Lee eve eee tet eee eene en ens Ofc eterteeseeeee (designation)
(name of company or partnership) declare that I/We have in terms of the Tax
and Foreign Exchange Amnesty Act, No................ of 1998, invested a sum
of Rupees ........0000...ccccsceeeee eee CRS... ccc cee cee ece esses ) consisting

entirely of—

(i) Rs. being other moneys held by me/ by the company/
partnership in Sri Lanka;

Gi) Rs... obtained by the conversion of relevant foreign
currency

in the purchase, on............... ) shares (other than existing

shares) of..........0....... being a company identified by the Board of

Investment of Sri Lanka as a specified undertaking and which has
ON... entered into Agreement No............ with the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka established under the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978.

Signature/Signatures of
Declarant/Declarants.

Designation if declaration is other than as an individual

Date:


Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty 11
Act, No. 47 of 1998

Part Il — to be furnished by persons depositing in banks.
Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty Act, No..............0005 of 1998.

DECLARATION UNDER SECTION 5

~ Income Tax File No. (if any)... 000000. centeeecereeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeseaes
Turnover Tax File No. (if amy). ...0. 00... eeceecceeeeceseeeaeeteteseraeeenes
National Identity Card Number (if Individual}..............00..0cc0ccesceeeeeeee
Company/Partnership Registration Number..............0.....00cccceeeeeeeceees
T, Mr/Mrs.fMiss. We... 0... 0c ccccceccceeeeeeesceaaeeeeepeesaeeeeeneeeenes

(designation) (name of company or partnership)

declare that I/we have in terms of the Tax and Foreign Exchange Amnesty
Act, No....... ces Of 1998, deposited a sum of
Rupees... eee ee CRS. cic cee ccc ccc cee cee cee ceeaseceeenecne sae}

consisting entirely of—

(I) RS... eee ee eee being other moneys held by me/by the

company/partnership in Sri Lanka;

Gi) Rs. eee obtained by the conversion of relevant foreign
currency

in my/our/company’s............... 06sec eee ees Account bearing

NO... ecce eee eeeeeeee atthe .......... cece branch of.............0....0.. ,and

Signature/Signatures of
Depositor/Depositors.
Designation if declaration is other than as an individual

Date:


re

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),

payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, No. 32, Transworks House,
Lotus Roap, CoLomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
