PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC-
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

BETTING AND GAMING LEVY
ACT, No. 40 OF 1988

(Certified on 24th November, 1988}

Printed on the Orders of Governmern

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette'of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 25, 1°88)

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING 8R) LANEA

— —

ee ee ee

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 60 cents ~ . Postage : 75 cents


Betting and Gaming Levy Act No. 40 of 1988
- [Certified on 24th November, 1988]
- L. D—O. 68/87.

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF AN ANNUAL
LEVY ON PERSONS CARRYING ON THE BUSINESS OF BOOKMAKER
OR GAMING; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OB
INCIDENTAL THERETO. :

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Betting and Gaming mia
Act, No. 40 of 1988.

2. (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, and
notwithstanding any other law, there shall be charged and
levied for the year commencing on April 1, 1988, and in
respect of every year thereafter, on every person who

carries on in Sri Lanka, whether lawfully or unlawfully, .

during that year (for whatever period)—
(a) the business of a bookmaker ; or
(b) the business of gaming,

a levy (hereinafter referred to as the “levy”) at the
respective rates set out in the Schedule to this Act:

Provided however, that where any person commences to
carry on any such business as is referred to in paragraph
(a) or (b) on or after October 1 of any year, he shall be
liable to pay half the levy payable by him under this Act,
for that year.

(2) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this section
shall be construed as conferring legality on any business
referred to in this section if such business is prohibited by
law.

3. Where any business of gaming, as is referred to in
paragraph (b) of section 2, is carried on in different places
by the same person he shajl be deemed to carry ona
separate business in each such place and shall be liable to
pay the levy in respect of each such business.

4. (1) A person liable to pay the levy under this Act
shall pay such levy, to the Commissioner-General in four
equal instalments, on or before the fifteenth day respectively
of July, October and January in that year and the fifteenth
. day of April of the succeeding year:

Provided however, that a person who commences to
carry on any such business as is referred to in section 2,
after the first day of April in any year, shall pay the levy he

Short

title. _
Imposition
of the

- levy.

Business
in each
placea
separate
business.

Payment

of the
levy.


2 Betting and Gaming Levy Act No. 40 of 1988

iS liable to pay under this Act for that year in such number
of instalments, and-on such dates, as the Commissioner-
General may consider reasonable having regard to all the
circumstances of the case :

Provided further that a person who is liable to pay an
instalment of the levy on or before the fifteenth day of July,
1988, or on or before the fifteenth day of October, 1988, shall
be deemed not to be in default in the payment of such
instalment, if he pays such instalment within sixty days of
the date of commencement of this Act, and where he fails to
pay such instalment within the aforesaid sixty days, such
instalment shall be deemed to be in default and the provi-
sions of this Act relating to the recovery of an instalment of
the levy shall apply to the recovery of such instalment.

(2) Where any person liable to pay the levy under this
Act fails to pay any instalment thereof on or before the
date specified or determined, under subsection (1), for the
payment thereof, the instalment shall be deemed to be in
default and such person shall be deemed to be a defaulter,
for the purposes of this Act.

(3) Where any instalment of the levy is in default, the
defaulter shall, in addition to the instalment in default, pay
as penalty—

(a) .a sum equivalent to ten per centum of the instalment
in default ; and

(b) where any instalment in default is not paid before
the fifteenth day of the month succeeding the month
in which such instalment has begun to be in default,
a further sum equivalent to two per centum of the.
instalment in default in. respect of each period
ending on the fifteenth day of each succeeding
month or part of such period during which it is in
default :

. Provided, however, that the total amount payable as
penalty under this subsection shall in no case exceed fifty
per centum of the instalment in default and any such
amount may be waived or reduced if the Commissioner-
General is satisfied that by reason of any special
circumstances in which the default occurred, a waiver or
reduction of such amount would be just and equitable.


Betting and Gaming Levy Act No. 40 of 1988 3

. (4) Any instalment in default together with such penalty
_as is referred to in subsection (3) of this section may be
recovered from the person who is the defaulter.

(5) The provisions of Chapters XI and XII and sections
40, 41, 42, 43 and 57 of the Turnover Tax Act, shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to the payment and recovery of any instal-
ment of the levy payable under this Act.

5. (1) Every person who—

(a) fails to comply with any requirement imposed on
him under section 38 of the Turnover Tax Act read
with section 4(5) of this Act :

(b) wilfully furnishes any false information affecting
his liability to the levy or the liability of any other
person to the levy; .

(c) wilfully resists or obstructs the Commissioner-
General or an officer of the Inland Revenue Depart-
ment in the exercise of the powers conferred on
the Commissioner-General or ‘such officer by or
under section 43 of the Turnover Tax Act, read with
section 4(5) of this Act ;

(d) who being a person required to take an oath under
section 57 of the Turnover Tax Act read with
section 4(5) of this Act, acts under this Act without
taking such oath ; or

(e) acts in contravention of section 57 of the Turnover
Tax Act read with section 4 (5) of this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall, on
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate, be liable
to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprison-
ment of either description for a term not exceeding one
year, or to both such fine and imprisonment. .

' (2) The Commissioner-General may compound any
offence under subsection (1) if he is satisfied that by reason
of any special circumstances in which the offence was

committed, compounding © of the offence would be just anc
equitable.

(3) No prosecution in respect of an offence under sub-
section (1) shall be instituted in any court except with the
sanction of the Commissioner-General. |

Offences,


4 Betting and Gaming Levy Act No. 40 of 1988

amaels 6. (1) The Commissioner-General shall be in charge of

the administration of this Act.

(2) The Commissioner-General may delegate in writing,
to any Deputy Commissioner or Assessor any power or
function conferred on, or assigned to, him by this Act.

(3) Every Deputy Commissioner or Assessor to whom
any power or function has been delegated under subsection
(2) shall exercise or discharge that power, subject to the
directions of the Commissioner-General.

/

(4) A Deputy Commissioner or Assessor exercising or
‘discharging any power or function of the Commissioner-
. General under this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to
be authorized to exercise or discharge that power or
function, until the contrary is proved.

pilerprets 7. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“ Assessor ”, “ Commissioner-General ”, ‘“‘ Deputy Commis-
sioner”, and “persons” shall have the respective
meanings assigned to them by section 59 of the

Turnover Tax Act;

“bookmaker” means a person who receives or negotia-
tes—

(a) directly or indirectly ;

(b) in cask or on credit, —

bets on horse races run, or proposed to be run, in or outside
Sri Lanka ;

“business” means any business referred to in paragraph

(a) or paragraph (b) of section 2 and includes a

like vocation or, entering into transactions of a like
nature among members of a club;

“gaming” means the playing of any game for a stake,
and includes the playing of baccarat, punto banco,
big six, black jack, boule, chemin de fer, chuck-a-
luck, crown and anchor, faro, faro bank, hazard,
poker dice, pontoon, American for Freanch roulette,
trente-et aquarante, Vingt-et-um, or wheel of fortune,
at any premises to which individuals have access—

(a) with or without payment; or
(b) whether as of right or not;


Betting and Gaming Levy Act No. 40 of 1988 5

“Turnover Tax Act” means the Turnover Tax Act,
No. 69 of 1981;

“ year” means the period of twelve months commencing
on the first day of April of any year and ending on
the thirty-first day of March in the immediately
succeeding year.

SCHEDULE {Section 2]
Part 1—A

The amount of the levy payable for the year commencing on
April 1, 1988 and for each of the immediately succeeding years by
a person carrying on the business of a bookmaker shall be one
hundred thousand rupees. .

Part 1—B

The amount of the levy payable for the year commencing on
April 1, 1988 and for each of the immediately succeeding years by
a person carrying on the business of gaming shall be one million
rupees,


stamping a a

Annual subscription of Bills ard Acts of the Parliament Rs. 177 (Local),

Rs. 236 (Foreign), payable to the SUPFRINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

BurEAU, CoLtomso 1, before 15th December each year in respect of the year
following.
