PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

Sg

3rd Session 1967-68

S|

Criminal Procedure Code
(Amendment) Act,

No. 13 of 1968

Date of Assent: April 17, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOVERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 20 cents Postage: 10 cents


Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment) Act,
No. 18 of 1968

L. D.—O. 2/65.
An ACT TO AMEND THE CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE.
[Date of Assent: April 17, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Criminal
Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 1968.

2. Section 2 of the Criminal Procedure Code,
hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘ principal enactment ’’,
is hereby amended by the insertion, immediately after
the definition of ‘‘ Government Analyst ’’, of the
following new definition :—

‘ * Government Examiner of Questioned Docu-
ments ’’ includes any person appointed to
be or to act as Government Examiner of
Questioned Documents or Assistant Govern-
ment Examiner of Questioned Documents;’.

3. Section 406 of the principal enactment,
as amended by Act No. 25 of 1961, is hereby further
amended as follows :—

_ (1) in sub-section (8) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, for the words
*“by such Government medical
officer, may be used ’’, of the words
““by such Government medical
officer, or any document purporting
to be a report under the hand of
the Government Examiner of Ques-
tioned Documents upon any docu-
ment examined by such Government
Examiner of Questioned Documents,
may be used ’’; and

H 6151—4,606 (7/67)

Chapter 20,
Volume 1,
page 434.

Short title.

Amendment of
section 2 of
Chapter 20.

Amendment of
section 406
of the principal
enactment.


2 Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment) Act,
No. 18 of 1968

(b) by the substitution, in the proviso to
that sub-section, for the words ‘‘ so
needed.’’, of the words “‘ so needed,
or of proving the identity of the
document examined by such Govern-
ment Examiner of Questioned Docu-
ments with the document in respect
of which his report is so needed. ”’;

(2) in sub-section (4) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, for the words
‘* the Government Analyst or a
Government Radiologist ’’, of the
words ‘‘ the Government Analyst
or the Government Examiner of
Questioned Documents or a Govern-
ment Radiologist ’’; and

(b) by the substitution, for the words
‘or Government Analyst ’’, of the
words ‘‘ or Government Analyst or
Government Examiner of Ques-
tioned Documents ’’;

(3) in sub-section (5) of that section, by the
substitution, for the words ‘‘ or Govern-
ment Analyst ’’, of the words ‘‘ or Govern-
ment Analyst or Government Examiner of
Questioned Documents ’’; and

(4) in the marginal note to that section, by the
substitution, for the words ‘‘ Government
medical officer receivable ’’, of the words
‘‘ Government medical officer or Govern-
ment Examiner of Questioned Documents
receivable ’’.
