PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ist Session 1956-57

Ceylon State Mortgage Bank
(Amendment) Act, No. 18
of 1957

Date of Assent: March 28, 1957

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press, CeryLoN. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orric—E Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 10 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Ceylon State Mortgage Bank (Amendment)
Act, No. 18 of 1957 ~

L. D:—O. 27/55.
An Act To AMEND THE CEYLON StTaTE MOoRTGAGE
' BANK ORDINANCE.

[Date of Assent: March 28, 1957 |

“BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows :—

4. This Act may be cited as the Ceylon State
Mortgage Bank (Amendment) Act, No. 18 of 1957.

2. Section 85 of the Ceylon State Mortgage Bank
Ordinance, hereinafter referred to as “‘ the principal
enactment ’’, is hereby amended as follows: —

(1) by the omission of all the words from
published ’’ to the end of that section; and

(2) in the marginal note to that section, by the
substitution, for the word * securities ’’,
of the word ‘‘ accounts ’’.

<

“ 3, The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 85, and shall have effect as
section 85a, of the principal enactment :—
" Annual 85a. The Board shall in respect of
statement :
of accounts. | each financial year cause to be prepared
in the prescribed form a statement of the
accounts of the Bank as at the end of that
financial year, and such statement shall
be signed by the Manager, the Accoun-
tant and a majority of the Directors,
and be published in the Gazette within
four months from the last day of that
financial year.
For the purposes of this section,
‘financial year ’ means the period com-
mencing on the first day of October in
any year and ending on the thirtieth day
of September in the next succeeding
year.’”.

4. Section 86 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the marginal note to
that section, of the following marginal note:—

** Audit of
accounts.’
J.N. BR 9066-2,825 (2/67) .

‘and —

Chapter 277,
Volume YI.,
page 203.

Short title.

Amendment of
section 85 of
Chapter 277.

Insertion of
new section
854A in the
principal

enactment.

Amendment of
section 86 of
the principal
enactment.


2 Ceylon State Mortgage Bank (Amendment)
‘Act, No. 18 of 1957

Amendment of 5. Section 87 of the principal enactment is hereby

hel peisepel amended by the substitution, for the words ‘“ a copy

enactment. of the half-yearly statement of accounts, and.he shall
examine it’’, of the words ‘‘ the half-yearly and
annual statements of accounts, and he shall examine
them ’’, Or 3

Amendment of 6. Section 88 of the principal enactment is hereby

section 88 of d f ll s

the principal amended as- follows: —

enactment.

(1) by the re-numbering of that section as sub-
section (1) of: section 88;

(2) in re-numbered sub-section (1), by the
substitution, for the words ‘‘ shall for-
ward to the Board a ‘statement of the
accounts in the prescribed: form,’’, of the
-words ‘‘ shall return to the Board every
statement of accounts supplied to him,’’;

' (8) by the addition, immediately after re-
numbered sub-section (1), of the following
new sub-section :—

_““ (2) The auditor shall send to the Min-
ister a copy of his report on she
accounts of the Bank.’’; and

(4) in the marginal note to that section, by the
: substitution, for the words ‘‘ Auditor’s
statement, report,’, of the words

‘* Auditor’s report ’’. ,
