PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 14.00 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 20, 2009

[Certified on 17th November, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

MINES AND MINERALS (AMENDMENT)ACT, NO. 66 OF 2009

1Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 2009

Short title.

[Certified on 17th November 2009]

L. D.O. 8/2007.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MINES AND MINERALSACT, NO. 33 OF 1992

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Mines and Minerals(Amendment) Act, No. 66 of 2009.

2.Section 4 of the Mines and Minerals Act, No. 33 of1992 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) ishereby amended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words following five members of the wordsfollowing seven members; and

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) andthe substitution therefor of the followingparagraph:

(a) (i)the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofindustries or his representative;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofenvironment or his representative;

(iii)three members who appear to the Ministerto have demonstrated practicalexperience and possess knowledge in thefields of Geology, Mining, BusinessManagement, Finance and Law..

Amendment tosection 4 of Act,No. 33 of 1992.

Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 20092

3.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) by the substitution for the wordsBoard shall be three of the words Board shall be five.

4.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:

(1) The Minister shall appoint inconsultation with the Board, a person having atleast twelve years of demonstrated professionaland applied experience as a geologist or a miningengineer with a postgraduate degree or Charteras the Director General of the Geological Surveyand Mines Bureau.;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor all the words from the Director of GeologicalSurvey and Mines to the words principal technicalofficer of the words The Director-General of theGeological Survey and Mines (hereinafter referredto as the Director-General) shall be the ChiefExecutive Officer and principal technical officer,;and

(3)in subsection (3) of that section by the substitutionfor the worlds a period of six years of the wordsa period of three years.

5.Sections 8 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following subsection:

(1) The Board may delegate to theChairman, the Director General or an employeeof the Bureau or to any other person who is anemployee of the public sector, by name or byoffice, any or all of the powers, duties or

Amendmentof section 5of theprincipalenactment.

Amendmentof section 6of theprincipalenactment.

Amendmentof section 8of theprincipalenactment.

3Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 2009

functions, conferred or, imposed on, or assignedto, the Bureau by this Act, other than the powerconferred by this subsection..

6.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in paragraph (d) of that section by the substitutionfor the words minerals and the processing, tradingin of the words minerals and the processing,transport, storing, trading in;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (e) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following newparagraphs:

(e)to advise the Minister on measures to beadopted for the promotion, extraction, valueaddition through development of mineralbased products and export of such mineralbased products on a commercial basis;

(f)to disseminate in appropriate media,information and data acquired during theexercise of functions under the Act, inparticular, under paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) ofthis section; and

(g)to undertake projects in regard to engineeringgeology and provide advice and remedialmeasures caused in respect of geologicalhazards and disasters..

7.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section as follows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (d) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraph:

(d)to issue licences for

(i)explorations consequent to the receiptof an application or by the advertisingand calling for Expressions of Interest:

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 20094

(ii)mining;

(iii)transport;

(iv)trade-in;

(v)storing; and

(vi)export of minerals;

(2)in paragraph (h) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words the Bureau of the wordsthe Bureau; and;

(3)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (h) ofthe following new paragraph:

(i)to serve as a member of any TechnicalEvaluation Committee of any Ministry,department or statutory organization as thecase may be, wherein any project proposalrelating to geology or minerals is beingevaluated..

8.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 20, of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 20A of that enactment:

20A. The Minister shall, with theconcurrence of the Minister in charge of subjectof Finance exempt the Bureau from the paymentof any duty, levy and any tax on the profits andincome of the Bureau to such extent as ispermitted in terms of the Inland Revenue Act,No. 10 of 2006 or in terms of any other writtenlaw for the time being in force governing theimposition of any such duty, levy or tax as thecase may be..

Insertion of thenew section 20Aof the principalenactment.

Exemptionof theBureau frompayment oftaxes, duties&c,.

5Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 2009

9.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and the StateGem Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1971 apply., of the wordsand the State Gem Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1971 apply:

Provided however, for the purposes of paragraph (b) ofsection 12 of this Act, the Bureau shall receive data andreports of all surveys and investigations pertaining to thesearch of hydrocarbons and gems carried out within theterritory of Sri Lanka..

10.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words No person shall explore for, mine,transport, process, trade in of the words No personshall explore for, mine, transport, process, store, tradein;

(2)in subsection (3) of that section by the substitutionfor the words may transfer of the words shalltransfer; and

(3)in subsection (4) of that section by the substitutionfor the words on or from such land, of the wordson or from such land, if such mineral is used forthe construction of a building for the personal useof such owner, occupant or holder..

11.Section 29 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the substitution for the words No licence toexplore for, mine, transport, process, trade in ofthe words No licence to explore for, mine,transport, process, store, trade in; and

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 29 of theprincipalenactment.

Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 20096

(2)by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph(iv) of paragraph (a) of the following new sub-paragraph:

(v)is a member of the Parliament or a memberof a Provincial Council or a member of alocal authority..

12.Section 30 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that section;

(2)in paragraph (c) of that section by the substitutionfor the words distance of a lake, stream or a tankof the words distance of a lake, river, stream or atank;

(3)by the repeal of paragraph (h) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following newparagraphs:

(h)any land falling within the coastal zonewithin the meaning of the Coast ConservationAct, No. 57 of 1981, without the approval ofthe Minister and the Minister in charge of thesubject of Coast Conservation;

(i)any land falling within any special areadeclared under section 3 of the MahaweliAuthority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 23 of 1979,without the approval of the Minister incharge of the subject of MahaweliDevelopment;

(j)any land falling within any reserved forestor village forest declared or constituted underthe Forest Ordinance, (Chapter 451) withoutthe approval of the Minister in charge of thesubject of forests;

Amendment ofsection 30 ofthe principalenactment.

7Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 2009

(k)any land falling within an UrbanDevelopment Area declared under section 3of the Urban Development Authority Law,No. 41 of 1978, without the approval of theMinister in charge of the subject of UrbanDevelopment;

(l)any land falling within a national reserve orsanctuary declared under section 2 of theFauna and Flora Protection Ordinance,(Chapter 469) without the approval of theMinister in charge of the subject of Wild LifeConservation..

13.Section 31 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in paragraph (a) of that section by the substitutionfor the words (Chapter 188); and of the words(Chapter 188);;

(2)in paragraph (b) of that section by the substitutionfor the words the said Ordinance. of the wordsthe said Ordinance;; and

(3)by the addition at the end of that section of thefollowing paragraphs:

(c)any land situated within a Botanic Gardenswithin the meaning of the Botanic GardensOrdinance (Chapter 446) or any area declaredunder subsection (2) of section 2 of thatOrdinance;

(d)any National Heritage Wilderness Areadeclared under the National HeritageWilderness Areas Act, No. 3 of 1988; and

(e)any burial ground or cemetery within themeaning of the Cemeteries and BurialGrounds Ordinance (Chapter 231)..

Amendment ofsection 31 of theprincipalenactment.

Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 20098

14.Section 33 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words from No licence to explore to the wordsBeryllium, lithium coral of the words No licence toexplore for or mine, transport, process, store, trade in or exportminerals containing radioactive elements and coral.

15.Section 35 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (2) of that section

(a)in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words explore for or mine, transport,process, trade in or export minerals of thewords explore for or mine, transport, process,store, trade in or export minerals;

(b)in paragraph (c) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words exploration, mining,transportation, processing, trading in orexporting of the words exploration, mining,transportation, processing, storing, trading inor exporting is authorized;

(c)by the repeal of the proviso to that subsectionand the substitution therefor of the followingproviso:

Provided however that an industrialmining licence or a licence to explore, forminerals may be transferred or given assecurity subject to such conditions as may bespecified in such licence.;

(2)in subsection (4) of that section

(a)in paragraph (a) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words that the exploration, miningprocessing, trading in and of the words thatthe exploration, mining, transport, processing,storing, trading in and;

Amendment ofsection 33 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 35 of theprincipalenactment.

9Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 2009

(b)in paragraph (e) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words exceeding six months of thewords exceeding three months.

16.Section 37 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (d) of subsection (1), by thesubstitution for the words a period of over six months ofthe words a period of over three months.

17.Section 42 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words for his personaluse of the words for his personal use, not being a commercialpurpose.

18.Section 44 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (d) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the following paragraph:

(d)to enter into and inspect any land, mine or otherpremises in respect of which a licence has beenissued under this Act and

(i)to carry out such investigations or surveysthereon; and

(ii)to make such inspections and examinationsof any plant, equipment, machinery, booksof accounts, plans or other documents foundthereon,

as may be necessary to ascertain whether the termsand conditions of such licence or any provision ofthis Act or of any regulation made thereunder, arebeing complied with..

19.Section 46 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of the marginal note to that sectionand the substitution therefor of the followingmarginal note:

Powers ofofficers &c to

Amendment ofsection 37 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 42 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 44 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 46 of theprincipalenactment.

Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 200910

carry outgeological andmineralinvestigations..

20.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 46 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 46A of that enactment:

46A. The Bureau may, where it considers itnecessary for the purpose of discharging thefunctions of the Bureau, authorize in writingany officer of the Bureau (hereinafter referredto as the authorized officer) to

(a) enter, search and inspect any site, premises,or place in which any mining, explorationfor, processing, storing, trade in or exportof any mineral is being carried on underthe authority of a licence issued under thisAct for the purpose of ascertaining thecompliance of the provisions of this Act;

(b) enter, search and inspect any site, premisesor place where the authroized officer hasreason to believe that any mining,exploration for processing, storing, tradein, or export of any mineral is being carriedon without the authority of a licence underthis Act ;

(c) stop, enter and inspect any vehicle orvessel in which authorized officer hasreason to believe that any minerals arebeing transported or exported as the casemay be, in contravention of the provisionsof this Act or regulations madethereunder..

Insertion of newsection 46A inthe principalenactment.

Powers ofauthorizedofficers toenter, searchand inspect&c.

11Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 2009

21.Section 47 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

22.Section 48 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition at the end of that section of thefollowing new subsections :

(3) Where the holder of a licence to explore forminerals determines that a mineral may be developedand mined on a commercial basis in the area in respectof which such licence has been issued, he shall havethe exclusive right to apply for and obtain an industrialmining licence and artisanal mining licence in respectof such area, if he has complied with the conditionsattached to the licence issued to him to explore forminerals and is otherwise not disqualified under anyother provision of this Act from obtaining a licencefor mining minerals.

(4) The Secretary shall on a request made by theholder of a licence to explore for minerals and withthe prior approval of the Minister, enter into anInvestment Agreement with such holder. Every suchInvestment Agreement shall be in such form as shall beprescribed and shall contain such terms and conditionsas may be prescribed..

23.Section 49 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words right to mine forall minerals in the area specified in such licence and to tradein and export such minerals of the words right to mineonly the minerals specified in such licence and to trade inand export such minerals wherever possible after productdevelopment..

Replacement ofsection 47 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 48 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 49 of theprincipalenactment.

Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 200912

24.Section 51 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for all the words from providedthat to the words except with the consent of such ownerof the words Provided that where the owner or stateorganization of any such area of land is in possession ofsuch area of land, the holder of the licence shall not exercisethe rights conferred on him by this section except with theconsent of such owner or state organization.

25.The heading to the Part III of the principal enactmentis hereby amended by the substitution for the words health,safety and welfare of workers in mines of the words health,safety and welfare of workers mining for minerals.

26.Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section ; and

(2)by the addition immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) of the following subsection :

(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall apply to

(a)any female engaged in a managerialcapacity ;

(b)any female engaged in providing healthor welfare services ; or

(c)any female who, as part of any courseof study, is required to be familiar withunderground mining activities..

Amendmentof the headingto Part III ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 51 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment.

13Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 2009

27.Section 57 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (3)thereof of the following new subsection :

(4) The recruitment for such purposes shall bein accordance with the labour laws and regulationsfor the time being in force..

28.Section 58 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,for the words shall be ordered or compelled, of the wordsshall, except in the case of an accident, be ordered orcompelled..

29.Section 61 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section by the substitutionfor the words subsection (1) of the words subsection (2).

30.Section 63 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words or mines, processes,transports, trades in or exports of the words ormines, processes, stores, transports, trades in orexports,;

(2)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor all the words from before a Magistrate be liableto a fine not exceeding five hundred thousandrupees to the words for a term not exceeding oneyear of the words before a Magistrate be liable toa fine not less than fifty thousand rupees and notexceeding five hundred thousand rupees and in thecase of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine notless than one hundred and fifty thousand rupeesand not exceeding two million rupees or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding two years;

Amendment ofsection 57 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 58 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 61 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 63 of theprincipalenactment.

Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 200914

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section of the following new subsections :

(1A) Where a Magistrate convicts any personfor an offence under this Act for exploring for, ormining, minerals on any land, without a licencein that behalf issued under this Act, he may inaddition to any fine or imprisonment, imposed onsuch person, order such person to restore orrehabilitate such land to the state it was in, priorto the commencement of such exploration ormining operation.

(1B) A Certificate under the hand of theDirector-General, to the effect that the landdescribed therein, being a land in respect of whichan order has been made under subsection (1A), hasbeen restored to the state it was in prior to thecommencement thereon of the exploration ormining operation. Shall be admissible in evidenceand shall be prima facie evidence of the factsstated therein..

(4)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor all the words from before a Magistrate be liableto the words not exceeding six months of thewords before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notless than five thousand rupees and not exceedingseventy five thousand rupees or to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding twelve months;

(5)in subsection (3) of that section by the substitutionfor the words a fine not exceeding twenty fivethousand rupees of the words a fine not less thanten thousand rupees and not exceeding fiftythousand rupees..

15Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 2009

31.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 63 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 63A, 63B, 63C and 63D of thatenactment :-

63A. (1) A police officer who has reasonablegrounds to believe that an offence has beencommitted under this Act may, with or withouta warrant, seize any mined mineral quantity ofmineral which has been mined, or anymachinery, equipment or material used in or inconnection with, the commission of thatoffence.

(2) Where any mineral, machinery,equipment or material is seized by a policeofficer in pursuance of the powers conferredon him by this section, he shall forthwithproduce such mineral, machinery, equipmentor material before, or make it available forinspection by, a Magistrate, who shall makesuch order as he thinks fit relating to thedetention or custody of such mineral,machinery, equipment or material, pending theconclusion of a prosecution instituted inrespect of such mineral, machinery, equipmentor material :

Provided however, that where any mineral,machinery, equipment or material so seized issubject to speedy decay, the Magistrate mayorder that such mineral, machinery, equipmentor material be sold and the proceeds of suchsale be deposited in Court.

63B. (1) Where any person is convicted ofan offence under this Act, the Magistrate maymake order that any mineral, machinery,equipment or material used in, or in connection

Insertion of newsections 63A,63B, 63C and63D of theprincipalenactment.

Powers ofseizure.

Forfeiture.

Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 200916

with, the commission of that offence or theproceeds of the sale of any such mineral, ormaterial deposited in court under the provisoto section 63A, be forfeited to the State.

(2) Any mineral, machinery, equipment ormaterial forfeited by an order under subsection(1), shall vest absolutely in the State upon themaking of such order.

(3) Such vesting shall take effect

(a)if no appeal is preferred after theexpiration of the period withinwhich an appeal against the orderof forfeiture may be preferred to aHigh Court established by Article154p of the Constitution or theSupreme Court ; or

(b)where an appeal has been preferredagainst the order of forfeiture, to aHigh Court established by Article154p of the Constitution or to theSupreme Court, upon thedetermination of such appeal,either confirming the order offorfeiture or setting aside theappeal.

(4) The Court shall cause any mineral,machinery, equipment or material which hasbeen vested in the State under subsection (2)to be sold and the proceeds of such sale to bedeposited in Court.

63C. Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979, every offence under thisAct shall be deemed to be a cognizable offencewithin the meaning and for the purposes ofthat Act.

Offences tobecognizableoffences.

17Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 2009

63D. Every officer of the Bureau shall be apeace officer within the meaning of the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, forthe purpose of exercising any of the powersconferred upon peace officers by that Act..

32.Section 64 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefore, of the following subsection :

(1) The Minister may make regulations inrespect of all matters which are required by thisAct to be prescribed or in respect of whichregulation are authorized to be made to give effectto the principles and provisions of this Act, and inparticular in respect of all or any of the followingmatters :

(a)the health and safety of workers in andaround mines ;

(b)sanitary conditions in mines ;

(c)medical facilities to be provided in mines ;

(d)the management of waste, refuse andpoisonous substances in mines ;

(e)the appointment of Mine Managers ;

(f)the appointment Committees to oversee theworker, health and safety of workers inmines ;

(g)the reporting of accidents and deathsoccurring in mines ;

(h)the maintenance of records and accounts inrelation to mining in mines ;

Officers ofthe Bureauto be peaceofficers.

Amendment ofsection 64 of theprincipalenactment.

Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 200918

(i)the handling and use of explosives in mines ;

(j)the regulation of the use of plants ormachinery in mines ;

(k)storing of minerals ;

(l)demand and collection of royalties ;

(m)the preparation and submission of mineenvironment and restoration plans and themanner of compliance..

33.Section 68 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words The Quarries,Mines and Minerals of the words Mines, Quarries andMinerals.

34.Section 70 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after the definitionof the expression local authority of the followingdefinition:

mine means an opening upon, or an excavation in,or a working of the ground, for the purpose ofexploring or mining for, and processing of,minerals and includes all works, machinery,plant, buildings, and premises below or aboveground used in connection with suchexploration, mining or processingactivities;.

35.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Amendment ofsection 68 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 70 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in theevent of anyinconsistency.

19Mines and Minerals (Amendment)Act, No. 66 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.