PARLIAMENT Ol THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

~ EMPLOYEES TRUST FUND
(AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 18 OF 1993

[Certified on 3lst March, 1993]

Printed on the Orders of Government |

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 02, 1993

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

' . TO BE FURCHASED A? THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO _.

Price: 60 cents Postage: Re. 1.00


2 Employees’ Trust Fund (Amendment) ~
Act; No. 18 of 1993

[Certified on 3lst March 1993]
L.D.—O, 64/90

An Act TO AMEND THE EMPLOYEES Trust Funp Act, No:.
4€ or 1980

BE it sachet by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as fcllows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Employees’ Trust Fund
(Amendment) Act, No. 18 of. 1993.

2. Section 23 of the Employees, Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of
1980 (hereinaf.cr referred to as the “ principal enactment ”),
is hereby amended .in subsection (2) of that section by the
addition at the ene of that subsection of the following
proviso :—

“Provided that where a non pensionable post held by.an

employee in any service referred to in paragraphs (ii) and
(iv) is subsequently made pensionable with effect from
the date on which he was first employed -in ‘the non-
pensionable post, the amount of the contributions standing
' to the credit of the individual account of that employee on
the date on which the post was made ene shall be
refunded to his employer.”. "

3. Section 25 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion, immediately after subsection
(3) of that section of the following new subsection :—

“ (8a) Where no nomination has been made under
the provisions of this Act and such member is also a
" member of the Employees’ Provident Fund establishe?
under the Employecs’ Provident Fund Act or ah
approved provident fund under that Act, any nominee
nominated under the regulations made under that
_Act shall be deemed to be a nominee under this Act
‘and the provisions of this Act shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply. in respect of that nominee. ’ ‘

4. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 37, and shall have effect as
section 37a of the principal enactment :—

“ Imposition 37a, Where an employer, who is required
or Sefauitieg: by the Act or any regulation made there
employers. - under or any direction issued by the Board,
aes «{ ‘oto. furnish a return relating to contributions,
_has failed to furnish that return within the

Short title.

Amendment.
of section
23 of Act
No. 46 of
1980,


principal
enactment. |

Employee’s Trust Fund (Amendment)
Act, No. 18 of 1993

period specified therein, or has furnished an
incorrect or deficient return and is unable to -
explain to the satisfaction of the Board or
an officer authorised in that behalf by the
Board the reason for the failure to furnish
the return within that period, or to furnish
an accurate or complete return, as the case
may be, he shall be liable to pay to the fund
a surcharge at the rate of one per cent of the
amount of the contribution to which the
return relates for every completed month
or part thereof from the last date on or
before which the return was due to the date

of receipt by the Board of a duly completed
and correct return. ”.

5. Section 44 of the principal enactment, as amended
by Act No. 47 of 1988, is hereby further emeridec as

_ follows :—

‘(1) by the substitution for the definition of “ cous ”
'., Of the following definition :—
ae ee earnings,” means— i

‘ (a) wages, salary or fees;

(b) cost of living allowance, special living
allowance, and. any eothers: aula
allowances ; fy

(c) payment in respect of holidays ;

(d) the cost value of any cooked or un-
cooked food provided by the employer
to employees in employments provid-

ed by regulations made under the

Employees’ Provident Fund Act, and

any such commodity used in prepara-

“ tion or composition, of any food as so

provided, such value being’ assessed

_ by the employer, subject to an appeal

to the Commissioner of Labour whose
decision on such appeal shall be final ;

(e) meal allowances ; and

(f) such other forms of remuneration as
may be prescribed : by. regulations
made under the Employees: Provident

Fund Act.’ ;::


Emplouee’s Trust Fund (Amendment) | 8
Act, No. 18 of 1993

(@) by the substitution, in the defimition of the word

\ “exgployer” for the words “company, corpora-

tion or trade union”, of the words “company.
corporation, local authority or trade union ,

6. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
