PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

KELANIYA BUDDHIST WOMENS CHARITABLESOCIETY (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 30 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 12th of June, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 14, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

[Certified on 12th of June, 2024]

L.D.O (Inc.) 06/2021

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KELANIYA BUDDHIST WOMEN'SCHARITABLE SOCIETY

WHEREAS a Society called and known as the KelaniyaBuddhist Womens Charitable Society has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout its objects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Society according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was formed and has applied to be incorporated andit will be for the public advanatge to grant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1. This Act may be cited as the Kelaniya BuddhistWomen's Charitable Society (Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of2024.

2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theKelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society (hereinafterreferred to as the Society) and shall hereafter be admittedas members of the body corporate hereby constituted shallhave perpetual succession under the name and style of theKelaniya Buddhist Womens Charitable Society(hereinafter referred to as the body corporate), and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authority tohave, and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

Incorporation ofthe KelaniyaBuddhistWomen'sCharitableSociety

Preamble

Short title

2Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Service Organization within the meaning and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organization(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

3. The general objects for which the body corporate isconstituted are hereby declared to be -

(a)to provide facilities necessary for the enhancing ofmeditation methods to the Buddhists in Sri Lnaka;

(b)to collect the books and magazines written onBuddhism and published worldwide and makearrangements to have easy access to them by theBuddhists in Sri Lanka;

(c)to co-ordinate and improve good relations withsocial servants, intellectuals, donators andbenevolent people, welfare societies and welfarefoundations in Sri Lanka for the purpose of assistingthem in their endeavour in creating for a bettertomorrow for people in Sri Lanka;

(d)to print, publish and distribute books, hand billsand magazines written on Buddhism and BuddhistPhilosophy which may be required by the BuddhistSociety for the promotion and development of theobjects of such Society with a view to facilitate theexchange of ideas and experience;

(e)to work in collaboration with other unions, societiesand organizations having objects similar in thoseof the Society; and

General objectsof the bodycorporate

3Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

(f)to render assistance through the promotion of thepractice of Buddhist principles to all persons seekinginner tranquility.

4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out inaccordance with written law and in such manner so as not tocreate any conflict between the work of the body corporateand any work being carried out simultaneously by anyMinistry or Department of the Government or of anyProvincial Council or any Local Authority.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rulesmade under section 7, the management and administrationof the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by aBoard of Management (hereinafter referred to as the "Board")consisting of such number of office bearers as may be specifiedby the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The members of the Board of the Society holdingoffice on the day immediately preceeding the date ofcommencement of this Act shall, subject to the rules madeunder paragraph (b), function as an Interim Board of the bodycorporate until the first Board is appointed or elected in themanner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the InterimBoard of the body corporate shall have the power to makerules for the interim administration of the body corporateand for election or appointment of the members of the firstBoard of the body corporate, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken bythe majority of its members present at such meeting.

(d) The First Board of the body corporate shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor any ProvincialCouncil

Managementof the affairsof the bodycorporate

4Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a periodof three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisorshall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapseof the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occuring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board shall, having regard to the rules of the bodycorporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute the following acts for the achievementof the objects of the body corporate :-

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be required forthe purposes of the body corporate and to deal withor dispose of the same as may be determined by theBoard with a view to promoting the objects of thebody corporate;

(b)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the body corporate, all suchcontracts or agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of the powersof the body corporate;

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind for the attainment of the objects of the bodycorporate:

Powers of thebody corporate

5Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank in Sri Lanka approved by the Board;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate, in suchmanner as the Board may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto the objects of the body corporate or any real orpersonal property with a view to promoting theobjects of the body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the body corporate andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the body corporate;

(h)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objects of the bodycorporate;

(i)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of the bodycorporate; and

(j)to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroadfor the purposes of the body corporate.

6Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the body corporate and bya majority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law, for the following matters:-

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board or vacationof or removal from office of office bearers and thepowers, duties and functions of the office bearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, and servantsof the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate or ofthe Board, or notices and agenda of such meetings,the quorum and the conduct of business thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate;

(g)the procedure governing the manner of liaising andco-ordinating with other local and foreigninstitutions having objects similar to that of the bodycorporate; and

(h)generally the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its' objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

Rules of thebody corporate

7Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be publishedin the Gazette within three months upon making of suchrules and shall come into effect on the date of suchpublication.

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for andon account of the body corporate shall, subject to theprovisions of section 6(c), be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Board to the credit of the body corporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe body corporate in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the body corporate.

Fund of thebody corporate

Register ofmembers

Accounts andAuditing

8Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor-General in terms of provisions of Article154 of the Consitution and be certified by the Auditor-General or such qualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section "qualified auditor"means-

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiseas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the body corporate for each financial year and submit suchreport together with the audited statement of accounts and alist of all assets and liabilities of the body corporate certifiedby the Auditor-General or a qualified auditor referred to insection 10, to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Buddha Sasana under Article 44 or 45 of the Constitutionand to the Registrar of Voluntary Social ServicesOrganizations appointed under the Voluntary Social ServicesOrganization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of1980 before the expiration of six months of the yearsucceeding the year to which such report relates.

Annual Report

9Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate, the detailsof all contracts and agreements entered into by the bodycorporate and the rules of the body corporate made undersection 7 during the financial year shall be attached to thereport referred to in subsection (1).

12. All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on theday immediately preceding the date of commencement ofthis Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Society on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the body corporate for the purposeof this Act and subject to the rules of the body corporatemade under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and no portionthereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly byway of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise howsoever tothe members of the body corporate.

15. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Debts due byand payable tothe Society.

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Application ofmoneys andproperty

Seal of the bodycorporate

10Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by theBoard..16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the body corporate, butshall be given or transferred to any other appropriateinstitution having objects similar to those of the bodycorporate, and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstituion shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate with the approval of the Registrar of VoluntarySocial Services Organizations appointed under the VoluntarySocial Services Organization (Registration and Supervision)Act, No. 31 of 1980 immediately before the dissolution at ageneral meeting by the majority of votes of the memberspresent.

17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

11Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society

(Incorporation) Act, No. 30 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.