= 5

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
OF
SRI LANKA
ACT, No. 21 OF 1996

[Certified on 2ist August, 1996]
(Printed on the Order of Government)

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 23, 1996

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

——mese

=~  s-

TO BE PURCHASED aT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMS3O Gi

Price: Re. 1.65 Postage: Rs. 2.55


Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanica
Act, No. 21 of 1996

[Certified on 21st August, 1996]
L.D.—O 12/94 oF sue

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HUMAN
RicuTs ComMMiIssion OF Sri LANKA; TO SET OUT THE
POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF SUCH COMMISSION; AND TO
PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO.

1. This Act may be cited as the Human Rights Commis-
sion of Sri Lanka Act, No. 21 cif 1996 and shall come into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by
Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as
the “appointed date”).

PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HUMAN RigHtTs COMMISSION OF
Sri LANKA

2. (4) There shall be established a Commission which
shall be called and known as the Human Rights Commis-
sion of Sri Lanka (hereinafter in this Act referred to as
“the Cornmission’”’).

(2) The Commission shall be a body corporate having»

perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and
be sued in its corporate name.

(3) The seal of the Commission shall be in the custody
of the Secretary to the Commission and may be altered in
such manner as may be determined by the Commission.

3. (1) The Commission shall consist of five members,
chosen from among persons having knowledge of, or
practical experience in, matters relating to human rights.

(2) The members of. the Commission shall be appointed
by the President, on the recommendation of the Coustitu-
tional Council:

Provided however; that during the period commencing on

the appointed date and ending on the date when the
Constitutional Council is established, members of the
Commission shall be appointed by the President on the
recommendation of the Prime Minister in consultation with
the Speaker and the Leader of the ‘Opposition

2—-D 099840 — 9,030 (95/03)

Short title.
and date of
operation.

Establishment
of Human
Rights
Commission
of Sri Lanka.

Constitution
of the
Commission
and term of
office &c.


Q.. Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 21 of 1996

(3) In making recommendations, under subsection (2), -
the Constitutional Council and the Prime Minister shall have
regard to the necessity of the minorities being répresented
of the Commission.

(4) One of the members so appointed shall be nominated
by the President to be the Chairman of the Commission.

(5) Every member of the Commission shall hold office
for a period of three years.

(6) The office of a member shall become ‘vacant—
(a) upon the death of such member ;

(b) upon such member resigning such office by ie
addressed to the President ;

(c) upon such member being removed from office on any
ground specified in section 4; or

(d) on the expiration of his term of office.

Gigunis tor 4, (1) A member of the Commission may be removed
removal of from office—
members.

(a) by the President, if he—

(i) is adjudged an insolvent by a court of com-
petent jurisdiction ;

(ii) engages in any paid employment outside the
duties of his office, which in the opinion of
the President, formed on the recommenda-
tion of the Prime Minister in consultation
with the Speaker and the Leader of the
Opposition, conflicts with his duties asa
member of the Commission ;

(iii) is unfit to continue in office by reason of
infirmity of mind or body ;
(iv) is declared to be of unsound mind by a court
of competent jurisdiction ;
(v) is convicted of-an offience involving moral tur-
pitude ; or
' (vi) absents himself from three consecutive meet-

ings without obtaining leave of the Com-
mission; or


Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka ¥
_ Act, No. 21 of 1996

(6) by an order of the President made after an addres¢
of Parliament, supported by a major-ty of the total
number of members of Parliament (including
those not present) has been presented to the
President for such removal on the ground of
proved misbehavior or incapacity :

Provided however that no resolution for the
presentation of such an address shall be entertained
by the Speaker or placed on the Order Paper of
Parliament, unless notice of such resolution is
signed by not less than one-third of the total
number of members of Parliament and sets out
full particulars of the alleged misbehavior or
incapacity.

(2) The procedure for the presentation and passing on an
address of Parliament for the removal of in Judge of the
Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, shall apply in all
respects to the presentation and passing of an address of

Pariiament for the removal of a member. of the Com-
mission.

5. Any member who vacates his office, otherwise than by
removal under section 4, shall be eligible for re-appoint-
ment. : .

6 (1) The Chairman may resign from . the office of
@hairman by letter addressed to the President.

(} Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), the term
ot office of the Chairman shall be his period of membership
xf the Commission,

(3) If the Chairman of the Commisison becomes by reason
of illness or other infirmity, or absence from Sri Lanka tem-
porarily unable to perform the duties of his office, the Pre-
sident may appoint any other member of the. Commission
to act in his place.

: 1. No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of any

_ vacancy among its members, or defect in the ep oe
ol any member thereof.

8. The salaries of the members of the Commission shall
be determined by Parliament and shall be charged on the
Consolidated Fund and shall not be Seninaned te their
terms of office.

$—D 039840 (96/03)

Eligibility ~

for
reappoint-
ment,

Resignation
&e,

Act or —
proceedings
of the
Commis-
sion deemed
not to be
invalid by .
reason of
any vacancy.

Remunera-
tion of
members
vacancy &c.


Meetings
of the
Commis-
a

Functiens of

4 Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No, 21 of 1996

9. (1) The Chairman of the Commission shall be its
Chief Executive officer and shall preside at all meeings of
the Commission. In the event of his absence from any meet-
ing, the members of the Commission present at such meet- -
ing shall elect one from amongst themselves to preside at
such meeting.

(2} The Chairman of any meeting of the Commission
shall, in addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.

(3) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the
Comrnission may regulate the procedure in regard to the
conduct of rectings of the Commission, and the transection
of business at such meetings. 3

err)

10. The functions of the Commission shall be—

(b) to inquire into, and investigate, complaints regarding
procedures, with a view to ensuring compliance
with the provisions of the Constitution relating to
fundamental rights and to promoting respect for,
and observance of, fundamental rights ;

(b) to inquire into and investigate complaints regarding
infringements or imminent infringements of funda-
mental rights, and to provide for resolution thereof
by conciliation and mediation in accordance with
the provisions hereinafter provided ;

(c) to advise and assist the government in formulating
legislation and administrative directives and proce-
dures, in furtherance of, the promotion end protec-
tion of fundamental rights ;

(d) to make recommendations to the Government regard-
ing measures which should be taken to ensure that
national laws and administrative practices are in

accordance with international human rights norms
and standards ; :

(e) to make recommendations to the Government on the
need to subscribe or accede to treaties and other
international Le noments i in the field of humap
rights ; and

“(f) to promote awareness of, and provide education in
relation to, human rights.


Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka § §
Act, No. 21 of 1996
il. For the purpose of discharging its functions the Fowets of
Commission may exercise any or all of the following ome
powers :—

sion.

(a) investigate, any infringement or imminent infringe-
ment of fundamental rights in accordance with the
succeeding provisions of this Act ;

(ob) appoint such number of sum-committees at
Provincial level, as it considers necessary to
exercise such powers of the Commission as may
be delegated to them, by the Commission, under
this Act;

(c) intervene in any proceedings relating to the infringe-
ment or imminent infringement of fundamental
rights, pending before any court, with the permis-
sion of such court;

{d) monitor the welfare of persons detained either by a
judicial order or otherwise, by regular inspection of
their places of detention, and to make such recom-
mendations as may be necessary for improving
their conditions of detention ;

4e) take such steps as it may be directed to take by the
Supreme Court, in respect of any matter referred
to it by the Supreme Court ;

(f) undertake research into, and promote awareness of,
human rights, by conducting programmes,
seminars and workshops and to disseminate and
distribute the results of such iccparkand

(g) award in its absolute discretion to an " aggrieved
person or a person acting on behalf of an aggrieved
person, such sum of money as is sufficient to meet
the expenses that may have been reasonably incur-
ted by him in making a complaint to the Commission

_ under section 14. \ 12) ee ia

.(h) do all such other things as are necessary or conducive
to the discharge of its functions.

; PART II
Powrrs OF INVESTIGATION OF THE CoMMiISSION

12. (1) The Supreme Court may refer any matter arising Reference
én the course of a hearing of an application made to the —
Gupreme Court under Article 126 of the Constitution to the Court.

Commission for inquiry and report. ~


Computation
4ime

the
or

t ‘onstitution.

6 Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
; Act, No. 21 of 1996

(2) The Commission shall inquire and report to the
Supreme Court on the matters referred to it under sub-
section (1), within the period, if any, specified in such

reference. _

13. (1) Where a complaint is made by an aggrieved
party in terms of section 14, to the Commission, within
one month of the alleged infringement cr imminent
infringement of a itxdamental right by executive or -
administrative action, the period within which the
inquiry into such complaint is pending before the Com
mission, shall not be taken ‘nto account in computing the
period of one month within which an application may be
made to the Supreme Court by such person in terms of
Article 126(2) of the Constitution.

(2) Where the Supreme Court makes a reference in-
terms of section. 12(1) to the Commission for inquiry or
report, the period commencing from the date of such
reference and ending on the date of the report of the
Commission, shall not be taken into account in computing
the period of two months referred to in Article 126(5) of
the Constitution.

14, The Commission may, on ‘ts own motion or on @
complaint made to it by an aggrieved person or group of
persons or a person acting on behalf of an aggrieved
person or a group of persons, investigate an allegation of
the infringement or imminent infringement of a furda-

mental right of such person or group of persons eaused—
(«) by executive or administrative action; ec

» (b) a8 a result of am act which constitutes am offence
under the Prevention of terrorism. Act. No. 48 ef
4679, eemmitted by amy person. -_


Human Rights Commission of Sri (Lanka 7

Act, No. 21 of 1996

5. (1) Where an investigation conducted by the
_Commission under section 14 does not disclose the infrin-
gement or imminent infringernent of a fundamental right
by executive or administrative action or by any person
referred to in paragraph (b) of section 14, the Commission
shall, record that fact, and shall accordingly inform the
person, making the complaint within thirty days.

(2) Where an investigation conducted by the Commission
under section 414 discloses the infringement or imminent
infringement of a fundamental right by executive or
administrative action, or by any person referred to in
‘paragraph (6b) of section i4, the Commission shall have
the power to refer the matter, where appropriate, for con-
¢iliation or mediation.

(3) Where an investigation conducted by the Commission
under section 14 discloses the infringement or imminent
infringement of a fundamental right by executive or
administrative action, or by any person referred to in
paragraph (b) of section 14, the Commission may where
‘it appears to the Commission that it is not appropriate to
refer such matter for conciliation or mediation, or where
{t appears to the Comiunission that it is appropriate to
refer the matter for conciliation or mediation, but all or
any of the parties object or objects to concilation or
mediation, or where the attempt at conciliation or media-
tion is not successful—

{a) recommend to the appropriate authorities, that pro-
secution or other proceedings be instituted against

the person or persons infringing such fundamental.

right ;

{b)} refer the matter to any court having jurisdiction
to hear and determine such matter in, accordance
with such rules of court as may be prescribed
therefor, and within such time as is provided for

invoking the jurisdiction of such court, by any
person ; .

fc) make such recommendations as it may think fit, to
the appropriate authority or person or persons
concerned, with a view to preventing or remedying
such infringement, or the continuation af such.
infringement, |

{4) Without prejudice to the generality of the recom-
mendations that may be made under paragraph (c) of
eubsection (2), the Commission may—

Proceduns
where
infringement
is not
isclosed

or is . 3
disclosed é


8 Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 21 of 1996

(a) recommend that the act or omission giving rise to
the infringement or imminent infringement of a
fundamental right be reconsidered or rectified ;

(b) recommend that the decision giving rise to the
infringement or iunminent infringement of a funda—
mental right be reconsidered or rectified ;

(c) recommend that the practice on wh’ch the decision,
recommendation, act or omission giving rise to the
infringement of imminent infringement of a
fundamental ‘right was based, be altered ; and

(d) recommend that reasons be given for the decision,
recommendation, act or omission giving rise to the
infringement or imminent infrigement of aw
fundamental right.

(5) No recommendation shall be made by the Commis—
sion under the preceding provisions cf this section in
respect of the infringement or imminent infringernen®
of a fundamental right except after affording an
opportunity of being heard to the person alleged to be
about to iniringe or to have infringed such fundamental
right,

(6; A copy of a reccmmendation made by the Commis»
sion inder the preceding provisions of this ‘section in
respect of the infringement or imminent infringement of a
fundamental right shall be sent by the Commission to the
person agrrieved, the head of the institution concerned,
and the Minister to whom the institution concerned has
been assigned.

(7) Tne Commission shall require any authority or
person or persons to whom a recommendation under the
prececiing provisions of this section is addressed to report
to the Commission, within such period as may be specified
in such recommendation, the action which such authcrity or
person has taken, or proposes to take, to give effect to such
recommiendation and it shall be the duty of every such
person to report to the Commission accordingly.

(8) Where any authority or person or persone to whom
a recymmendation under the preceding provisions of this
section is addressed, fails to report to the Commission
within the period specified in such recommendation oF
where such person reports to the Comm‘ssion and the
action taken, or proposed to be taken by him to give effect
to the recommendations of the Commission, is in the vie
of the Commission, inadequate, the Commission. shall make


Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka 9
Act, No. 21 of 1996

a full report or the facts to the President who shall, cause
a copy of such report to be placed before Parliament.

16. (1) Where the Commission refers a. matter for
conciliation or mediation under section 15 it shall appeint

one or more persons to conciliate or. mediate between the
parties.

(2) The manner of appointment and the powers and
functions of conciliators or mediators shali be as prescribed.

(3) The Commission may direct the parties to appear
before the conciliators or mediators for the purpose of
conciliation or mediation. Sittings of the conciliators or
mediators may be held in camera.

(4) In the event of the conciliation or mediation not
being successful, or where one party objects to conciliation

or mediation, the conciiiator or mediator shall report to
the Commission accordingly.

(5) Where the conci:iators or mediators are successful
in resolving the matter by conciliation or mediation they
shall inform the Commission of the settlement arrived at.

(6) Where a matter 1s referred to for conciliation or
mediation under this seciion and a settlement is arrived
at, the Commission shall make such directions (including
directions as to the payment of compensation): as may be
necessary to vive effect to such settlement.

417. Where in the course of an inquiry or investigation
conducted by the Commission a question arises as to the
scose or ambit of a fundamental right, the. Commission may
refer such question to the Supreme Court under Article 125

of the Constitution, for the determination of the Supreme
Court,

18. (1) The Commission shall, for the purposes of an
inquiry or investigations under this Act, have the power—

(a) to procure and receive all such evidence, written or
gral, and to examine all such persons as witnesses,

as the Commission may think it necessary or
desirable to procure or examine ;

(b) to require the evidence (whether written or oral) of
~ amy witness, to be given on oath or affirmation,
such oath or affirmation to be that which could be
required of the witness if he were giving evidence

-Frocedure

for
conciliation

or.
mediation.


Evidence
before the
Commission.

1@ Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
| Act, No, 21 of 1996

in a court of law, and to administer and cause to

be administered by an officer authorised in that

behalf by the Commission an oath or affirmation to
every such witness ;

(c) to summon any person residing in Sri Lanka, to
attend any meeting of the Commission to give
evidence or produce any document or other thing
in his possession, and to examine him as a witness
or require him to produce any document or other

'. thing in his possession; .

(d) to admit notwithstanding any of the provisions of
the Evidence Ordinance, any evidence, whether —
written or oral, which might be inadmissible in
civil or criminal proceedings ;

(e) to admit or exclude the public from such inquiry
or investigation or any part thereof.

49. (1) A person who gives evidence before the —
Commission shall in respect of such evidence, be entitled
to all the privileges to which a witness giving evidence
before a court of law is entitled in respect of evidence
given by him before such court.

(2) No person shall in respect of any evidence written
or oral, given by that person to, or before the Commission
be liable to any action, prosecution or other proceeding,
civil or criminal in any court.

(3) Subject as hereinafter provided, no evidence of any
statement made or given by any person to, or before, the
Commission, shall be admissible against that person in any
action, prosecution or other proceeding, civil or criminal in
any court:

Proviled that, nothing in the preceding provisions of
this subsection shall—

(a) affect, or be deemed or construed to affect, any
prosecution or penalty for any offence under
Chapter XI of the Penal Code read with section 23
of this Act;


fMuman Rights Commission of Sri Lanka yy
Act, No. 21 of 1996

{b) prohibit, or be deemed or construed to prohibit the
publication or disclosure of the name, or of the
evidence or any part of the evidence of any
witness who gives evidence before the Commission

for the purposes of the prosecution of that witness

for any offence under Chapter XI of the Penal
Code. |

20. (1) Every summons shall be under the hand of the
Chairman of the Commission.

(2) Any summons may be served by delivering it to the
person named therein, or where that is not practicable, by

_feaving it at the last known place of abode of that person,
' or by registered post.

(3) Every person to whom a summons is served shall
attend before the Commission at the time and place
mentioned therein, and shall answer the questions put to
him by the Commission or produce such documents or
other things as are required of him and are in his possession
or power, according to the tenor of the summons.

21. (1) Every offence of contempt committed against
or in disrespect of, the authority of the Commission shall
be punishable by the Supreme Court as though it were an
offence of contempt committed against, or in disrespect of,
the authority of that Court, and the Supreme Court is
hereby vesied with jurisdiction to try every such offence.

(2) An act done or onimitted to be done in relation to
the Commission, whether in the presence of the Commission
or otherwise, shall constitute an offence of contempt
against, or in disrespect of, the authority of the Commission,
if such act would, if done or ommitted to be done in rela-
tion to the Supreme Court, have constituted an offence of

contempt against, or in disrespect of, the authority of such
Court. .

{3) If any person—

fa) fails without cause, which in ‘the opinion of
the Comm‘ssion is: reasonable, to ajipear
before the Commission at the time and place
mentioned in the summons served under this
Act; or

Punishment
for contempt,


12 Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 21 of 1996

(b) refuses to be sworn or affirmed, or having
being duly sworn or affirmed refuses or fails
without cause, which in the opinion of the.
Commission is reasonable, to answer any
question put to him touching the matters
being inquired into, or investigated by, the
Commission ; or

(c) refuses or fails without cause wh‘ch in the
opinion of tne Commission is reasonable, to.
comply with the requirements of a notice or
written order or direction issued or made to

_ him, by the Commission ; or

(d) upon whom a summons is served under this.
Act, refuses or fails without cause, which in.
the opinion of the Commission is reasonable,
to produce.and show to the Commission any
document or other thing, which is in his
possession or control and which is in the
opinion of the: Commission necessary for
arriving at the truth of the matters being
inquired into, or investigated, __

such person shall be guilty of the offence of contempt
against, or in disrespect of, the authority of the
Commission.

(4) Where the Commission determines that a person fs
guilty of an offence of contempt under subsection (2) or
subsection (3), against, or in disrespect of, its authority the
Commission may transm:t to the Supreme Court, a Certifi-
cate setting out such Zetermination; every such Certificate
shall he signed by the Chairman of the Commission.

(5) In any procedings for the punishment of an offence
of contempt which the Supreme Court may think fit to take
congnizance of, as provided in this section, any document
purporting to be a Certificate signed and transmitted to the
Court under subsection (4) shall—

(a) be received in evidence. and be deemed to be such &
certificate without further proof, unless the
contrary is proved, and

(b) be evidence that the determination set out in the
certificate was made by the Commission and of the
facts stated in the determination.


Humen Rights Commission of Sri Lanka 13
Act, No. 21 of 1996

(6) In any proceeding taken as provided in this section
for the punishment of any alleged offence of contempt
against, or in disrespect of, the authority of the Commission,
no member of the Commission shall, except with his own
consent, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
this Act, be summoned or examined as a witness,

PART II

Star¥ oF THE COMMISSION

22. (1) There shall be appointed

a Secretary to the
Commission. ;

(2) There may be appointed such officers and servants
as May be necessary to assist the Commission in the
discharge of its functions under this Act.

23. The members of the Ccmmission and the officers and
servants appointed to assist the Commission shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code
and every inquiry or investigation conducted under this

Act, shali be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the
meaning of that Code.

24. The Commission may delegate to any officer appoint-
ed to assist the Commission any of its powers, and the
person to whom such powers are so delegated may exercise
those powers subject to the direction of the Commission.

25. (1) At the request of the Commission, any offier in
the pubtic service may, with the consent of that officer and
of the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Public Administration, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Commission, for such period as
may be determined by the Cornmission, with like consent,

or with like consent be permanantly appointed to such
staff. ;

(2) Where any officer in the Public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National _ Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to, such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is

permanantly appointed to the staff of the Commission, the
provisions of subsection (3) of section’ 14 of the National

Appointment

Members

of the
Commission
deemed to be
public
servants.

Delegatiom
of powers.

Appointment
of public
officers to
the staff

of the
Commission.

Transport Commission Act, No. 37 sf 1591 shall, mutate —

mutandis, apply to, and in relation to, such officer.


Protection
af action.

14 Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 21 of 1996

(4) Where the Commission employs a person who hag
agreed to serve to the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Commission, shall be regarded as
service to the Government for the purpose of discharging
the obligations of that person under such agreement.

26. (1) No proceedings civil or criminal, shall be
instituted against any member of the Commission or any
officer or servant appointed to assist the Commission,
other than for contempt, or against any other person assist- ~
ing the Commission in any other way, for any act which in
good faith is done or omitted to be done, by him, as such
member or officer or servant or other person.

(2) A member of the Commission or an officer or servant
appointed to assist the Commission shall net be required to
produce in any court, any document received by, or te
disclose to any court, any matter or thing coming to the
notice of, the Commission in the course of any inquiry or
investigation conducted by the Commission under this Act,
except as may be necessary for the purposes of proceedings
for contempt or for an offence under this Act.

(3) No proceedings civil or criminal, shai! be
instituted in any court against any member of the. Com-
mission in respect of any report made by the Commission
under this Act or against any other person in respect of the
publication by such person of a substantially true account
of such report. ,

(4) Any expenses incurred by the Commission fin any
suit or prosecution brought by, or against, the Commission
before any court, shall be paid out of the funds of the
Commission and any costs paid to, or recovered by, the
Commission in any such suit or prosecution, shall be
credited to the fund of the Commission.

(5) Any expense incurred by any member of the Cora~
mission or any officer or servant thereof or any person
appointed to assist the Commission, in any suit or prosect~
tion brought against him in any court in respect of any act ©
which is done, or purported to be done, by him under this
Act or on the direction of the Commission shall, if the
court holds that the act was done in good faith, be paid
out of the funds of ihe Commission, unless such expense is
recovered by him in such suit or prosecution,


Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka 15

Act, No. 21 of 1996

27. The Commission shall be deemed to be a scheduled
anstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

PART IV

GENERAL

28. (1) Where a person is arrested or detained under
the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act,
No, 46 of 1979 or a regulation made under the Public Security
Ordjnunee, (Cnapter 40) it shail be the duty of the person
making such arrest or order of detention, as the case may
be, to forthwith and in any case, not later than forty-eight
hours from the time of such arrest or detention,
inform: tne Ccmmission of. such arrest or
deteaticn as the case may be and the place at which the
person so orrested or detained is being held in custody or
detention. Where a person so held in custody or deterntion
ig released or transferred to another place of detenticn, it
shali be the duty of the person making the order for such
relesse or transfer, as the case may be, to inform the Com-
mission of such release or transfer, as the case may be, and
in the case of a transfer, to inform the Commission of the
location of the new place of detention.

(2) Any person. authorised by the Commission in.
writing may enter at any time, any place of detention,
police station, prison or any other place in which any
person is detained by a judicial order or otherwise, and
make such examinations therein or make such inquiries
from any person found therein, as may be necessary to
ascertain the conditions of detention of the persons
detained therein. | .

(3) Any person on whom a duty is imposed by sub-
section (1), and who wilfully omits to inform the Commis-
ston as required by subsection (1), or who resists or
obstructs an officer authorised under subsection (1) in the
exercise by that officer of the powers conferred on him by
tlhat subsection, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate, be liable to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or to a

fme not exceeding five thousand rupees, or to both such.

fine and imprisonment. .

:

Commission
deemed to
be a
scheduled
institution
within the
meaning

of the
Bribery Act

of arrest
&e., and

power of
Commission ts.
inspect tw
obtain
informs tis.


Funds of the .

Commission.

Commission
to report.

Regulations.

16 Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 21 of 1996

29. (1) The State shall provide the Commission with
adequate funds to enable the Commission to discharge the
functions assigned to it by this Act.

(2) The Commission shall cause proper accounts to be

kept of its income and expenditure, and assets and liabili-
ties.

(3) The financial year of the Commission shall be the
calendar year.

(4) Article 154 of the Constitution shall apply to the
audit and accounts of the Commsision.

30. The Commission shall submit an annual report to
Parliament of all its activities during the year to which the
report relates. Such report shall contain a list of all
matters referred to it, and the action taken in respect of
them along w th the recommendations of the Commission
in respect of each matter. The Commission may, whenever
it considers it necessary to do so, submit periodic or
special reports to Parliament in respect. of any particular
matter or matters referred to it, and the action taken in
respect thereof.

32. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles
and provisions of this Act, or in respect of any matter which
is required by this Act to be prescribed, or in respect of
which regulations are required to be made.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may make regula-
tions prescribing the procedure to be followed in the conduct
of investigations under this Act.

-(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette, and shall come into operation en
the date of such publication, or on such later date as may
be specified in the regulation. |

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soan
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be
brought before Parliament for approval. Any regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded
es from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice
to anything previously done thereunder.


Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka 17
Act, No. 21 of 1996

(8) Notification of the date of which any regulation is so
deemed ts be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

82. In the event of any inconsistency between — the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

33. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

_ “fundamental right” means a fundamental right
declared and recognised by the Constitution;

i head of the institution” in relation to—

(a) a public officer serving in a Government
department, means the head of that depart-
ment, or where such public officer is the head
of that department means the Secretary to
the Ministry to which that department has
been assigned ;

(b) a public officer who is serving in a Ministry
means the Secretary to the Ministry, or where
such public officer is the Secretary means the
Minister in charge of that Ministry;

(c) a scheduled public officer, means the Judicial
Service Commission, appointed under
Article 112 of the Constitution ;

{d) any other public officer, means the principal
executive officer under whose _ general
direction and control that public officer is
serving ;

(e) an officer of a public corporation, local
authority or other like institution, means the
principal executive officer of that public
corporation, local authority or other like
institution, or where such officer fs the
principal executive officer of that public
corporation, local authority or institution,
means the Secretary to the Ministry under
which such public corporation, local authority
er institution functions;

“uma. right” means a right declared and recognised by
the International Covenant on Civil and Politica]

Rights and the International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights;

Sinhala text
to prevail
in case of
inconsistency.

Interpre-
tation.


18 Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
_ Act, No. 21 of 1996

“ tustitution ” includes a Government department, publi
corporation, statutory board or commission, - local
authority, Government owned business undertaking
and a company, the majority of shares of which are
held by the Government ; |

“iccal authority ” means any Municipal Council, Urbas
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and _ includes - any
authority created or established by or under any
law, to exercise, perform and discharge powers,
duties and functions corresponding or similar to,
the powers, duties and functions exercised,
performed and discharged by any such Council or
Sabha ;

* sublic corporation” means any corporation, board or
other body which was, cr is established by or
under any written law other than that Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982, with funds or capital wholly or
partly provided by the Government, by way o?
cant, loan or otherwise.
