» PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
2nd Session 1957-58 jt
1h
J ssiins
IS {[ ga)
(eral)
Neen s i
6
Registration of Documents
(Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1958
Date of Assent: May 9, 1958
Printed on the Orders of Government
Prinjed at the Govamneses Press, Cexton, Tobe
Printed 44, Oe go Gatltee B uarcaions Butens, Covomo
eral Subseripion including Bile) Re, 2, payable. in
Anu Sue aE, Pagvemtntnet"PUnLiention
Bere ge et io, Rect, Colombo t
Price: 15 cents Postage: 10 cents


Registration of Documents (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 22 of 1958

(g. DO. 45/53.
gw ACT TO AMEND tHE RecisteaTion OF DOCUMENTS cheper 301.
, Onpiwance, we

[Date of Assent: May 9, 1958)
BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
and the House of Representatives of Ceylon in
this present Parliament assembled, and ‘by the
authority of the same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Registration of Short title
Documents (Amendment) Act. No. 22 of 1958.

2. (1) Section 15 of the Registration of Documents Awendwens of
Ordinance (hereinafter referred to as the “' principal gie 45.
enactment”) is hereby amended, in sub-section (1)
thereof, as follows :—

(a) in paragraph (@) of that sub-section by the
substitution, for the words “ thereof;
and ’’, of the word “ thereof; ”’;

(0) in paragraph (b) of that sub-section by the
substitution, for the word “ Registrar.”’,
of the words ‘‘ Registrar; and’; and

(©) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph
(0) of that sub-section, of the following
paragraph :—

“(c) where a new division of a Registrar

is created wholly or partly out of a
division (hereinafter referred to as
the '‘‘ old division”) of another
Registrar, then, in regard to lands
which before the date of creation of
the new division were wholly or
partly within the old division which
on and after that date consti-
tuteb the new division or, as the case
may be, within such part of the old
division as on and after that date
constitutes a part of the new
division,—

(i) such of the folios of the book
(hereinafter referred to as
the ‘‘old book”) allotted
under section 13 to the old

13 a.m siero-arsens


‘ 4 Registration of Documents (Amendinent)
Act, No. 22 of 1958
division as contain regis
tions of instruments affectigi,
any of those lands shall
deemed to form part of iit
book (hereinafter referred
as the "' new book ”) allotiat
under that section to the ney:
division; and :
(ii) a registration of an instrumesy
alfecting any such land made
in the new book and registra,
tions of instruments aflecti
that land made in the of
book shall be connected by-:
cross references made in the
prescribed manner in thy
new book and the old book.”,
(2) The amendments made in section 15 of the
principal enactment by sub-section (1) of this section
shall be deemed to have come into force on the dates
of commencement of the principal enactment.
Awendaeot of 8,‘ The following new heading is hereby substi.
Uanek Fy oe tuted for the heading “* REGISTRATION OF BILLS
‘belmrecnat” — OF SALE.” occurring in Chapter IV of the principal
enactment : —
“REGISTRATION OF INSTRUMENTS
CREATING PLEDGES, MORTGAGES
OR BILLS OF SALE OF MOVABLE
PROPERTY.”
jaepameot of 4. The following new heading is hereby substituted
Ghapee ¥ ot for the heading ‘ PROVISIONS APPLICABLE
the prices! = TQ INSTRUMENTS AFFECTING LAND AND
BILLS OF SALE.” occurring in Chapter V of the
principal enactment :—
“ PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO INSTRU-
H MENTS AFFECTING LAND OR
| PLEDGES, MORTGAGES OR BILLS
OF SALE OF MOVABLE PRO-
PERTY.”
Amendacot of 5. Section 40 of the principal enactment is hereby
Fee amended as follows: —
Cien (1) by the substitution, for the words: ‘* volume
of duplicates or copies "’, of the words
“volume or any part of ‘any volume of
duplicates or copies "";


Registration of Documents (Amendment) 5
Act, No. 28 of 1958

(2) by the substitution, for the words ‘* volume
of any book ”, of the words “ volume or
any part of any volume of any book ””;

(3) by the substitution, for the words “copy
thereof" of the words “"wopy of the
volume ot part so damaged or in danger
of becoming illegible ”;

(4) by the substitution, for the words ‘‘ the
volume so damaged ’’, of the words “ the
volume or part so damaged ”’;

3) in the marginal note to that section by the
substitution, for the word ‘ volumes.””,
of the words “* volumes or parts thereof.””-
