PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 23, 2017

[Certified on 21st February, 2017]

Printed on the Order of Government

MEDICAL (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 1 OF 2017

1Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2017

Short title.

2PL 0101892,961 (09/2016)

[Certified on 21st February, 2017]

L.D.O. 64/2007

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MEDICAL ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 105)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1. This Act may be cited as the Medical (Amendment)Act, No. 1 of 2017.

2. Section 20 of the Medical Ordinance (Chapter 105)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended, by the insertion immediately after subsection (5B)thereof of the following subsection:

(5C) The registrar shall enter in a separate part ofthe register mentioned in paragraph (b) of subsection(1) the name of every person who proves his claim tobe provisionally registered as a dentist under section43A, and, if that person is registered thereafter as adentist under section 43, the registrar shall strike offthe name of that person from such part of the aforesaidregister, which contains the names of the personsprovisionally registered as dentists..

3. Section 43 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words by a Degree Awarding Institute. of thewords and figures by a Degree Awarding Instituteand holds a certificate granted by the MedicalCouncil under subsection (3) of section 43A.;

(2)in subsection (1A) by the repeal of paragraph (c)thereof and the substitution therefor of the followingparagraphs:

(c)has passed the special examinationprescribed in that behalf by the MedicalCouncil; and

Amendment ofsection 20 ofChapter 105.

Amendment ofsection 43 of theprincipalenactment.

Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 20172

(d)holds a certificate granted by the MedicalCouncil under subsection (3) of section43A,;

(3)by the substitution for subsection (2) thereof of thefollowing:

(2) The fee for registration as a dentist shall be aprescribed amount payable on application to theregistrar..

4.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 43 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 43A and 43B thereof:

43A. (1) A person shall make an applicationto the Medical Council for provisionalregistration as a dentist, solely for the purposeof acquiring experience required by theMedical Council for obtaining a certificateunder subsection (3), if he

(a)is of good character;

(b)is a citizen of Sri Lanka; and

(c)(i)holds a Degree of Bachelor ofDental Surgery of the Universityof Ceylon or a correspondingUniversity or a Degree AwardingInstitute; or

(ii)has passed the examinationnecessary for obtaining the Degreeof Bachelor of Dental Surgery ofthe University of Ceylon or acorresponding University or aDegree Awarding Institute, but has

Provisionalregistrationof dentists.

Insertion of newsections 43A and43B in theprincipalenactment.

3Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2017

not obtained that degree owing toa delay on the part of thatUniversity or Degree AwardingInstitute in conferring that degreeon him or has not obtained thatdegree, owing to the fact that hehas not completed the period ofinternship required for obtainingthat degree; or

(d)(i)holds a Degree of Bachelor ofDental Surgery or an equivalentqualification from any universityor dental school of any countryother than Sri Lanka, which isrecognized by the MedicalCouncil for the purposes of thissection having regard to thestandard of education in dentistryof such university or dentalschool; or

(ii)has passed the examinationnecessary for obtaining the Degreeof Bachelor of Dental Surgery oran equivalent qualification fromany university or dental school ofany country other than Sri Lanka,which is recognized by theMedical Council for the purposesof this section, having regard tothe standard of education indentistry of such university ordental school but has not obtainedthat degree, owing to the fact thathe has not completed the periodof internship required forobtaining that degree and the

Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 20174

Director-General of HealthServices has permitted him tocomplete the period of internshipin Sri Lanka; and

(iii)has passed the special examinationprescribed in that behalf by theMedical Council.

(2) The prescribed fee for provisionalregistration as a dentist shall be paid to theregistrar on application for registration.

(3) (a) Where a person who is provisionallyregistered as a dentist applies to the MedicalCouncil for a certificate under this subsectionand the Medical Council is satisfied, onproduction of a certificate of internship and anevaluation certificate acceptable to theMedical Council, that he

(i)has been engaged in employment forthe prescribed period in one or moreapproved hospitals or institutions;

(ii)has during his employment asmentioned in sub-paragraph (i), beenengaged for an approved period in thepractice of dentistry in any approvedfield; and

(iii)has rendered satisfactory service whileso employed,

the Medical Council shall grant, in theprescribed form a certificate to the effect thatthe Council is satisfied, that such person hasobtained necessary experience for registrationas a dentist under section 43.

5Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2017

(b) Any person who holds a degreespecified in subsection (1) of section 43 andhas been employed in the practice of dentistryin one or more approved hospitals orinstitutions, within Sri Lanka or outside for aprescribed period, may be granted a certificateunder paragraph (a) by the Medical Council, ifthe Medical Council is satisfied that suchperson has, during his employment, beenengaged in the practice of dentistry in anyapproved field, as is required by this Ordinance.

(c) For the purposes of this section

an approved hospital or institutionmeans a hospital or institutionapproved by the MedicalCouncil from among a list ofhospitals and institutions,submitted to it by the Director-General of Health Services;

approved period in relation to thepractice of dentistry in approvedfields, means a period approvedby the Medical Council havingregard to the medical needs of thecountry, in relation to thosefields;

approved fields mean Oral andMaxillofacial Surgery,Restorative Dentistry andOrthodontics;

certificate of internship in relationto a person provisionallyregistered as a dentist, means acertificate signed by the head of

Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 20176

the approved hospital orinstitution in which he wasemployed in a resident capacitywhich specifies the period forwhich he was so employed;

evaluation certificate in relation toa person who is provisionallyregistered as a dentist, means acertificate signed by the head ofthe approved hospital orinstitution in which he wasemployed in a resident capacitywhich specifies the period forwhich he was engaged in thepractice of dentistry in anyapproved field and includes anevaluation of the performance ofsuch person in each such field.

43B. Every person provisionally registeredas a dentist under section 43A shall have theright to

(a) practice denistry in the approved fields,for the purpose only of such employmentas is mentioned in subsection (3) ofsection 43A;

(b) recover in a court of law suchremuneration or charges as he may beentitled to under the terms of suchemployment; and

(c) use any name or title implying aqualification to practice dentistry,

but shall not be entitled to any of the otherrights, privileges or immunities of a dentistregistered under section 43..

5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Rights ofpersonsprovisionallyregistered asdentists.

7Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2017

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.