PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 19 OF 2019

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st of October, 2019]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 01, 2019

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 19 of 2019

Short title.

[Certified on 31st of October, 2019]

L.D.O. 5/2019

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 2019.

2.Section 6 of the Value Added Tax Act, No.14 of 2002(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

6. (1) The value of goods imported, otherthan the goods as prescribed by regulation shallbe the aggregate of

(a)the value of the goods determined forthe purpose of custom duty increasedby ten per centum; and

(b)the amount of any custom duty payablein respect of such goods with theaddition of any surcharge, cess, anyPorts and Airports Development Levypayable under the Finance Act, No. 11of 2002, and any excise duty payableunder the Excise (Special Provisions)Act, No. 13 of 1989 on such goods.

(2) The Minister may, from time to time,prescribe by regulation, the manner by whichthe value of goods specified in the regulationmade under subsection (1) is to be determined.Any such regulation made by the Minister shallbe approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and

Amendment ofsection 6 of Act,No.14 of 2002.

The valueof goodsimported.

2Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 19 of 2019

published in the Gazette. Such regulation shallbe placed before the Parliament for approvaland shall be effective only upon it beingapproved by the Parliament..

3.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) ofthat section and the substitution therefor of the following:-

(a) goods shall be zero rated where the supplier of suchgoods has exported such goods;

For the purpose of this paragraph, any goodssupplied by any construction contractor to beutilized on a construction project carried out bysuch contractor outside Sri Lanka, shall be deemedto be goods exported by such contractor; and.

4.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in paragraph (a) of the first proviso to subsection(1) thereof, by the repeal of subparagraphs (iii) and(iv) and the substitution therefor of the following:-

(iii)rupees seventy five for any periodcommencing on or after August 16, 2018but prior to November 1, 2019 and rupeeshundred for any period commencing on orafter November 1, 2019, for each suchgarment other than panties, socks, briefs andboxer shorts identified under theHarmonized Commodity Description andCoding System Numbers for custompurposes;

(iv)rupees seventy five for any periodcommencing on or after August 16, 2018but prior to November 1, 2019 and rupeeshundred for any period commencing on or

Amendment ofsection22 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection7 of theprincipalenactment.

3Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 19 of 2019

after November 1, 2019, for six pieces ofpanties, socks, briefs and boxer shorts,identified under the HarmonizedCommodity Description and CodingSystem Numbers for custom purposes,.

(2)in the fourth proviso to subsection (3) thereof, bythe substitution for the words goods somanufactured. of the following:

goods so manufactured:

Provided further, that any person, who suppliescondominium housing units and accounts for theoutput tax at the rate of six per centum, shall beentitled to deduct as input tax in relation to suchsupplies as is allowable under this Act only at therate of five per centum even where such person haspaid the input tax at a higher rate than the rate offive per centum on the value of such suppliesreceived by him..

5.Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1A) thereof by the substitution forthe words and figures January 1, 2013 of the words andfigures January 1, 2013, but prior to October 1, 2019.

6.First Schedule to the principal enactment is herebyamended in PART II thereof as follows:-

(1)in item (xi) of paragraph (b) of that PART

(a) by the substitution in sub-item (b) for thewords and figures on or after November 1,2016 but prior to the date of commencementof this (Amendment) Act by any person ofthe words and figures on or after November1, 2016 but prior to April 1, 2019, by anyperson;

Amendment ofsection26 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

4Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 19 of 2019

(b) by the substitution in sub-item (c) for the wordsrupees fifteen million. of the following:-

rupees twenty five million; or

(iii) is relating to a sale of anycondominium housing unit andwhere there is an agreement to sellin respect of such supply which isexecuted in terms of the NotariesOrdinance (Chapter 107) prior tothe date of commencement of this(Amendment) Act; or

(iv) is a supply of a condominiumhousing unit of a condominiumhousing project in respect ofwhich a certificate of conformityhas been issued by the relevantLocal Authority prior to the dateof commencement of this(Amendment) Act in respect ofsuch supply,

with effect from April 1, 2019.;

(2)by the repeal of item (xxvi) of paragraph (b) andthe substitution therefor of the follwing:-

(xxvi) locally produced dairy products otherthan powdered milk containing addedsugar or other sweetening matter, outof locally produced fresh milk in so faras such milk is produced in Sri Lankaand locally produced rice productscontaining rice produced in Sri Lankaand, with effect from November 1, 2019locally produced rice bran oil made outof locally produced rice;.

7.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

5Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 19 of 2019

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.