PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CONVENTION ON PREVENTING ANDCOMBATING TRAFFICKING IN WOMEN ANDCHILDREN FOR PROSTITUTIONACT, No. 30 OF 2005

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th September, 2005]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 8.25Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2005

1Convention on Preventing and CombatingTrafficking in Women and Children forProstitution Act, No. 30 of 2005

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Preamble.

[Certified on 20th September, 2005]

L.D.O. 49/2003.

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE SAARC CONVENTION ON PREVENTING AND

COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN WOMEN AND CHILDREN FOR PROSTITUTION

AND TO PROVIDE FOR FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO

WHEREAS a Convention on Preventing and CombatingTrafficking in Women and Children for Prostitution was adoptedat Kathmandu by the the South Asian Association for RegionalCo-operation (SAARC) in January, Two Thousand and Two :

AND WHEREAS the Government of Sri Lanka became asignatory to the aforesaid Convention on the fifth day ofJanuary, Two Thousand and Two :

AND WHEREAS it is obligatory for the Government ofSri Lanka to make legal provision to give effect to theprovisions of the aforesaid Convention in Sri Lanka :

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Convention on Preventingand Combating Trafficking in Women and Children forProstitution Act, No. 30 of 2005 and shall come into operationon such date as the Minister by Order published in the Gazettecertifies as the date on which the Convention on Preventingand Combating Trafficking in Women and Children forProstitution signed at Kathmandu on January 05, 2002(hereinafter referred to as the Convention), enters into forcein respect of Sri Lanka.

2.(1) Any person who

(i)keeps, maintains or manages ;

(ii)knowingly finances or takes part in the financingof ; or

Offence oftrafficking ofwomen andchildren forprostitution.

2Convention on Preventing and CombatingTrafficking in Women and Children forProstitution Act, No. 30 of 2005

(iii)knowingly lets or rents,

a building or other place or any part thereof for the purposeof trafficking of women and children for prostitution or anymatter connected thereto, shall be guilty of an offence underthis Act.

(2) Any person who

(a)attempts to commit ;

(b)aids or abets in the commission of ;

(c)conspires to commit,

an offence under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act.

(3) (a) Any person who is guilty of an offence undersubsections (1) or (2) of this section shall be punished withimprisonment of either description for a period not less thanthree years and not exceeding fifteen years and be liable to afine.

(b) The Court may recover compensation to be paid to thevictim by way of a fine imposed under paragraph (a), takinginto consideration the nature of the offence. A further term ofimprisonment which may extend to five years may be imposedin the case of a failure to pay compensation.

(c) In case the offence is committed on a subsequentoccasion, the offender shall be punished with twice thepunishment and fine as is specified in respect of the offence.

(4) In this section abet and conspiracy shall have thesame meaning as in sections 100, 101 and 113A respectively,of the Penal Code.

3Convention on Preventing and CombatingTrafficking in Women and Children forProstitution Act, No. 30 of 2005

3.(1) The High Court of Sri Lanka holden in Colomboor the High Court established by Article 154P of theConstitution for the Western Province holden in Colombo,shall, notwithstanding anything in any other law, haveexclusive jurisdiction to hear, try and punish the offencesunder this Act.

(2) Where an act constituting an offence under this Act iscommitted outside Sri Lanka, the High Court referred to insubsection (1) shall have jurisdiction to try such offence as ifit were committed within Sri Lanka, if

(a)the person who committed such act is present inSri Lanka ;

(b)such act is committed by a citizen of Sri Lanka or bya stateless person who has his habitual residence inSri Lanka ; or

(c)the person in relation to whom the offence is allegedto have been committed is a citizen of Sri Lanka.

4. Where an offence under subsections (1) and (2) ofsection 2 is committed

(a)by a person (hereinafter referred to as an offender),who

(i)is a member of, or is involved in the activities of,an organized criminal group which is involvedin the trafficking of women and children;

(ii)is involved in other international organizedcriminal activities ;

(iii)has inflicted violence or used arms in thecommission of the offence ;

(iv)is holding public office and by virtue thereofis misusing fully the powers and authoritiesof that office ;

High Court to tryoffences underthis Act.

AggravatingCircumstances.

4Convention on Preventing and CombatingTrafficking in Women and Children forProstitution Act, No. 30 of 2005

(v)is involved in victimisation or trafficking ofchildren ; and

(vi)is a previously convicted person particularlyof similar offences ; or

(b)in a custodial institution or in an educationalinstitution or social facility or in their immediatevicinity or in other places to which children andstudents visit for educational, sports, social andcultural activities,

such facts shall be taken into account by the High Court inexercising its jurisdiction over the offences referred to insubsections (1) and (2) of section 2 having regard to thegrave nature of the offences committed.

5. Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka isarrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall beentitled

(a)to communicate without delay, with the nearestappropriate representative, of the State of which heis a national or which is otherwise entitled to protecthis rights, or if he is stateless person, with the nearestappropriate representative of the state in the territoryof which he was habitually resident ; and

(b)to be visited by a representative of that State.

6.The Extradition Law No. 8 of 1977 is hereby amendedby the insertion immediately before Part B of the Schedule tothat Law, of the following item :

(47)An offence covered by the SAARC Convention onPreventing and Combating Trafficking in Womenand Children for Prostitution Act, No. 30 of 2005..

Rights of certainpersons arrestedfor the offencesmade under thisAct.

Amendment tothe ExtraditionLaw No. 8 of1977.

5Convention on Preventing and CombatingTrafficking in Women and Children forProstitution Act, No. 30 of 2005

7.Where there is an extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State inforce on the date on which this Act comes into operation,such arrangement shall be deemed, for the purposes of theExtradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include provision forextradition in respect of the offences specified in the Scheduleto this Act.

8.Where there is no extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State theMinister may, by Order published in the Gazette, treat theConvention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of1977, as an extradition arrangement made by the Governmentof Sri Lanka with that Convention State, providing forextradition in respect of the offences specified in the Scheduleto this Act.

9.Where a request is made to the Government ofSri Lanka by or on behalf of the Government of a ConventionState for the extradition of any person accused or convictedof an offence described in the Schedule to this Act, theMinister shall, on behalf of the Government of Sri Lankaforthwith notify the Government of the requesting State ofthe measures that Government of Sri Lanka has taken, orproposes to take, for the prosecution or extradition of thatperson for that offence.

10.(1) The provisions of the Mutual Assistance inCriminal Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall, wherever it isnecessary for the investigation and prosecution of an offenceunder section 2 of this Act, be applicable in respect of theproviding of assistance as between the Government ofSri Lanka and other States who are either Commonwealthcountries specified by the Minister by Order under section 2of the aforesaid Act or Non-Commonwealth countries withwhich the Government of Sri Lanka has entered into anagreement in terms of the aforesaid Act.

Existingextraditionarrangementswith conventionStates deemed toprovide foroffences in theSchedule.

Minister maytreat conventionas an extraditionarrangementbetween SriLanka andcertain conven-tion States, inrespect ofoffences in theSchedule.

Assistance toConventionStates.

Duty of Ministerto notifyrequesting Stateof measurestaken againstpersons forwhose extradi-tion a request ismade.

6Convention on Preventing and CombatingTrafficking in Women and Children forProstitution Act, No. 30 of 2005

(2) In the case of a country which is neither aCommonwealth country specified by the Minister by Orderunder section 2 of the aforesaid Act nor a Non-Commonwealthcountry with which the Government of Sri Lanka enteredinto an agreement in terms of the aforesaid Act, then it shallbe the duty of the Government to afford all such assistanceto, and may through the Minister request all such assistancefrom, a convention country, as may be necessary for theinvestigation and prosecution of an offence under section 2,to the extent required for the discharge of its obligationsunder the SAARC Convention (including assistance relatingto the taking of evidence and statements, the serving ofprocess and the conduct of searches).

(3) The grant of assistance to a Convention State may bemade subject to such terms and conditions as the Ministerthinks fit.

11.(1) The Minister may from time to time issue suchgeneral or special directions as are necessary for theimplementation of the principles and provisions of theConvention as are embodied in this Act.

(2) The Minister shall, where necessary, issue suchdirections as may be necessary to provide the victims oftrafficking with accommodation and shelter and otherfacilities where necessary in the institutions established underany written law for such purpose.

12.The Minister shall take such measures and from timeto time issue such directions or guidelines as are necessary

(a)to create awareness among the law enforcementagencies and the judiciary of the offences under theConvention;

(b)to appoint such officers to any regional task forcethat may be established for the purpose ofimplementation of the provisions of this Act ;

Minister to issuedirections.

Minister maytake additionalmeasures tocombattrafficking.

7Convention on Preventing and CombatingTrafficking in Women and Children forProstitution Act, No. 30 of 2005

(c)to share information in respect of the sourcesinvolved in trafficking and their modus operandithrough the different modes of travel. (Informationin this paragraph shall include the specific detailsrecorded in the course of investigation) ;

(d)to take necessary measures for the purpose ofmonitoring the activities of the institutions involvedin foreign employment to prevent women andchildren being trafficked in the guise of beingprovided employment ;

(e)to promote awareness by way of media exposure orother measures to publicize the problem oftrafficking in women and children and its underlyingcauses including the projection of negative imagesof women;

(f)to take such other measures to focus on theprevention and development of efforts being takenin areas known to be source areas for trafficking;

(g)to take steps to repatriate the victims of cross bordertrafficking, and the provision of legal advice andhealth care where necessary;

(h)to establish on its own or with the assistance of non-governmental organizations such places orinstitutions of shelter and rehabilitation for thevictims of trafficking; and

(i)to make every endeavour to provide the victimswith counselling and job training.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

14.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

child means a person who has not attained the age ofeighteen years;

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

8Convention on Preventing and CombatingTrafficking in Women and Children forProstitution Act, No. 30 of 2005

persons subjected to trafficking means women andchildren victimized or forced into prostitution bythe traffickers by deception, threat, coercion,kidnapping, sale, fraudulent marriage or any otherunlawful means;

prostitution means the sexual exploitation or abuse ofpersons for commercial purposes;

repatriation means return to the country of origin of thepersons subjected to trafficking across internationalfrontiers;

traffickers means any person, agency or institutionengaged in any form of trafficking;

trafficking means the moving, selling or buying ofwomen and children for prostitution within andoutside a country for monetary or otherconsiderations with or without the consent of theperson being subjected to trafficking.

SCHEDULE(Sections 7,8, and 9)

(a) Keeping, maintaining or managing of any building or otherplace or part thereof to be used for the purpose of trafficking inwomen and children;

(b) Knowingly finances the use of any building or other place orpart thereof to be used for the purpose of trafficking in womenand children;

(c) Taking part in the financing of any building or other place orpart thereof to be used for the purpose of trafficking in womenand children;

(d) Knowingly letting or renting of any building or other place orpart thereof to be used for the purpose of trafficking in womenand children;

(e) Attempt to commit any of the offences set out in paragraphs (a)to (d);

(f) Aiding or abetting the commission of, any of the offences setout in paragraphs (a) to (d);

(g) Conspiring to commit any of the offences set out in paragraphs(a) to (d).

9Convention on Preventing and CombatingTrafficking in Women and Children forProstitution Act, No. 30 of 2005

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.