PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.50Postage : Rs. 4.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 20th March , 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of March 21, 2003

TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OFWORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 12 OF 2003

Termination of Employment of Workmen (SpecialProvisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 20031

[Certified on 20th March, 2003]

L.D.O. 53/2002.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OFWORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 45 OF 1971

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Termination ofEmployment of Workmen (Special Provisions) (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 2003, and shall come into operation on suchdate as the Minister may appoint by Order published in theGazette (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

2.Section 2 of the Termination of Employment ofWorkmen (Special Provisions) Act, No. 45 of 1971,(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) asamended by Act, No. 51 of 1988, is hereby further amendedas follows :

(1)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor paragraph (a) of that subsection, of the followingparagraph :

(a)such approval may be granted or refused onapplication made in that behalf by suchemployer, a copy of which application shall beserved on the workman concerned, who shallbe afforded an opportunity of being heard;;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection(2) of that section, of the following newsubsection :

(2A)It shall be the duty of the Commissioneron receipt of an application under subsection (2), tocall upon the workman concerned within three daysof the receipt of such application, by theCommissioner, to submit his response to suchapplication within seven days of the receipt of the sameby such workmen :

2H 168625,600 (10/2002)

Amendment ofsection 2 of ActNo. 45 of 1971.

Short title anddate of operation.

Termination of Employment of Workmen (SpecialProvisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 20032

Provided however, that where the workman fails torespond within the above period, the Commissionermay grant a further period not exceeding seven days,upon his being satisfied that such failure was due tocircumstances beyond the control of such workman.;

3.Section 6A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section.

4.Section 6B of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words within six months of the termination, of thewords within three months of the termination.

5.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 6B and shall have effect as sections6C and section 6D of the principal enactment :

6C. Where the Commissioner orders any sumof money to be paid to a workman undersubsection (2) of section 6 or section 6A of thisAct, the Magistrates Court having jurisdiction inthe area where such workman is or was employedby his employer shall, if satisfied on the writtenpetition of such workman that payment of suchmoney has not been made within the timespecified in that behalf by the Commissioner,make order that the amount of such money shallbe paid by such employer to such workman andthat such amount if not paid in compliance withthe order, be recovered in like manner as a fineimposed by the Court, and the amount sorecovered shall be paid to such workman.

6D. Any sum of money to be paid ascompensation to a workman on a decision or ordermade by the Commissioner under this Act, shallbe computed in accordance with such formula asshall be determined by the Commissioner, inconsultation with the Minister, by Order publishedin the Gazette..

Amendment ofsection 6A of theprincipalenactment.Amendment ofsection 6B of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsections 6C and 6Din the principalenactment.

Magistrate tomake orderwhere moneyhas not beenpaid on anorder madeunder section6 or 6A.

Computationof anycompensationpayable.

Termination of Employment of Workmen (SpecialProvisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 20033

6.Section 7 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 51 of 1988 is hereby further amended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words order made under section 6, of thewords order made under subsection (2) ofsection 6,; and

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words order made under section 6, of thewords order made under subsection (2) ofsection 6,.

7.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Termination of Employment of Workmen (SpecialProvisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 20034

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.