PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

CIVIL ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL
CHILD ABDUCTION
ACT, No. 10 OF 2001

[Certified on 9th August , 2001)

Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part [I of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka of August 10, 2001

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

YO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

oi pes. £3,75 Postage : Rs. 5.25


Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction
Aet, No. 10 of 2001

[Certified on 9th August, 2001 |
L.D.-~-O. 28/98.

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE HAGUE CONVENTION ON THE CIVIL
ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL CHILD ABDUCTION ADOPTED AT THE
HAaAGue ON 25TH OctoseR, 1980 ; TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE
RETURN OF CHILDREN WRONGFULLY REMOVED FROM Sri LANKA
OR THEIR COUNTRY OF HABITUAL RESIDENCE AND RETAINED IN
ANY SPECIFIED COUNTRY OR SRt LANKA 3; TO EXTEND THE
JURISDICTION OF THE HIGH COURT OF A PROVINCE TO HEAR
APPLICATIONS FOR THE RETURN OF CHILDREN WRONGFULLY
REMOVED OR RETAINED ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Convention on the Civil Aspects of
International Child Abduction was adopted at the Hague on
October 25, 1980 :

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka acceded to the aforesaid
Convention :

AND WHEREAS it is necessary to make legal provision to
enable Sri Lanka to fulfill its obligations under the aforesaid
Convention :

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Convention on the Civil
Aspects of International Child Abduction Act, No. 10 of 2001
and shatl come into operation on such date as the Minister by
Order published in Gazette, certifies as the date on which the
Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child
Abduction signed at the Hague on October 25, 1980
(hereinafter referred to as “the Convention’) enters into force
in respect of Sri Lanka.

2. The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette.
specify the countries in respect of which the provisions of
this Act shall apply and the date with cffect from which such

2—H 010723-5,550 (2001/02)

Preamble.

Short Title and
date of operation,

Application.


Wrongful removal!
or retention.

Central Authority,

2 Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction
Act, No. 10 of 2001

provisions shall so apply. A country in respect of which an
Order is made under this section is hereinafter referred to as
“a specified country”.

3. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the removal to, or
retention. in, Sri Lanka of a child shall be deemed 1o be
wrongful where—

(a) the removal or retention, as the case may be, is in
breach of rights of custody attributed to any person
or institution or other body, either jointly or alone,
under the law of the specified country in which that
child had his or her habitual residence, immediately

prior to such removal or retention, as the case may

be ;

(b) at the time of the removal or retention, as the case
may be, those rights were actually exercised, either
jointly or alone, by such person, institution or other
body or would have been exercised by such person,
institution, or other body but for such removal or
retention, as the case may be.

(2) The rights of custody referred to in subsection (1)
include rights of custody arising—

(a) by operation of law of ;

(b) by reason of a judicial or administrative decision
of ; or

a

(c) by reason of any agreement having legal effect under
the law of,

the specified country in which the child had his or her habitual
residence, immediately prior to such removal or retention, as
the case may be.

4. The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Justice shall be the Central Authority for the
purposes of this Act, (hereinafter referred to as “the Central
Authority”).


5.

Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction 3
Act, No. 10 of 2001

The Central Authority, either directly or through an

intermediary, may take all appropriate measures,—

(a)

(6)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(g)

to discover the whereabouts of a child who has been
wrongfully removed to, or retained in Sri Lanka ;

to prevent further harm to any such child or prejudice
to any other interested parties, by taking or causing
to be taken, such provisional measures as may seem
necessary ;

to secure the voluntary return of any such-child to
the specified country in which such child had his or
her habitual residence or to bring about an amicable
resolution of the differences between the person
claiming that such child has been wrongfully
removed to, or retained in, Sri Lanka and the person
opposing the return of such child to the specified
country in which that child has his or her habitual
residence ;

to exchange, where desirable, information relating
to any such child, with the appropriate authorities of
a specified country ;

to provide, on request, information of a general
character, as to the law of Sri Lanka in connection
with the implementation of the Convention in any
specified country ;

to institute judicial proceedings with a view to
obtaining the return of any such child to the specified
country in which that child has his or her habitual
residence, and in appropriate cases, to make
arrangements for organizing or securing or to
institute judicial proceedings for securing, the
effective exercise of rights of access to a child who
is in Sri Lanka ;

where circumstances so requires to facilitate the
provision of legal aidor advice ;

Duties of Central
Authority.

ha


Application to
Centra! Authority
for assistance in
securing the return
of a child who has
been wrongfully
removed or
retained.

4 Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction

(h)

6.

Act, No. 10 of 2001

to provide such administrative arrangements as may
be necessary and appropriate to secure the safe return
of any such child to the specified country in which
that child has his or her habitual residence.

(1) The appropriate authorily of a specified country

or a person, institution or other body claiming that a child has
been wrongfully removed to, retained in, Sri Lanka in breach
of rights of custody may apply to the Central Authority for
assistance in securing the return of such child.

(2) Every application made under subsection (1), shall
substantially be in the Form set out in the Schedule to this
Act and shall contain inter alia—

(a)

(b)
(c)

(a)

information relating to the identity of the applicant,
the child and the person alleged to have removed or
retained the child ;

where available, the date of birth of the child ;

the grounds on which the applicant’s claim for return
of the child is based ;

all available information relating to the whereabouts
of the child and the identity of the person with whom
the child is presumed to be,

and may be accompanied by—

ae

a) a duly authenticated copy of any relevant
decision or agreement giving rise to the rights
of custody claimed to have been breached ;

(ti) a certificate or affidavit from the appropriate
authority of the specified country in which that
child has his or her habitual residence or from
a qualified person, setting out the law of that
specified country relating to the rights of
custody alleged to have been breached ;

(ii) any other relevant document.


Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction 5
Act, No. 10 of 2001

(3) Every application under subsection (1) and the
documents accompanying such application shall have
translations thereof in the Sinhala, Tamil or English
languages.

7. The Central Authority may refuse to accept an
application made to him under section 6, if he is satisfied that
there are no grounds for making the same. On his refusing to
accept an application, the Central Authority shall forthwith
inform the appropriate authority making the application, the
reasons for the refusal.

8. Where, on receipt of an application under scction 6
the Central Authority has reason to believe that the child in
respect of whom the application is made is in another specified
country, the Central Authority shall forthwith transmit the
application to the appropriate authorily in that specified
country, and shall inform the appropriate authority making
the application, that he has done so.

9. (1) Without prejudice to any other means for securing
the return of a child in respect of whom an application has
been made under section 6, the Central Authority may apply
to the High Court established under Article 154P of the
Constitution for the Western Province for an order ordering
the return of such child to the specified country in which the
child has his or her habitual residence.

(2) Every application under subsection (1), shall be by way
of summary procedure and shall be exempt from the payment
of any stamp duty under the Stamp Duty Act, No. 43 of 1982.

10. Where the High Court is satisfied, upon an
application made to it under section 9, but subject to section
11 that—

(a) the child in respect of whom the application is made
has been wrongfully removed to. or retained in, Sri
Lanka as the case may be, within the meaning of

section 3 ; and
a

Central Authority
may refuse
application.

Central Authority
to transmit
application 10
appropriate
authority in
another specificd
country in certain
cases.

Centrat Authority
may apply to High
Court for order of
return.

High Court may
order return of
child.


Grounds on which
High Court may
refuse to make an
order under
section 10.

6 Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction
Act, No. 10 of 2001

(b) a period of less than one year has elapsed between
the date of the alleged removal or retention, as the
case may be, and the date of such application,

shall forthwith order the return of such child to the specified
country in which that child has his or her habitual residence :

Provided that the High Court may order the return of a
child to the specified country in which that child has his or
her habitual! residence even in a case where more than one
year has elapsed between the date of the alleged removal or
retention, as the case may be, and the date of the application,
unless it is satisfied that the child is settled in his or her new
environment.

11. (1) The High Court may refuse to make an order
under section 10 for the return of a child to the specified
country in which that child has his or her habitual residence
if the person or body opposing such return satisfies the Court
that —

(a) the person, institution or other body having the care
of the person of the child was not exercising such
tights of custody at the time of removal or retention,
as the case may be, or had consented to, or
subsequently acquiesced in, such removal or
retention, as the case may be ; or

(b) there is grave risk that the child’s return would expose
the child to physical or psychological harm or
otherwise place the child in an intolerable
situation,

(2) The High Court may refuse to make an order under
section 10 for the return of a child to the specified country in
which that child has his or her habitual residence, if the child
objects to being returned and the court is satisfied that the
child has attained an age and a degree of maturity at which it
is appropriate to take account of the child’s views.


Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction 7
Act, No. 10 of 2001

(3) In exercising its powers under subsections (1) or (2),
the High Court shall have regard to any information relating
to the social background of the child provided by the
appropriate authority of the specified country in which that
child has his or her habitual residence.

(4) The High Court shall not refuse to make an order under
section 10 for the return of a child to the specified country in
which that child has his or her habitual residence, on the
ground only that there is in force, a decision of a court in Sri
Lanka or a decision entitled to be recognized by a court tn Sri
Lanka relating to the custody of such child. but the High Court
shall, in making an order under section 10, take into account
the reasons for such decision.

12. (1) Where the High Court to which an application is
made under section 9 for the return of a child fails to dispose
of such application within six weeks of the dale of the
application, the Central Authority may —

(a) on its own motion; or

(b) at the request of the appropriate authority of the
specified country in which that child has his or her
habitual residence,

request the High Court for reasons for the delay.

(2} Where the Central Authority receives a reply in response
to arequest made by him under subsection (1), he shall cause
such reply to be transmitted to the appropriate authority of
the specified country in which that child has his or her habitual
residence.

13. (1) The appropriate authority, or a person, institution
or other body of a specified country, may make an application
to the Central Authority for assistance in securing effective
exercise of rights of access of a person specified in the
application to a child who is in Sri Lanka.

ia

a

Central Authority
may request Court
for reasons for
delay in disposing
of application.

Rights of access.


Central Authority
may apply to
court for order of
access.

8 Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction
Act, No. 10 of 2001

(2) An application made under subsection (1) shall,
contain inter alia —

(a) information relating to the identity of the applicant,
the child and the person in whose custody the child
is in Sri Lanka ;

(b) where available, the date of birth of the child ;

{c) the grounds on which the applicant’s claim for right
of access is based ; and

(d) all available information relating to the whereabouts
of the child, and the identity of the person with whom
the child is presumed to be,

and may be accompanied by —

(i) aduly authenticated copy of the relevant court
decision or agreement giving rise lo the right
of access to the child ;

(ii) a certificate or affidavit from the appropriate
authority of the specified country in which that
child has his or her habitual residence or from
a qualified person, setting out the law of that
specified country relating to the rights claimed
by the applicant.

(3) Every application under subsection (1) and the
documents accompanying such application shall have been
translated in the Sinhala, Tamil or English language.

14. (1) Without prejudice to any other means for securing
the exercise of the rights of access of any person to a child in
Sri Lanka, the Central Authority may apply to the High Court
established under Article 154P of the Constitution for the
Western Province, for an order of court for securing the

effective exercise of those rights.
a
wwf


Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction 9
Act, No. 10 of 2001

(2) Every application under subsection (1) shall be, by
way of summary proceedings and shall be exempt from the
payment of any slamp duty under the Stamp Duty Act. No.
43 of 1982.

(3) Where the High Court is satisfied from an application
made to it under subsection (1) that the person who, or on
whose behalf, such application is made has a right of access
to the child specified in application, it may make such orders
as may be necessary to secure the effective exercise of
those rights of access, and any conditions to which they are
subject.

1S. (1) The application made to the Central Authority
under section 6 or section 13 in respect of a child, and ail
documents accompanying such application shall be admissible
in evidence without proof of signature, at the hearing of such
application under section 9 or section 14 as the case may be,
for the return of that child or access to the child, as the case
may be, and shall be proof of the facts stated therein until the
contrary is proved.

(2) For the purpose of determining whether the removal
to, or retention in, Sri Lanka of a child is wrongful within the
meaning of section 3, the High Court may, at the hearing of
an application under section 9 for the return of the child, take
Judicial notice of the relevant law and judicial decisions of
the specified country in which that child has his or her habitual
residence.

16. The High Court may prior to making an order under
section 10 for the return of a child to the specified country in
which that child has his or her residence, request the Central
Authority to oblain from the relevant authorities of the
specified country in which that child has his or her habitual
residence, a decision or determination as to whether the
removal to, or retention in Sri Lanka, of that child, is wrongful
within the meaning of the Convention,

Evidence.

High Court may
require Central
Authority to
obtain order from
relevant
authorities in
specified country.


Central Authority
not to be required
to give security
for payment of
costs.

High Court may
order payment of
costs incurred by
Central Authority.

Order under
section 10 nota
decision or
determination on
merits.

Courts jurisdiction
to decide or
determine
questions relating
to the custody of a
child wrongfully
removed to Sri
Lanka.

10 = Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction
Act, No. 10 of 2001

17. Nothing in this Act or any other written law shall be
deemed to authorize the High Court to order the Central
Authority lo give security for the payment of any costs
incurred, or likely to be incurred, by any respondent to any
application under section 9 or section 14 or to pay the costs
of any such application.

18. Upon making an order under section 10 for the return
of a child to the specified country in which that child has his
or her habitual residence, the High Court may order the
person who removed that child to Sri Lanka or who retained
that child in Sri Lanka to pay the expenses incurred by
Central Authority including costs incurred in locating the
child, the costs of legal representation of the Central
Authority and the costs incurred in returning the child to the
specified country in which that child has his or her habitual
residence.

19, An order made by the High Court under section 10
shall not be regarded as a decision or determination, on the
merits, of any question relating to the custody of the child to
whom the order relates.

20. Where the Central Authority reccives notice that a
child has been wrongfully removed to Sri Lanka from a
specified country, no court in Sri Lanka shall decide or
determine any question on the merits relating to the custody
of the child to whom the notice relates —

(a) until after the Central Authority or a court in Sri
Lanka has refused an application made under section
6 or section 9, as the case may be. for the return of
such child to the specified country ; or

(b) until after the expiration of the period of six weeks
from the date of such notice, and no application under
section 6 for the return of that child to the specified

country has been made during that period.
Ped


Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction 11
Act, No. 10 of 2001

21. Where an order is made under section 10 for the
return of a child to the specified country in which that child
has his or her habitual residence, the Central Authority shall
cause such arrangements as are necessary to be made in
accordance with the order, for the return of such child to such
specified country.

22. (1) A person, institution or other body in Sri Lanka
claiming that a child has been wrongfully removed to a
specified country or is wrongfully being retained in a specified
country, in breach of rights of custody of such person,
institution or other body may apply to the Central Authority
for assistance in securing the return of that child to Sri Lanka.

(2) On receipt of an application under subsection (1) the
Central Authority shall apply in the appropriate manner to
the appropriate authority in the specified country to which
such child is alleged to have been removed or in which such
child is alleged to be retained in, for assistance in securing
the return of that child to Sri Lanka.

(3) “rights of custody” referred to in subsection (1) include
rights of custody accruing to any person, institution or other
body —

(a) by operation of law of ; or

(b) by reason of a judgement or order of a court or
tribunal of ; or

(c) by reason of any agreement having legal effect under
the law of,
Sri Lanka.

23. The High Court cstablished by Article 154P of the
Constitution for the Western Province may, on an application
made by or on behalf of the appropriate authority of a
specified country, declare that the removal of a child to that
specified country or the retention of that child in that specified
country is wrongful within the meaning of Article 3 of the

Convention.
ae

Central Authority
to arrange for
return of child in
respect of whom
an order has been
made under
section 10.

Person, institution
or other body may
apply to Central
Authority for
securing return of
child wrongfully
removed to, or
wrongfully
retained ina
specified country.

Jurisdiction of
High Court to
make certain
declarations.


Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

interpretation.

12 Civil Aspects of international Child Abduction
Act, No. 10 of 2001

24. tn the event of any inconsistency between ‘the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

25. (1) In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—

“child” means a person who has not altained sixteen ycars
of age;

“rights of access” in relation to a child includes the right
to take a child for a limited period to a place other
than the child’s habitual residence ;

“tights of custody” in relation to a child include the rights
relating to the care of the person of the child and in
particular the right to determine the child’s place of
residence.

(2) Where in a specified country, there are in maticrs
of custody of children, two or more systems of law
applicable in different territorial units of the specified
country —

(a) references in this Act to “habitual residence
in that specified country” shall be read and
construed as references to habitual residence
in the territorial unit of that specified country;
and

(h) references in this Act to the “law of the
specified country in which the child has his or
her habitual residence” shall be read and
construed as references to the law of the
territorial unit of the specified country in which
that child has his or her habitual residence.

(3) Where in a specified country there are, in matters of
custody of children, two or more systems of law
applicable to different categories of persons,
references in this Act to the “law of that specified
country” shall be read and construed as references
to the applicable legal system.


Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction 13
Act, No. 10 of 2001

SCHEDULE [Section 6 (2)}

FORM OF APPLICATION

REQUESTING CENTRAL AUTHORITY REQUESTING
OR APPLICANT AUTHORITY
Concerns the following child :...............00 ccc ceeceeeeeeecueeueenseees who will

I - IDENTITY THE CHILD AND JTS PARENTS
1 Child

Name and first name

Date and place of birth

Habitual residence before removal or retention
Passport or identity card No. if any
Description and photo, if possible (see annexes)... eee ceeeseeeeuceeee

2 Parents

2.1 Mother : Name and first names
Date and place of birth
Nationatity
Occupation
Habitual residence bee
Passport or identity card No. if any ............cccccccseeeeeee

to
tv

Father: Name and first name
Date and place of birth
Nationality
Occupation
Habitual residence
Passport or identity card No. if any

2.3. Date and place of marriage acne ecececceeceueneeee

U - REQUESTING INDIVIDUAL OR INSTITUTION. (who actually

exercised custody before the removal or retention)

3. Name and first name
Nationality of individual applicant
Occupation of individual applicant
Address
Passport or identity card No. if any
Relation to the child

Name and address of Segal adviser, if any
va
<



14s Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction
Act, No. 10 of 2001

HI - PLACE WHERE THE CHILD IS THOUGHT TO BE

4.1 Information concerning the person alleged to have removed or retained
the child

Name and first names

Date and place of birth, if known
Nationality, if known

Occupation

Last known address

Passport or identity card No. if any
Description and photo, if possible
(see annexes)

4.2 Address of the child

4.3. Other persons who might be able to supply
additional information relating to the
whereabouts of the child

V-F J OR__LEG M NDS NW:
APPLICANT’S CLAIM IS BASED



Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction 15
Act, No. 10 of 2001

VII - CHILD IS TO BE RETURNED TO
(a) Name and firstmames ee cecee eee eeeeee ener ee
Date and place of birth i ceeeaeeetececee ee eeeene
Address cnet pt tttetteeee trees

Telephone number Veceeeeecaeeneeeees

(6) Proposed arrangements for return of
thechild bette ttt eee eee eee

Signature and/or stamp of requesting
Central Authorily or applicant.

*e.g. Certified copy of relevant decision or agreement concerning
custody or access; certificate or affidavit as to the applicable law;
authorization empowering the Central Authority to act on behalf of

applicant.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1.!80(Foreign),
payable (o the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT Pugtications Buréau, No. 32, Transworks Hovse,
Lotus Roap, Cotomao 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following

iad “
