PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICES
ACT, No. 69 of 1979

[Certified on 23rd November, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

™

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 30, 1979

f
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price: 90 cents Postage: 25 cents


National Youth Services
Act, No. 69 of 1979

[Certified on 23rd November, 1979]
L.D.—O. 100/78

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT AND REGULATION

OF A NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICES COUNCIL, TO REPEAL THE |

VOLUNTARY NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE Act, No. 11 or 1967,
AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the National Youth Services
Act, No. 69 of 1979, and shall come into operation on such
date as the Minister may appoint by Order published in the
Gazette. “ty ij

2. There shall be established a Council called the
National Youth Services Council (hereinafter referred to
as “the Council”) consisting of the persons who are for
the time being members of the Council under section 8.

' 3. The Council shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued
in its corporate name.

4. The objects for which the Council is established are
hereby declared to be, to promote the interests of the youth
of Sri Lanka so as to ensure their full development, and in
particular—

(a) to foster among youth a spirit of national conscious-
ness, a sense of discipline) an awareness of social
and economic problems and a sense of dignity of
labour ;

(b) to enlist the participation of youth in national deve-
_ lopment schemes ;

(c) to promote goodwill and mutual understanding bet-
ween youth in Sri Lanka and in other countries ;

‘(d) to encourage competition and a sense of achievement
among youth ;

(e) to widen the knowledge of youth and to give training
in fields relevant to development ;

(f) to encourage cultural, literary and artistic activities
among youth ;

A 45024—12,800 (79/10)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Establishment
of National
Youth
Services
Council.

Council to
be a body
corporate.

Objects of
the Council.


2 National Youth Services
Act, No. 69 of 1979

(g) to encourage the development of ae cditure
and sports among youths ;

(h) to provide recreational and entertainment facilities
for youth ;

(2) to assist youth who are handicapped ;

(4) to provide regular employment opportunities for
youth by constructively investing funds on a long
terms policy basis with an aim to strengthen the
economic fabric of the State;

(k) to provide opportunities for the participation of youth
in the formulation and implementation of policy ;

(lt) to establish youth organizations and to assist organi-
zations already established for youth welfare ;

(m) to plan, co-ordinate, promote and direct the expan-
sion of youth services; and

(n) to develop the inherent characteristics of the indivi-
dual youth.

Powers of 5. (1) The Council shall have the power to acquire, hold,
the ‘Council: take or give on hire or lease, and to pledge or sell or
otherwise dispose of, any immovable or movable property :

Provided, however, that no immovable property of the
Council shall be sold without the prior approval in writing
of the Minister.

(2) The Council shall have the power—

' (a) with the prior approval in writing of the Minister,
to engage in any agricultural, industrial, commer-
cial, social or public utility enterprises connected
with or incidental to any of the objects of the
Council ;

(b) to charge fees for services pose or provided by
the Council ;

(c) to establish and register youth ofan imation, and
give advice, provide technical knowledge and grant
financial assistance to such organizations ;

(d) to foster co-operation with similar youth organisa-
tions in other countries with a view to promoting:
mutual understanding between ne youth in Sri
Lanka and abroad ;


National Youth Services 3
Act, No. 69 of 1979

_(e) to obtain membership in relevant international youth ,

organizations with the prior approval of the
Minister ;

(f) to sponsor and hold conferences and seminars on
matters of interest to the youth of Sri Lanka with
the assistance of national or international
organizations where necessary ;

(g) to train and educate youth for creative participation
in national development and related activities ; and

(hk) to do all such other things which in the opinion of
the Council are necessary to facilitate the proper
carrying out of its objects.

(3) The Council may accept grants or donations, whether
of immovable or movable property, from persons or bodies
of persons in or outside Sri Lanka.

6. The Council shall be subject to the direction and
control of the Minister.

7. The Council may delegate—
_(a) to the Director-General ; or

(b) on the recommendation of the Director-General, to
any member or officer of the Council,

any such function of the Council as the Council may
consider necessary so to delegate for the efficient transaction
of its business.

8. (1) The Council shall consist of the following
members to be appointed by the Minister—

(a) a Director-General of Youth Services (in this Act
referred to as “ Director-General”) who shall be
the Chairman of the Council ;

(b) a prescribed number of official members representing

Ministries and Government Departments which, in.

the opinion of the Minister, are concerned with or
relevant to youth activities ; and
(c) a prescribed number of other members,

so however that the number of official members does not
exceed the number of other - members referred to in

paragraph (c).

- Council vo

be subject to
the
directions of
the
Minister.

Power of
delegation.

Constitution
of the
Council.


Term of
office of
member.

Vacation
of office.

No writ

to issue
against
person or
property of
a member
of the
Council.

Reimburse-
ment of
expenses
incurred in
any suit of

prosecution.

4 National Youth Services
Act, No. 69 of 1979

(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or being a member of the Council if he isa Member of
Parliament.

9. (1) A member of the Council shall, unless he earlier
vacates office by death or as hereinafter provided, hold
office as such member for a period of three years.

(2) Any member who vacates office, other than by reason
of his removal from office under section 10(1) (a), shall be
eligible for reappointment.

10. (1) A member of the Council shall vacate office as
such member—

_ (a) if his membership is terminated by the Minister ; or

(b) if he resigns his office by letter in writing addressed

to the Minister.

(2) In the event of the vacation of office by a member of
the Council or his removal from office under the provisions
of the preceding subsection, the Minister may appoint
another person to hold such office during the unexpired
period of the term of office of the member whom he
succeeds.

(3) If any member of the Council is temporarily unable
to discharge the duties of his office due to ill health or
absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause the Minister
may nominate some other person to act in the place of such
member. | '

ll. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against a member of the Council in any action brought
against the Council.

12, (1) Any expenses incurred by the Council in any
suit or prosecution brought by or against the Council] before
any court or tribunal shall be paid out of the fund of the
Council, and any costs paid to or recovered by the Council
in any such suit or prosecution shall be credited to that
fund.

(2) Any expenses incurred by any member of the
Council or staff thereof in any suit or prosecution brought
against him before any court or tribunal in respect of any
act which is done or purported to be done by him under this
Act or any regulation made thereunder, or on the direction


National Youth Services 5
Act, No. 69 of 1979

of the Council, shall, if the court holds that the act was
done in good faith, be paid out of the fund of the Council,
unless such expenses are recovered by him in such suit or
prosecution.

13. (1) The members of the Council may be paid such

remuneration as may be determined by the Minister with
the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.

(2) The person holding the office of Director-General
may be paid such remuneration and allowances as the
Minister may with the concurrence of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance determine.

14. All instruments which are required to be signed by
or on behalf of the Council shall be signed by such person
or persons as may be authorized in writing by the Council
on that behalf.

15. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2)
the holding of, the quorum for, and the procedure for the
transaction of business at, meetings of the Council, shall
be determined by the Council. 5%

(2) Any question arising at any meeting of the Council
shall be determined by a majority of the members present
and in the case of an equality of votes, the Chairman shall
have a second or casting vote. :

16. The Director-General shall be the chief executive
officer of the Council and his powers, duties and functions
shall include the following :—

(a) execution of all policies and measures approved by
the Council ; ,

(b) subject to the general direction of the Council, the
administration of the affairs of the Council and the
control of the staff of the Council; .

(c) the preparation of the agenda for meetings of the
Council and the submission for the consideration
of the Council of policies and measures considered
by him to be necessary for the purpose of carrying
out the principles and provisions of this Act ; and

(d) the exercise or performance of such other powers or
‘duties as may be conferred or imposed upon him by

we the Council.

Remuneration

of members.

Signing of
instruments
on behalf
of the
Council.

Meetings
of the
Council.

Powers,
duties and
functions
of the
Director-
General.


Appointment
of Panels.

Acts of the
Council or
Panels valid
notwithstand-
ing subsequent
discovery of
vacancy, &c.

Appointment,
remuneration
&e. of

officers and
servants.

Appointment
of public
officers to
the staff

of the
Council.

6 National Youth Services
Act, No. 69 of 1979

17. (1) The Council may appoint Panels each consisting
of a Chairman and such number of members as may be
determined by the Council, for the purpose of advising and
assisting the Council on the general promotion of any par-
ticular activity or activities connected with or incidental to
the carrying out of the objects of the Council.

(2) Any person, whether or not he is a member of the
Council, shall be eligible for appointment to any Panel
constituted under subsection (1).

(3) The Council shall have the power to revoke the
appointment of any Panel or any member for a Panel
appointed under subsection (1).

18. All acts done at any meeting of the Council or of
any Panel shall, notwithstanding that it shall afterwards be
discovered that there was any vacancy in the membership
thereof, or that there was some defect in the appointment
of any member thereof, or that there was a failure to give
notice of such meeting to any member thereof, be as valid
as if there had been no such vacancy or as if such member
has been duly appointed, or as if there had been no such
failure to give notice, as the case may be.

19. (1) The Council may appoint such officers and such
servants as the Council considers necessary for the carry-
ing out of its objects.

(2) The remuneration, conditions of service and

‘schemes of recruitment of the officers and servants of the

Council shall be such as may be fixed by the Council with
the approval of the Minister given with the prior concur-
rence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

20. (1) At the request of the Council, any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the

“subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed

to the staff of the Council for such period as may be deter-
mined by the Council with like consent or be permanently

‘appointed to such staff.

(2) The provisions of subsection (2) of section 13 of

‘the Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978, shall, mutatis

mutanas, apply to and in relation to any officer in the
public service who is temporarily appointed to the staff of


National Youth Services 7
Act, No. 69 of 1979

the Council, and the provisions of subsection (3) of the
aforesaid section 13 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and
in relation to any officer in the public service who is per-
manently appointed to such staff.

21. Notwithstanding the repeal of the Voluntary National
Youth Service Act, No. 11 of 1967, by section 35 of this
Act, all officers and servants of the National Youth Service
Council established under that Act, and holding office on
the day immediately prior to the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be deemed to be officers and servants of
the National Youth Services Council etablished under this
Act, on the same terms and conditions as were applicable
to them under the repealed Act.

22. Notwithstanding the repeal of the Voluntary National
Youth Service Act, No. 11 of 1967, by section 35 of this Act
all assets and liabilities including property movable and
immovable and money in the funds of the National Youth
Service Council established under the repealed Act, shall
vest in the National Youth Services Council established
under this Act.

23. All members, officers and servants of the Council
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning
and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

24. Where the Council employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he
has agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,
any period of service to the Council by that person shall
be regarded as service to the Government for the purpose
of discharging the obligations of such contract.

25. (1) The amount of the capital of the Council shall be
such sum as may be determined by the Minister in consulta-
tion with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance
and granted from the Consolidated Fund by resolution of
Parliament.

(2) The capital of the Council may be increased from
time to time by such amounts as may be authorized by any
Appropriation Act or by any resolution of Parliament.

26.. (1)The Council shall have its own fund.

Officers and
servants of
the National
Youth
Service
Council,

Transfer lof
assets and
liabilities of
the National
Youth
Service
Council to
the Council
established
under this
Act.

Members,
officers and
and servants
of the Council
deemed to be
public
servants.

Service to
Council to
be consider-
ed as service
to Govern-
ment for
purpose of
contract.

Grants to
Council by
Government.

Fund of the
Council.


Application
of property ¢
&e.

Accounts of

the Council

and financial
year.

Audit of
accounts of
the Council.

8 National Youth Services
Act, No. 69 of 1979

(2) There shall be paid into the fund of the Council all
such sums of money as may be received by the Council by
way of—

(a) donations, gifts or grants from any source whatso-
ever ;

(b) fees charged for services rendered or provided by
the Council ;

(c) income from any activities carried out by the
Council ; and

(d) payments required to be made into such fund by or
under this Act.

27. All property movable and immovable, acquired or
held, and all grants and donations accepted, by the Council
shall be used and applied by the Council for the furtherance
of its objects in such manner as the Council may determine.

28. (1) The Council shall cause its accounts to be kept
in such form and manner as may be determined by the
Minister with the concurrence of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance.

(2) The books of accounts of the Council shall be kept
at the office of the Council.

29. (1) The Council shall have its accounts audited
each year by the Auditor-General.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),
the Minister may, with the concurrence of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance, and in consultation with
the Auditor-General, appoint a qualified auditor or auditors
to audit the accounts of the Council. Where such appoint-
ment has been made by the Minister, the Auditor-General
may, in writing, inform such auditor or auditors that he
proposes to utilize his or their services for the performance
and discharge of the Auditor-General’s duties and functions
in relation to the Council and thereupon such auditor or
auditors shall act under the direction and control of the
Auditor-General.

(3) (a) The Auditor-General may for the purpose of
assisting him in the audit of the accounts of the Council
employ the services of any qualified auditor or auditors who
shall act under his direction and control.


National Youth Services 9
Act, No. 69 of 1979

(b) If the Auditor-General is of opinion that it is
necessary to obtain assistance in the examination of any
technical, professional or scientific problem relevant to the
audit of the accounts of the Council, he may engage the
services of—

(i) a person not being an employee of the Council ; or

(ii) any technical or professional or scientific institution
not being an institution which has any interest in
the management of the affairs of the Council,

and such person or institution shall act under his direction
and control.

(4) (a) The Auditor-General or any person authorized
by him shall in the audit of the accounts of the Council be
entitled—

(i) to have access to all books, records, returns and other
documents of the Council ;

(ii) to have access to stores and other property of the
Council ; and

(iii) to be furnished by the Council or its officers with
such information and explanations as may be
necessary for the performance of the audit of the
accounts of the Council.

(b) Every qualified auditor appointed to audit the
accounts of the Council or any person authorized by such
auditor shall be entitled to have like access, information
and explanations in relation to the Council.

(5) For the purposes of this section, the expression
“ qualified auditor’? means—

(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practise as an accountant issued by
the Conucil of such Institute ; or

(b) a firm of accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.

30. (1) The Auditor-General shall examine the accounts
of the Council and furnish a report thereon.

The Auditor-
General’s
Report.


Annual
accounts with
the Auditor-
General’s
transmitted to
the Minister.

Application of
the provision.
of the
Finance Act,
No. 38 of 1971.

Council
deemed to be
a scheduled
institution
within the
meaning of
the Bribery
Act.

Regulations.

National Youth Seraees
Act, No. 69 of 1979

10

(2) The Auditor-General oe transmit his report to the
Council.

(3) Every qualified auditor appointed under the provi-
sions of subsection (2) of section 29 shall submit his report
to the Minister and also submit a copy thereof to the
Auditor-General.

31. The Council shall, on the receipt of the Auditor-
General’s report each year, transmit such report, the income
and expenditure account and the balance sheet to which
the report relates, together with a report by the Council
on the work of the Council for the period for which the
income and expenditure account and the balance sheet have
been made, to the Minister who shall cause copies thereof
to be laid before Parliament, before the end of the
year next following the year to which such accounts and
report t relate. i ai |

32. Unless otherwise specially provided for by this Act
the provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971,
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to the
financial control and accounts of the Council.

_ 83. The Council shall be deemed to be a_ scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

34. (1) The Minister may make regulations for matters
required by this Act to be prescribed and for any matters
in repect of which regulations are authorized by this Act
to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may

_ be specified in the regulation.

(8) Every regulation shall as soon as convenient after
publication in the Gazette be brought before Parliament
for approval. Any regulation which is not so approved shall
be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of its disapproval
but without prejudice to anything done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation
made by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.


National Youth Services 11
Act, No. 69 of 1979

35. The Voluntary National Youth Service Act, No. 11 Repeal of Act
of 1967, is hereby repealed. No. 11 of 1967.
36. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires— Interpretation.

“Panel” means a Panel appointed by the Council under
this Act;

“ prescribed” means prescribed by regulation ;
“youth” includes a female; and

“repealed Act” means the Voluntary National Youth
Service Act, No. 11 of 1967.
