PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, NO. 9 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st March, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2011

1Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

[Certified on 31st March, 2011]

L.D. O. 16/2011.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1. This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2011 and shall be deemed tohave come into operation on January 1, 2011 unless differentdates of operation are specified in the relevant sections.

2. Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002(hereinafter referred to as the "principal enactment") is herebyamended as follows :-

(1) in subsection (1) of that section-

(a) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (iv) (b) thereofand the substitution therefor of the following :-

"(b) (i) for the period commencing on August 2,2005 and ending on September 30, 2005,at the rate of twenty percentum (LuxuryRate) of which the tax fraction is 1/6;

(ii) for any taxable period commencing on orafter October 1, 2005 and ending onNovember 23, 2010, in respect of goodsat the rate of twenty percentum (LuxuryRate) of which the tax fraction is 1/6;

(iii)for any taxable period commencing onor after October 1, 2005 and ending onDecember 31, 2010, in respect of servicesat the rate of twenty percentum (LuxuryRate) which the tax fraction is 1/6;

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Amendment ofsection 2 of theValue Added TaxAct, No.14 of2002.

2Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

on the value of such goods or services suppliedas referred to in the Fourth Schedule, otherthan such goods chargeable with the tax at zeropercentum;

(b) in sub-paragraph (v) of that subsection-

(i) in item (ii) thereof, by the substitution forthe words and figures "commencing on orafter January 1, 2009" of the words andfigures "commencing on or after January1, 2009 and ending on December 31,2010"; and

(ii) by the addition, immediately after item (ii)thereof, the following new item :-

"(iii) for the period commencing onNovember 23, 2010 and ending onDecember 31, 2010, and for anytaxable period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2011, at the rate of twelveper centum (of which the tax fractionis 3/28) on the value of such goods orservices supplied, or goods imported,other than goods or services chargeablewith tax at Zero percentum.".

(2) in subsection (2) of that section-

(a) in sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph (c) thereof,by the substitution for all the words from "untilsuch time as the activities" to the end of thatsub-paragraph of the following :-

"until such time as the activities of suchgarment manufacture or service provider arecarried out in the manner stipulated by theCommissioner-General in the guidelinesissued for this purpose, on the submission ofthe reconciliation relating to -

(a) the disposal of such goods, stating thatsuch finished goods have in fact been

3Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

exported by the recipient of thesupplies; or

(b) the supply of value added services,stating that such services have in factbeen used for the manufacture ofgarments which have been exported:

Provided that, with effect from April 1,2011, deferment of tax under this paragraphshall be administrated by the Commissioner-General.";

(b) in sub-paragraph (d) thereof, by thesubstitution for all the words from "until suchtime as the activities" to the end of that sub-paragraph, of the following :-

"until such time as the activities of suchmanufacture of goods or service providerare carried out in the manner stipulated by theCommissioner-General of Inland Revenue inthe guidelines issued for this purpose, on thesubmission of the reconciliation relating to -

(a) the disposal of such goods, stating thatsuch finished goods have in fact beenexported by the recipient of thesupplies; or

(b) the supply of value added services,stating that such services have in factbeen used for the manufacture ofgoods which have been exported:

Provided that, with effect from April 1,2011, deferment of tax under this paragraphshall be administrated by the Commissioner-General.";

4Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

(c) by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph(d) thereof the following new paragraph :-

"(e) on the supply of goods or services otherthan the goods or services referred to insub-paragraphs (c) or (d), the Commissioner- General may after affording the applicantwho is a registered person, an opportunityof being heard, and having regard to thenature of the business carried on or carriedout by such applicant, defer the paymentof tax, subject to the conditions stipulatedby the Commissioner - General in theguidelines issued for this purpose, in respectof supplies made to :-

(i) a registered person engaged in anyspecific project referred to in subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (f) ofPART II of the First Schedule;

(ii) an exporter or to a manufacturer whosupplies goods manufactured in SriLanka to an exporter;

(iii) any supplier who provides valueadded services to an exporter whichresults in the improvement of thequality, character or value of anygoods manufactured for export;

(iv) any person registered under theprovisions of subsection (7) ofsection 22 of the Act, during theproject implementation period so faras such supplies are project relatedsupplies

until such time as the activities of suchsuppliers of goods or providers of serviceare carried out as stipulated by theCommissioner-General in the guidelines

5Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

issued by him for this purpose, and on thesubmission of the reconciliation relatingthereto, stating that such goods or servicesare in fact made to a registered personreferred to in this sub-paragraph and suchgoods or services are utilized for thepurposes of such specified activities.".

3.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (2)thereof, the following new subsection :-

"(2A) Where the Commissioner-Generalcancels any registration under subsection (2), heshall cause a list of names and the registrationnumbers of such registered persons to be publishedin three daily newspapers in the Sinhala, Tamiland English languages, having a widecirculation.".

4.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (b) of subsection (6) of that sectionby the substitution for words and figures "under paragraphs(a) or (c) of subsection (2) of section 2," of the words andfigures "under paragraphs (a), (c), (d) or (e) of subsection (2)of section 2,".

5. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:-

(1) in paragraph (e) of the proviso to subsection (5) ofthat section -

(a)in sub-paragraph (b) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words and figures " 'if theexcess is in respect of the taxable periodcommencing on or after January 1, 2006" ofthe words and figures "if the excess is inrespect of the taxable period commencing onor after January 1, 2006 and ending on March31, 2011",

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 22 ofthe principalenactment.

6Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

(b)by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph (b), of the following new sub-paragraph :-

"(c) if the excess is in respect of any taxableperiod commencing on or after April 1,2011, such excess shall be refunded no laterthan forty-five days after the end of thattaxable period or from the date of receiptof the return for the relevant taxable periodwhichever is later.";

(2) in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitutionin the proviso to paragraph (iv) thereof, for thewords "to supply of goods or services to suchprojects." of the words "to supply of goods orservices to such projects :

Provided further, notwithstanding theprovisions of subsection (2), the tax paid by theemployer as a registered person, on the paymentsborne by him on the outsourcing of the supply ofmeals and transport, in respect of a benefit referredto in the exemption specified in item (iv) ofparagraph (b) of Part II of the First Schedule, may beallowed as the input credit of a registered person.";

(3) in subsection (10) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words and figures from "Theamount of input tax allowable under the precedingprovisions of this section" to "subject however tothe same restriction:" of the following:-

"The amount of any input tax allowable for anytaxable period, shall be subject to the followingfurther restrictions :-

(a) for any taxable period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2007 but prior to Decmber 31, 2010,including in the case of a registered person whoimports goods for re-sale without processingreferred to in the third proviso to subsection (5)

7Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

of this section, the excess input tax as atDecember 31, 2006 to the lesser amount ofeighty-five percentum of the output tax declaredfor that taxable period or the input taxallowable under the provisons of this Act. Theresidue, if any, shall be deemed to be a part ofthe input tax allowable in the subsequenttaxable period or periods, subject however tothe same restriction up to the taxable periodended as at December 31, 2010. The unabsorbedresidue, if any, as at December 31, 2010 shallbe carried forward and may be claimed by aregistered person for any taxable period notexceeding a sum equivalent to ten percentumof the unabsorbed amount for each month,provided that such sum does not exceed fivepercentum of the net tax payable afterdeducting allowable input credit from theoutput tax by such person;

(b) for any taxable period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2011, excluding the input taxreferred to in sub-paragraph (a) above claimedup to December 31, 2010, to the lesser amountof hundred percentum of the output tax declaredfor that taxable period or the input taxallowable under the provisions of this Act. Theresidue, if any, shall be deemed to be a part ofthe input tax allowable in the subsequenttaxable period or periods, subject however tothe same restriction:

Provided that, in the case of a registeredperson who has at December 31, 2010, anunabsorbed input credit, but from and afterJanuary 1, 2011, such person has no taxablesupplies liable to tax under the provisions ofthis Act, then, the unabsorbed input creditreferred to in paragraph (a) may be set off afterascertaining the amount of the unabsorbed

8Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

input credit, in the manner provided for in eitherparagraph (i), paragraph (ii) or paragraph (iii)as the case may be :-

(i) Where the registered person is an operatorof a telecommunication services licensedunder section 17 of the Sri LankaTelecommunication Act, No. 25 of 1991,the set off shall be made as against the sumpayable by him as Telecommunication Levypayable under the TelecommunicationLevy Act, No. 21 of 2011 ;

(ii) in the case of a registered person who isliable to pay income tax, the set off shallbe made as against the sum payable by suchperson as income tax after January 1, 2011;

(iii) in a case of a person to whom the provisionsof either paragraph (i) or (ii) above doesnot apply, the set off shall be made againstthe sum payable after January 1, 2011, bysuch person as tax under any written lawfor the time being in force, administratedby the Commissioner - General.

The set off for each month in terms ofthis proviso, shall not exceed ten percentum of the unabsorbed input credit asat December 31, 2011 or five percentum ofthe relevant tax imposed referred to initems (i), (ii) or (iii) above for that particularmonth, whichever is less.".

6.Section 25B of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :-

25B.(1) The taxable period of everyregistered specified institution or otherperson shall be :-

(a)one month for any taxable periodprior to January 1, 2011; and

"Taxableperiod.

Replacement ofsection 25B ofthe principalenactment.

9Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

(b)six months for any taxable periodcommencing on or after January1, 2011.

(2)Every registered specifiedinstitution or other person shall furnish areturn in the Form specified, in respect ofeach taxable period before the end of thefollowing month of the taxable period.

(3) (a) Notwithstanding the provisionsof subsection (1) of section 26, tax payablefor any taxable period by every registeredspecified institution or other person shallbe paid on a monthly basis on or before thetwentieth day of the succeeding monthsubject to the making of the finaladjustment, if any, with the submission ofthe return as specified in this section.

(b) Any tax which is not so paid as setout in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to bein default and any registered specifiedinstitution or other person to whom thissubsection applies shall be deemed to be adefaulter within the meaning of this Act..

7.Section 25C of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from "for avoidance of doubts it ishere by declared" to the words "the tax payableunder this Chapter" of the following :-

"for the purpose of this Chapter the value additionof such specified institution shall be computed :-

(i) for any taxable period commencing prior toJanuary 1, 2011, based on the net profit or lossprior to the deduction of the tax payable underthis Chapter; and

(ii) for any taxable period commencing on or afterJanuray 1, 2011, based on the net profit or lossafter the deduction of the tax payable underthis Chapter.";

Amendment ofsection 25C ofthe principalenactment.

10Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

(2) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following :-

"(3)The amount of tax payable for anytaxable period :-

(a) commencing from January 1, 2003 but priorto January 1, 2004 shall be ten percentum;

(b) commencing from January 1, 2004, but priorto January 1, 2005, shall be fifteen percentum;

(c) commencing from January 1, 2005, but priorto January 1, 2011, shall be twentypercentum; and

(d) commencing from January 1, 2011 shall betwelve percentum;

of the value addition specified in subsection (i)";

(3) by the repeal of subsection (8) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following :-

"(8) for the purpose of calculation of tax underthis section, every specified institution or any otherperson shall follow the guidelines specified by theCommissioner-General having considered theuniform application of the calculation of such tax.";

(4) by the addition immediately after subsection (8)of that section, of the following new subsection :-

"(9) eight percentum of the value additionspecified in subsection (1) of section 25C shall beinvested in the fund established in the CentralBank of Sri Lanka as specified in the guidelinesissued for this purposes with the concurrence ofthe Commissioner - General for the period of three

11Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

years commencing from January 1, 2011 and theinvestment shall be made on a monthly basis on orbefore the twentieth day of the subsequent month.".

8.Section 25H of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures "of this Chapter for every quartercommencing on or after January 1, 2007, at the rate of fiveper centum" of the following :-

"of this Chapter :-

(a) for every quarter commencing on January 1, 2007and ending on December 31, 2010, and for everyquarter commencing from the quarter in whichthe registration falls due, at the rate of fivepercentum; and

(b) every quarter commencing on January 1, 2011,in the following manner :-

(i) at the rate of two percentum, for every quarterfalling within the three years commencingfrom the beginning of the quarter in whichregistration falls due, but after the December31, 2010;

(ii) at the rate of four percentum, for every quarterfalling within the three years commencingimmediately after the end of the three yearsreferred to in item (i);

(iii) at the rate of eight percentum, for everyquarter falling within the three yearscommencing immediately after the end ofthree years referred to in item (ii); and

(iv) at the rate of twelve per centum, for everyquarter falling within the three yearscommencing immediately after the end ofthree years referred to in item (iii);".

Amendment ofsection 25H ofthe principalenactment.

12Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

9.Section 25I of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forparagraph (b) thereof, of the following :-

"(b)such registration shall be valid for a period of twelveyears from the date of commencement of the quarterin which the registration is obtained by such personor partnership.".

10.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 25I and shall have effect as section25J of that enactment :

25J. (1) The values of supplies from anyIslamic Financial Transaction shall bechargeable to tax in terms of the provisions ofthis Act.

(2) The Commissioner-General of InlandRevenue shall in order to determine the extentof liability to tax of any particular IslamicFinancial Transaction, issue, from time to time,such rules and guidelines as may be requiredfor the purpose of

(a) identifying the circumstances whichwould amount to an Islamic FinancialTransaction ; and

(b) ascertaining the value of supplies arisingout of any Islamic FinancialTransaction..

11.Section 26A of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords "Every Government Agency which makes paymentsin pursuance of a contract" of the words and figures "EveryGovernment Agency which makes payments prior to January1, 2011, in pursuance of a contract.".

Insertion of newsection 25j inthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 26A ofthe principalenactment.

The valueof suppliesfrom anyIslamicFinancialTransactionsto bechargeable totax.

Amendment ofsection 25I ofthe principalenactment.

13Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

12.Section 33 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof by the substitution for thewords "within a period of five years from the end of the taxableperiod to which the assessments relates." of the words "at anytime".

13.Sections 34 to 36 (both inclusive) appearing underthe Heading "Chapter VI - appeals" of the principal enactmentare hereby amended by the substitution for the words "Boardof Review constituted under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10of 2006" and "Board of Review" respectively wherever suchwords appear in that Chapter, of the words "Board of Reviewor any Commission which may be constituted by any writtenlaw for the purpose of hearing appeals in terms of this Act."

14.Section 43 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the proviso to subsection (1) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words "examine or decide the correctnessof any statement in the statement of certificate of theCommissioner-General." of the words "examine or decidethe correctness of any statement in the certificate of theCommissioner-General or to postpone or defer suchproceeding for a period exceeding thirty days, by reasononly of the fact that an appeal is pending against theassessment in respect of which the tax in default is charged.".

15.Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-

(1)by the re-numbering of that section assubsection (1) thereof;

(2)by the addition immediately after the re-numbered subsection (1), of the following newsubsection :-

"(2) All the taxable supplies of a non-resident person shall be assessable eitherdirectly or in the name of his agent, in orderived from Sri Lanka, whether such agent

Amendment ofsection 33 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 34 to 36of the principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 43 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment.

14Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

has the receipt of such supplies or not, andthe tax in terms of this Act so assessed whetherdirectly or in the name of the agent shall berecoverable in the manner provided for inthis Act, out of the assets of the non-residentperson or from the agent. Where there are moreagents than one, they may be assessed jointlyor severally in respect of the taxable suppliesof the non-resident person and shall be jointlyand severally liable for tax thereon, in termsof this Act.".

16.Section 58 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-

(1)in the second proviso to subsection (1) of thatsection, by the substitution for the words"Provided further, that any such amount" ofthe words and figures "Provided further, thatany such amount prior to any taxable periodcommencing on April 1, 2011,"

(2)in subsection (3) of that section, by theaddition immediately after paragraph (b) ofthat subsection of the following:-

"(c) (i) fails to furnish the fuller and furtherinformation relating to any claim ofrefunds within the period specified inthe letter issued to such person,

(ii) fails to attend in person or makerepresentation by an authorizedrepresentative at such place and on suchdate and at such time as may be specifiedin the letter issued to such person,

by any Assessor, the Commissioner-Generalmay disregard the claim of refund made bysuch person:

Provided however, if the registeredperson within a reasonable period after the

Amendment ofsection 58 ofthe principalenactment.

15Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

claim of refund being disregarded by theCommissioner-General prove to thesatisfaction of the Commissioner-General thathe or his authorized representative wasprevented from submitting the requiredinformation as specified in the letter or dueattendance at the interview, as the case maybe, by reason of absence from Sri Lanka, orsickness or other unavoidable cause, theCommissioner- General may re-open theinquiry of the refund claim subject to anyconditions specified by him.";

(3) by the addition immediately after subsection (3) ofthat section, of the following new subsection:-

"(4) The Commissioner-General shallcredit, the amount refundable under thissection only to the bank account assigned to aregistered person for such purpose.".

17. Section 58A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

18. Section 67 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (f) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures "return under section 21 or comply",of the words and figures "return under section 21, section 25Bor subsection (4) of section 25H or comply.".

19. Section 83 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the insertion immediately before the definitionof the expression "Assessor" of the followingdefinition:-

' "agent" in relation to a non-resident person or

Repeal of section58A of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 67 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 83 ofthe principalenactment.

16Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

to a partnership in which any partner is a non -resident person, includes-

(a) the agent, attorney, factor, receiver ormanager in Sri Lanka of such person orpartnership; and

(b) any person in Sri Lanka through whomsuch person or partnership is in receiptof any profits or income, arising in orderived from Sri Lanka;";

(2) in the definition of the expression "educationalservices" by the substitution for the words "by anyeducational establishment" of the words "by anyperson or partnership.";

(3) in the definition of the expression "taxable period"by the repeal of item (i) of paragraph (a) and there-numbering of items (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) asitems (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) respectively;

(4) by the addition immediately after the definition of"taxable supply" the following new definition:-

"telecommunication service" means the serviceprovided by telecommunication operatorslicensed under section 17 of the Sri LankaTelecommunication Act, No. 25 of 1991 toother similar operators and to endsubscribers.".

20. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is herebyamended in Part II thereof as follows:-

(1) in paragraph (a) of that Part by the additionimmediately after item (xvii) the following:-

"(xviii) Petrol, Coal or Bitumen specified underHarmonized commodity Description andCoding System Numbers for Custompurposes with effect from November 26,2010;

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

17Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

(xix) (a) machinery and equipment formanufacture of grain mixed bakeryproducts with effect from November29, 2010;

(b) machinery and equipment for the useof leather or footwear industry or bags,motor homes, taxi meters, agriculturalmachinery and parts, electronicequipments or articles use manufactureof fashion jewellery with effect fromJanuary 1, 2011;

(c) light weight electrical and electronicitems with effect from June 1, 2010;

(d) fruit seeds with effect from August 16,2010;

(e) telecommunication equipment witheffect from January 1, 2011;

as specified under HarmonizedCommodity Description and CodingSystem Numbers for Custom purposes;

(xx) any machinery or high-tech equipment forthe telecom industry, having identifiedthat such machinery or equipment isimported or purchased exclusively for theuse in the telecom industry and importedor purchased by any operator of telecommunication services, with effect fromJanuary 1, 2011 ;

(xxi) spare parts and accessories for exclusiveuse by Sri Lanka Transport Board andDepartment of Sri Lanka Railways(including imports made on or after18.08.2010);";

18Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

(2) in paragraph (b) of that part :

(a)in sub-paragraph (a) of item (i), by thesubstitution for the words and figures"educational services by an educationalestablishment (effective from January 1,2006); or" of the words and figures -

"(a) (1)educational services provided byan educational establishment(effective from January 1,2006and ending on December 31,2010); and

(2)educational services provided byany person or partnership with effectfrom January 1, 2011); or";

(b)in paragraph (b) of item (ii), by the repeal ofsub-paragraph A of that item and thesubstitution therefor of the following -

"(A)(i) such motor coaches with a seatingcapacity not less than twenty-eightpassenger seats and used for such publicpassenger transport services if suchlease agreement is entered into prior toJanuary 1, 2004 and ending onDecember 31, 2010;

(ii) lorries, tractors or motor coaches withseating capacity not less than twenty-eight passenger seats and used for publicpassenger transport services by theholder of any passenger service permitissued by the National TransportCommission established by theNational Transport Commission Act,No. 37 of 1991 or any Provincial RoadPassenger Transport Authorty, inrespect of any rental falling due forpayments on or after January 1, 2011;"

19Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

(3) by the addition immediately after item (xxx) thefollowing :-

"(xxxi) telecommunication services (with effectfrom January 1, 2011);

(xxxii)locally manufactured briquettes andpallets using bio mass wastes (witheffect from January 1, 2011;(xxxiii) locally developed software with effectfrom January 1, 2011;

(xxxiv) services being receipts from re-insurance by any local insurancecompany by way of commission orcompensation in an insurance business(with effect from January 1, 2011);

(xxxv)services being the issue of licenses tolocal telecom operators byTelecommunication RegulatoryCommission, established by theSri Lanka Telecommunications Act, No.25 of 1991 (with effect from January 1,2011)";

(4) in paragraph (c) of that Part by the additionimmediately after item (xxviii) thereof thefollowing new items :-

"(xxix) aircraft stimulators and parts specifiedunder Harmonized CommodityDescription and Coding SystemNumbers for Custom purposes witheffect from January 1, 2011;

(xxx)samples in relation to a business worthnot more than rupees twenty fivethousand subject to such terms andconditions as prescribed by the DirectorGeneral of Customs";

20Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

(5) in paragraph (f) of that Part, by the repeal of items(ii) and (iii) and the substitution therefor of thefollowing items :-

"(ii) (a) goods or services to any specified projectidentified by the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance, taking intoconsideration the economic benefit to thecountry, on which the tax is borne by theGovernment with effect from January 1,2008); or

(b) goods or services to any infrastructuredevelopment project funded throughforeign loans or donations directly to theGovernment Ministries (with effect fromJanuary 1, 2011);

and every such project shall be approvedby the Minister of Finance, andNotification of such approval shall bepublished in the Gazette;

(iii) any goods or services provided by anysociety registered under the Co-operativeSocieties Law, No. 5 of 1972, or under therespective Statutes enacted by theProvincial Councils providing for suchregistration, or Lak Sathosa registeredunder the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007;

(6) by the addition immediately after paragraph(g) of that Part, the following new paragraph :-

"(h) goods or services by an institution set upby the Ministry of Defence for therehabilitation of disabled soldiers, in sofar as the activities are carried out by theparticipation of such soldiers. (with effectfrom January 1, 2011)".

21Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2011

Exemption ofcertain small andmediumenterprises fromthe payment oftaxes payable bythem.

Indemnity.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

21.Any person or partnership supplying any goods orservices having an annual turnover of a sum not exceedingrupees one hundred million who has defaulted in the paymentof taxes payable by him under this Act in respect of anytaxable period ending on or before December 31, 2010, dueto the existence generally of any conflict environment ordue to any financial constraints of such person or partnership,shall be exempt from the payment of such charge as is indefault under this Act:

Provided that, the Commissioner-General of InlandRevenue shall on a request made to him in that behalf, issueto such person or partnership a Certificate of Exemption inrespect of the sum as in default:

Provided further, the person or partnership to whom theCertificate of Exemption is issued, shall simultaneouslyforward to the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue awritten assurance to the effect that such person or partnershipshall be responsible for the payment of all sums which maybecome payable by him under this Act, in respect of anyfuture taxable period commencing on or after January 1, 2011.

22.Any person who collects the Value Added Tax asprovided for in this Act during the period commencing fromDecember 31, 2010, and ending on the date of the cominginto operation of this Act, shall be deemed to have acted withdue authority and such collection shall be deemed to havebeen, and to be, validly made and such person is herebyindemnified against all actions civil or criminal, in respect ofany such collections.

23.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

7 Ports and Airports Development LevyAct, No. 18 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.