PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CONVENTION ON THE SUPPRESSION OFTERRORIST FINANCING (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 41 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th October, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 07, 2011

Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 20111

[Certified on 06th October, 2011]

L.D.O. 8/2010.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CONVENTION ON THE SUPPRESSION OFTERRORIST FINANCING ACT, NO. 25 OF 2005

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Convention on theSuppression of Terrorist Financing (Amendment) Act,No. 41 of 2011.

2.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 2 of the Convention on theSuppression of Terrorist Financing Act, No. 25 of 2005(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) andshall have effect as section 2A of that enactment:-

2A. (1) The provisions of this Act shall applyin relation to a person who being a citizen ofSri Lanka or a person who not being a citizenof Sri Lanka, commits an offence under thisAct,

(a) while present in Sri Lanka; or

(b) outside Sri Lanka and such offence is anoffence under the law for the time beingin force, in the country in which suchoffence is committed.

(2) For the purpose of the implementationof the provisions of this Act, the expressionperson shall include a body of persons,whether corporate or unincorporated within oroutside Sri Lanka..

Short title.

Applicationof the Act.

Insertion of newsection 2A inAct, No. 25 of2005.

2Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 2011

3.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

(1) Any person who, by any means, directlyor indirectly, unlawfully and wilfully providesor collects funds or property with the intentionthat such funds or property should be used, or inthe knowledge that they are to be used or havingreason to believe that they are likely to be used,in full or in part, in order to commit-

(a) an act which constitutes an offence withinthe scope of, or within the definition ofany one of the Treaties specified inSchedule I hereto;

(b) any other act, intended to cause death orserious bodily injury, to civilians or to anyother person not taking an active part inthe hostilities, in a situation of armedconflict or otherwise and the purpose ofsuch act, by its nature or context is tointimidate a population, or to compel agovernment or an internationalorganization, to do or to abstain fromdoing any act; or

(c) any terrorist act,

shall be guilty of the offence of financing of aterrorist act, a terrorist or terrorists, or a terroristorganization:

Provided that, for an act to constitute theoffence set out above, it shall not be necessaryto show that the funds or property provided orcollected were actually used in the commissionof an offence.;

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 20113

(2)in subsection (2) by the substitution for the wordsthe offence of financing of terrorists or terroristorganization of the words the offence of financingof a terrorist act, a terrorist or terrorists or aterrorist organization;

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)thereof of the following new subsection :

(2A) Any person who unlawfully andwilfully by any direct or indirect means providesor conspires to provide, material support orresources to any terrorist or terrorists or a terroristorganization shall be guilty of an offence underthis Act:

Provided however that, providing assistanceon humanitarian grounds by a person or body ofpersons, shall not amount to an offence withinthe meaning of this Act..

4.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substitutedtherefor :

4. (1) A police officer not below the rank ofan Assistant Superintendent of Police may,where there are reasonable grounds to believethat any person is involved in the commissionof any act which constitutes an offence undersection 3 of this Act and it is necessary forpreventing the commission of any further actsin connection with such offence, issue an Order(hereinafter referred to as a Freezing Order)freezing all funds or property provided orcollected in contravention of the provisions ofsection 3, any income or profit earned on suchfunds or property or any instrumentalities usedin the commission of such offence.

Replacement ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

Freezing ofproperty &c.

4Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 2011

(2) The Freezing Order obtained undersubsection (1) shall be issued on

(a) the person who is believed to beinvolved in the commission of any actwhich constitutes an offence in termsof section 3; and

(b) on any other person or institution whoor which may be required to give effectto such Order.

(3) A Freezing Order issued undersubsection (1) shall, subject to the provisionsof section 4A, be in force for a period of sevendays of the making thereof.

(4) Any person who or institution whichuses such fund, property, income, profit orinstrumentality which is subject to a FreezingOrder, in contravention of such Freezing Orderissued on him or such institution, shall beguilty of an offence and shall on convictionafter trial before the High Court be liable to afine not exceeding one hundred thousandrupees or one and a half times the value of themoney in such funds, property, income, profitor instrumentality which has been dealt within contravention of the Freezing Order,whichever is higher or to imprisonment ofeither description for a period not exceedingone year or to both such fine andimprisonment..

5. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 4 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, 4E, 4F, 4G, 4H and4I of that enactment :

4A. (1) The police officer issuing theFreezing Order in terms of section 4 shall,within the seven days during which such Ordershall be in force, make an exparte application

Insertion of newsections 4A, 4B,4C, 4D, 4E, 4F, 4G,4H and 4I in theprincipalinactment.Confirmationof FreezingOrder byCourt.

Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 20115

to the High Court seeking confirmation of suchFreezing Order and also if the circumstancesso necessitate, request an extension to theoriginal period of seven days.

(2) Where the High Court is satisfied thatthere is sufficient reason for the making of suchFreezing Order, the Court may subject to anyOrders which may be made under section 4E,confirm the Freezing Order and also grant theapplication made for the extension thereof, forsuch periods as it considers necessary:

Provided that the maximum period of anyextension so granted shall not exceed threemonths at any given time and in any eventshall not in the aggregate exceed a period oftwo years from the date of the issuing of theFreezing Order by the police officer:

Provided further that where indictment isfiled for the commission of an offence undersection 3 of this Act in respect of the fund,property, income, profit or instrumentalitywhich is subject to the Freezing Order, suchFreezing Order shall unless vacated by Courtfor reasons to be recorded, remain in force untilthe conclusion of the trial in respect of suchoffence, or where an appeal is preferred againsta conviction for such offence, until thedetermination of the appeal.

(3) Where the High Court confirms aFreezing Order under subsection (2) it shallcause a Notification of the Freezing Order tobe published in at least one newspapercirculating in the Sinhala, Tamil and Englishlanguages, in order to facilitate bona fide thirdparties to make application to Court in supportof their claims to the fund, property, income,profit or instrumentality which is subject tothe Freezing Order.

6Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 2011

4B. No transaction shall, except with thesanction of the Court as provided for in section4C be effected in relation to such funds,property, income, profit or instrumentalitieswhile the Freezing Order is in force and anytransaction so effected shall be null andvoid.

4C. Where any legitimate business or otherinterests of any person affected by the FreezingOrder could be damaged by the prohibitionimposed thereby, such person may make anapplication to High Court stating such facts insupport thereof, and the Court may, on aconsideration of such application before it, ifit is of opinion that such an Order coulddamage legitimate business or other interestsof such person and that essential transactionsrelating to such funds, property, income, profitor instrumentalities as may have beenprohibited by such Freezing Order may belegitimately carried out, confirm the Ordermade under section 4 and make further Order,sanctioning the carrying on of such transactionssubject to the supervision and direction of,either a person appointed in that behalf byCourt, or of a Receiver appointed in that behalfby Court under section 4D.

4D. Upon an application made in that behalfby a police officer not below the rank of anAssistant Superintendent of Police, the HighCourt may appoint a Receiver, in accordancewith the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code(Chapter 101), to take possession of andotherwise deal with the fund, property, income,profit or instrumentality which has beensubjected to the Freezing Order, in accordancewith such directions as may be given by Courtin that behalf.

High Courtto sanctionessential andlegitimatetransactions.

Transactionsincontraventionof theFreezingOrder to benull andvoid.

Appointmentof Receiver.

Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 20117

Propertytracking andmonitoring.

4E. (1) Any police officer not below the rankof an Assistant Superintendent of Police shalltake possession of, and otherwise deal with,any fund, property, income, profit orinstrumentality which is subject to a FreezingOrder, and the Court may on application madeby the said police officer and for the purposeof determining who owns, possesses or is incontrol of such fund, property, income, profitor instrumentality to which the Freezing Orderrelates, order-

(a) that any document relevant to

(i) identifying, locating orquantifying such funds, property,income , profit or instrumentalities;

(ii) establishing the ownership,possession or control of such funds,property, income , profit orinstrumentalities;

(iii) obtaining any otherinformation pertaining to suchfunds, property, income , profit orinstrumentalities,

be delivered forthwith to such policeofficer; and

(b) that a named institution furnish to theReceiver all information obtained by theinstitution about any businesstransaction conducted by, or for, thatperson with the institution during suchperiod before or after the date of suchorder, as the Court may direct.

8Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 2011

(2) Where it appears to the Court making anorder under subsection (1) that any person hasfailed to or delayed in complying with or isotherwise obstructing the execution of, anorder made under subsection (1), such Courtmay make order authorizing the police officerto enter and search any premises of that person,and remove any document, material or otherthing therein for the purpose of executing suchorder.

(3) Upon determining who owns, possessesor is in control of any funds, property, income,profit or instrumentalities to which theFreezing Order relates, the police officer shallreport the same to the Court making theFreezing Order, along with all documentsestablishing and supporting such ownership,possession or control, as the case may be.

4F. (1) Subject to the provisions ofsubsection (4), where a person is convicted ofan offence under section 3 of this Act, the Courtconvicting such person shall, make order thatany funds or property provided or collected incontravention of the provisions of section 3,any income or profit earned on such funds orproperty or any instrumentalities used in thecommission of such offence, be forfeited to theState, free from all encumbrances.

(2) Where such funds, property, income,profit or instrumentalities cannot be found ortraced the Court convicting such person shallorder to pay to the State the equivalent valueof such funds, property, income, profit orinstrumentalities.

Forfeiture ofproperty etc.in relation towhich anoffenceunder thisAct has beencommitted.

Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 20119

(3) Where such person fails to pay suchequivalent value, the Court, shall, inaccordance with the provisions of the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, orderhim to pay a such value fine within such periodas may be specified by Court.

(4) In determining whether an Order ofForfeiture should be made under subsection(1), the Court shall be entitled to take intoconsideration the fact whether such an Order islikely to prejudice the rights of a bona fidepurchaser for value or any other person whohas acquired, for value, a bona fide interest insuch funds, property, any income or profitearned on such funds or property or suchinstrumentality.

(5) An order made under subsection (1) shalltake effect -

(a) where an appeal has been preferred tothe Court of Appeal or the SupremeCourt against the Order of Forfeiture,upon the determination of such appealconfirming or upholding the Order ofForfeiture;

(b) where no appeal has been preferred tothe Court of Appeal against the Order ofForfeiture within the period allowedtherefor, after the expiration of the periodwithin which an appeal may be preferredto the Court of Appeal, against suchOrder of Forfeiture.

(6) For the purposes of subsection (1), theCourt making the Order of Forfeiture maypresume that any funds or property belongingto the person convicted of an offence under

10Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 2011

section 3 of this Act is derived or realized,directly or indirectly from the commission ofsuch offence, if the value of such funds orproperty is not commensurate with the knownsources of income of such person, and theholding of which cannot be explained on abalance of probabilities, to the satisfaction ofthe Court.

4G. (1) Any person, being a person to whomthe provisions of section 3 do not apply, andwho owns, possesses or is in control of anyfunds or property or any income or profit earnedon such funds or property, or anyinstrumentalities, to which the Freezing Ordermade under section 4 relates, may within thirtydays of the making of such Order apply to theCourt making the same, seeking theintervention of Court to exclude from suchOrder any fund, property, income, profit orinstrumentalities which such person owns,possesses or is in control of.

(2) Where an application is made undersubsection (1), the Court shall upon beingsatisfied on the information before Court that -

(a) such funds or property is not derived orrealized directly or indirectly from thecommission of such offence or such fundsor property is not an instrumentality usedin the commission of such offence;

(b) the applicant was not in any wayinvolved in the commission of an offenceunder section 3 in relation to which theFreezing Order was made;

Restoring therights ofbona fideclaimants.

Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 201111

(c) the applicant had acquired an interest insuch funds or property at any time priorto the commission of such offence, andthe applicant was unaware of the fact thatthe defendant had used or had intendedto use such funds or property in or inconnection with the commission of suchoffence; or

(d) the applicant had acquired an interest insuch funds or property at the time of, orafter the commission or allegedcommission of the offence, and that suchinterest was acquired in circumstanceswhich would not give rise to a reasonablesuspicion that such fund or property wasproceeds or instrumentalities of suchoffence,

make order for the release of such fund,property income, profit or instrumentalitywhich is the subject of the application beforeit, from the Freezing Order made under section4, and restore the rights of the applicant inrespect of the same.

4H. Where any fund, property, income,profit or instrumentality has been forfeited tothe State under section 4F of this Act, the Courtmaking the Order of Forfeiture may, appoint aReceiver in accordance with the provisions ofthe Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101), to bein charge of the fund, property, income, profitor instrumentality so forfeited.

4I. The provisions of sections 4 to 4H ofthis Act shall have effect notwithstanding anyobligation as to secrecy or other restrictionimposed upon the disclosure of information

Appointmentof a ReceiveruponForfeiture.

Secrecyobligationoverridden.

12Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 2011

by any written law or otherwise, andaccordingly any disclosure of information byany person in compliance with the provisionsof sections 4 to 4H of this Act shall be deemednot to be a contravention of, any suchobligation or restriction..

6.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

(1) On the conviction of any person undersubsection (4) of section 3, the Court may orderthat any funds or property provided or collectedin contravention of the provisions of section 3,any income or profit earned on such funds orproperty or any instrumentalities used in thecommission of such offence, be forfeited to theState.;

(2)in subsection (2) thereof by the substitution forthe words Any funds forfeited to the State of thewords Any funds, property, income profit orinstrumentalities forfeited to the State.;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

(3) Where the Court is satisfied on theevidence adduced at a trial for an offence undersubsection (1) or subsection (2) of section 3, thatany funds, property, income, profit orinstrumentalities standing to the credit of anyaccount of any institution are the proceeds ofsuch offence, it may, by written order prohibitthe Head of such institution from permitting orallowing the withdrawal of any funds from suchaccount, until the conclusion of the trial..

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 201113

7.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (a) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraph:-

(a) any person who committed such act ispresent in Sri Lanka;;

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (e)thereof, of the following new paragraph:-

(ee) the person in relation to whom the offenceis alleged to have been committed is anational of a Convention State;.

8.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 16 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 16A of that enactment:-

16A. In this Act unless the context otherwiserequires-

finance business includes any one of thefollowing business or activities:-

(a) banking, as defined in the BankingAct, No. 30 of 1988, including theacceptance of deposits or otherrepayable deposits from membersof the public;

(b) finance business as defined in theFinance Companies Act, No. 78 of1988 or any Act enacted in placethereof;

(c) lending, including consumercredit, mortgage credit, factoring(with or without recourse) andfinancing of commercialtransactions;

Insertion of newsection 16A inthe principalenactment.

Interpretation.

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

14Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 2011

(d) financial leasing other thantransactions relating to consumerproducts;

(e) the transfer of money or value;

(f) money and currency changingservices;

(g) issuing and managing means ofpayment (i.e. credit cards, travelerscheques, money orders andbankers drafts and electronicmoney);

(h) issuing financial guarantees andcommitments, including but notlimited to, consumer credit,factoring with or without recourseand financing of commercialtransactions including forfeiting;

(i) trading for its own account or forthe account of customers in moneymarket instruments (i.e. cheques,bills of exchange, certificates ofdeposit and derivatives), foreignexchange, exchange, interest rateand index instruments, commodityfutures trading and transferablesecurities;

(j) participating in the issue ofsecurities and the provision offinancial services related to suchissue;

(k) banking business carried on by acompany, to whom a licence to

Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 201115

carry on banking business is issuedunder the Banking Act, No. 30 of1988;

(l) any finance business carried on byany society registered under theCo-operative Societies Law, No. 5of 1972 or any Act enacted in placethereof;

(m) any finance business carried on bythe Samurdhi Authority of SriLanka, established by theSamurdhi Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 30 of 1995; and

(n) underwriting and placement ofinsurance as well as insuranceintermidation by agents andbrokers;

funds or property means-

(a) any currency including also, butnot limited to, bank credits,travellers cheques, bank cheques,money orders, shares, securities,bonds, drafts, letters of credit; or

(b) any asset, whether-

(i) corporeal or incorporeal,movable or immovable,tangible or intangible;

(ii) kept or situated within oroutside Sri Lanka,

and where title or legal or equitableinterest in such funds or property,or any income or proceeds of such

16Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 2011

funds or property, is evidenced byany legal document or instrumentin any form whatsoever, includingany electronic or digital form;

institution means any person or body ofpersons engaged in or carrying on financebusiness;

material support or resources includes anytangible, movable or immovableproperty or service, including currencyor monetary instruments or financialservices, lodging, training, expert adviceor assistance, safe houses, falsedocumentation or identification,communications equipment or facilities,weapons, lethal substances, explosives,personnel and transportation, but shallnot include medicines or religiousmaterial;

person includes a body of persons; and

terrorist act includes, the use of threat ofaction, which involves-

(a) the use of threat of action which isdesigned to influence thegovernment, or to intimidate thepublic or a section of the public;

(b) the use of threat of action which ismade for the purpose of advancinga political, religious or ideologicalcause,

and such action,

(i) involves serious violence againsta person;

Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 201117

(ii) involves serious damage toproperty;

(iii) endangers the life of anotherperson, other than the personcommitting the action;

(iv) creates a serious risk to health orsafety of the public or a section ofthe public; or

(v) is designed seriously to interferewith or seriously to disrupt anelectronic system..

9.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

18Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 41 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.