I I IIE EEE EES

AN i ah iii IE a ka a Cs Ok Bae

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
wv SRI LANKA

PENAL CODE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 29 OF 1998
{Certified on 4th June, 1998 ]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 05, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01.

Price: Rs. 4.50 Postage : Rs. 2.50


Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1998

{Certified on 4th June, 1998]

L. D.—O. 16/97.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PENAL CODE

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.

This Act may be cited as the Penal Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 1998.

2.

Section 286a of the Penal Code (hereinafter referred

to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended as
follows :—

(1)

(2)

3.

by the renumbering of subsection (2) of that section
as subsection (4) of that section; and

by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section, of the following new subsections: —

“(2) Any person who, being a developer of
photographs or films, discovers that any photograph
or film given to him for developing is an indecent or
obscene photograph or a film of a child, shall,
forthwith on such discovery, inform the officer in
charge of the nearest police station that he has in his
possession, such photograph or film.

(3) Whoever being a developer of
photographs or films acts in contravention of the
provisions of subsection (2) shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to two years or with fine or with both.”.

The following new sectics are hereby inserted

immediately after section 287 ar _ shall have effect as section
288, 288a, and 288B, respectively, of the principal
enactment:—

2—D 048906—13,550 (04/98)

Short title.

Amendment of
section 286 of
Chapter 19°”

~

Insertion of new
sections 288,
288a, and 288s, in
the principal
enactment.



2 Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1998 .

“Causing or
procuring
children to
beg.

Hiring or
employing
children to act
as procurers

. for sexual
intercourse.

Hiring or
employing
children to
traffic in
restricted
articles.

288.(1) Whoever causes or procures a child to
be in any street, premises or place for the purposes
of begging or receiving alms, or of inducing the
giving of alms (whether or not there is any
pretence of singing, playing, performing, offering _
anything for sale or otherwise), shall on
conviction be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding five
years and may also be liable to a fine.

(2) In this section “child” means a person
under eighteen years of age.

288a (1) Whoever knowingly, hires, employs,
persuades, uses, induces or coerces a child to
procure any person for illicit sexual intercourse
shall on conviction be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term not
less than two years and not exceeding five years
and may also be liable to a fine.

(2) In this section “child” means a person
under eighteen years of age.

288B(1) Whoever knowingly, hires, employs,
persuades, uses, induces or coerces a child to
traffic in any restricted article shall on conviction
be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than five years and
not exceeding seven years and may also be liable —
to a fine.

(2) In this section—

“child” means a person under eighteen years
of age;

“restricted article” has the meaning assigned
to it by the Poisons, Opium and
Dangerous . Drugs Ordinance
(Chapter 218.);.


Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1998 3

’ “trafficking” includes selling, giving, -

procuring, storing, administering,
transporting, sending, delivering or
distributing.”

4, Section 302 of the Principal enactment is hereby
repealed.

5. Section 360a of the. principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—~ '

(1) in subsection (5) of that section by the substitution
for all the words from “to leave such person’s ysual
place of abode in Sri Lanka”, to the end of that
paragraph, of the following :—

“to leave such persons usual place of abode in
Sri Lanka with a view to illicit sexual intercourse
within or out side Sri Lanka;”;

in subsection (6) of that section by the substitution
for the words “in any brothel with a view to illicit
sexual intercourse or sexual abuse”, of the words
“in any premises with a view to illicit sexual
intercourse or sexual abuse”.

@)

6. Section 363 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (6) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following paragraph:—

“{b) with her consent, while she was in lawful
or unlawful detention-or when her consent has been
obtained, by use of force or intimidation, or by threat
of detention or by putting her in fear of death or
hurt;”.

7. Section 3658 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

Repeal of section
302 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 360a of
thé principal
enactment.


4 Penal Code (Amendment) Act, No, 29 of 1998

(1) _ by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) of
that section, of the following new paragraph :—

“(aa) with or without the consent of the other
person when the other person is under sixteen years
of age;”; and

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (5) of that section and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph:—

“(b) with the consent of the other person while
such other person was in lawful or unlawful detention
or where that consent has been obtained, by use of
force, or intimidation or threat of detention or by
putting such other person in fear of death or hurt;”.

Sinhala text to 8. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

prevail incaseof and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
inconsistency.



Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 88:
payable to the SuPERINTENDENT, GoveRNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU,
Lotus Roap, Cotomso 01 before 15th December each year in res|

5 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
‘No. 32, Transworks House,
pect of the year following.
