PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CHANDIMA WEERAKKODY FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 5 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 04th March, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 17.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 07, 2014

1Chandima Weerakkody Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014

2PL 006515 2050 (01/2012)

[Certified on 04th March, 2014]

L.D.O.(Inc.) 3/2012.

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CHANDIMA WEERAKKODY FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as theChandima Weerakkody Foundaton has heretofore beencreated for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which the said Foundation was establishedand has applied to be incorporated and it will be expedientto grant such application:

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Domocratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Chandima WeerakkodyFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theChandima Weerakkody Foundation (hereinafter referred toas the Foundation) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession, under the nameand style of the Chandima Weerakkody Foundation(hereinafter referred to as the Corporation) and by thatname may sue and be sued and shall have full power andauthority to have and to use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurposes of the voluntary social services organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act, shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the Corporation.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation ofthe ChandimaWeerakkodyFoundation.

2Chandima Weerakkody Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be

(a)to assist financially or otherwise the needy schoolchildren to enable them to continue their studies;

(b)to provide assistance to the needy;

(c)to award scholarships to deserving students selectedto follow courses in Universities and other HigherEducational Institutions;

(d)to conduct workshops, discussions and seminarsto train teachers of daham schools andpreschools and to provide incentives to inauguratepreschools with the approval of the relevantprovincial educational authorities if so required bylaw;

(e)to assist in providing wheel chairs, crutches,spectacles and other medical equipment and foodto the needy, destitute and sick;

(f)to encourage the under privileged to engage in selfemployment programmes;

(g)to develop religious places belonging to allreligions;

(h)to assist in the activities of societies established inthe Grama Niladhari Divisions.

4.The objects of the Corporation shall be carrid out insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the Corporation and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

General objectsof the Corpora-tion.

Corporation toensure of noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe CentralGovernment orProvince.

3Chandima Weerakkody Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act and the rules made under section 7, beadministered by a Committee of Management (hereinafterreferred to as the Committee) consisting of the Chairman,Secretary, Treasurer and four other members who shall beelected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.

(2) The founder member of the Foundation, HonourableChandima Weerakkody, Member of Parliament shall be thefirst Chairman of the Committee of Management of theCorporation.

(3) (a) The first Committee of the Corporation shall bethe Committee of Management of the Foundationholding office on the day immediately preceding the dateof commencement of this Act, who shall hold office untilthe new members are elected in terms of the provisions ofthis Act.

(b) The first Committee of the Corporation shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(4) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee includingthe patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter a lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the committee shall, having regard to the rules of theCorporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

Management ofthe affairs of theCorporation.

4Chandima Weerakkody Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to

(a)open, operate and close bank accounts;

(b)borrow or raise money with or without security, andto receive or collect grants and donations:

Provided that, the Committee shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation.

(c)utilize the funds belonging to the Corporation forthe achievement of the objects of the Corporation,in a manner determined by the Committee;

(d)purchase, acquire, give on lease or hire, sell orotherwise obtain any movable or immovableproperty which may be required for the purpose ofthe corporation and which may lawfully be acquiredfor those purposes and to deal with or dispose ofthe same, as it may deem expedient with a view topromoting the objects of the Corporation;

(e)employ and dismiss officers and servants requiredfor the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation;

(f)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreigninstitutions which have similar objects; and

(g)do all other acts and things as are necessary orexpedient for the proper and effective carrying outof the objects of the Corporation.

General Powersof theCorporation.

5Chandima Weerakkody Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any General Meeting or at a Special General Meetingby a majority of not less than one third of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law for all or anyof the following matters:-

(a)the election of the office bearers, their term of office,resignation from, or vacation of, or removal fromoffice and their powers and duties;

(b)the election and the terms of office of members ofthe Committee other than the office bearers and thepowers and duties of the committee;

(c)classification of membership, admission, withdrawal,expulsion of members and membership fees;

(d)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audit of its accounts;

(e)the procedure to be followed at any meeting of thecommittee and the quorum therefore and theconduct of business thereat; and

(f)the management of the affairs of the Corporationand the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall beGazetted.

(4) The members of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

6Chandima Weerakkody Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014

8.(1) The Corportion shall have its own Fund and allmonies heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,bequest, donation, subscription, contribution or grants onbehalf of the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit ofthe Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks as theCommittee may determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums ofmoney as may be required to defray any expenditure incurredby the Corporation in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts tobe kept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Corporation.

(2) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by aqualified auditor appointed by the Committee.

(3) For the purposes of this section, "qualified auditor"means-

(i)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate, to practise as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificate,to practise as an Accountant, issued by the Councilof such Institute.

10.(1) The Committee shall prepare a report of theactivities of the Corporation for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountsto the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the

Audit andaccounts.

Fund of theCorporation.

Annual Report.

7Chandima Weerakkody Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014

subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of VoluntarySocial Services Organizations appointed under the VoluntarySocial Services Organization (Registration and Supervision)Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of theyear succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and localmoneys received by the Corporation during the financial yearshall be attached to the report referred to in subsection (1).

11.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporationshall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold anyproperty both movable and immovable by way of purchase,grant, gift or testamentary disposition or otherwise, and allsuch property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposesof this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation withfull power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwisedispose of the same.

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid and discharged by the Coporation herebyconstituted and all debts due to, subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

13.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument except in the presence of the Chairman andtwo members of the Corporation as may be decided by theCommittee, who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence, and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

14.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, thereremains any property after the satisfaction of all debts andliabilities, such property shall not be distributed among themembers of the Corporation, but shall be given or transmittedto some other institution or institutions having objects similar

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Seal of theCorporation.

Corporationmay holdmovable andimmovableproperty.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation.

8Chandima Weerakkody Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014

to those of the Corporation, and which is or are by its rulesprohibited from distributing any income or property amongits or their members. Such institution or institutions may bedetermined by the Committee on or before the dissolution ofthe Corporation.

15.Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or any body politic orcorporate.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

9Chandima Weerakkody Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.