PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SUGAR CANE RESEARCH INSTITUTE
(AMENDMENT) |

ACT, No. 5 OF 1992

[Certified on 26th February, 1992]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republii of Sri Lanka of February 28, 1992

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price: 45 cents Postage: Re. 1.00
‘


i Sugar Cane Research Institute (Amendment)
Act, No. 5 of 1992.

wie: [Certified on 26th February 1992]
L. D—O 17/91

AN ACT TO AMEND THE Sucar Canr ResgzARCH
INSTITUTE Act, No. 75 or 1981

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Demnberatic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1, This Act may be cited as the Sugar Cane Research
Institute (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 1992.

2. Section 17 of the Sugar Cane Research Institute Act,
No- 75 of 1981 (hereinafter referred to as “the principal
euactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (1) thereof

a3 follows:—

A@) in paragraph (b) of that subsection, by the substi-
tution, for the words “performance of its powers,
functions and duties; and”, of the words “per-
formance of its powers, functions and duties ;”;

0) in paragraph (c) of that gubsection, by the substi-
tution, for the words “whether in or outside Sri
Lanka. ”, of the words ‘‘whether in or outside Sri
Lanka; and”; and, . ;

.{c) by the addition at the end of that subsection of the
following new paragraph: —

“(d) all such sums of money as may be received
or recovered as a cess on sugar under this
Act %”

3. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 18, and shall have effect as

sections 18a and 18s of the principal enactment: —

“Levy of 18a. (1) There shall be charged, levied and
jape rsd paid a cess at such rates as may be determin-
sugar. ed by the Minister, from time to time, with

the concurrence of the Minister in charge of
the subject of Finance, by Order published in
the Gazette, on every kilogramme of sugar
imported into Sri Lanka.

2-—-D 020761—6980 (91/11)

Short title.

Amendment
of section

17 of Act,
No. 75 of 198%.

Insertion
of new
sections
18a and 183
in the
principal
enactment,


3 Sugar Cane Research Institute (Amendment)
Act, No. 5 of 1992.

: (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of
_ subsection (1), no such cess shall be charged,
levied or paid on any sugar which is proved
to the satisfaction of the Director-General of
Customs to have been imported into Sri
Lanka for the purpose of re-export.

3) This section shall have effect as though
it formed part of the Customs Ordinance
and the provisions of that Ordinance shall
apply accordingly.

(4) The cess on imported sugar levied un-
der this section shall ke in addition to any
other cess or duty on imported sugar levied
under any other written law. |

(5) Every Order made by the Minister un-
der this section shall come into force on the
date of its publication in the Gazette or such
later date as may be specrfied therein and
shall be brought before Parliament for
approval within four months of the date of
its publication in the Gazette. Any such
Order which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be revoked as from the date of its
disapproval, but without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done there-

under.
zoceeis of 16s. The cess levied under section 18a shalj
e cess y
gecdvercd be recovered by the Director-General of Cus-

Bader section tors or any other person, authorized by the
a to be ;

oredited 46 Minister in charge of the subject of Finance

te Hand in consultation with the Minister, who shall
e . " .

institute. credit the sarne to the Fund of the Institute

established under the Act.”.

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. text te
prevail!
in ense of
inconais~
tency,
