PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRAT?E.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SBI LANKA |

A ete NOOR mee ene yt OOO REO,

SOCIAL SECURITY BOARD
ACT, No. 17 OF 1996

FOL mm weet. 8

[Certified cn 26th July, 1993}

Printed on the Order of Government

£8 ERO ET EPO Le Dn VO

Rablished as a Supplement to Part II of the Gusette ef the Beswsazist:
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 26, 1986

FRINTEB AT YME SUPARTMENMT OF GOVERN MEY PRIRTIAG, GEE LOR

revere we cane.

TO BE PURCMASHD AT THR GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, CEeLeraze U1

Poice: Re. 1.28 - z Postage: tis, 2.88


Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996

[Certified on 26th July, 1996]
i. D—O. 87/34

An AcT TO ESTABLISH A SocraL SeEcusitTy Boarp FoR TH=
WamMAGenREIMT OF TAs Powsion AsWD SociaL S#UURYT¥
Buaxsrry SCREME FOR SELF DAIPLOYED PROGORKS; ake iO
PSOVIDE FOR MATIESG COAMICTI® THIREWIIN OM LACIVESTAL

TS ERETO,

SE it enacted by the Psrliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as icllows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Social Security Board
Act, No. 17 of 1996 and shall come into operation on such
date as the Minister may appoint by Order published in
the Gazette (hereinaiter referred to as “the. appointed
date’).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY BOARD

2. (1) There shall be established-a: body called. the
Social Security Eoard (nereinafter referred to as “the
Board”) consisting of the persons appointed under
section 3.

(2) The Board shail, by the name asaiened to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have, perpe-

tual succession and’ a common seal end may gue and be
~ gued in suck name.

3. (1) The Eorrd shall consist of seven directors
appointed by the Minister, one of whom shali be a repre:
sentative of the Treasury.

(2) The Minister shal) appoint one of the Dureciors as
the Chairman of the Board.

(3) The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act
shall have effect in relation to the terms of office of the
Derectors and the vemimeratiog payable te Liructars,
meetings of the Board, and the seal of the Board.

(4) Sukiect to other provisions of the Act the functions
ef the Board shall be to establiss a Penstoa and Sveial
Security Benefit Scheme fer self omplored persass other
than those in the Bishones and Acriculture sectors (herein-
after referred to as “The Scheme”) ard to administer
and manage such scheme.

Short title
and date of
apenas: 2k,

Establishment
ol ule

Social
Security
Board.

Directore
of tne

Board.

Functions
of the
Board.


2 Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996

Fowars 5. For the purpose cf discharging its functions, the
Beard Board shall have the power to—

(a) acquire, hold, take on lease or hire, mortgage, seli
or otherwise dispose of, any movable or immo-
vable property ;

(®) enter into, and perform, either directly or through
any officer or agent authorized in that behalf, all
such contracts as may be necessary for the dis-
charge of its functions ;

(c) make rules in relaticn to its officers and servants,
including their appointment, promotion, remune-
ration, disciplinary control and grant of leave to
them ;

(d) administer and manage the Scheme ;

(e) maintain the required actuarial financial and opera-
tional reporte in respect of the Scheme ;

(f) determine the benefits to be paid to any Contributor
under the Scheme ;

(g) do all such other things as in the opinion of the
Board, are necessary for the proper discharge of
its functicns or for the administration and imple-
mentation of the Scheme.

Application 6. The Minister may, from time to time, having regard

of Act, to the feasiiility of administering the scheme and the
occupational risks imvolved im occupations earried on by
self-employed persons. determine by Order published in
the Gazette the categories of self-employed persons who
shall be entitled to contribute to the Scheme. Any seif-
employed person who falls into a category-of self employed
persons specified in an Order made under this section is
hereinafter referred to as “a person to whom this Act
applies ”.

PART II

PENSION AND SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT SCHEME FOR
SELF-EMPLOYED PERSONS.

Mi gtbihicy 4, Any person to whem this Act applies who has the
LO TOI

the Scheme. prescribed qualifications «nd is not less than eighteen
years of age and not more than fifty-nine years of age
shall be entitled to joir. the Scheme.


Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996 3

8. (1) A person to whom this Act applies who joins the
Scheme (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Contributor ’’)
shall be entitled to the following benefits under the Scheme
ga such basis as may be prescribed—

(a) a periodical pension of a prescribed amount;

{b) in cases of permanent partial disablement, a lump
sum gratuity or if he continues to pay his con-
tributions after disablement, a lump sum gratuity
and a pension when it becomes due;

4c) in cases of permanent total disablement, a lump
sum gratuity or a periodical allowance ai a pres-
eribed amount ;

(d) a death gratuity.

(2) The basis of paying a penaion, allowance or gratuity
akall be prescribed taking into consideration, imter-alia,
eae period of contribution, the age of the Contributor and
tae amount ef contributions made by the Contributor.

§ (1) A Contributor shall be entitled to a pension on
reaching the age of sixty years. A Contributor who com-
raences to contribute after reaching the age of fifty five

years shall however be entitled to a pension only after
paying his entire contribution as may be prescribed and
at the end of five years from the date of his joining the
Scheme. é

(2) The pension shall be paid up to the end of the
tnoath in which the Contributor dias.

16. The Minister may with a view to encouraging
persons to whom this Act applies to join the Scheme

preseribe either a rebate or a discount on the contribution

te be paid by contributors,

41, Any Contributur whe beeomes permanently and
partially disabled before he becomes entitled to receive
bis pension, shali receive a lump sum gratuity calculated
en the prescribed bads and may either leave the Scheme
er remain in the Scheme paying the balance contributions
sad receive the pension when it becomes due.

Benefits
under tha
Schema

Rebats

on
contribution

Partial
diseblemend


Tata
disablement,

Death
grawuity.

Bosrd to
issue poly
te sch

Contributor.

Forfoure
of Policy.

4 Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996

12. Any Contributor wno becomes permanently and
totally disnbied before he becomes entitled to receive his
peusion sfiali at his option rece.ve a lump sum = gratuity
calculated om the preaciibed basts and leave the Sepcine
or receive a periodical allowance calculated on the pree
cribed basis, and remain in the Scheme without paying
any further contributions.

13. In the event of the death of a Contributor before
he becomes entitled to receive his pension, a death gratuity
calculated on such basis as may be prescribed shall be
paid to his surviving spouse and legitimate children or te
his immediate relatives by blood in such proportions and
in such order of priority as is specified in the Secend
Schedule to this Act.

14. The Board shall on the enrolment of any persom
as a Contributor to the Scheme issue him with a policy
setting out the contcibutions to be made by him, the
terms and conditions of the policy and the benefits te
which he is entitled under the policy issued to him.

“15. (1) The date ‘before which contributions are
payable by a Contributor shall be specified in the policy
and any contributor who fails to pay ten instalments shall
forfeit the benefits under the policy issued to him,

(2) Where any Cortributor has forfeited the benefits:
under the policy issued to him. the Board shall issue such
Contributor a notice to that effect.

(3) A Contributor shall have the right to appesl] to tke
Board to validate his policy and the Board shall vwalidete
the policy if it is satisfied that the reasons for failure to
pay the instalments were beyond the control of the Con-
tributor.

(4) Where the Board dacides to validate a policy the
Contributor shall be informed ef the date before whieh
the arrears of instalments havo te be paid The date of
such payment shall be the dase ef vahidetion of tee pelley.

(5) Any Contributor aggrieved by the deciedoe ef the
Board shall have the right-of appeal to the Secretary
to the Ministry of the Minister whose decision thereon
shall be final and conclusive.


Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996 5

16, The award of benefits under the Scheme’ to any
Contributor shall be determined by the Board in accordance
with the Scheme and regulations made to give effect to
the Scheme, .

17. Any officer of the Board specially authorized in that
behalf by the Chairman may, during any time of the day
enter and inspect any premises or place of employment to
ascertain the veracity of any particulars furnished by any
Contributor with regard to his eligibility to be enrolled or
to continue, as a Contributor to the Scheme.

48. (1) Any Contributor who is dissatisfied with the
award of any benefit determined by the Board may within
thirty days of receiving the notice of such award make an
appeal to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
stating the grounds of his «appeal.

(2) The decision of the Secretary of the Ministry on any
such appeal shall be final.

19. No pension, gratuity or allowance payable from the
Scherne shall be assigned or transferred and every such
essignment or transfer shall be absolutely null and void
end of no effect. No such pension or gratuity or allowance
shall be attached or taken in execution on account of any
debt or psyment due from*the person to whom such
pension or gratuity or allowance is payable.

PART III

STALF OF THE ROARD

$9. (1) The Chairman shall be the Chief Executive
Officer of the Board.

(2) The Board ghzxll have the power to appoint such
number of officers, agents and servants as it considers
hecessary for the efficient dischsrge of its functions and
the administration and implementation of the Scheme and
to exercise disciplinary control over and dismiss any
officer, agent or servant so appointed. —

(3) The officers, servants and agents appointed under
bubsection (1) shall be remunerated in such manner and
at such rates and shall be subject to such conditions of
service as may be determined by the Board.

Board ta
determine
award.

Inspection of
premises.

Appeal.

Pension,
gratuity or
aliowance not
to be
assigned of
levied upon.

Appointment
of officers
and servants
of the
Board.


6 Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996

(4) At the request of the Board any public officer maay,
trith the consent of that officer and the Secretary to tha
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Public
Administration, be tempcrarily appointed to the staff oi
the Boamd fer such period ws may be determined by the
Board with like consent or be permanently zppointed te
guch mail with like censent.

{3} Where any public oficer is temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Board the provisions of subsection (2)
of section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act,
No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and ic
relation to, him.

(3) Where any public officer is permanently appointed ta
the staff of the Soard the provisions of subsection (3) of
gestion 14 of the National Transport Commission Act No. 37
of 1991, daell, mutatis mutandis, apply to, in and reiailos
te, Bim,

{7} Where the Board employs any person who has
zureed to cerve the Governinent for a specified period, any
wesiod of service with the card by that person shall be
regarded es service to the Goveraraent for the purposs of
discharging the obligations of thet person under auch

agreement,
PART IV
EEN ANCE
Fnad 21. $3) Phe Board shall have its own Fund (here/nafiar
Seniid petarced @e as “the Fund”).

{g: Fhece shall be paid inte the Fuad—

°

{a} all each cums of money as may be voted frac
(ixaea «to «6CUtime «€6lby)6«6Parliament§3=o for thes
Sapsementation of the Scheme;

cs, ali sums of money paid as coniributiona te

ae heaece by Contributors ;

tay aad svrns of money received from amy scurce,
es gifta sud donations, to the Fund ;

(a? oil sama e@ wweney earned as interest or profita
from the investments of the Board;

te) «ik sures of money received hy the Bosrd, az
the exercise, discharge end performance, ¢
of its powers, duties and functions undes
this Acs,


Social Security Board Act, Ne. iT of 1990 7

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all gums of
monzy required to defrey expenditure incurred by the
Board in the exercise, discharge, and performance, of its
powers, Guties and functions, undar thie Act, and all sums
of money required to be paid out of the Fund, by or undor
enin Act

23. Ail monies in the Fund which are not immediately
sequired by the Board may be invested by the Board in
ceo a manner and in such securitles as may be authorized
ty the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister ir
charge of the subject of Finance.

23. (1) The Board may, with the concurrence of the

Minister and the Minister in charge of the subfect of.

Winsace or in accordance with the terms of any general
auibority given with like concurrence, borrow, by way of
overcralt or otherwise, or negotiate and obtain on credit,
guch suis as the Boerd may require for meeting the
aoligationg of the Bourd and for administering and imple-

monring the Scheme:

Provided that the agpregate of the amounts outstanding
fn respect of loans raised by the Board under this sub-
section shail not af any time, exceed such sums as may be
determined by the Minlster with the concurrence of the
Atinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(23 The Bosrd may, with the consent of the Minister
given with the concurrence of the Minisier in charge of
tae supject of Finance, borrow money otherwise than by
way cf loans under sihsection (1) for all or any of the

isowing purposes i-—
(#} the requisition or acquisition of any movable or
imrnovable property required for the use of the
Exard,

ib} the repayment ef any money borrowed under
aubsection (1),

ad.

#4 {1} The financial yesr of the Board eaeli be ths
Spiouday year.

(2) Tho Board shall cause proper beoks of accounts to
be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and
Habiliies and all other transactions of the Board.

et Mears.

Borvewing
Powers.

Financia}
year and
Audit of
siocounts
of the Board.


Appl cation
of Iniand
Revenue
Act. ivo. 28
of '979 to
the Board.

Applicatian
of Act No.
$8 of 1972.

Directors,
officers end

Scheduled
Ingtitutien
within tre
ineanimg

of the
Brihery Aet.

Delegation .
of powers
and dusiea
‘ua fot

Pruokesiicn
dakem woucer
Meta Acct

or on the
directsan

ot Use
Boord,

8 Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of Public Corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Board,

25. The Fund shall be deemed, for the purposes of
paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 31 of the Inland.
Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, to be afund established by

the Government of Sri Lanka.

26. For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared
that the provisions of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 shal!
apply to the Board.

PART V
GENERAL

27. All Directors, officers and servants of the Board
shall be deemed to be Public Officers within the meaning
and for purposes of the Penal Code.

28. The Board shall be deemed to be a scheduled insti-
tution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordinly.

29. (i) The Board may delegate to the Chairman. a
Director, or an officer or servant of the Board any of its-
powers and duties.

(2) Every person to whom any poewer or duty is dele~
gzted under subsection (1) shall exercise or perform suck
power or duty subject to the general or special directions:
ef the Board.

39. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie—

(@) ageinst the Board for any act which is good
faith is done or is purported to be done ey
the Bosrd under this Act. or

(b) against any Director, officer, servant or agent
of the Board for any act which In good
faith i¢ done or & purported to be doze by
him under th's Act or on the direction of the
Board.


Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996 9

_ (2) Any expense incurred by the Board in any suil or
prosecution brought by or against the Board before any
7ourt shall be paid out of the Fund and any costs paid ta,
Ir recovered by, the [Ksoard in any such suit shall be
edited to such Fund.

(3) Any expenses incurred by any such person as is

referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in anv:

uit or prosecution brought against him before any court
n respect of any act which is done, or purported to ke
Jone, by him under this Act or on the direction of the
3vard shall, if the court holds that such act was done ‘n
yood faith, be paid out of the Fund unless such expense
8 recovered by him in such proceedings.

81. The Minister may make regulations in respect of elt
matters in respect of which regulations are authorized or
required by this Act to be made, including—

(a) the regulation, administration and management ef
the Scheme;

(b) qualifications ertitling a person to whom this Act
applies to join the Scheme;

(c) the conditions on which, and the restrictions subject
to which a person to whom this Act applies shal}
be entitled to join the Scheme;

(d) the determination of the amount of the contribution
to be made by Contributors ;

(e) the determination of the basis on which pensions,
gratuities or allowances are payable to Contribu-
tors under the Scheme;

(f) conditions governing the default of payment ef
contributions, by contributors, surrender of policy
and lose of eligibility of a contributor;

(g) the procedure for the transaction of business by the
Board ;

(h) the terminsilen cr SeuSnlinwm ef a policy, issued
UROL Wi Ad; atid

(t) the basis of determining partial and total disable-
ment of a contributor. ‘

Regulations.


Loe ae

Binbala
Sexi ty
prevail ba
epee of

Miconsistenay.

Sesterareoathion

10 Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shail ba
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation e9

the date of such publication or on much later date as mar
68 specified therein.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall az
son as convenient after ite publication in the Gazette
be brought before Parliament for approval. Every regula.
ion which is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of such disapproval but withou:
Prejudice to the validity of anything previousiy seas
thereunder, — |

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation
eo deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the
azette,

$2. In the event of any inconsistency between ihe
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shzii
prevail

33. In this Act unless the context otherwise requireg-—

“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Board appolai-
ed under subsection (2) of section 3;

“ Director ” means a Director appointed under subsection
(1) of section 3; ,

“Jocal authority” means a Municipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes Eny
Authority created or established by or under any
law to exercise, perform and discharge, pcewers,
duties and functions corresponding to or similar
to the powers duties and functions exercised,
performed ana discharged by any such Council or
Sabha ;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulation made
under this Act;

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Counci

established under Chapter XVIla of the Constite
tion,


Secial Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996 14

[Section 3 (4)1
Provisions relating to the D rectors of the Board

1. <A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or from
continuing as a Director, if he—

(a) is a Mernber of Parliament or a member of a FProvinciai
Council or a member of a local authority; or _

(d) is under any law im force in Sri Lanka or in any other
country, found er declared co be ef unsound mind; or

(c) is a persen who havmmg been declared insolvent or a
bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or in any other
country, ie an undischarged insolvent er bankrupt; or

(d@) is a person oa whom a genterce of imprisonment (includ.
ing a suspended sentence) has been imposed by any court
in Sr Lanka er any other country ; er

(e) has any such financial or other interest as ig likely te
affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his functions
as a Director.

2. A Director may resign his office by letter addressed to the
Béinister

3. The Minister may without asigning any reason therefor,
remove a Director from office and such removal shall not be
cailed in question in any ccurt of law or tribunal whether by way
of writ or otherwies.

4 (1) Every Director shall, unless he vacates office earlier by
death, resignation or removal, hold office for a term of three
years from the date of his appointment and shall, unless he has
been removed from office, be elig ble for reappciatment:

Provided that a Director appointed in place of a Director whe
dies or resigns or otherwise vacates office shall, ualess he earlier
vacates office, hold office for the unexpired part of the term of
office of the Director whom he succeeds, ;

(2) Where the Chairmen er any other Director becomes, bY
reason of Kress, infirmity or abeence from Sri Larka, temporarily
umabie to discharge the functions of his offiee, the Minister may
sdpeint any other Director to act es the Chairman er any Gthe?
perscn to act in place ef such Director. as the case may be

5. The Chairman and the Directors shall be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund of the Board as may be determined
by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister in charge
ef the subject ef Finance.

6. A Director who is ia any way diractiy er indirectiy
taterested in any oeatract made or proposed to be aiade hy the
Board. shall déeclose the aneture of hie interest at a meeting of tha
Board. This d seioswre ainall be reeorded in the minutes of the
meetings of the Boers and guca Director shall not tale part im
eny delikeratten er decision of the Board with respect te that
contract. provided tkat <he imterest which any Director may have
in a conérect by virtwe of his being an officer of a Government
Department er Public Cerperation or a Director of a Publie
Corporation shall be deemed not to be an interest within the

meaning of this peragraph.


i. -

12 Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996

+ (i) Tee Gallicsan tkay: foclsa ble edie we Guiza by
ew fa went bexelf addreezed te the Mmivtrar,

(2) The Minister may at any time and without assigning a

Peasom ihecelor, remove the Chairman frem effice,

(3) Te term of office of the Ciaairman shall be the iprioe. of
trig atabarship of the Board,

8 (1) Subject to the other provisions of this paragraph, the
Beard may regulate tke procedure in regard ¢o its mestings and
te wansaction of Ducines at such mectiugs,

(2) The quorum for a ‘Eneeting of the Board shall be four
Bdeactors. '

9. No act, aesieiie: or proceeding of the Board shall be
RMivalidated by reason only of the existeace of a vacancy in the
Board or any defect in the appointment of any of its Directors.

18. (1) The seal of the Board shall be in the custody of such
pereens ag the Seard may decide froin time to time.

(2) The scal of the Board may be altered in such manner as
may be deter:nined by the Board.

(3) The seal of the Board shall not be afaxed to any instru-
ment or document except in the presence of two Directors whe
shall sign the instrument or document in token of their presence.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instruments or
documems: to which it’s seal has been affixed.

SXCOND SCHEDULE (Section 13)

The proportions in whch the death gratuity is payable and the
order of priority shall be—

(a) one half or ftty percentum of the death gratuity to the
surviving spoure; and

tb) the bslznce fi'ty percentum shall be shared by the
surviving legitimate children of the deceased GOR nM IOS,
in equal proportions ;

(ce) if there is no aurviving spouse, the death gratuity in ite
entirety shall be shared by the surviving legit mate
children of the deceased Contributor in equal propor-
tions ;

{d) if there are no surviving legitimate children, the death
gratuity in its entirety shall be paid to the surviving
sponse.:

(e) if there is no surviving spouse or surviving legitimate
children of the deceased contributor the death gratuity
shaill—

(i) if there is more than one surviving parent, be

paid to the surviving parents in equal proportions ;
(&) af there is only one surviving parent, be paid to that
parent in its’ entirety ;

(iii) if there are more than one surviving brothers and
sisters, be paid to the surviving brothers and
sisters im equal proportions:

(iv) if there is only one surviving brother or sister be
paid to that brother or sister in its’ entirety.
