PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MOTOR TRAFFIC (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 10 OF 2019

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th of June, 2019]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 21, 2019

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Motor Traffic (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2019

Short title.

[Certified on 20th of June, 2019]

L.D.O. 53/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MOTOR TRAFFIC ACT (CHAPTER 203)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Motor Traffic(Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 2019.

2.Section 123 of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section-

(a)in paragraph (a) thereof, by the deletion ofthe word and, appearing at the end of thatparagraph;

(b)in paragraph (b) thereof, by the insertion ofthe word and, at the end of that paragraph;

(c)by the addition immediately after paragraph(b) thereof, of the following new paragraph:-

(c) no person shall drive a light vehicle ona road unless he has completed the ageof eighteen years and shall not drive aheavy vehicle on a road unless he hascompleted the age of twenty-oneyears..

(2)in subsection (5) of that section-

(a)by the repeal, in paragraph (a) thereof, of allthe words from to a fine not less than three

Amendment ofsection 123 ofChapter 203.

Motor Traffic (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 20192

thousand rupees to the end of that paragraphand the substitution therefor of the followingwords:

to a fine not less than twenty fivethousand rupees and not exceeding thirtythousand rupees and on a second orsubsequent conviction to a fine not lessthan thirty thousand rupees and notexceeding fifty thousand rupees.;

(b)by the repeal, in paragraph (b) thereof, of allthe words from to a fine not less than fourthousand rupees to the end of that paragraphand the substitution therefor of the followingwords:

to a fine not less than twenty fivethousand rupees and not exceeding thirtythousand rupees and on a second orsubsequent conviction to a fine not lessthan thirty thousand rupees and notexceeding fifty thousand rupees.;

(c)by the addition immediately after paragraph(b) thereof, of the following new paragraphwhich shall have the effect as paragraph (c)thereof:-

(c) A person who contravenes theprovisions of paragraph (c) ofsubsection (1) shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction beliable to a fine not less than thirtythousand rupees and not exceedingforty thousand rupees and on a secondor subsequent conviction to a fine notless than forty thousand rupees andnot exceeding fifty thousand rupees..

3Motor Traffic (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2019

Insertion of newsection 141A inthe principalenactment.

3.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 141 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 141A of the that enactment:

141A. (1) Any person who contravenes theprovisions of sections 140, 141 and 142 or anyregulation made thereunder shall be guilty ofan offence and shall on conviction be liable,where the speed is -

(a)in excess of the prescribed speed limitup to twenty per centum, to a fine notless than three thousand rupees andnot exceeding five thousand rupees;

(b)in excess of twenty per centum andless than thirty per centum of theprescribed speed limit, to a fine notless than five thousand rupees and notexceeding ten thousand rupees;

(c)in excess of thirty per centum and lessthan fifty per centum of the prescribedspeed limit, to a fine not less than tenthousand rupees and not exceedingfifteen thousand rupees; and

(d)in excess of fifty per centum of theprescribed speed limit, to a fine notless than fifteen thousand rupees andnot exceeding twenty five thousandrupees.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1), any person who contravenesthe provisions of sections 140, 141 and 142shall also be liable to on the spot fines as maybe prescribed under section 215A..

Penalty fordriving at anexcessivespeed.

Motor Traffic (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 20194

4.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 148 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 148A of that enactment:-

148A. (1) No person shall drive a motorvehicle on or across a railway crossing

(i) when the railway gate is closed;

(ii) disregarding the railway signal system;or

(iii) without obeying directions of anauthorized officer,

to likely endanger ones own safety or that ofany other person.

(2) A person who contravenes theprovisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty ofan offence and shall on conviction be liableto a fine not less than twenty five thousandrupees and not exceeding thirty thousandrupees and on a second conviction to a finenot less than thirty thousand rupees and notexceeding forty thousand rupees and thesuspension of his driving licence for a periodof not exceeding six months, and on a third orsubsequent conviction to a fine not less thanforty thousand rupees and not exceeding fiftythousand rupees and the suspension of hisdriving licence for a period not exceedingtwelve months..

5.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 152 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 152A of that enactment:

152A. (1) No person shall use a telephone,mobile phone or any other movablecommunication equipment when driving amotor vehicle on a road.

Prohibit theuse ofmobilephone etc.whiledriving.

Precautionsin crossing arailway.

Insertion of newsection 148A ofthe principalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 152A inthe principalenactment.

5Motor Traffic (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2019

(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1)shall be guilty of an offence and shall onconviction be liable to the penalty specified insection 224 and also be liable to the amountprescribed for on the spot fines under section215A..

6.Section 196 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (5) thereof by the addition,immediately after the proviso to paragraph (b) of thatsubsection of the following paragraph:-

(c)a person who contravenes the provisions of thissubsection shall be guilty of an offence and shallon conviction be liable to the penalty specified insection 224 and also be liable to the amountprescribed for on the spot fines under section 215A..

7.Section 216 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of all the words from to a fine notless than three thousand five hundred rupees to the end ofthat section and the substitution of the words to a fine notless than twenty five thousand rupees and not exceedingthirty thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding three months or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment and to the suspension of hisdriving licence for a period not exceeding twelve months..

8.Section 216A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of all the words from to a fine notless than four thousand rupees to the end of that sectionand the substitution of the words to a fine not less thantwenty five thousand rupees and not exceeding thirtythousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description fora term not exceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment and the cancellation of his driving licence..

9.Section 216B of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(a) by the repeal, in paragraph (a) thereof, of all thewords from to imprisonment of either description

Amendment ofsection 196 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 216 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 216A ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 216B ofthe principalenactment.

Motor Traffic (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 20196

for a term not less than two years to the end of thatparagraph and the subsititution of the words to afine not less than one hundred thousand rupees andnot exceeding one hundred and fifty thousandrupees or to imprisonment of either description fora term not less than two years and not exceedingten years or to both such fine and imprisonmentand to the cancellation of the diving licence; and

(b) by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraphs:

(b)where he causes

(i)hurt to any person, to a fine not lessthan thirty thousand rupees and notexceeding fifty thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description fora term not exceeding one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment andto the cancellation of his drivinglicence; or

(ii)grievous injury to any person, to a finenot less than fifty thousand rupees andnot exceeding one hundred thousandrupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceedingfive years or to both such fine andimprisonment and to the cancellationof his driving licence..

10.Section 217 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal of allthe words from to a fine not less than one thousandfive hundred rupees to the end of that subsection

Amendment ofsection 217 ofthe principalenactment.

7Motor Traffic (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2019

and the substitution of the words to a fine not lessthan ten thousand rupees and not exceeding twentyfive thousand rupees, and on a second convictionto a fine not less than fifteen thousand rupees andnot exceeding thirty thousand rupees, and thesuspension of his driving licence, and on a third orsubsequent conviction, to a fine not less than twentythousand rupees and not exceeding forty thousandrupees or to rigorous imprisonment for a term notexceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment and the cancellation of his drivinglicence.; and

(2)in subsection (2) of that section by the repeal of allthe words from to a fine not less than one thousandfive hundred rupees to the end of that subsectionand the substitution of the words to a fine not lessthan ten thousand rupees and not exceeding twentyfive thousand rupees, and on a second convictionto a fine not less than fifteen thousand rupees andnot exceeding thirty thousand rupees and on a thirdor subsequent conviction, to a fine not less thantwenty thousand rupees and not exceeding fortythousand rupees and the suspension of his drivinglicence for a period of six months.

11.Section 218 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

218. A person who contravenes theprovisions of section 99 shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to afine not less than twenty five thousand rupeesand not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding onemonth or to both such fine and imprisonment..

Penalty fordrivingwithoutcertificate ofinsurance.

Replacement ofsection 218 ofthe principalenactment.

Motor Traffic (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 20198

12.Section 224 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of all the words from to a fine notless than two thousand five hundred rupees to the end ofthat section and the substitution of the words to a fine notless than two thousand five hundred rupees and notexceeding seven thousand five hundred rupees, and on asecond conviction to a fine not less than seven thousandfive hundred rupees and not exceeding fifteen thousandrupees, and on a third or subsequent conviction to a fine notless than fifteen thousand rupees and not exceeding twentyfive thousand rupees..

13.The Second Schedule to the principal enactment,is hereby amended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of item 10 thereof and the substitutiontherefor of the following item:

SectionProvision

10. 140, 141 and-

142

141A(1)(a)-

141A(1)(b)-

141A(1)(c)-

141A(1)(d)-

;;

Amendment ofsection 224 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofthe SecondSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Non-compliance with speedlimits

In excess of the speed limit

prescribed up to twenty per

centum

In excess of twenty per

centum and less than thirty

per centum of the speed limit

prescribed

In excess of thirty per centumand less than fifty per centum

of the speed limit prescribed

In excess of fifty per centum

of the speed limit prescribed

9Motor Traffic (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2019

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

(2)by the addition immediately after item 12 thereof,of the following new item which shall have theeffect as item 12(a):

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

;.

Section

152A12a.

Provision

Use of mobile phones whiledriving

Motor Traffic (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 201910

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.