PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL INNOVATION AGENCYACT, No. 22 OF 2019

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 15th of November, 2019]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 30.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 15, 2019

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 20191

[Certified on 15th of November, 2019]

L.D. O. 33/2019

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL

INNOVATION AGENCY AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the National InnovationAgency Act, No. 22 of 2019, and shall come into operationon such date as the President may appoint (hereinafterreferred to as the appointed date) by Order published inthe Gazette.

PART I

NATIONAL INNOVATION AGENCY

2.(1) There shall be established an Agency called andknown as the National Innovation Agency (hereinafterreferred to as the Agency).

(2) The Agency shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued inthat name.

3.The objects of the Agency shall be to

(a)promote better understanding on socialinnovation, science and technologyinnovation, defence innovation, ecoinnovation and service innovation, andtheir impact on the economy;

(b)make recommendations to the Governmentin order to formulate national policies inrespect of innovation;

Short title andthe date ofoperation.

Establishmentof the NationalInnovationAgency.

Objects of theAgency.

2National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 2019

(c)ensure that national research is aligned withand contributes to the economy and nationaleconomic goals;

(d)coordinate innovators and initiatives to fosterimpact;

(e)identify any obstacles in the public andprivate sector that hamper innovation;

(f)support and facilitate innovation in privatesector to establish a vibrant nationalinnovation eco system.

4.The powers, functions and duties of the Agency shallbe to:

(a)liaise with the public and private sectorinstitutions relevant to important aspects ofthe objects of the Agency;

(b)make recommendations to the governmentto initiate and fund National InnovationProgrammes in order to support a creativeeconomy;

(c)to develop and sustain a national innovationeco system in keeping with the Sri LankaInnovation and Entrepreneurship Strategy asapproved by the Cabinet of Ministers;

(d)support the National Innovation andEntrepreneurship Strategy objectivesthrough the facilitation of hi-tech enterprisesstemming from research and technologytransfer;

(e)monitor and evaluate the effectiveness ofinvestment, policies and strategies oninnovation and entrepreneurship;

(f)coordinate and harmonize internationalactivities in innovation with the relevant

Powers,functions andduties of theAgency.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 20193

Ministries, Departments and other innovationinstitutions in Sri Lanka and withinternational institutions to encouragecommercialization of the outputs ofinnovation activities;

(g)drive the progress of Sri Lanka upwardthrough the ranking of global innovationindices to ensure a resilient economicstanding, subject to the Sri Lanka Innovationand Entrepreneurship Strategy as approvedby the Cabinet of Ministers;

(h)receive, collate, evaluate and publish theSri Lankan Annual Innovation andentrepreneurship reports covering the ecosystem taking into consideration theinternational linkage and presence;

(i)to purchase any movable or immovableproperty which may be required for theAgency, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge or sell or otherwise disposeof, any movable or immovable propertybelonging to the Agency as may be deemedexpedient with a view to promote the objectsof the Agency;

(j)subject to any applicable written law, to openand maintain current, savings or other depositaccounts in any State bank or banks and toclose such accounts;

(k)subject to any applicable written law, toaccept and receive, gifts, grants, loans,donations and bequests both movable andimmovable, from sources in or outsideSri Lanka for the use of the Agency:

Provided that, the Agency shall obtainprior written approval of the Ministry ofFinance in respect of all foreign grants,donations or bequests made to the Agency;

4National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 2019

(l)deposit in any bank account or accounts ofthe Agency, the funds of the Agency whichare not required immediately for the purposesof the Agency;

(m)make rules in respect of matters pertaining tothe administration of affairs of the Agency;

(n)outsource for appropriate payments incompliance with the relevant financialregulations, research, data collating or anyother activities necessary for the smooth andefficient discharge of the duties and functionsof the Agency. The Agency shall have theownership of all research, any material or datacollected by any person for the purposes ofthis Act, and be responsible for the protectionof such research, material or data;

(o)with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministersto enter into agreements, with any local orforeign persons or institutions in respect ofthe objects of the Agency;

(p)coordinate and facilitate joint ventures withthe private sector with the approval of theMinister in order to achieve the objects ofthe Agency; and

(q)generally do such acts and things for theachievement of the objects of the Agency.

PART II

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMNT OF THE AGENCY

5.(1) The administration and management of the affairsof the Agency shall be vested in a Steering Council(hereinafter referred to as the Council).

(2) The Council shall for the purpose of administeringthe affairs of the Agency, exercise, discharge and performthe powers, functions and duties conferred on, assigned toor imposed on the Agency by this Act.

Administration ofthe Agency.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 20195

6.(1) The Council shall consist of-

(a)The following ex-officio members,namely,

(i)the Secretary to the President whoshall be the Chairperson of theCouncil;

(ii)an officer of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject ofDevelopment Strategies not belowthe rank of an Additional Secretarynominated by that Minister;

(iii)an officer of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject ofFinance not below the rank of anAdditional Secretary nominated bythat Minister;

(iv)the Director-General of NationalPlanning Department or hisnominee not below the rank of aDirector;

(v)the Director-General of theNational Intellectual PropertyOffice of Sri Lanka appointedunder section 2 of the IntellectualProperty Act, No.36 of 2003;

(vi)an officer of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject ofScience not below the rank of anAdditional Secretary nominated bythat Minister;

(vii)an officer of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject ofTechnology and Research notbelow the rank of an AdditionalSecretary nominated by thatMinister;

Constitution of theCouncil.

6National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 2019

(viii)an officer of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject ofInternational Trade not below therank of an Additional Secretarynominated by that Minister;

(ix)an officer of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject ofEducation not below the rank ofan Additional Secretary nominatedby that Minister;

(x)an officer of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject ofHigher Education not below therank of an Additional Secretarynominated by that Minister;

(xi)the director-General of theDepartment of Commerce or anofficer not below the rank of aDirector of that Departmentnominated by the Director-General;

(xii)the Commissioner of the Sri LankaInventors Commission establishedunder the Sri Lanka inventorsIncentives Act, No. 53 of 1979 orany Assistant Commissioner ofthat Commission nominated by theCommissioner of the Sri LankaInventors Commission; and

(xiii)the Chairperson or his nominee ofthe Sri Lanka Institute ofNanotechnology; and

(b)(i) one person who has gainedeminence relating to innovation,entrepreneurship, social innovation,business, venture capital, educationor finance, nominated by the Ministerand appointed by the President; and

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 20197

(ii) not more than six persons who havegained eminence relating toinnovation, entrepreneurship, socialinnovation, business, venture capital,law, education or finance, both frompublic and private sectors, appointedby the President.

(hereinafter referred to as the appointedmembers).

(2) In the event the subjects referred to in subsection (1)fall within one or more Ministries, then an officer of eachsuch Ministry not below the rank of an Additional Secretarynominated by the Minister shall be a member of the Council.

7.Any person-

(a) if such person is not or ceases to be a citizenof Sri Lanka;

(b) if such person is or becomes a member ofParliament or a Provincial Council or anyLocal Authority;

(c) if such person has any financial or otherinterest as is likely to affect the discharge byhim of his functions as a member of theCouncil;

(d) if such person is under any law in force inSri Lanka or in any other country found ordeclared to be of unsound mind;

(e) if such person is an undischarged bankrupt;or

(f) if such person is serving or has served asentence of imprisonment imposed by anycourt in Sri Lanka or any other country,

such person shall be disqualified from being appointed orcontinue to be a member of the Council.

Disqualificationfor beinga member of theCouncil.

8National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 2019

8.Every appointed member of the Council shall, unlesshe vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal,hold office for a period of three years, and unless removedfrom office shall be eligible for re-appointment, for not morethan one further term, whether consecutive or otherwise.

9.(1) Any appointed member of the Council may atany time, resign his office by letter in that behalf addressedto the President, and such resignation shall take effect fromthe date on which the resignation is accepted in writing bythe President .(2) The President may, for reasons assigned thereforremove any appointed member from office. An appointedmember who has been removed from office shall not beeligible for re-appointment as a member of the Council or toserve the Council in any other capacity.(3) In the event of the vacation of office by death,resignation or removal of any appointed member, thePresident shall, subject to paragraph (b) of subsection (1) ofsection 6, appoint another person to fill such vacancy andsuch person shall hold office for the un-expired period ofthe term of office of the member whom he succeeds.(4) Where any appointed member of the Council istemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office onaccount of ill health or any other cause or if he is absent fromSri Lanka for a period of not less than three months, thePresident shall having regard to the provisions of paragraph(b) of subsection (1) of section 6, appoint any other personto act in place of such member during his absence.

(5) Where any appointed member of the Council fails toattend three consecutive meetings of the Council withoutobtaining prior excuse for absence from the Chairpersonsuch member shall deemed to have vacated his office at theconclusion of the third meeting and the President shallappoint another person to fill such vacancy in the mannerprovided in subsection (3).10.(1) The Chief Innovation Officer of the Agencyappointed under section 14 shall summon all meetings ofthe Council.(2) The Council members may attend meetings of theCouncil in person or through electronic means.

For the purposes of this subsection electronic meansmean, video conferencing and web conferencing.

Meetings of theCouncil.

Term ofoffice of theappointedmembers.

Removalresignation etc.of appointedmembers.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 20199

(3) No act or proceeding of the Council shall be invalidby reason only of the existence of a vacancy in the Councilor any defect in the appointment of a member of the Council.(4) The Chairperson or in his absence any member electedby the members present shall preside at such meeting of theCouncil.(5) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall befive members. Where there is an equality of votes, theChairperson of the Council shall in addition to his votehave a casting vote.

11.(1) The Council may whenever it considersnecessary invite experts to any meeting of the Council whohave expertise on any subject which will be dealt with bythe Council at such meeting for the purpose of obtainingtheir views on such subject matter for the effective dischargeof the functions of the Council so however, the Councilshall have the absolute discretion of accepting or rejectingthe views of the experts.(2) The experts shall be paid such remuneration as maybe determined by the Council and shall have no votingrights.

12.The members of the Council may be paid suchremuneration as may be determined by the President inconsultation with the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance.

13. (1) The seal of the Agency(a)shall be determined by the Council andmay be altered in such manner as maybe determined by the Council;(b)shall be in the custody of such personas the Council may determine, fromtime to time; and(c)shall not be affixed to any instrumentor document except with the sanctionof the Council and in the presence oftwo members of the Council who shallsign the instrument or document intoken of their presence.(2) The Council shall maintain a register in respect of theinstruments and documents to which the seal of the Agencyis affixed.

Council toinvite experts tomeetings.

Remunerationfor attendingmeetings of theCouncil.

The seal of theAgency.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 201910

PART III

THE CHIEF INNOVATION OFFICER OF THE AGENCY

14.(1) There shall be appointed by the President inconsultation with the Council, subject to such terms andconditions determined by the Council, a person possessing apostgraduate degree in science, technology or businessmanagement with innovation as a subject, from a recongnizedUniversity, with proven management experience to be theChief Innovation Officer of the Agency. He may attend anymeeting of the Council but shall not be entitled to vote atany such meeting.

(2) The Chief Innovation Officer shall subject to thegeneral directions of the Council be responsible for theadministration of the Agency.

(3) The Chief Innovation Officer shall be paid suchremuneration as may be determined by the President withthe concurrence of the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance.

(4) The President may on the recommendation of theCouncil and for reasons assigned therefor remove from officethe Chief Innovation Officer appointed under this section.

15.(1) The Agency may appoint such number of officersand employees as it may consider necessary for the efficientdischarge of its functions.

(2) The Agency may in respect of the officers andemployees appointed under subsection (1)-

(a)exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss suchofficers and employees;

(b)determine the terms and conditions ofemployment of such officers and employees;

The ChiefInnovation Officerof the Agency.

Appointment of thestaff of the Agency.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 201911

(c)fix as may be determined by the Council inconsultation with the Minister to whom the subjectof Finance is assigned, the rates at which theofficers and employees shall be remunerated; and

(d)establish a staff welfare and social security schemefor the benefit of such officers and employees andmake contributions to any such scheme.

16.(1) At the request of the Council, any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and ofthe Public Service Commission be temporarily appointed tothe staff of the Agency for such period as may be determinedby the Council, or with like consent, be permanentlyappointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Agency the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Agency the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to such officer.

17.(1) At the request of the Council, any officer or otheremployee of any Higher Educational Institution establishedunder the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 may, with theconsent of that officer or the employee and the principalexecutive officer of that Higher Educational Institution, betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Agency. Suchappointment shall be for a period as may be determined bythe Council or with like consent be permanently appointedto such staff, on such terms and conditions, including thoserelating to pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreedupon by the Council and such principal executive officer.

Appointment ofPublic Officers tothe staff of theAgency.

Appointment ofofficers fromHigher educationalinstitutions to thestaff of the Agency.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 201912

(2) Where any person is temporarily appointed to the staffof the Agency under subsection (1) such person shall besubject to the same disciplinary control as any other memberof the staff of the Agency.

PART IV

FINANCE

18.(1) The Agency shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted byParliament, from time to time, for the use ofthe Agency;

(b)all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Agency for the exercise, performanceand discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions and for the promotion of the objectsof the Agency, by way of gifts, grants, loansdonations and bequests from any sourcewithin or outside Sri Lanka subject to theprovisions of the proviso to section 4(k);

(c)all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Agency by way of fees, royalties orcharges under this Act.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums ofmoney required to defray the expenditure incurred by theAgency in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

19.(1) The financial year of the Agency shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Agency shall cause proper books of accounts tobe kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other financial transactions of the Agency.

Fund of theAgency.

Financial year andaudit of accounts ofthe Agency.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 201913

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to the audit of accounts of the Agency.

PART V

GENERAL

20.(1) The Agency shall within six months of the endof each financial year submit to the President an annual reporton the activities carried out by the Agency. The followingdocuments shall be attached to such report:-

(a)the audited accounts of the Agency for the yearalong with the Auditor-Generals report;

(b)a report of proposed activities for the yearimmediately following the year to which such reportand accounts relate; and

(c)a report on the effectiveness of investment, policiesand strategies on innovation and entrepreneurship.

(2) The President shall within three months from the dateof receipt of the annual report, table such report along withthe documents specified in subsection (1) in Parliament forits consideration.

21.The Members of the Councils, and officers andemployees of the Agency shall before entering upon hisduties sign a declaration pledging himself to observe strictsecrecy respecting all matters connected with the workingof the Agency and shall by such declaration pledge himselfnot to disclose any matter which may come to his knowledgein the discharge of his functions, except

(a)when required to do so by a court of law; or

(b)in order to comply with any of the provisions ofthis Act.

Annual Reports.

Declaration ofsecrecy.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 201914

22.The President may, from time to time, issue suchgeneral or special directions to the Council relating to theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers, functionsand duties under this Act and it shall be the duty of theCouncil to comply with such directions.

23.All officers and Employees of the Agency shall bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning and for thepurposes of the Penal Code.

24. The Agency shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall accordingly apply.

25. (1) The Council may subject to the provisions ofthis Act make rules in respect of any matter specified insubsection (2) of section 15 and generally for theadministration of the affairs of the Agency.

(2) Every rule made under this section shall be publishedin the Gazette.

26.(1) The President may make regulations in respectof all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribedor in respect of all matters for which regulations are requiredor authorized to be made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the President under thissection shall be published in the Gazette and shall come intooperation upon such publication or on such later date as maybe specified in the regulation.

(3) Every Regulation made by the President under thissection shall within three months from its publication in theGazette, be brought before Parliament for approval. Anyregulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to berescinded from the date of such disapproval but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

Directions of thePresident.

Officers andemployees of theAgency deemed tobe public servants.

Agency deemed tobe a scheduledinstitution.

Rules.

Regulations.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 201915

(4) Notice of the date from which a regulation is deemedto be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

27.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

innovation includes

(a)a novel technological model, utilitymodel or industrial design;

(b)a product, process, service or ideawhich is novel;

(c)an improved use of a new product,service or method in industry,business or society;

(d)indigenous or traditional knowledgegained by people by making use ofnatural resources, including plants,animals and the environment; and

(e)subject to the provisions of theIntellectual Property Act, No.36 of2003, any other non-patentablecreations or improvements whichmay be deemed as deservingpromotion and protection orsui generis intellectual propertyrights,

in the fields of social innovation, scienceand technology innovation, defenceinnovation, eco innovation and serviceinnovation, and innovator shall beconstrued accordingly;

Minister means, the Minister assigned theNational Innovation Agency under Article43 or 44 of the Constitution;

Interpretation.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 201916

National Innovation Eco system means, thediverse nature of participants and resourcesincluding organizations, institutions andpeople in the country that coexist andfunction as a unit which is necessary forinnovation;

Social Innovation Lab means, a place thatuses foresight and innovation tools toprototype and test development solutionsfor social problems, through citizen-centricengagements to ensure they are agileand holistic before nation-wideimplementation;

Technology means the application ofknowledge to meet the goals, goods andservices for sustainable development;

Traditional knowledge means, the wisdomdeveloped over generations of holistictraditional scientific utilization of thelands, natural resources, and environment;

recognized University means, a Universityestablished or deem to be established underthe provisions of the Universities Act, No.16 of 1978 or any other written law.

28.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

National Innovation AgencyAct, No. 22 of 201917

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.