yon \
Ve
eee!
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
PRIMARY COURTS’ PROCEDURE
ACT, No. 44 OF 1979
[Certified on 28th June, 1979]
Printed on the Orders of Government -
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 29, 1979
sow tomer nen nets,
er ne ae


"Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979
[Certified on 28th June, 1979]
L. D0. 14/78. , ‘
‘AN Acr To REGULATE ‘THE PROCEDURE IN PRIMARY COURTS AND ;
* "30 MAKE PROVISION FOR CONNECTED MATTERS.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist * :
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Primary Courts’ Short title
Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979, and shall come into opera- SPadute *f
tion on such date as the Minister by Order published in the
Gazette may appoint.

PART I
‘ ' i @

2. The civil and criminal jurisdiction of Primary Courts The svi. and
shall, subject to the provisions of this and any other written Sivisiietion
law, be exclusive. ‘of Primary

Courts to
be exclusive.

3. Where in any case, whether civil or criminal instituted Duty of
before a District Court or a Magistrate's Court, it appears to courts in,
‘such court at any stage of the proceedings that the case is exclusive
‘one within the exclusive jurisdiction of a Primary Court, the durpaaiction

court may stop the further progress of the case and refer Courts.
the parties to such Primary Court, and where such case is
a civil case, may also make such order as to costs as may~
seem just. .

4, (1) Where a criminal prosecution or proceeding for Right of
an offence within the exclusive jurisdiction of a Primary Court of
Court is pending in such court it shall be lawful, where it Alorney=
is deemed to be appropriate in the circumstances, for the General
Court, of Appeal on an application by any party interested {fansfer of
or for the Attorney-General, to direct the transfer of such email
Prosecution or proceeding to a Magistrate's Court specified Magistrate's
in sych direction, Court,

(2) Where a direction made under subsection (1) is °°
communicated to the Judge of the Primary Court in whose
court such case is pending, he shall stop the further progress
‘of the case and transmit the case record and all connected
Papers to the Magistrate's Court specified in such direction.

+ (3) ‘The Magistratels Court referred to in subsection (2) ;
shall. proceed to hear, try and determine such case trans- _
ferred to it as if it were a prosecution or proceeding
instituted in that Magistrate's Court and shall have and be
‘vested with full power and jurisdiction so to do, ©” %"
88 42086 —18,508 (79/08)


2” Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979 - *,
(cower ne 5. Where it is made to appear to the Court of Appeal
Appeal to «OR an application by one of the parties or otherwise that
transfer any civil action or proceeding instituted in a Primary Court
ei may owing to the circumstances or questions involved be
‘Court, more appropriately tried before the District Court having *
Jocal jurisdiction, it shall be lawful for the Court of Appeal
to call for and inspect the record or journal of such action
or proceeding and to stay the proceedings in the Primary
* Court and to make order transferring such case to such
District Court for hearing and determination. Upon such
. order being communicated to the Judge of the Primary Court
in whose court the action or proceeding is pending he’shall ,
stop the further progress of the action or proceeding and
transmit the record of that action or proceeding and
all connected papers to the District Court specified in the
order, Thereupon such District Court shall proceed to hear,
_ _ try and determine such action or proceeding as if it were
an action or proceeding instituted in that District Court
- and shal] have and be vested with full power and jurisdiction
so to do, .
Tudge of 6 Where it is made to appear to any Primary Court—
the Brmary (@) in regard to any prosecution for any offence pending
report case . before it that in the circumstances of the case the
more Eppro offence cannot adequately be punished by any
Eiabie ty which the Primary Court is authorized by
penalty whi imary
gleembere’ Jaw to impose ; or .
for ee. (®) in regard to any civil action or proceeding pending
before it that the action ‘or proceeding may more
Z appropriately be tried before a District Court,
it shall be the duty of the Judge of such Primary Court to
suspend the further hearing of the prosecution or civil action
or proceeding, as the case may be, and to report it to the
Court of Appeal with a view to obtaining an order under
section 4 or section 5.
Where cate 7» (1) Where it appears in the course of any prosecution,
is beyond civil action or proceeding before a Primary Court that such
Jrtsdiction prosecution, action or proceeding is not within its jurisdic
refer party tion, it shall be the duty of such Primary Court to stop
Bggmreteat the proceedings and to refer the party by whom the prosecu-
tion, action or proceeding was instituted to the competent
court,

(2) Where a Primary Court stops the proceedings in any
prosecution, civil action or proceeding and refers the party
by whom the prosecution, civil action or proceeding was

: instituted to the competent court under subsection (1),
that prosecution, civil action or proceeding shall not operate


Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979 .- 3
as a bar to'the institution of a prosecution, civil action or
proceeding in the competent court. in respect of the same .
offence or matter. 7
PART IL i
Powers oF Puntsument J
8 (1) A Primary Court may pass any of the following’ Sentences
sentences— Primary
Court may

(a) imprisonment of either description for a term not Pass.
exceeding three months ; a oe

(8) fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty rupees ;

4c) whipping with ‘a light cane if the offender is under
sixteen years of age; 7 Ss

(@ ‘any lawful sentence combining any two of the
sentences aforesaid. ~~

(2) In the event of default of payment of any fine

imposed on an accused the Judge of the Primary Court may 4
subject to the provisions of this Part— F
(@) where the amount of the fine does not exceed twenty-
. five rupees sentence the accused to imprisonment

. of either description for a term not exceeding
seven days;

(®) where the amount of the fine exceeds twenty-five’ "
rupees but does not exceed fifty rupees sentence *

~ the accused to imprisonment of either description _
for a term not exceeding fourteen days ;

(©) where the amount of the. fine exceeds fifty rupees :
sentence the accused to imprisonment of either e
description for a term not exceeding one month, :

(3) Anything in this section shall not be construed as

derogating from any special powers of punishment, that
may be given to a Primary Court by this or any other law. e
9. Notwithstanding anything in this Act, the Penal Code fae of "6
+ or any other written law to the contrary, a Primary Court for terme cm
shall not sentence any person to imprisonment, whether seven days.
in default of payment of a fine or not, for a term which is
Jess than seven days. NZ


4 -Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No.-44 of 1979
Sentences sf 19. A Primary Court-may, in any circumstances in
Precincts of ° Which it is empowered by any written or other law to
ourt in sentence an offender to imprisonment, whether in default
impricon- of Payment of a fine or not, in lieu of imposing a sentence
ment. of imprisonment order that the offender be detained in the
Precincts of the court until such hour on the day on which
+, the order is made, not being later than 4 p.m. as the court
may specify in the order.
Bower of 11, (1) A Primary Court may award such term of
ane imprisonment in default of payment of a fine as is autho-
fentence to rized by law in case of such default, provided that the term
mniia’ awarded is not in excess of the court's power under this
default of Act,
pazment ot
a . (2) The imprisonment awarded under this section may
: be in addition to a substantive sentence of imprisonment
for the maximum term awardable by the court under
section 8
Community 12, (1) A Primary Court may, in lieu of imposing a
ten sentence of imprisonment on conviction of an accused
Person or in lieu of imposing a sentence of imprisonment
on an accused person in default of payment of a fine,
_ enter an order hereinafter referred to as a “community
service order” directing the accused person to perform
stipulated service at a named place in a State or State-
sponsored project or elsewhere.

(2) A community service order entered under subsection
(1) shall be.carried out in such manner as the Judge of
that court may direct,

(8) The duration ofa community service order shall
not be more than three months. = 5,

(4) If the convicted person in respect of whom a commu-
nity service order has been: entered fails to attend at the
place named or having attended fails to do the stipulated
service or fs irregular in attendance or does not work to
the satisfaction of the person in charge or control of the
place named or otherwise fails to comply with the order,
‘then it shall be lawful for the Primary Court to revoke st
and impose such sentence of imprisonment as it thinks fit.

(5) Throughout the duration of the community service
order, the person in charge or control of the place named
shall forward, every inonth to the Primary Court whick

. entered the order, a report on the attendance and work of


Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979 5
the convicted person and stating whether the order is being *
or has been complied with and such report shall be final
and conclusive on such questions. P

13, (1) Where a Primary Court imposes a sentence of Suspended, *
imprisonment on an offender it may order that the sentence femvence of
shall not take effect unless during the period of eighteen- ment
months from the date of the order the offender.commits
another offence punishable with imprisonment, :

(2) Where a Primary Court makes an order under sub-
section (1) of this section, the provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, relating to suspen-
ded sentences of imprisonment other than subsections (1)
and (2) of section 303 of that Act shall apply, mutatis
‘mutandis, to that order, and for that purpose the period of
eighteen months referred to in subsection (1) of this section -
shall be deemed to be the “operational period” referred
to in those provisions,

44 (1) When a person is convicted at one trial of any Sentence in
two or more distinct offences the Primary Court may subject case of
to subsection (3) sentence him for such offences to the for several
several punishments prescribed therefor which the court ¢ffensts at
is competent to inflict; such punishments when consisting
of imprisonment to commence, unless the court orders
them or any of them to run concurrently, the one after
the expiration of the other in such order as the court
may direct : .

Provided that the aggregate punishment shall not exceed 2
twice the amount of punishment which such court in the .
exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction is competent to inflict.

(2) For the purpose of appeal aggregate sentences passed
under this section in case of conviction for several offences
at one trial shall be deemed to be a single sentence. *

+ _ (8) The provisions of sections 55 and 67 of the Penal
Code shall apply’ to all offences whatever.

15. Whenever a Primary Court acquits or discharges the Payment ef
‘accused and declares that the complaint was frivolous and {0st5 ane |
vexatious, it shall be lawful for such court to order the tion when

rend complaint is
complainant to pay— frivolous er
(a) State costs in a sum not exceeding fifty rupees; and °**o™
(b) compensation in a sum not exceeding fifty rupees to
the accused or to each accused if there are more
than one accused.


“6 - Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979
Payment of - 16, Whenever any person is convicted of any offence or
fompense- where a Primary Court holds the charge proved but
conviction, -Proceeds to deal with the offender without convicting him,
the court may order the offender to pay within such time-
or in such instalments as the court may direct, such sum
‘ ° by way of compensation not exceeding two hundred rupees
to any person, affected by the offence as to the court shall
seem fit. Any sum awarded under this section and section
15 shall be recoverable as if it were a fine imposed by the
court : .
Provided that if the offender is under the age of sixteen
years, the court may if it thinks fit order the payment under
this section to be made by the parent or guardian of such
« offender,
Court may 17, Whenever a Primary Court imposes a fine or passes
order tof @ sentence of which fine forms a part the court may
paldor part | order the whole’ or any part of the fine recovered to be
a Paid to the person affected by the offence.
party.
Power of 18. Whenever a Primary Court holds that the charge _
ona fe is proved but is of opinion that having regard to the
fonditional character, antecedents, age, health or mental condition of
release | the person charged or the extenuating circumstances under
* which the offence was committed, it is inexpedient to inflict
any punishment or any other than a nominal punishment
x or that it is expedient to discharge the offender conditionally
as hereinafter provided, the court may without proceeding
to conviction”
(a) order such offender to be discharged after .such
{ ©. admonition as to the court shall seem fit;
(b) order such offender to pay State costs not exceeding
fifty rupees ; i
(©) order compensation under section 16;
@ discharge the offender conditionally on his’ entering
into a recognizance with or without sureties to be
; of good behaviour, and to appear for conviction and
sentence, when called on at any time during such
period, not ‘exceeding eighteen months, as may be
} specified in.such order ;
(e) deal with the offender under the provisions of the
Probation of Offenders Ordinance. F


‘ » Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979 7

19. A recognizance under section 18 may contain such Conditions
conditions as the court may, having regard to the particular of Tecog-
circumstances of the case, order to be inserted therein with "°°" «
respect to all or any of the followng matters :— i

(@) for prohibiting the offender from associating with

thieves and other undesirable persons, or from
frequenting undesirable places ;

(®) as to abstention from intoxicatng liquor, where the

offence was drunkenness or an offence committed
under the influence of drink ; :

(c) generally for securing that the offender should lead

an honest and industrious life ;

(@) providing that the offender, with his surety or sure-

ties, if any, shall appear in chambers before the
Judge of the Primary Court at such intervals as
may be specfied in the order ;

(e) directing the payment of compensation and State

_ costs as provided in sections 16 and 18,

20, ‘The court before which any person is bound by his Power of
recognizance under this Act to appear for conviction and {ary
sentence may vary the conditions of the recognizance, and conditions
may, on being satisfied that the conduct of that person has fizance!
been such that the recognizance should be discharged, :
discharge the recognizance.

21, (1) If the court before which an offender is bound Provision
by his recognizance under section 18 to appear for convie- 1,132.0
tion and sentence is satisfied on information that the failing to
offender has failed to observe any of the conditions of his S&3NCng
recognizance it may issue a summons for the attendance of of Tecog-
the offender and his sureties (if any) before it.“ MUR

(2) If upon such summons the attendance of the offender
and his sureties (if any) cannot be procured the court may * .
issue a warrant for such purpose.

(3) When the offender appears or is brought before the
court before which the offender is bound by his recogni-
zance to appear for conviction and sentence that court on

\ being satisfied after summary inquiry that he has failed to :
observe any condition of his recognizance may forthwith
convict and sentence him for theyoriginal offence ; or, if
the case was one in which the court in the first instance’
might under the Children and Young Persons Ordinance,


8 Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979
3 have ordered the offender to be sent to an approved or

certified school, and the offender is still apparently under
the age of sixteen years, make such an order.

Whipping 22, In lieu of ordering any male person under the age of

sm certain sixteen years to be fined or imprisoned, a Primary Court
may order such person to be whipped in accordance with
the provisions of the Corporal Punishment Ordinance and
section 294 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15
of 1979:

Provided that a Judge of a Primary Court shall not have
power to order more than six strokes with a light cane to
be inflicted on any such person,

Fine may be 23. (1) Where a person has been sentenced to a fine only
paid in ins- and to imprisonment in default of payment of the fine a
Primary Court may do all or any of the following things :—

(a) allow time for the payment of the fine;

(b) direct payment of the fine to be made by instalments ;

(c) direct that the person liable to pay the fine shall be

at liberty to give to the satisfaction of the court a
= bond, with or without a surety or sureties, for the ,
payment of the fine or any instalment thereof.

(2) Where a fine is directed to be paid by instalments and
default is made in the payment of any one instalment the

~ same proceedings may be taken as if default had been made
in the payment of all the instalments then remaining unpaid.
7 PART IIT
Or Tue Move Or Insrrrution Or CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS
Mode of 24, Every criminal prosecution or proceeding for an offence
aie triable by a Primary Court shall be instituted in the Pri-
Sito. mary Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the
offence was committed :

Provided that where an offence is committed partly ‘
within the local limits of a Primary Court and partly within
the local limits of another Primary Court, a criminal prose-
cution or proceeding in respect of that offence may be
instituted in any of such courts.


Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979 9

28, (1) A criminal prosecution or proceeding may be ins- Institution
tituted in a Primary Court by presenting or transmitting a of Proceed-
written complaint duly signed to the court by the com- Primary
plainant or the complainant may state his case orally to the Courts.
Judge of such court who shall reduce it into writing and
obtain the complainant's signature to it or cause it to be
reduced into writing and signed and the statement so taken
down in writing shall be the complaint in the case :

Provided that where the complainant fs a local authority,
the complaint may be signed by the chief executive officer
‘of such local authority or by any officer of such local autho-
rity duly authorized to appear on behalf of such local autho-
tity, In this proviso “Jocal authority” shall have the same
‘meaning as in the Constitution. i

(2) Every such complaint shall be dated and sealed with
the seal of the court and numbered in the order in which, -
it was received, and shall form the commencement of the
proceedings in respect thereof. A

26, (1) Where proceedings have been instituted in a Issue of
Primary Court, the court shall, if an offence is disclosed irmne
issue summons on the person or persons accused where such
person or persons are not already before court.

(2) If the summons cannot be served or the accused
person or persons are absconding or likely to abscond, the =~
court may issue a warrant,

21, Every Primary Court shall for the purpose of the Power of
exercise of its jurisdiction have full power to issue sum- ffsue
mons, warrants and other processes on persons accused Procees.
before it and on witnesses and other persons whose atten-
dance the court considers necessary and to compel the pro-
duction of documents as nearly as may be in the manner
provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15
‘of 1979, in respect of cases instituted in a Magistrate's Court.

28, (1) When the accused appears, the Judge of the Procedure
Primary Court shall— deoused

(a) on the basis of the particulars in the complaint frame - *??***

a charge ; and

(®) read and explain the charge to him and ask him if

he has cause to show against it and if he makes an
unqualified admission of guilt, pass sentence or
make other order according to law.

(2) If the accused does not make an unqualified admis-
sion of guilt or if he refuses to plead or if he pleads not
guilty, the Judge shall proceed in the manner set out in
section 31, 5


10 Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979

“Withdrawal 29, (1) It shall be lawful for the complainant at any time

es before the verdict is given to move to withdraw the com-
plaint and thereupon the Judge shall allow the motion and
acquit the accused,

Absence of (2) If the complainant is absent without excuse on any

complainant. day the case is called in open court whether for the hearing
or for any other purpose the Judge of the Primary Court

“ may acquit the accused unless he thinks proper to postpone
the case for some other day. On ordering such postpone-
ment the Judge-may order a sum not exceeding fifty rupees
to be paid to the accused as costs :

Provided however that if the complainant appears in
reasonable time and satisfies the Judge of the Primary Court
that his absence was due to sickness, accident or some other
cause over which he had no control, such Judge shall cancel
any order made under this subsection.

(8) The accused may, for reasons to be recorded in writ-
ing, be discharged by the Judge at any time before verdict:

Provided, however, that the Judge may in his discretion
consult the Attorney-General, prior to such discharge.

Eeimary 36. The Judge of a Primary Court shall whenever required

fcannit in writing by the Attorney-General forthwith transmit to

BoNttamngs- the Attorney-General the proceedings in any criminal case

Soe in which a trial has been or is being held before him:

Fequired.

+ Provided that ‘the Attorney-General shall return the re-
’ cord to the Court not later than one month after it is
”. received by, him.

Procedure at 94. (1) It shall be the duty of the Judge of the Primary
Court to inquire orally into the charge and, where appro-
priate by all lawful means to endeavour to bring the parties
to an amicable settlement, If the parties agree to com-
pound such offence or offences the Judge shall notwith-
standing anything to the contrary in any other law, allow
them to do so and make a record of the terms on which the
case was compounded and after the accused has complied °
with such terms, record the fact and acquit the accused.

(2) if the parties refuse to compotind the case, then the

" Judge shall proceed to try the case."


Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979-11

“82. Every accused person and every complainant shall be Legal
entitled to be represented by an attorney-at-law: Seas

Provided, however, that a public officer who has filed a
complaint in his official capacity shall be entitled to be re-

Presented by the Attorney-General or a State Counsel or

any attorney-at-law specially or generally authorized by

the Attorney-General but in the absence of such represen-
tation the public officer himself or any other public officer

of the Department interested in the prosecution or with the
permission of the court, an attorney-at-law may conduct the
prosecution :

Provided further that an officer of any Municipality, Urban *

Council, Town Council or Village Council may appear in
person or by an attorney-at-law to conduct the prosecution
in any case in which the Municipality, Urban Council, Town
Council or Village Council is interested.

_ 38. (1) The trial in a Primary Court shall be held in the Procedure
manner provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure * tial.
Act, No. 18 of 1979, for trials in a Magistrate's Court.

(2) The provisions of sections 279 and 288 of the Code of ;
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall apply to
every judgment of a Primary Court and the provisions of
sections 289 and 290 of that Act shall apply to every sentence
of imprisonment passed by a Primary Court.

34, (1) At any stage of the trial, the Primary Court may Disposal of
make such order as it thinks fit for the disposal of any docu- document.
ment or other property. produced before it, f Hons!

(2) When an order is made under subsection (1) in-a ° Stay of
case in which an’ appeal lies, such order’shall not (except Sippel
when the property is livestock or is subject to speedy and pending
natural decay) be carried out until the period allowed for #PPeal
presenting such appeal has passed, or when such appeal is
presented within such period, until such appeal has been :
disposed of. J :

“85, The Judge of the Primary Court may, if he deems it Inspection
necessary, at any stage after the appearance of parties, ad- °F S0ene
journ the hearing of the trial until he has had an opportunity
of inspecting the scené of the offence or any property in
respect of which the offence is alleged to have been commit
ted. Notice of the time and place of such inspection shall
be duly given by the Judge to the parties, and such notice
shall state that the parties are entitled to be present at the
inspection.


12 Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979
‘Absence 36. In the event of the absence of the Judge of a Primary
‘ot Judge. Court without arrangements being made for an acting Judge,
it'shall be competent for the Registrar of the court to call
‘and postpone to any other date all such cases, whether insti-
tuted under this Part or Part IV, as may be fixed beforé
the court for the period during which the Judge is absent.
PART IV
Or Tie Move Or Instrrution Or Crva. Actions
Institution ‘87, Subject to the pecuniary or other limitations prescrib-
‘of action, ed by any law, action may be instituted in the Primary
Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the plan-
tiff or defendant or where there are two or more plaintiffs
or defendants, any one of them resides.
Filing” 38. An action may be instituted in a Primary Court by
vistas. presenting or transmitting a written statement in plain or
concise language duly signed to the court by the plaintiff or
the plaintiff may state his case orally to the Judge of such
court who shall reduce it into writing and obtain the plain-
tiff's signature to it or cause it to be reduced into writing
and signed and the statement so taken down in writing oF
‘the statement presented or transmitted to the court shall
be deemed to be the plaint in the case, 7
Pleadings, 38. The pleadings in a Primary Court shall be limited to
‘the following :—
(a) the plaint of the plaintiff ;
(b) the answer and claim in reconvention. (if any) of the
defendant ;
- (c) the plaintiff's reply to the defendant's claim in re-
convention,
But where there is no claim in reconvention there shall be
no further pleadings beyond the answer.
Phaint 40, The plaint shall bear the names and residences of the
numbered, ~ Parties and the date on which it is filed and shall be num-
bered in the order in which it was filed.
What 41, The plaintiff may unite in the same plaint twe or more
Sauses of causes of action when they all arise—
ined. (0) out of the same transaction or transactions eonnected
with the same subject of action; or
(b) against the same defendant or defendants. :


Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979 13
But it must appear on the face of the plaint that all the

causes of action so united are consistent with each other,
that they entitle the plaintiff to the same kind of relief, and
‘that they affect all the parties.

“42, Upon such plaint being filed as aforesaid the Primary Summons
Court shall appoint a day for the appearance of the defen-. ° “*™*
dant, and shall in inform the plaintiff thereof ; and shall also” ~~
issue a summons for the appearance of the defendant.

PROCEEDINGS ON APPEARANCE :

"43. (1) At the place and on the day specified in the sum- The, defen
mons the defendant shall be called upon to admit or deny” sppear and
the plaintiff's claim. . Kony the ©

claim.
(2) If the defendant shall admit the claim, the Judge of If fe at
the Primary Court shall enter such admission on the record Sgtcn¢8h
and shall require the defendant to sign the same and enter claim.
judgment for the plaintiff :
Provided that it shall be lawful for a defendant who can- :
not conveniently attend the court, to forward his admission
to the Registrar of the court signed by himself in the pre- * &
sence and under the attestation of an attorney-at-law
known to him and upon the receipt and entry of such admis-
sion the Judge shall enter judgment for the plaintiff accord-
ingly. Ps
(8) If the defendant shall deny the claim, the Judge of the If the,
Primary Court shall fix the case to be called for a pre-trial denies the
hearing. claim.
(A) On the day fixed for pre-trial hearing the Judge of
the Primary Court shall wherever appropriate endeavour by
every lawful means to conciliate the parties and settle the
dispute.
44. (1) The parties may at this stage of the proceedings Examipation
be examined orally by the Judge of the Primary Court Pt
with a view to—
(i) ascertaining the points at issue between them and of
dispensing with any unnecessary evidence, and -

(ii) inducing the parties to an amicable settlement, re-
moving the cause of disagreement between them and
conciliating them. Yi ry


14 Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979 .
(2) If every lawful endeavour to conciliate the parties
had failed the court shall fix a date for the defendant to
file his answer. The answer shall be filed, mutatis mutandis,
in the manner set out in section 38.
‘Ot the claim 45. If the defendant pleads a claim in reconvention with
in zecon- his answer, the plaintiff shall be called upon to admit or
deny the same. If he denies the claim in reconvention, the
: plaintiff shall be required, forthwith, or at such further.
time as the court shall fix, to plead thereto, and the provi-
sions of section 38 shall, so far as applicable, mutatis
mutandis, apply to the plaintiff's reply to the defendant's
claim in reconvention : <
Ot the reply Provided that the plaintiff shall not set out in his reply
iHiecetsl new matter amounting to a new cause of action if he could
have pleaded the same in his original plaint.
ixing the 46, After the answer is filed, or, if the answer discloses
ae a claim in reconvention, after the’ plaintiff's reply, if any,
thereto is filed, the Judge of the Primary Court shall fix the
case for trial.
‘Tmmaterial 47, A variance between an allegation in a pleading and
bee the proof shall be disregarded as immaterial unless such
disregarded. proof discloses a new cause of action, or the court is satis-
«fied that the adverse party has been, misled thereby to his
prejudice. ‘
Legal 48, Every. party to an action or proceeding shall be
Fepresen- _eititled to legal representation. ,
Framing of 49, The court shall at the trial frame the issues on which
ames the right decision of the case appears to depend after ques-
tioning the parties and ascertaining the matters on which
they are at variance. Issues need not strictly accord with
the pleadings and the court may allow an adjournment if
necessary to the adverse party if consequence of new ques~
tions being raised in the issues but “an amendment of plead-
. ings shall not be allowed.
Procedure 50. (1) The trial shall be held in the manner prescribed
in the Civil Procedure Code for trials in regular actions in
a District Court. yee
. (2) The provisions of the Civil Procedure Code relating
to judgments and decrees and the execution of decrees shall,
‘mutatis mutandis, apply to judgments and deerees of a
Primary Court. :


Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979 15

51. Where in any proceeding before any Primary Court Claim in.
any defence or claim in reconvention of the defendant . **°°>v' &
involves matter beyond the jurisdiction of the court, such
defence or claim in reconvention shall not affect the com-
petence or duty of the court to dispose of the matter in
controversy so far as relates to the demand of the plaintiff :
and the defence thereto, but any relief exceeding that which
the court has jurisdiction to grant shall not be given to the
defendant upon any such claim in reconvention :

Provided always that in such case it shall be lawful for
the Court of Appeal or any Judge thereof, if it shall be
thought fit, on the application of any party to the proceed- /
ing, to direct that the action be transferred from the court
in which it shall have been instituted to the District Court
having jurisdiction over the whole matter in controversy; . ~
and in such case the Judge of the Primary Court shall
transmit the record to the District Court specified in the
order and the proceeding shall be continued and prosecuted.”
in-the District Court as if it had been originally commenced
therein,

52. (1) The Primary Court shall have jurisdiction to Fower to
‘summon and examine all witness touching the causes being “witnesses and
‘tried or heard by it and if necessary to issue warrants for the warrants,
apprehension and production before it of any party or a .
witness and to deal with them according to law.

And also jurisdiction to order any party or witness or
‘ther person to produce or cause to be produced any docu-
ment or thing before it provided theré is no bar or privilege ak
under any other law in force for the time being which
‘excuses non-production of such document or thing.

(2) The provisions of the Civil Procedure Code relating
to summons and warrants shall apply as nearly as possible
to summons and warrants issued under subsection (1) of
this section and section 42.

OF DEFAULT OF APPEARANCE _
ified i Proceedin

58, (1) Tf upon the day specified in the summons for thé Proseedines
appearance of the defendant or upon any'day fixed for the of
hhearing of the action the plaintiff shall not appear or sufi. of® “

, Ciently excuse his absence, the plaintiff's action’ may be ™ 7
dismissed. . z


16 Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979
Provided that if the defendant appears and when called
upon under section 43 shall admit the claim of the plain-
tiff, the Judge of the Primary Court shall enter judgment
for the plaintiff according to law. ons
Qe detent (2) If upon the day specified in the summons or upon
appetrance, any day fixed for the hearing of the action the defendant
"shall not appear or sufficiently excuse his absence, while
the plaintiff appears the Judge of the Primary Court, upon
due proof of service of the summons, notice, or order re-
quiring such appearance, may enter judgment by default
against the defendant.
Tudgment (8) If the defendant shall within a reasonable time, after
ao such judgment, by affidavit or otherwise, with notice to the
opened up _—_—Plaintiff satisfy the Judge of the Primary,Court that he
incerlain was prevented from appearing in due time by accident,
misfortune, or other unavoidable cause, or by not having
received sufficient information of the proceedings, and that
he did not absent himself for the purpose of avoiding ser-
> vice of the summons or notice, and that he has a good
and valid defence on the merits of the case, then the Judge
may set aside such judgment and any proceedings had
: thereon, and may admit the defendant to proceed with his
defence upon such terms as the Judge may think fit.
*
If neither (4) If upon the day specified in the summons or if upon
ee any day fixed for the hearing of the action neither party
setion appears when the case is called the Judge of the Primary
ot ad, Court shall enter judgment dismissing the plaintiff's action,
3 but without costs.
quate (5) When an action has been dismissed under the pro-
granted visions of subsection (1) or subsection (4) and the plain-
Permission _tiff has by affidavit or otherwise with notice to the defen-
Stresh dant satisfied the Judge of the Primary Court that he was
‘action. prevented from appearing by accident, misfortune, or other
unavoidable cause, the Judge may grant to the plaintiff
permission to institute a fresh action upon such terms as
may be fixed by the court, and where permission is 60
‘ granted the action dismissed under subsection (1) or sub-
section, (4) shall not operate as a bar to the institution of
a fresh action.
‘Ap appeal (6) An appeal shall not lie against any judgment or
judgment order entered under this section for default of appearance,
greet, anything in this or any other law to the contrary notwith-
Rotavailable, standing.


Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979 1
PART V
Avreats rom Primary Courts 70 THE Count oF APPEAL

54. (1) Subject to subsection (4) every appeal from a Appeals.
judgment, conviction, sentence, decree or final order of a
Primary Court shall be by petition and presented to the
Judge of the Primary Court, save as otherwise provided in
subsection (5), within fourteen days of the date of enter-
ing of the judgment, conviction, sentence, decree or final
order appealed against.

(2) Such petition of appeal shall be in writing and state
shortly the grounds of appeal and be signed by the appel-
lant or his attorney-at-law.

(3) Every such petition of appeal shall bear a stamp to
the value of five rupees but where the appellant is the
Attorney-General such stamp shall not be necessary.

(4) An appeal shall not lie from an acquittal by a Judge
of the Primary Court except at the instance of or with the
written sanction of the Attorney-General.

. (5) Where the Attorney-General prefers an appeal
against any judgment, sentence or final order pronounced
by a Primary Court in any criminal case or matter or where
the appeal is from an acquittal with the sanction of the
Attorney-General, the time within which the petition of
appeal must be preferred shall be twenty-eight days from
the date of entering of the judgment, sentence or order.

55. (1) The Judge of the Primary Court shall certify on pee iad
the face of the petition of appeal the date on which it was appeal.
received, cancel the stamp and with the least possible delay
cause the petition of appeal and the record of the case to
be forwarded to the Court of Appeal.

(2) If the appellant had been committed to prison in
pursuance of the judgment, sentence or final order appeal-
ed from, he shall forthwith on lodging his appeal be released
on bail to appear before the Primary Court on any date
notified to him and abide the order in appeal. If such appel-
lant fails to furnish the bail ordered he may be remanded
to the custody of a Superintendent of Prisons. ;

3-2 42008 (12/00)


18 Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979
Preparationot 56. (1) The Registrar of the Court of Appeal shall on
—_ receipt of the record number and register the appeal and
cause sufficient copies of the record and petition of appeal
to be prepared. The appeal shall thereafter be entered on
the list of appeals and shall come on for hearing on a day
of which at least one month’s notice shall have been given
to the appellant and the other parties,

(2) The parties to the appeal shall be entitled to a copy
of the record and the petition of appeal on payment there-
fer at the rate of twenty-five cents for every folio of one
hundred words:

Provided that the Attorney-General shall be issued his
‘copy of the record and petition of appeal free of any charge.

Hearing of 57, (1) At the hearing all parties shall be entitled to
the appeal. appear or be represented by their respective attorneys-at-
law.

(2) When the appeal comes on for hearing, the appellant
if present shall be first heard in support of the appeal and
then the respondent, if present, shall be heard against it.

(8) If the appellant does not appear to support his appeal,
the Court of Appeal shall consider the appeal and may make
such order thereon as it may deem fit.

Powers of 38. Upon appeal the Court of Appeal may—
the Court

‘of appeal @ in a criminal case—

‘on appeals.

(® affirm the judgment, conviction, sentence or
final order appealed from and dismiss the
appeal or

(ii) allow the appeal and set aside the judgment,
conviction, sentence or final order appealed
from and order a retrial or acquit the appel-
lant or make such other order as may be
appropriate ; or

(iii) vary the judgment, conviction, sentence or
final order appealed from or reduce or en-
hance the sentence or the nature thereof ;
where the sentence is enhanced, the sentence
shall not exceed the sentence which a Primary
Court could impose ; or

(iv) where the appeal is from an order of acquittal
Teverse such order and direct a new trial ;


_ Briihdty Courts’ Procedure Act; Nord of 1979 18
ep AAR eHpLLleaguA Io MOS) orks nc sire yan ok «E)
. () affirm: the judgtidat! decree or order ‘and dis
5 i obem ocmiss thevappeal'-ort!i! (tnt worse tas We
+ andl orf geatau, bertigae aft 19 v0ilgiy2,% 22 6p ee (oatciy9
ted 1 bin cleUy lie appeal and! set aside ‘the, judgment,
decree or order ; or wot tieywaiests eid
or bawffi.Y8Y the Judement, decree or.oxders and, r
to gaiind arden‘costs in an‘amount which seems: tothe?
court to be rediemablés” 2 bin eis sosuuyon “
ist tsi ates @ aw oon
138, VGH thie eriition of the hearing of the’ appeal, Zudement
the Gout of.Apngal, shall either at once or-on some future; to be
day which shall then be appointed for the purpose; deliver pen court,
Judgment ah ORBEA ecg ics wits ts votive
‘Wdayo od! nne* aly 6 xed "it iB’ cout! 18 ot prepared 45?
give its judgment, a yet further day may be appointed and *
Mhnounped foriphetpirpose!) aiid fo wawner rows vit COP
10 seigtoxe otf} af LooqgA 10: Mw ali ve sbont weno ods
(8) A Judge may pronounce a judgment, written andi
signed by another Judge, but not pronounced. ‘
MsdeMoogge ms rouse surdizcroiuts ons ertinaie at hh nofiesugieoo
£9 DdWhasnever, a case is decided on appeal the Court, Qrier ot ‘the
of Appeal shall, certify its order, under its seal to the Prix,, GoM of,
mary GopHt.and, shall weturn, to, such, court, the record. and, Be gered
petition of: appeal, fccompanied py,» copy of the, reasons, Court.
given for the order. as 4
(2) The Primary Court to which the order of the Court
of Appeal is certified shall, thereupon make such orders as
are conformable to the order so certified and if necessary
the-record shallbke amended in accordance therewith,
(Sivoverycappéal-inia leriminal.case shall finally abate on Abatement
therdeath of thelatolisedis i tthlst of 0. « sod Houde sais Of MPPORMB, 1,55
gnsBasteb ont of “ylyvt a ulek. § ts Nah ot AY ot
£4; QD <hig Cauctos Appeal, may of its own motion orem, Court of
application by any aggrieved party all for and examine ‘caf for’
thé record of any case whether already tried or pending in “make order
a BoiniangiGourt forthe piltpose of satisfying itself as to Z
thisnégatieh or iBtepiiety’ of any sentencé or order passed”
theteot! of4s%o%tle regularity of the proceedings of such
‘corto a 3 tide
4-2 sn9 0]


§ 20 Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979

(2) In any such case, the.Court of Appeal may make any
of the orders referred to in section 58,

(3) An order under this section may not be made in a
criminal case to the prejudice of the accused unless he has ~
had an opportunity of being heard either personally or by
his attorney-at-law.

() Anything if’ this section shall not be construed: fo

t authorize the Court of Appeal to convert a finding of
acquittal into one of conviction. 1 =?
of (5), Except as herein before provided, a party shall not
_ have any right to be heard either personally or by attorney-
at-law before the Court of Appeal when exercising its
powers of revision :

Provided that the court may, if it thinks fit, when exer-
cising such powers, hear any party either personally or by
attorney-at-law. .

(6) ‘The provisions of section 60 shall apply in respect of”
the orders made by the Court of Appeal in the exercise of
its powers of revision. - , +

Computation 63. In computing the time within which an appéal shall
7 be preferred under this Part the daj on which the judg-

ment, decree, sentence, conviction, of final order appealed

against was pronounced or entered shall be included, but
all Sundays and public’-holidays shall: be excluded. o

: PART VI ne

x Srantes ap Costs iN Civ Actions ®
Stuy évty 64, In every civil action instituted in a Primary ‘Court, ‘
actions. © there shall be affixed to the plaint of the plaintiff, the answer.
of the defendant and the plaintiff's reply'to the defendant's

: claim in’reconvention, as;the case may be, a stamp to the

value of one rupee. | ‘i

Costs. 65, Every Primary Court shall havé power upon the deter-
mination of a civil action to award to a plaintiff or defendant

costs in an amount which seems to the court to be

reasonable. ‘ . :


. Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44'0f 1979» 2
PART VII ‘
Inqumues nvro Dispures AFFECTING Lanp waere A Breaci  -
or THE PEACE 1S THREATENED OR LIKELY .
66. (1) Whenever owing to a dispute affecting land a Reference
; matt of disputes
breach of the peace is threatened or likely’ sttecting
(a) the police officer inquiring into the‘Aispute— aE
“: @ shall with the least possible delay file an infor-”
mation iegarding the dispute in the Primary .
y, 4 Court within whose jurisdiction the land is
4 situate and require each ofthe patties to the
._ dispute to enter into a bond for his appear-
: _ * ance before the Primary Court on’the day
immediately succeeding the date of filing the
* |__ information on which sittings of such ‘court
2p are held ; or a
* (i) shall, if necessory in the interests of preserving:
the peace, arrest the parties to the dispute
* and produce them forthwith before the
Primary Court within whose jurisdiction the
, land is situate to be dealt with according to
law and shall also at the same time file in
(| ‘owe that court the information regarding the
. dispute; or : :
() any party to“uch dispute may file’ an information
by affidavit in such Primary Court setting out the
“facts and the relief sought and specifying as’ res-
pondents the names and addresses of the other
parties to the dispute and then such court shall by
+ lits"usual process or by registered post notice the
parties named to appear in court on the day speci-
* fied in the notice—such day being not later than
-* | two weeks from the day on which the information
» was filed. . .
* (2) Where an information is filed in a Primary Court
» under subsection (1), the Primary Court shall have and is
* hereby’ vested with’ jurisdiction to inquire into, and make
a determination or order on, in the manner provided for in
this ‘Part, the dispute regarding which the information is
filed.
8) On the date on which the parties are produced under
subsection (1) or on the date fixed for their appearance
under that subsection, the court shall appoint a day which
shall not be later than three weeks from the date on which


_— B__Paimary, Courts’ Procedure, Act, Non 4 of 3909 :
the parties were produced or the date fixed for their appear-
ance directing the parties and any persons interested to file
affidavits setting out their claims.and. annexing thereto.any
documents (or, certified copies thereof) on whickothey rely.

consistent, {2,/The,court shall, not later than one week. of the filing
sinaab ta 6f'thé information, cause’a notice’ to be soe some
sola conspicous place on the land or part’of ‘the! land White's

‘Snel’ the subject-matter of the dispute announcing, that aidigpyte
affecting the land has arisen and requiring any, pergon inter-
ébted to appear in court on the date specified in such notice,
stich Yate being the day on, which, the, case, is next being
Sa Mopar te atwa vetunen baa abnudig..
-"Provided that where thé inforimatioti/Hdé'been filed by a
police ‘diféer, the hotice referréd to'in'th® Preceding provi-
siohs ‘of "this “subsection shallalso!‘tequifé"that the person

. interested shall;'in addition to appeating' ifi'¢éurt, file affida-
vits setting out his claims and armexini' thireto any docu-
ments: (on éertified copies thereof) on'whidhihe télies,
dtnsth adh ot cote nt) lovee eanag adh
od (5)..Where any. affidavits. and documents.are filed on the
date fixed, for filing them;’the.court.shall,ion application
made by, the parties filing affidavits; grant, such parties time
not exceeding two weeks. for filing counteryaffidavits with
documents if. any.;The Judge.of the,Primary Court shall
permit such parties or their attorney-atylaw, to peruse the
record in the presence of the Registrar for the preparation
OP'the' counter-afidavits! 2s fou of wixsq vats (8)
atl) ye netter tie) ceri fous al sirebMe yd

i -2(6) On'the'date fixed for fllingiaffidavitsrand!detuments,
Where 16: appliatioh has’ “beet ‘add! ‘ot! tv eounter- &
Hidavits, or on the date fixed for fling counteresfRdavits,
whether, or, not such. affidavits, and: documents-;have been
filed, the:court shall befote fixing the'caseforingulty make
évery effort to induce the parties and the’ ‘Bertin terested
(if any) to arrive at a settlement of the dispute and if the
ppartiés “and ‘persons interested agree toa‘ settlentient “the”

. séttlement:shall be recorded aid signed'by'the patties°ane
personé ‘interested and an ordet made in dedditdatice Wie
. ‘the'terms as settled, © 8°" “1 oe tobi soMoitgainTistab 8,
ai qnitenrnie? on cinider enthieroy atneath onl da alt

(i) Where the parties and persons interested "Cf 2B%))
do not arrive at a settlement, the court shall fix the case foF
i inquiry,on.a date-which shall; not ibe later, thanstwrOwenks
from. the, date.on which the ease was,called for theofling:
of affidavits.and documents .or.counterraffidavits and opis
ments, as the:case may, bevy ott risill sotel od tort Mare


PrimeruCemtssPracedure:ActiNo44of:1979 2B
ri®@hidM@oSVhene a party;orspetson interéstelitis ‘requibled
HE SUG. te anPaatanes under. this Rarh-he may enteniatth
adh al botiangs SAR ERe HAP Thitostib « (€) coilosedue
eae TR Batty; fails, 40> appear, ori having |appeated
ails 1 ile ib aMaavit and lp his documents (i any)
stall be deemed to be i’défatilt’and not’ be entitled to
Participate at the inquiry but the court shall consider such F .
mnathriab ad isibetare i! respletiny the. ae ene patty “lure hae
ip Hakingsitg detergpinationcandotderbor! « 30 teq vein 10 aed Yo apbut
f1y0D yidmisT ol! to opbut orl) Josorit tisq to bas! sowe bie)
ai Avin)s Every, dnquizy; under; this, Rart,shall cbethield die aM erbe
& fummary, manner and,shall, be concluded wyithina.therm Btnmarye ot
HHH che! emihendement of the inquiry. (oy jingne AEE
(2) The Judge of the Primary Court shall deliver pis ‘
ondex within |onie weel'of'the!torilUston ot tHeinguiry:
‘eey utais fle! edhdiisién othe tagulry Shall be
a of the mquiry, it shall
Tewfulo forthe! Judge%otthe''Primary Court ‘to ‘makes |
interimenderi containing “any! provision Which !hé'isderid
Basen te make cunder, this Part, atthe, conclusion, of the
‘aif dvr sonotolzatai 30 sancihiuteih Me sidtdore bas 2109
aahgyryppell naylloaactangs, dey. ed dois lone to o2igsox
ori Ray Wich tHe alepile lates Lethe’ possession Of any Determination
Jand or part theiwbi'it SHIl'Be the Auy’of the Judge aes Sia ores ot
Primary Court holding the inquiry to determine as to who Primary
‘Wasainipossession of;therlatid Orthe' parton the'date of 'the Court tinsose
Gee of, the information under section,66 andimukextndenis disputeiiase:0q
se 2) Anttlesh fo Possession Sfipunbdandenert aherant poeeeTole y,
3 @ An ordenaindét subsection(1)shall'dediave anyone SINT
Shamoreipersops, therain.speclfed tor, *bey-entitleddtooithe:
Possession of the land, or the part inthe, manner, specified s
ERGO ode ALi ich Dora or perfonp are evciea tery
frbbri under tally Sede G2 actlee"be "competent ‘couré,"and
prohibit all disturbahoeqofesuch’ posséssidn” otherwise” thay
under the authority of such an order or decree.
raed abit ion, ohyoluqnih ait at ejitimy ait anc AIT astx0
epsagadar Jpoh singe falda “dispute ‘Telating to, th oasnaw
MBH the poskedicn St"any find" or’ any ‘part of'a ine sate
‘thé Judgerof the:Primary:\Court'is'satisfied that'any' persort *
who had been in possession of the land or partlhas beem
forcibly dispossessed within a period, of two months
sRORERAHEAG Betore the aa "an hide tb ines :
Md HAE Section be, “he'may'make a determination to that
effect and make an bilder" directing’ that the - party
dispassessed, he: mostoredi ta possession sarid’ prohibiting’ all A
distunhance:f ‘such sposséssion otlierwisé*tharilunder the
authority of an orderrordecréeicf;a cbmpetént'court.


2%4 —-Piimary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 of 1979
- (4) An order under subsection (1) may contain in
. addition to the declaration and prohibition referred to in
subsection (2), a direction that any party specified in the
order shall be restored to the possession of the land or any
: part thereof specified in such order.
Determination . 69. (1) Whire the dispute relates to any right to any Tand
Bidee ofthe or any part of a land, other than the right to possession of
ae such land:or part theréof, the Judge of the Primary Court
When dispute shall determine as to who is entitled to the right which is
19,22 mt, the subject of the dispute and make an order under sub-
section (2). .
(2) An order under this subsection may declare that any
. person specified therein shall be entitled to any such right
in or respecting the land or in any part of the land as may
“be specified in the order until such person is deptived of
such right by virtue of an order’ or decree of a competent
P court, and prohibit all disturbance or interference with the
exercise of such right by such, party other than under the
authority of an order or decree as aforesaid: 4.
Security 70. An order made under this Part may also contain such
Possession _ other directions as the Judge of the Primary Court. may
of. fay’ ‘think fit with regard to the furnishing of sécurity for the
peetdetta,. exercise of the right of possession of the land or part of it
: or for the exercise of any right in such land or with regard
to the sale of any crop or produce or the manner of exercise
of any right in such; land or the custody or disposal of the
proceeds of the sale-of any crop or produce. -
Onder 71. Where the parties to the dispute do not appear before
pay court or having appeared or been produced do not file any
appears, affidavits whether with or without documents annexed the
court shall— F .

» (@) Ina case where the dispute is in regard to possession
make order permitting the party in possession to
continue in possession, and :

‘ (b) in a case where the dispute is in regard to any other
right, make order permitting the ‘status quo in
regard to such right to continue. i


Primary Courts’ Procedure Act, No. 44 0f 197928
_ 7 A determination and orde: under this Part shall be or nation
made after examination and consideration of— of Judge

(@) the information filed and the affidavits and docu- Primary

ments furnished ; material

(©) such other evidence on any matter arising on the he may

affidavits or documents furnished as the court may
permit to be led on that matter ;/and

(©) such oral or written submission as may be permitted «

by the Judge of the Primary Court in his discretion,

73. “Any person who acts in contravention of or fails to Penalty, .
comply with an order made under this Part shall be guilty (gntravention
of an offence and shall on conviction ‘by'a Judge of the ith,
Primary Court be liable to imprisonment of either des- tcomply
cription for a term not exceeding six months or to a fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees or to both such imprison-
ment and fine,

74, (1) An.order under this'Part shall not affect or pre- | Order not
judice any right or interest in any land or part of a land Hgnrr
which any person may be able to establish in a civil suit; St,
and it shall be the duty of a Judge of Primary Court who Be, estab-
commences to hold an inquiry under this Part to explain <ivilsuit.
the effect of these sections to the persons concerned in the ,
dispute. ay

(2) An appeal shall not lie against any determination or
order under this Part.

75. In this Part “dispute affecting land” includes’ any yeaning of
dispute as to the right to the possession of any land or part 4guFiNe
of-a land and the buildings thereon or the boundaries there- » "4".
of or as to the right to cultivate any land or part of a land, q
or as to the right to the crops or produce of any land, or part i
of a land, or as to any right in the nature of a servitude
affecting the Jand and any reference to “land” in this Part *
includes a reference to any building standing thereon.

76. ‘The Fiscal of the court shal where necessary execute iseal to
all orders made under the provisions of this Part. oa,

: . - court x


% Primary. Courts!;Procedure Abt; Nov 44t0f4979
Pending 301 -20tAll proceedingsiunder éevtiom'62 of the iiiahidirattin
REBOREAINESIob ee Justice Law, .No,i 44.0f 1973, pending inae,Magistratelss
uurt on the day preceding, the date of operation pf this
Act hal tnd lioven te diosa Satay ee
and such Primary Court shall have ‘wvla'if/hateBy vested
Tilh dutiediction, to, fake cognizance. of, inquire into (and
make'a determination of order, on, or, to, genie and
coniplétd the Same ‘anid ang’ deteridindton td ‘order of the
Magistrate's Court made’ befdre' this date't ‘opératidA of this
Rehyay Baye the, same force and effect,as if theydhad Repa
masie-hy the appropriate Primary Court snjut add vd
Provided that any such proceeding in which the adducing
ofievidence has:commenced) on the:day:preceding.te date
‘ Sh operation af this: <Aetiehall pe Spauired inte, andy fe
ined by the, said Magistrate's Court. as far.as, possible,
EP edind! Hloviadd for in’ this Part, ” : AB
PART VIII
. Casus Omissus
Casus 78, If any matter should arise for which no, provision is
omibias bil" Ack hd provisions ix the Code “et Comal
Byoebdute Acti NO. 15 of 1979, governing a uke Wattewherel
thé ase:or proceeding isya criminal prosecution or:prodeéd!
igg.and the provisions of the Civil, Procedure, Code govenning:
a like matter where. the case is a civil, action or, Procesing,
shall with’ such suitable adaptations ‘as the justice of the,
cASé tial)" requiite bé' adopted’ and applied: °""
