PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SEED ACT, No. 22 OF 2003

[Certified on 30th July, 2003)

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 01, 2003

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF © VERNMENT PRINTING, SRILANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT TIE GOVERNMEN Ff PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO OL

Price: Rs, 12.25 Postage : Rs. 6.75


Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003

(Certified on 30th July, 2003]
L.D.—O. 61/98.

AN ACT TO REGULATE THE QUALITY OF SEED AND PLANTING
MATERIALS ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003.
PART I
ADMINISTRATION OF THE ACT

2. The Director-General of Agriculture (hereinafter in
this Act referred to as the “Director-General’”’) shall be in
charge of general administration of this Act and shall discharge
the functions assigned to him by this Act.

3. The Director-General shall designate such officers of

the Department of Agriculture as may be necessary for the
purposes of assisting him in carrying out or giving cffect to
the provisions of this Act. The officers so designated are
hereinafter referred to as “authorised officers”.
PART II
ESTABLISHMENT OF ‘THE NATIONAL SEED COUNCIL

4. (1) There shall be established a National Seed
Council (hereinafter referred to as the “Council”) for the
purposes of this Act.

(2) The Council shall consist of—

(a) the following ex-officio members, namcly—

(i) the Secretary ;

Short Title.

Director-General
of Agriculture to
be incharge of the
adininistration of
the Act.

Authorised
officers,

Establishment of
the National Seed
Council.


Term of office of
members.

2 Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003

(ii) the Director-General :

(iii) the Director in charge of Seed Certification in
the Department of Agriculture (hereinafter in
this Act referred to as the “Director’’) ;

(iv) the Executive Director of the Sri Lanka
Council for Agricultural Research Policy :

(v) the Director-Gencral of the Sri Lanka
Standards Institution established by the
Sri Lanka Standards Institution Act, No. 6 of
1984 : and

(b) not more than four members appointed by the
Minister from among seed producers, sced users and
seed importers (hercinafter referred to as the
“appointed members”). However two of such
persons shall be appointed to represent the farming
community who are secd users.

(3) The Secretary shall be the Chairman of the Council.

5. (1) Every appointed member shall, unless he resigns
or is removed from, or otherwise vacates office hold office
for a period of three years.

(2) An appointed member may at any time resign his
office by a letter to that effect addressed to the Minister and
such resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted by
the Minister.

(3) Where any appointed member is temporarily unable
to discharge the functions of his office on account of ill health,
absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may
appoint some other person to act in his place.

(4) The Minister may, remove any appointed member
from office for reasons assigned, and thereupon that member
shall be deemed to have vacated his office.


Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003 3

(5) Where an appointed member vacates office by
resignation, removal or otherwise, the Minister may appoint
another person in his place and the person so appointed may
hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of
the member whom he succeeds.

(6) An appointed member vacating office by effluxion
of time shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(7) The members of the Council may be paid such
remuncration as the Minister may determine tn consultation
with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(8) Subject to the other provisions of this Act and any
regulation made thereunder, the Council may regulate the
procedure in regard to its meetings and the transaction of
business at such meetings.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the functions of
the Council shall be—

(a) to establish guidelines and principles to ensure
production and distribution of seed and planting
materials of the highest quality :

(b) to undertake periodic review of the progress of seed
and planting materials production ;

(c) to advise the Minister and other relevant authorities
on all matters regarding the production of quality
seed and planting materials and the supplying of seed
and planting materials to farmers ;

(d) to review the quality standards of seed and planting
materials, periodically, with a view to developing
the seed and planting materials industry ;

(e) to cstablish appropriate minimum limits for
germination viability, genetic purily, physical purity
and appearance of seeds and planting materials and

Functions of the
Council.


(z)

(h)

Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003

maximum limits for genctic impuritics. damaged
seeds. water content and pests (including weed
seeds) allowed in seeds available in the market :

to determine the minimum labelling requirements
for secd containers and for planting materials
available in the market :

to determine the quality and minimum size of the
secd containers for each species, kind or variety of
sced available in the market ; and

to take appropriate action with regard to the
protection of new plant varicties.

Powers of the 7. The Council shall have power—

Council.

(a)

(5)

(c)

(d)

(e)

to recommend fees for any services or facilities
provided by the agencies of the Department of
Agriculture and for the registration of seed
handlers ;

to identify the need ror secds and planting materials
and te facilitate the provision of technical assistance
to produce quality seeds and planting materials :

to co-ordinate with public sector agencics in working
towards the development of the private sector sced
industry and to address issues relating to seeds and
planting materials:

to secure funding and manpower resources required
to develop a viable seed and planting materials
industry ; and

lo appoint special committees to carry out the
decisions of the Council.


Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003 5

PART II]

REGISTRATION PROCEDURE

8. (1) All sced handlers shall be registered with the
Director.

(2) Every application for registration shall be in writing
and shall be made to the Director in such manner as may be
specified by the Director.

(3) A registration under this section —

(a) shall be issued on payment of the registration fee,
by the applicant :

(b) shall be in writing and unless previously cancelled
in accordance with any terms subject to which the
registration was issued, shall continue in force fora
period of two years ; and

(c) shall set out the terms and conditions subject to which
the registration is being issucd.

9. A registration issued under section 8, shall be
renewable on an application made in that behalf to the
Director, before the expiry date specified in the registration
form.

10. (1) The Director may cancel a registration issued
under this Act, if he is satisfied that the seed handler to whom
the registration relates —

(a) has contravened any term or condition subject to
which such registration was issued :

(b) has failed to carry out any directions given along
with such registration ; and

(c) has committed any offence under this Act or any
regulation made thereunder.

Registration of
seed handlers.

Renewal of
registration.

Cancellation of
registration,


Entry for purpose
of inspection on
premises .

6 Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003

(2) Notice of cancellation shall be communicated in
writing lo the registered seed handler.

(3) Any person who is aggricved by the decision of the
Director —

(a) refusing a registration ;
(b) refusing the renewal of a registration ; or
(c) cancelling a registration,

may within thirty days of the communication of such decision
to him, appeal in writing against such decision to the Secretary
giving grounds for such appeal, and the appeal shall be decided
by the Appcals Panel appointed under section 15.

PART 1V

PROCEDURE

I. (1) It shall be tawful for the Director-General or an
authorised officer having reasonable grounds therefor to enter
with or without assistants, at all reasonable times. upon any
premises for the purpose of inspecting and cxamining seeds
and planting materials found thercon and to take appropriate
samples of such seeds and planting materials for examination
and testing and the user, producer or the importer of such
seed or planting materials or the owner or the occupicr of
such premises as the case may be, shall afford all reasonable
Yacilities for such inspection and examination. The identity
of the authorised officer shall be shown to the owner or
occupier of the premises, before entry into the premises.

(2) After the inspection and examination referred to in
subsection (1). ifthe Director-General or the authorized officer
is satisfied that any seed and planting materials stored.
conditioned or offered for sale at any premises is in
contravention of the provisions of this Act or regulations made
thereunder or is not in conformity with the standards
prescribed by the Council, the Director-General Gr the


Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003 7

authorised officer shall communicate his decision, in writing
with the reasons therefor, to the user, producer or the importer
of such seed or planting materials or the owner or the occupier
of premises as the case may be and direct him to carry out
such preventive measures or execute such work in relation to
such seed or planting materials as may be spccificd in such
direction.

(3) It shall be the duty of the preducer or the importer of
such seed or planting materials or the owner or occupier of
such premises. as the case may be, to comply with any
direction made by Director-Gencral or the authorised officer
under subsection (2), unless such producer or the importer,
owner or occupicr of premises prefers an appeal against such
direction through the Secretary for decision by the Appcals
Panel appointed under section 15.

12. Neither the Director-General. nor any authorised
officer, or any person assisting them, shall be deemed a
trespasser by reason of entry into any premises or action taken
or thing done under this Act or any regulation made thereunder.
or be liable to any damages or prosecution by reason of
anything done or omitted to be done in carrying out any of
the provisions of this Act or of any regulation made thereunder,
unless the same was donc or omitted to be done by him,
malafide and without reasonable and probable cause.

13. (1) Where any user, producer, importer, of any seed
or planting material or the owner, or cccupier of-any premises
is required or directed under section 1], to carry out any
measures or to execute any work in relation to any seed or
planting material in or upon any premises, and if such person
fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with such requirement or
direction, the Director-General or an authorised officer with
or without assistants may enter such premises for the purpose
of carrying out such measures or executing such work,

(2) The Director-General or an authorised officer entering
any premises under subsection (1), may take with him such
equipment, machinery and vehicies as is or are necessary for
the purpose of facilitating the exercise of his powers under
subsection (1).

Director-General
or authorised
officer or person
assisting them not
to be deemed
trespasser by
reason ol entry
&e.

Power of the
Director-General
or authorised
officer to carry out
measures or
execute work and
recover the
expenses thereol,


Secd Certification
Service.

8 Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003

(3) -All reasonable expenses incurred by the Director-
General or any authorised officer for the purpose of carrying
oul-any measures or executing any work in or upon any
premises under subsection (1), and any expenses incurred by
the State shall be payable by the person who was required or
directed under section | 1 to carry out such measures or execute
such work, and may be recovered from that person in the
manner herealter provided.

(4) Any reasonable expenses payable by any person
under subsection (3) may be recovered, upon application made
by the Director-General or any authorised officer authorised
in that behalf by the Director-General to the Magistrate’s Court
within whose jurisdiction such person is resident or the
measures were carried out or the work was executed, in like
manner as a fine imposed by that court, notwithstanding that
the amount of such expenses. may excced the amount of the
fine which such court may in the exercise of its ordinary
jurisdiction impose.

(5) The recovery of expenses [rom any person under
subsection (4) shall not relieve such person from any
prosecution for any offence to whicn he may be liable by
reason of his failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the
requirement or the direction made under this section.

PART V
SEED CERTIFICATION SERVICE
14. (1) The Director shall—

(a) exercise the exclusive right to certify seed and
planting niaterials grown in Sri Lanka:

(b) issuc seals, stickers, stamps and labels with the mark
or seal of the Sced Certification Service ;

(c) prohibit.any locally produced seed of any crop
variety or hybrid {rom being described and sold as
“certified seed” of that crop variety or hybrid if it


(d)

(i)

7)

(k)

(!)

(2)

Seed Act. No. 22 of 2003 9

has not been produced in accordance with the rules
for production of certified seed published and
administered by the Seed Certification Service of
the Department of Agriculture, and in the case of
imported seed, prohibit any secd of any crop variety
or hybrid being described and sold as “Certified
Seed” of that crop varicty or hybrid unless the
Seed Certification Service of the Department of
Agriculture has recognized the official system of
seed certification in the country of origin of that
seed ;

monitor the production and processing of seed and
check that the standards for certification are met :
enter premises and inspect seed conditioning and
storage facilities ;

check registers of seed movement and identity ;

implement the standards for seed certification as may
be determined by the Council :

use approved procedures in ficld inspection. secd
testing. monitoring; seed conditioning, collecting
seed samples and alfixing certified labels to seed lots
that qualify for certification :

ensure that certified seed are packed, sealed and
labelled in the prescribed manner ;

take samples of locally produced-and imported seeds
and check conformity with prescribed standards ;

establish and publish standards for seed certification ;
and

maintain and publish a list of producers:and suppliers
of certified sced and-planting: materials.

For the purposes of this section the sced testing

laboratories of the Deparunent of Agriculture. shall be the
designated laboratory.


Appeals.

Offences.

10 Seed Act, No: 22 of 2003

PART VI
APPEALS

15. (1) An Appeals Panel shall be appointed by the
Minister, for the purposes of this Act.

(2) The Appeals Panel shall consist of the Secretary, a
Secd Technologist and a Seed Pathologist.

(3) The Secretary shall be the Chairman of such Appeals
Panel.

(4) The Appeal Pancl. shall deliver its decision not later
than sixty days from the date of the receipt of the appeal by
the Secretary.

(5) | The decision of the Appeal Pane! shall be final and
conclusive and shall be communicated immediately by the
Secretary to the Appellant and the Director.

(6) The members of the Appeal Panel may be paid such
remuncration as the Minister may determine in consultation
with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

PART VII
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

16. (1) Every person who. without lawful authority or
excuse contravenes any provision of this Act or any regulation
made thereunder, or does or omits to do anything which under
the provisions of this Act or of any regulation made thereunder
he ought not to do, or omit to do, or acts as a seed handler
without being registered under this Act or resists or obstructs,
or assists in resisting or obstructing, or incites any person to
resist or obstruct. the Director-Gencral, Director or any
authorised officer. or any person assisting them. in the
implementation of any provision of this Act or any regulation
made thereunder, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.


Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003 VW

(2) Any person who is guilty of an offence under this
Act shall be liable on conviction before a Magistrate after
summary trial to imprisonment of either description to a term
Not less than one month and not excecding six months, or toa
fine not less than filty thousand rupecs, or to both such finc
and imprisonment.

17. Where an offence against this Act has been committed
by a body of persons then :

(a) If that body of persons is a body corporate. every
director, manager. secretary, or officer of that body
corporate ; or

(b) If that body is a firm, every partner and every
manager of that firm ;,

shall be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offence
was committed without his consent of concurrence and that

he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of

such offence.

18. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in
respect of which regulations are authorised by this Act to be
made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1) the Minister may
make regulations prescribing—

(a) the quality of locally produced or imported seeds
and planting materials that may be allowed to be
marketed and the labelling requirements of the seeds
and planting matcrials being marketed ;

(b) the manner in which a certification for the standard
to determine the quality of seed and planting material
shall be issued :

Offences
committed by it
body of persons.

Regulations,


Rules.

12 Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003

(c) the protection of seed users and the promotion of
the production of seed and planting materials :

(d)_ the procedure for inspecting, sampling, analysis,
testing or examination of seed and planting
materials :

(e) the procedure for labelling and the details to be
placed on labels of seeds and planting materials and
the rules and practices for quality seeds and planung
material production :

(f) the establishment and functions of committces :

(g) the specification of regulated species. types and
variclies of seeds and planting materials ;

(1) the procedures and standards for testing : and

(f) the determination of fees to be charged for services
and facilities provided.

(3) Every regulation made under Subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date on such publication or upon such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made under Subsection (1)shall. as
soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette. be
brought before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which
is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the
date of its disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thercundcr.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded under subsection (4) shall be published
in the Gazette.

19. The Council may make, rules in respect of all matters
in respect of which rules are authorized to be made by this
Act.


Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003 13

20. Nothing in this Act shall apply to any sced or any
kind or variety grown by a person and sold or delivered by
him on his own premises direct to another person for being
used by that other person for the purpose of sowing or planting.

21. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

22. In this Act. unless the context otherwise requires—

“Certified secd” means breeder secd, registered seed. pre-
basic seed, basic seed. standard seed. or nucleus sced
produced and labelled as “certified seed” in
accordance with the standards and procedures
specificd in section 14.o0f this Act :

“importer” means any person by whose act. any seed or
planting material has becn landed in or entered into
Sri Lanka ;

“pest” shall include any biotic agent capable of causing
injury or damage or economic losscs to plant or plant
products and shall include weed sced ;

“premises” shall include any land, building, establishment,
stores freight container, vehicle, vessel or conveyance
wholly or partially used for keeping, storing,
conditioning, transplanting or growing plants or for
keeping or storing seeds ;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulation :

“Secretary” means Sccrctary to the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Agriculture ;

“seed” means (1) the mature fertilized part of the plant,
containing an embryo ready for
germination and transformation into
a secdling,.

Application of
the Act.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency

Interpretation.


14 Seed Act, No. 22 of 2003

(2) seed potatocs, bulbs rhizomes, and
(3) planting materials .

“seed handler” means any person who as producer,
importer, distributor, conditioner. repackager. agent.
or retailer is responsible for causing a secd to be
placed in the market in Sri Lanka :

“seed lot” means a definite quantity of seed identified by a
Jot number. every portion or bag of which is uniform.
within permitted tolerance, for the factors which
appear on the label ; and

“variety” means a plant grouping within a single taxon of
the lowest rank including transgenies which can be
distinctly differentiated from another of the same
kind by at !cast one characteristic recongnizabdle with
the naked eye and is sufficiently uniform and stable
after repeated propagation.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs, 885 (Local). Rs. 1. 180(Forcign).
payable to the SureRtnTeNDENT. GovE2NMENT PuBLicaTions Bureau, No. 32. Traxsworks Houst.
Lotus Roav. Cotomso 0! before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
