aN
. ey
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SEVENTEENTH AMENDMENT TO THE
CONSTITUTION
[Certified on 3rd October , 2001]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of October 5, 2001
panes aertmcmeraacaeT

Price: Rs. 34.25 Postage : Rs. 7.00


Seveuteenth Amendment to the Constitution
 _ (Contified on 3rd October, 2001]
L.D.-0. 47/2001,
AN ACT'TO AMEND TH CONSTITUTION OF THE DeMocRATic
Soctatist RePUuaLic OF SRI LANKA
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. ThisAct may be cited as the Seventeenth Amendment Shor ttle.
to the Constitution
2. The Constitution of he Democratic Socialist Republic Insertion of
of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Constitution”) is ee of
hereby amended by the insertion immediately after Article the Democratic
41 of the Constitution of the following new Chapter, which socialist Republic
shall have effect as Chapter VIIA of the Constitution :— of Sri Lanka.
“CHAPTER VIIA
‘Tre: Constitutional. Counc
Constitution — 41A. (1)"There shall be a Constitutional
ofthe Council (in this Chapter referred to as the
Cousltonal Council”) which shall consist of the following
*  members:—
(a) the Prime Minister ;
(b) the Speaker ;
(0) the Leader of the Opposition in
Parliament ;
(d) one person appointed by the President;
(e) five persons appointed by the President,
‘on the nomination of both the Prime
Minister and the Leader of the Opposition ;
2H 012589— 7.500 (2001/09)


2 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
(P)_ one person nominated upon agreement by
the majority of the Members of Parliament
belonging to political parties or
independent groups other than the
respective political parties or independent
groups to which the Prime Minister and
the Leader of the Opposition belongs and
appointed by the President.

(2) The Speaker shall be the Chairman of the
Council.

(3) In nominating the five persons referred
to in sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph (1) of this
Article, the Prime Minister and the Leader of the
Opposition shall consult the leaders.of the
political parties and independent groups
represented in Parliament. Three of such persons
shall, in consultation with the Members of
Parliament who belong to the respective minority
‘communities, be nominated to represent minority
imerests.

(4) The persons to be appointed or nominated
as the case may be, under sub-paragraphs (d), (e)
and (f) of paragraph (1) of this Article, shall be
persons of eminence and integrity who have
distinguished themselves in public life and who
are not members of any political party.

(5) The President shall upon receipt of a
written communication of the nominations under
sub-paragraph (e) or sub-paragraph (f) of
paragraph (1) of this Article, forthwith make the
respective appointments.

(6) (a) On the dissolution of Parliament.
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (2)

“*" of Article 64 of the Constitution, the Speaker shall
continue to hold office as a member of the
Council, until a Member of Parliament is elected
to be the Speaker under paragraph (1) of the
aforesaid Article ;


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 3
(b) Notwithstanding the dissolution of
Parliament, the Leader of the Opposition shall
continue (0 hold office as a member of the
Council, until such time after a General Election
following such dissolution, a Member of
Parliament is recognised as the Leader of the
Opposition in Parliament,

(7) Every member of the Council appointed
under sub-paragraph (e) and sub-paragraph (f) of
paragraph (1) of this Article, shall hold office for
4 period of three years from the date of
Appointment as such member, unless he earlier
resigns his office by writing addressed to the
President, or is removed from office by the
President on both the Prime Minister and the
Leader of the Opposition forming an opinion that
such member is physically or mentally
incapacitated and is unable to function further in
office, or is convicted by a court of law for any
offence involving moral turpitude or if a
resolution for the imposition of civic disability
upon him has been passed in terms of Article 81
of the Constitution or is deemed to have vacated
his office under paragraph (7) of Article 41B.

(8) In the event of there being a vacancy
among the members appointed under sub-
Paragraph (¢) or sub-paragraph (f) of paragraph
(1) of this Article, the President shall, within two
weeks of the occurrence of such vacancy and
having regard to the provisions of the
aforementioned sub-paragraphs, appoint another
person to succeed such member. Any person so
appointed, shall hold office during the unexpired
Part of the period of office of the member whom
he succeeds.


4 SeventeenthrAniesidiment to the Constitution
<< 6(9)' The: “member: “appointed under
"0% sub: paragraph dy of paragraph (1) of this Article
shall, unless earlier rémoved from office by
the President, hold office for a period of three
FOES. aio

(10) A member appointed under sub-

pafagraph (e) or sub-paragraph’ (f) of paragraph
vor ().of this Article, shall, not be eligible for
re-appointment under those sub-paragraphs,

(11) The appointments made by the President
under sub-paragraph (¢/), sub-paragraph (e) and
sub-paragraph (f) of paragraph (1) of this Article.
shall be communicated (o the Speaker.

Councilto —--41B. (1) No person shall be appointed by

recommend the President as the Chairman or a member of

appointments. “any of the Commissions specified in the Schedule
(o this Article, except on a recommendation of
the Council.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this
Article shall apply. jn respect of any person
appointed to act as the Chairman or a member of
any such Commission.

(3) It shall be the duty of the Council to
recommend to the President persons for
appointment as Chairmen or members of the
Commissions specified in the Schedule to this
Article, whenever the occasion for such
appointment arise’, and such. recommendations
shall reflect, the different ethnic groups.

(4) No person appointed under paragraph (1)
of this Articlé or a'perscin appointed to act as the

* Chairman or a member of aiiy such Commission,
shall be rernoved excépt as provided for in the
Constitution or in any’‘law;'and where no such


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution ,., 5
provision is made, such person shall be removed
by the President only with the prior approval of
the Council. ‘

Scuepue
(a) The Election Commission.
(b): The Public Service Commission,
(c) The National Police Commission,
(@) The Human Rights Commission of Sri
Lanka.
(e) The Permanent Commission to
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or
Corruption,
(f) The Finance Commission.
(g) The Delimitation Commission.
Council to 41C. (1) No person shall be appointed by
piste” the President to any of the Offices specified in
"=" the Schedule to this Article, unless such
appointment has been approved by the Council
upon a recommendation made to the Council by
the President,
(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this
Article shall apply in respect of any person
appointed to act for a period exceeding fourteen
day in any office specified in the Schedule to
this Article.
(3) No person appointed to any Office
specified in the Schedule to this Article or to act
.. imany such Office, shall be removed from such
(Office except as provided for in the Constitution
or in any law.


6 Seventeenth Amendiment 10 the Constitution
. (4) In the discharge of its function relating to
the appointment of Judges of the Supreme Court
and the President and Judges of the Court of
Appeal, the Council may obtain the views of the
Chief Justice and the Attorney-General.
Scupure
: PART |
(a) The Chief Justice and the Judges of the
Supreme Court,
(6) The President and the Judges of the Court
of Appeal.
(©) The Members of the Judicial Service
Commission other than the Chairman,
PART I
(a) The Attorney-General.
(b) The Auditor-General. a
(©) The Inspector-Genecral of Police.
(d) The Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration (Ombudsman).
(e) The Secretary-General of Parliament.
Seersary 41D, (1) There shall be a Sccretary to the
andotices: Council who shall be appointed by the Council
ofthe
Souaell (2) The Council may appoint such officers as
it considers necessary for the discharge of its
functions, on such terms and conditions as shall,
be determnined by the Council.
Meetings of 41K. (1) The Council shall meet as often as
the Council, may be necessary to discharge the functions
assigned to the Council by the provisions of this,
os)


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 7
Chapter or by any other law, and such meetings
shall be summoned by the Secretary to the
Council on the direction of the Chairman of the
Council.

(2) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings
of the Council, and in the absence of the
Chairman, the Prime Minister, and in the absence
of the Prime Minister, the Leader of the
Opposition shalt preside at the mectings of the
Council. Where the Chairman, the Prime Minister
and the Leader of the Opposition are all absent
from any such meeting, the members present shall
celect a member from among themselves to preside
at such meeting.

(3) The quorum for any mecting of the
Council shall be six members.

(4) The Council shall endeavour to make
every recommendation, approval or decision itis
required to make by unanimous decision, and in
the absence of an uaanimous decision, no
recommendation, approval or decision made shall
be valid, unless supported by not less, than
five members of the Council present at such
meeting.

(5) The Chairman shall not have an original
vote, but in the event of an equality of votes on
any question for decision at any meeting of the
Council, the Chairman or other member presiding
at such meeting, shall have a casting vote.

(6) The procedure in regard to mectings of
the Council and the transaction of business at such
meetings shall be detcrmined by the Council,
including procedures to be followed in regard to
the recommendation or approval of persons
suitable for any appointment under Article 41B
or Article 41C.


8 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
(7) Any member of the Council appointed
under sub-paragraph (¢) of paragraph (1) of
Article 41, who without obtaining prior leave
of the Council absents himself from two
consecutive mectings of the Council, shall be
dcemed (o have vacated office with effect from
the date of the second of such meetings.
Councitto 4 1F, The Council shall perform and discharge
perform such other dutics and functions as may be
other duties. imposed or assigned to the Council by the
Constitution, or by any other law,
Expenses 41. The expenses incurred by the Council
Ses shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.
Consoli-
dated Fund
Finality of 41H. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
decisions of (1), (2), (4), and (5) of Article 126, no court shall
the Council. “have the power or jurisdiction to entertain, hear
. or decide or call in question on any ground
whatsoever, or in any manner whatsoever, any:
decision of the Council or any approval or
recommendation made by the Council, which
decision, recommendation or approval shall be
final and conelusive for all purposes.”.
‘Amendment of 3. Article $2 of the Constitution is hereby amended by
Anicle $2 ofthe the repeal of paragraph (7) of that Article, and the substitution
Cnekaien: therefor of the following paragraph :—
“(1) For the purposes of this Article — .

(a) the Office of the Secretary-General of Parliament,
the Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration (Ombudsman), the Constitutional
Council, the Public Service Commission, the
Election Commission, the National Police
‘Commission and the Office of the Secretary to the
Cabinet of Ministers; and


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 9
(b) the Department of the Auditor-General,
shall be deemed not to be departments of Government”.
4. Chapter IX of the Constitution is hereby repeated and — Keplacement of
the following Chaptor substituted therefor -— Chapter 1X of the
*, . Constitution
“CHAPTER IX
‘Tne Exccunive
, “THE PUBLIC SERVICE ,
Public 54. (1) There shall be a Public Service
Se ss Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the
“Commission”) which shall consist of nine
members appointed by the President on the
recommeéndation of the Constitutional Council,
of whom not less than three members shall be
persons who have hid over fifteen years
experience as a public officer. The President on
the recommendation of the Constitutional Council
shall appoint one member as its Chairman,

(2) No person shall be appointed as a member
of the Commission or continue to hold office as
such member if he is or becomes a member of
Parliament, a Provincial Couneil or a local
authority.

(3) . Every person who immediately before his
appointment asa member of the Commission was
a public.officer in the service of the State or a
judicial officer, shall, upon such appointment
taking effect cease.to hold such office and shall
be ineligible for further appointment as a public
officer or a judicial officer:


10 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution

Provided that any such person shall, until he
ceases {0 be a member of the Public Service
Commission, or while continuing to be a member,
attains the age at which he would, if he were a
public officer or a judicial officer, as the case may
be, be required (o retire, be deemed to be a public
officer or a judicial officer and to hold a
pensionable office in the service of the State, for

the purpose of any provision relating to the grant
of pensions, gratuitics and other allowances. in
respect of such service.

(4) Every member of the Commission shall
hold office for a period of three years from the
date of his appointment, unless he becomes
subject to any disqualification under paragraph
(2)of this Article or earlier resigns from his office
by writing addressed to the President or is
removed from office by the President on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council or
is convicted by a court of law of any offence
involving moral turpitude or if a resolution for
the imposition of civic disability upon him has
been passed in terms of Article 81 or is deemed
to have vacated his office under paragraph (5) of
this Article.

(5)_A member of the Commission shall be
eligible for reappointment as a member, but shall
not be eligible for appointment as a public officer
ora judicial officer after the expiry of his term of

__ Office as a member. No member shall be eligible
to hold office’ as a member of the Commission
for more than two terms.

(6) A member of the Commission who
without obtaining prior leave of the Commission
absents himself from three consecutive meetings
of the Commission, shall be deemed to have
vacated office with effect from the date of the


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution iW
third of such meetings, and shall not be eligible
thereafter to be reappointed as a inember of the
Commission.

(7) The President may grant « member leave
from the performance of his duties relating to the
Commission for a period not exceeding two
‘months and shall for the duration of such period
on the recommendation of the Constitutional
Council, appoint a person qualified to be a
member of the Commission to be a temporary
member for the period of such leave.

(8) A member of the Commission shall be
paid such emoluments as may be determined by
Parliament. ‘The emoluments paid to a member
of the Commission shall be charged on the
Consolidated Fund and shall not be diminished
during the term of office of such member.

(9) ‘The Commission shall have the power to
act notwithstanding any vacancy in. its
membership, and no act, proceeding or decision
of the Commission shall be or be deemed to be
invalid by reason only of such vacancy or any
defect in the appointment of a member.

(10) There shall be a Secretary to the
Commission who shall be appointed by the
Commission.

(11) The members of the Commission shall
be deemed to be public servants, within the
meaning and for the purposes of Chapter IX of
the Penal Code.

Powersand $5, (1) The appointment, promotion, transfer,
functions of disciplinary control and dismissal of public
fabie!of officers shall be vested in the Commission.
andof the (2) The Commission shall not derogate from
Commission. the functions and powers of the Provincial Public
Service Commissions established by law.


12. Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution

(3) Notwithstanding ‘the provisions of
“paragraph (1) of this Article: the: appointment,
promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal of all Heads of Departments shall vest
in the Cabinet’ of Ministers, who shall exercise
such powers afier ascertaining the views of the

Commission. !

(4) Subject to the provisions of the
Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers shall
provide for and determine all matters of policy
relating to public officers, +

(5) The Commission shall be responsible and
answerable to Parliament in accordance with the
provisions of the Standing Orders of Parliament
for the exercise and discharge of its. powers and
functions, and shall forward to Parliament in each

. __ calendar year, report of its activities for such year
Comminves $6. (1) The Commission may delegate to a
ofthe Committce consisting of thrce persons (not being
Commission. members of the Commission) appointed by the

Commission, the powers of appointment,
promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal of such categories of public officers as
are specified by the Commission.
(2) The Corimission shall cause the
appointment of any such Committee to be
: published in the Gazette.

(3) The procedire and quorum for mectings
of any such Committee shall be as determined by
the, Commission by rules, made. in that behalf.
The Commission shall. cause such rules to be
published in the Gazette.


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 13
(4) There shall -be a Secretary to each
+ Committee, who:shall be appointed by the
Commission, .

Delegation 57, (1) The Commission may delegate to a
of powersto public officer, subject to such conditions and
amblic procedure as may be determined by the
Commission, its powers of appointment,
promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal of such category of public officers as

are specified by the Commission.

(2) The Commission shall cause any such
delegation to be published in the Gazette,
including the conditions and procedure
determined by the Commission for such purpose.

Right of 58. (1) Any public officer aggrioved by an

spp order relating (o a promotion, transfer, dismissal
or an order on a disciplinary matter made by a
Commitice or any public officer under Article 56
or Article 57, in respect of the olficer soaggrieved,
may appealto the Commission against such order
in accordanée with such rules made by the
Commission from time to time, relating to the
procedisre to be Followed in the making, hearing
and determination of an appeal made to the
Commission and the period fixed within which
an appeal should be heard and concluded,

(2) The Commission shall have the power
upon such appeal to alter, vary, rescind or confirm
an order against which an appeal is made, or to
give directions in relation thereto, or to order such
further or othet inquiry as to the Commission shall
seem fil,

(3) The Cominission shall cause to be
published in the Gazette the rules made by itunder
paragraph (1) of this Article,


14 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
Admivisraive —§9, (1) There shall be an Administrative
et Appeals Tribunal appointed by the Judicial
"Service Commission.
(2) The Administrative Appeals Tribunal
shall have the power to alter, vary or rescind any
order or decision made by the Commission .

(3) The constitution, powers and procedure
of such Tribunal, including the time limits for the:
preferring of appeals, shall be provided for by kaw.

Commission 60, Upon delegation of any of its powers toa
otto Commitice or a public officer appointed under
rere Article $6 or Article $7 as the ease may be. the
feris Commission shall not, while such delegation is
delegation in force, exercise or perform its functions or duties
in regard to the categories of public officers in
respect of which such delegation is made, subject
to the provisions contained in paragraphs (1) and
(2) of Article 58.
Procedurest 61. (1) The quorum for a mecting of the
meetings. Commission shall be five members.

(2) All decisions of the Commission shall be
made by a majority of votes of the members
present at the mecting. In the event of an equality
of votes, the member presiding at the mecting

a shall have a casting vote.

= (3) The Chairman of the Commission shall
. preside at all meetings of the Cominission, andl
in his absence, a member elected by the members
present from amongst themselves, shall preside

at such meeting.
Immunity GIA. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
from legal (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of Article 126, no court
Proceedings. Oy tribunal shall have power or jurisdiction to


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 15
inquire into, or pronounce upon or in any manner
call in question any order or decision made by
the Commission, a Commitice. or any public
officer, in pursuance of any power or duty
conferred or imposed on such Commission, or
delegated to a Committee or public officer, under
this Chapter or under any other law.

Savings of 6 1B. Until the Commission otherwise
eran provides, all rules, regulations and procedures
infos. Telating to the public service as are in foree on
the date of the coming into operation of this
Chapter, shall, mutatis muzandis, be deemed to
continue in force as rules, regulations and
procedures relating to the public service, as i they
hhad been made or provided for under this Chapter.
Interference GC. (1) Every person who, otherwise than
ae in the course of such person's lawful duty, directly
™ or indirectly by himself or by or with any other
person, in any manner whatsoever influences or
attempts to influence or interferes with-any
decision of the Commission, ora Committee ora
public officer to whom the Commission has
delegated any power under this Chapter, or to so
influence any member of the Commission or a
‘Commitice, shall be guilty of an offence and shalt
‘on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding
+ one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding seven years, or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Every High Court established under
Article 154P of the Constitution shall have
jurisdiction to hear and determine any matter

referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article,
Oath or 61D. A person: appointed to any office
affirmation referred to in this Chapter shall not enter upon
efolfice. the duties of his office until he takes and


16 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
subscribes the oath or makes and subscribes the
affirmation set out in the Fourth Schedule to the
Constitution.
Arpoiniments 61E, The President shall appoint —
bythe
presieete: (a) the Heads of the Army, the Navy and
the Air Force: and
(b) subject to the provisions of Article 41C.
the Attorney-General and the Inspector-
Genera! of Police.
Icrpetaion. GIF. For the purposes of this Chapter.
“public officer” does not include a member of
} the Anny, Navy, or Air Force, an officer of the
Election Commission appointed by such
Commission, a police officer appointed by the
+ National Police Commission or a scheduled
publie officer appointed by the Judicial Service
Commission.
‘Amendinent of 5. Article 65 of the Constitution is hereby amended as
Article 65 ofthe follows -—
‘Constitution, .

(1) in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for
the words “shall be appointed by the President”, of
the words “shall, subject to the provisions of Article
IC, be appointed by-the President” ; and

2) in paragraph (6) of that Article, by the substitution for
the words “President may appoint a person”, of the
words “President may, subject to the provisions of
Article 41C, appoint a person”.

Amendment of 6. Article 89 of the Constitution is hereby amended in.
Arvcte 89 ofthe paragraph () of that Article, by the substitution for the words
* and figures “Article 116”. of the’ words and figures “Article

116 or Article 1! 1C, as the ease may be".


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 17
7, Article 91 of the Constitution is hereby amended in Amendment of
Paragraph (1) thereof, as follows :— Anicle 91 of the
Constitution.
(1) by the insertion immediately after sub-paragraph
(aiv) of that paragraph, of the following new
sub-parageaph :—
“(iva a member of a Provincial Public Service
Commission.”
(2) by the substitution for sub-paragraph (e}(v) of that
paragraph, of the following sub-paragraph :—
“(v) the Commissioner-General of Elections,”;
(3) by the insertion immediately after sub-paragraph
(a\(¥) of that paragraph, of the following new
sub-paragraphs :—
“(va)_a member of the Election Commission,
(vb) a member of the Constitutional Council, .
(ve) a member of the National Police
Commission," ; and
(4) by the insertion immediately after sub-paragraph
(d@)(viii) of that paragraph, of the following now sub-
paragraph :-—
“(viiia) an officer of a Provincial Public Service
holding any office created after February
“01,1988, the initial of the salary scale of
which is, on the date of the ereation of that
, office, not-less than such amount as
determined by resolution of Parliament, or
such other amount per annum as would,
under any subequent revision of such salary
scales, correspond to such initial,”.


18 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
Repelofanicis 8, Article 103 and Article 104 of the Constitution are
‘and 104 oft *
Constitution. hereby repealed.
Insertion of 9. The following new Chapter is hereby inserted
Chapter XIVA in immediately after Article 102 of the Constitution and shall
‘the Constitution. have effect as Chapter XIVA of the Constitution :—
“CHAPTER XIVA
. ELiction Commission
Election 103. (1) There shall be an Election
Commission. Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the
“Commission”) consisting of five members
appointed by the President on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council,
from amongst persons who have distinguished
themselves in any profession or in the fields of
administration or education. The President shall
on the recommendation of the Constitutional
Council, appoint one member as its Chairman.
(2) The object of the Commission shall be to
conduct free and fair clections and Referenda,
(3) Noperson shall be appointed as a member
of the Commission or continue to hold office as
such member if he is or becomes a member of
Parliament, a Provincial Council or a local
authority, or is or appointed a judicial officer or
public officer, oris or enters into the employment
of the State in any capacity whatsoever,
(4) The provisions of the Constitution and any
other law relating to the removal of judges of the
Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal from
office shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the
removal of a member of the Commission from
office.
(5) A member of the Commission who
without obtaining prior Icave of the Commission.
absents himself from three consecutive meetings


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 19
of the Commission, shall be deemed to have
vacated office with effect from the date of the
third of such meetings.

(6) A member of the Commission shall hold
office for a period of five years from the date of
appointment, unless he becomes subject to any
disqualification under paragraph (3) of this Article
or earlier resigns from office by writing addressed
to the President or is removed from office under
paragraph (4) of this Article, or is convicted by a
court of law of any offence involving moral
turpitude. or if'a resolution for the imposition of
civic disability upon him has been passed in terms
of Article 81 or is deemed (o have vacated office
under paragraph (5) of this Article,

(7) The President may grant a member leave
from the performance of his duties relating to the
Commission for a period not exceeding two
months and may appoint a person qualified to be
a member of the Commission to be a temporary
member for the period of such leave, Every such
appointment shall be made on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council.

(8) A member of the Commission shall
be paid such emoluments as may be determined
by Parliament. The emoluments paid to a
member of the Commission shall be charged on

. the Consolidated Fund and shall not be
diminished during the term of office of the
member.

(9) All members of the Commission shall be
deemed to be public servants within the meaning
and for the purposes of Chapter IX of the Penal
Code. z

Meetings of the 104, (1) The quorum for any meeting of the
Commission Commission shall be three inembers.


20 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
(2) (a) The Chairman of the Commission shall
preside at all meetings of the Commission and,
in the absence of the Chairman from any mecting
of the Commission, a member elected by the
members present from amongst themselves shall
preside at such mecting.
(b) Decisions of the Commission shall be by
a majority of the members present and voting at
the meeting at which the decision is taken, and in
the event of an equality of votes, the Chairman
‘or the member presiding at the meeting shall have
a casting vote,
(3) The Commission shall have power to act
+ notwithstanding any vacancy in the membership
of the Commission, and no act or proceeding or
decision of the Commission shall be invalid or
be deemed to be invalid by reason only of such
vacaney or any defect in the appointment of a
member.
Finaliy of 104A. Subject to the jurisdiction conferred on
decisions the Supreme Court under paragraph (1) of Article
an8 gy 126. Article 104H and Article 130, and on the
froma, Court of Appeal by Article 144, and the
jurisdiction conferred on any court by any law to
hear and determine clection petitions or
Referendum petitions, —

(@) no court shall have the power or
jurisdiction to entertain or hear or decide
or call in question on any ground and in
any manner whatsoever, any decision,
direction or act of the Commission. made
or done or purported to have been made
or done under the Constitution or under
any law relating to the holding of an
clection or the conduct of a Referandum

as the case may be, which decisions,
directions or acts shall be final and
conclusive; and .


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 21

(6) no suit or prosecution or other proceeding

shall lie against any member or officer of
the Commission for any act or thing which
in good faith is done or purported to be
done by him in the performance of his
duties or the discharge of his functions
under the Constitution or under any law
relating (o the holding of an election or
the conduct of a Referandum as the case
may be,
Powers, 104B. (1) The Commission shall exercise,
functions perform and discharge all such powers, dutics and
antduties of functions conferred or imposed on or assigned
‘Commission, (=

(a) the Commission; or

(b) the Commissioner-General of Elections,
by the Constitution, and by the law for the time
being relating to the election of the President,
the election of Members of Parliament, the
lection of members of Provincial Councils, the
election of members of local authorities and the
conduct of Referenda, including but not limited
to all the powers, duties and functions relating to
the preparation and revision of registers of
electors for the purposes of such.clections and
Referenda and the conduct of such elections and
Referenda.

(2) Ishall be the duty of the Commission to
secure the enforcement of all laws relating to the
holding of any such election or the conduct of
Referenda. and it shall be the duty of all
authorities of the State charged with the
enforcement of such laws, to co-operate with the
Commission to secure such enforcement.

(3) The Commission shall be responsible and
answerable to Parliament in accordance with the
provisions of the Standing Orders of Parliament


22 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution

for the exercise. performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions. and shall forward
o Parliament for cach calendar year a report of
its activities for such year

* (4) (a) The Commission shall have the
power during the period of an election, to prohibit
the use of any movable or immovable
property belonging to the State or any public
corporation —

(i) for the purpose of promoting or
preventing the election of any candidate
‘or any political party or independent
group contesting at such election :

Gii)_ by any candidate or any political party or
any independent group contesting at such
election.

by a direction in writing by the Chairman of the
Commission or of the Commissioner-General of
Elections on the instruction of the Commission.

(b) It shall be the duty of every person or
officer in whose custody or under whose control
such property is for the time being. to comply

+ with and give effect to such direction.

(5) (a) The Commission shall have the power
to issue from time to time, in respect of the
holding of any clection or the conduct of a
Referendum, such guidelines as the Commission
may consider appropriate to any broadcasting or
telecasting operator or any proprietor or publisher
of a newspaper as the case may be. as the
Commission may consider necessary to ensure a
free and fair clection.


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 23,

(b) Itshall be the duty of the Chairman of the
Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation and the
Chairman of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini
Corporation, to take all necessary steps to ensure
compliance with any guidelines as are issued to
thom under sub-paragraph (a).

(c) Where the Sri Lanka Broadcasting
Corporation and the Sri Lanka Rupavahini
Corporation as the ease may be. contravenes any
guidelines issued by the Commission under sub-
paragraph (a). the Commission may appoint a
Competent Authority by name or by office. who
shall, with effect from the date of such
appointment, take over the management of such
Broadcasting Corporation or Rupavahini
Corporation as the case may be, in respect of all
political broudeasts or any other broadeast. which
in the opinion of the Commission impinge on the
election, until the conclusion of the election and
the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation and the
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation, shall not.
during such period, discharge any function
connected with or relating to such management
which is taken over by the Competent Authority.

(d) Parliament may by law provide for the
powers and functions of the Competent Authority
appointed under sub-paragraph (c).

Deployment _-L04C. (1) Upon the making of an Order for
ofPolice by the holding of an election or the making of a
Commision, Proclamation requiring the conduct of a
"Referendum, asthe case may be. the Commission
shall notily the Inspector-General of Police of the
facilities and the number of police officers
required by the Commission for the holding or
conduct of such election or Referendum, as the

case may be.


24 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution

(2) The Inspector-General of Police shall
make available to the Commission the facilities
and police officers specilied in any notification
made under paragraph (1) of this Article,

(3) The Commission may deploy the police
officers and facilities made available to the
Commission in such manner as is calculated to
promote the conduct ofa free and fair election or
Referendum, as the ease may be.

(4) Every police officer made available to the
Commission under paragraph (2) of this Article,
shall be responsible to and act under the direction
and control of the Commission during the period
of an election,

(9) No suit, prosecution or other proceeding.
shall lie against any police officer made available

* to the Commission under this Article for any
lawful act or thing in good faith done by such
police officer, in pursuance of a direction of the
Commission or his functioning under the
Commission.

Deployment 104. It shall be lawful for the Commission.

of Armed upon the making of an Order for the holding of

Forees. an election or the making of a Proclamation
requiring the conduct of a Referendum, as the
case may be, to make recommendations to the
President regarding the deployment of the armed
forces of the Republic for the prevention or
control of any actions or incidents which may be
prejudicial to the holding or conducting of a free
and fair election or Referendum, as the case may
be.


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 25
Commissions 1048, (1) There shall be a Commissioner
ena General of Elections who shall, subject to the
antater — @pproval of the Constitutional Council, be
officers of appointed by the Commission on such terms and
the conditions as shall be determined by the
Commission. Commission.

(2) The Commissioner-General of Elections
shall be entitled to be present at meetings of the
Commission, exeept where any matter relating
to him is being considered by the Commission,
He shall have no right to vote at such meetings.

(3) The Commission may appoint such other
officers to the Commission on such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the
Commission.

(4) The salaries of the Commissioner-General
of Elections and the other officers of the
Commission, shall be determined by the
Commission and shall be charged on the
Consolidated Fund.

(5) The Commissioner-General of Elections
shall, subject to the direction and control of the
Commission, implement the decisions of the
Commission and exercise supervision over the
officers of the Commission.

(6) The Commission may delegate to the
Commissioner-General of Elections or other

vas officer of the. Commission, any power, duty or
function of the Commission, and the
Commissioner-General of Elections or such
officer shall exercise, perform and discharge such
power, duty or function, subject to the direction
and control of the Commission.


26 Seventeenth Amendiment to the Constination

(7) The office of the Commissioner-General
of Elections shall become vacant—

(a) upon his death ;

(b) on his resignation in writing addressed to

the Commission ;

(6) omhisataining the age of sixty five years ;

(d) on his removal by the Commission on

account of ill health or physical or mental
infirmity ; or

(©) on his removal by the Commission on the

presentation of an address of Parliament
in compliance with the provisions of
paragraph (8), for such removal on the
ground of proved misbehaviour or
incapacity.

(8) (a) The address referred to in sub-
paragraph (¢) of paragraph (7) of this Article shall
be required to be supported by a majority of the
total number of Members of Parliament
(including those not present) and no resolution

_ for the presentation of such an address shall be
entertained by the Speaker or placed on the Order
Paper of Parliament, unless notice of such
resolution is signed by not fess than one-third of
the total number of Members of Parliament and
sets out full particulars of the alleged
misbehaviour or incapacity

(b) Parliament shall by law or by Standing
Orders, provide for all matters relating to the
presentation of such an address, including the
procedure for the passing of such resolution, the
investigation and proof of the alleged
misbehaviour or incapacity and the right of the
‘Commissioner- General of Elections to appear
and to be heard in person or by representatives.


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 27
Retuming 104F, (1) The Commission shall from time
Officers. to time by notice published in the Gazette appoint

by name or by office a person to be a Returning
Officer to cach electoral district, and may appoint
by name or by office one or more persons to ssist
the Returning. Officer in the performance cf his
duties.
(2) Every Officer appointed under paras aph
(1) shall in the performance and discharge ef such
duties and functions as are assigned to him, be
subject to such directions as may be issued by
the Commission and shall be responsible and
answerable to the Commission therefor.
Public 104G. All public officers performing duties
officers. and functions at any election or Referenda shall
act in the performance and discharge of such
duties and functions under the directions of the
Commission, and shall be responsible and
answerable to the Commission therefor.
Power of 104H. (1) The jurisdiction conferred on the
Supreme Court of Appeal under Article 140 of the
G2u"'2, Constitution shall, in relation to any matter that
"may arise in the exercise by the Commission of
the powers conferred on it by the Constitution o
by any other law, be exercised by the Supreme
Court. .
(2) Every application invoking the jurisdiction
referred to in paragraph (1), shall be made within
‘one month of the date of the commission of the
act to which the application relates. The Supreme
Court shall hear and finally dispose of the
appiication within two months of the filing of the
same,
Imerpretation, _104J. In this Chapter “during the period of
an clection” shall mean the period commencing
‘on the making of a Proclamation or Order for the


28 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
conduct of a Referendum or for the holding of an
lection, as the case may be. and ending on the
date on which the result of poll taken at such
Referendum or election, as the case may be, is
declared.’.

Amendment of 10. Article 107 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
Anicle 107 ofthe paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the words
‘oration “shall be appointed by the President of the Republic by warrant
under his hand.”, of the words “shall, subject to the provisions
of Article 41C, be appointed by the President by warrant under
his hand”,
‘Ammendinent of 11. Article 109 of the Constitution is hereby amended
Article 109 ofthe as follows -—
Constitution.
(1) in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for
the words “the President shall appoint”. of the words
“the President shall, subject to the provisions of Article
4IC, appoint” ; and
(2) in paragraph (2) of that Article, by the substitution
for the words “the President may appoint”, of the
words “ the President may. subject to the provisions
of Article 41C, appoint”.
‘Amendment of 12, Article 111 of the Constitution is hereby amended
Amicle HII ofthe as follows :—
Constitution.
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (2) of that Article and the
substitution therefore of the following paragraph :—
(2) The Judges of the High Court shall —
. (a) on the recommendation of the Judicial
Service Commission, be appointed by the
President by warrant under his hand and
such recommendation shall be made after
consultation with the Attorney-General ;

*  @) be removable and be'subject to the
disciplinary control of the President on the
recommendation of the Judicial Service
Commission.” ; and


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 29

(2), by the addition immediately after paragraph (3) of that

Article, of the following new paragraph :—

“(4) Any Judge of the High Court may resign
his office by writing under his hand addressed
to the President.”.

13, Article 111A of the Constitution is hereby amended Amendment of
in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the Article 111A of
words “the President may, by warrant, appoint” of the words ‘he Constitution
“the President may, on the recommendation of the Judicial
Service Commission, by warrant, appoint ".

14. The following Anicle is hereby inserted immediately terion of ew

a r itt ‘ fect Amticle 1118 in
alter Article 111A of the Constitution, and shall have effect AMIE U8
as Article 111B of the Constitution -—

“Piscal for ‘LLB. ‘There shall be a Fiscal, who shall be
the whole the Fiscal for the whole Island and who shall
band. exercise supervision and control over Deputy

Fiscals attached to all Courts of First Instance.”.

15. Article 116 of the Constitution is hereby re-numbered —Re-numhering of
as Article 111C of the Constitution. aerits INE onthe

Constitution as
Anicle HIC.

16. The following new Chapter is hereby inserted — Insenion of
immediately after Article 111C of the Constitution, and shall Chapter XVA in
have effect as Chapter XVA of the Constitution :-— He Coil,

“CHAPTER XVA
Jupiciat. Service Commission

Constitution 111. (1) There shall be a Judicial Service .
Suita Commission ( in this Chapter referred to as the
Service “Commission”) consisting of the Chief Justice
Commission, and two other Judges of the Supreme Court

appointed by the President, subject to the

provisions of Article 41C.

~ +(2) The Chief Justice shall be the Chairman
of the Commission.


30 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
‘Meetings of 1L1E. (1) The quorum for any meeting of
the the Commission shall be two members of the
Commission. Commission.

(2) A Judge of the Supreme Court appointed
as a member of the Commission shall, unless he
carlicr resigns his office or is removed therefrom
as hereinafter provided or ceases to be a Judge of
the Supreme Court, hold office for a periad of
three years from the date of his appointment, but
shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(3) All decisions of the Commission shall be
made by a majority of the members present, and
in the event of an quality of votes, the Chairman
of the mecting shall have a casting vote.

(4) The Commission shall have power to act
notwithstanding any vacancy in its membership

+ and no act or proceeding of the Commission shall
be, or be deemed to be invalid by reason only of
such vacancy or any defect in the appointment of
a member.

(5) The President may grant to any member
of the Commission leave from his duties and may
appoint on the recommendation of the
Constitutional Council, a person qualified to be
a member of the Commission to be a temporary
member for the period of such leave.

(6) The President may, on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council.
for cause assigned, remove from office any
member of the Commission.

Allowances 111F. A member of the Commission shall

of members he paid such allowances as may be determined

orth on, OY Parliament. Such allowances shall be charged
‘on the Consolidated Fund and shall not be reduced
during the period of office ofa member, and shall
be in addition to the salary and other allowances.
attached to, and received from, the substantive
appointment:


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 31
Provided that until the amount to be paid as
allowances is determined under the provisions of
this Article, the members of the Commission shall
continue to receive as allowances, such amount
as they were receiving on the day immediately
preceding the date on which this Chapter comes.
into operation.
Secreto 111G. There shall be a Secretary to the
e Commission who shall be appointed by the
“omission, ‘ Pad eaeene 4
‘Commission from among senior judicial officers
of the Courts of First Instance,
Powerof 11H. (1) The Judicial Service Commission
the is ed wit
Commision, * BOFCbY vested with the power to—

(a) transfer judges of the High Court ;

(b) appoint, promote, transfer, exercise
disciplinary control and dismiss judicial
officers and scheduled public officers.

(2) The Commission may make —

(a) rules regarding training of Judges of the
High Court, the schemes for recruitment
and (raining, appointment, promotion and
transfer of judicial offices and scheduled
public officers;

(6) provision for such matters as are
necessary or expedient for the exercise,
performance and discharge of the powers,
duties and functions of the Commission.

(3) The Chairman of the Commission or any

Judge of the Supreme Court or Judge of the Court
of Appeal as the case may be, authorized by the
Commission shall have power and authority to


32 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
inspect any Court of First Instance, or the records,
registers and other documents maintained in such
Court, or hold such inquiry as may be necessary.
(4). The Commission may by Order published
in the Gazette delegate to the Secretary to the
Commission the power to make transfers in
respect of scheduled public officers, other than
transfers involving increase of salary, or to make
acting appointments in such cases and subject to
such limitations as may be specified in the Order.
Jadiciat 111J. Any judicial officer or scheduled
offcersand . 5
Scheduled public officer may resign his office by writing
public under his hand addressed to the Chairman of the
offi mY Commission.
Immunity 111K. Nosuit or proceeding shall lic against
from egal the Chairman, member or Secretary or officer of
Proceedings. the Commission for any lawful act which in good
faith is done in the performance of his duties or
functions as such Chairman, member, Secretary,
or officer of the Commission.
Interference 1111. (1) Every person who otherwise than
withthe; ot
Cans on inthe course of such persons lawful duty, directly
anoffence.- OT indirectly, alone or by or with any other person,
in any manner whatsoever, influences or attempts
to influence any decision or order made by the
Commission or to so influence any member
thereof, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding three years or to both such
fine and imprisonment:

Provided however that the giving of a
certificate or testimonial to any applicant or
candidate for any judicial office or scheduled
public office shall not be an offence.


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 33

(2) Every High Court established under

Article 154P_of the Constitution shall have

Jurisdiction to hear and determine any matter

referred to in paragraph (1).
‘interrcttion, LIM. (a) In this Chapter ~

“appointment” includes the appointment to act

in any office referred to in this Chapter,

“judicial officer” means any person who holds

office as judge, presiding officer or

member of any Court of First Instance,

tribunal or institution created and

established for the administration of

justice or for the adjudication of any

labour or other dispute, but does not

include a Judge of the Supreme Court

‘or ofthe Court of Appeal or ofthe High

‘Court ora person who performs arbitral

functions, or a public officer whose

principal duty is not the performance of
Functions of a judicial nature; and

“scheduled public officer” means the Registrar

of the Supreme Court, the Registrar of

the Court of Appeal, the Registrar,

Deputy Registrar or Assistant Registrar

. of the High Court or any Court of First

Instance, the Fiscal, the Deputy Fiscal

‘of the Court of Appeal or High Court

and any Court of First Instance, any

public officer employed in the Registry

of the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal

or High Court or any Court of First

Instance included in acategory specified

in the Filth Schedule or such other

‘categories as may be specified by Order


34 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constinution
. made by the Minister in charge of the
subject of Justice and approved
by Parliament and published in the
Gareue.

(b) Nocourt, tribunal or institution shall have
* jurisdiction to entertain or to determine the
question whether or not a person is a judicial
officer within the meaning of the Constitution,
but such question shall be determined solely by
the Commission, whose decision thereon shall be

final and conclusive.

(©) No act of such person or proceeding held
before such person, prior to such determination
as is referred to in sub-paragraph (bj, shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason of such
determination’,

Repeal ofAnicles 17. Articles 112, 113, 113a, 114, 115 and 117 of the
112,113, 113A,
112,113,113. Constitution are hereby repealed,
of the
Constitution
‘Amendment of 18. Article 1 itution i
sen, 1B, -Ane 153 of th Coostiton fs herby amended
Constitution. 5
(1) in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for
the words “shall be appointed by the President”, of
the words “shall, subject to the provisions of Article
41C, be appointed by the President”; and
(2) in paragraph (4) of that Article, by the substitution for
the words “the President may appoint”, of the words
“ the President may, subject to the provisions of Article
4IC, appoint”.
‘Amendment of 19. Article 1S4R of the Constitution is hereby amended
Amite 1548 of in sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (1) of that Article, by the
substitution for the words “three other members to represent”.


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 35
of the words “three other members who are appointed by the
President on the recommendation of the Constitutional
Council, to represent”.

20. The following new Chapter is hereby inserted Insertion of new
immediately after Article 155 of the Constitution and shall Chapter XVIItA
have effect as Chapter XVIIIA of the Constitution :— a

“CHAPTER XVINIA
Nationa Potice Commission
Constitution ISSA. (1) There shall be a National Police
q in , Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the
Police, _-“"Commission”) consisting of seven members
Commission, appointed by the President on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council.
‘The Constitutional Council may, in making its
recommendation, consult the Public Service
Commission. The President shall on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council 2
appoint one member as the Chairman.

(2) No person shall be appointed as a member
of the Commission or continue to hold office as
such member if he is or becomes a member of
Parliament, a Provincial Council or a local
authority.

(3) Every person who immediately before his,
appointment as a member of the Commission ,
‘was a public officer in the service of the State or
a judicial officer, shall upon such appointment
taking effect, cease to hold such office, and shall
be ineligible for further appointment as a public
officer or a judicial officer:

Provided that any such person shall, until he
ceases to be a member of the Commission, or
while continuing to be a member, attains the age


36 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution

at which he would, if he were a public officer or
a judicial officer, as the case may be, be required
to retire, be deemed to be a public officer or a
judicial officer and to hold a pensionable office
in the service of the State. for the purpose of any
provision relating to the grant of pensions,

+ gratuities and other allowances in respect of such
service.

(4) Every member of the Commission shall
hold office for a period of three years from the
date of his appointment, unless he becomes
subject (o any disqualification under paragraph
(2) of this Article, or earlier resigns from his office
by writing addressed to the President or is
removed from office by the President on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council or
is convicted by a Court of law of any offence
involving moral turpitude or if a resolution for
the imposition of civic disability upon him has
been passed in terms of Article 81 or is deemed
to have vacated his office under paragraph (6) of
this Article,

(5) A member of the Commission shall be
¢ligible for reappointment as a member. but shall
not be eligible for appointment as a public officer
ora judicial officer after the expiry of his term of
office as a member. No member shall be cligible

+ to hold office as a member of the Commission
for more than two terms,

(6) In the event of the Chairman or a member
of the Commission absenting himself from three
consecutive meetings of the Commission without
the prior leave of the Commission, he shall be
deemed to have vacated his office from the date
of the third of such meetings and shall not be
eligible to be reappointed as a member or as
Chairman of the Commission.


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 37

(7) The Chairman and members of the
Commission shall be paid such allowances as are
determined by Parliament. Such allowances shall
be charged on the Consolidated Fund and shall
not be diminished during the term of office of the
Chairman or member.

(8) The Chairman and members of the
‘Commission shall be deemed to be public servants
within the meaning and for the purposes of
Chapter IX of the Penal Code.

Mectings of ISB. (1) The quorum for a meeting of the
the Commission shall be four members.
Comission,
(2) The Chairman shall preside at all mectings
of the Commission and in his absence a member
elected by the members present from amongst the
members shall preside at such meeting.
(3) Decisions of the Commission shall be by
a majority of members present and voting at the
meeting at which the decision is taken, and in the
‘event of an equality of votes the Chairman or the
person presiding shall have a casting vote.
(4) The Commission shall have power to act
notwithstanding any vacancy in its membership,
and any act or proceeding or decision of the
Commission shall not be invalid or deemed to be
invalid by reason only of such vacancy or any
defect in the appointment of the Chairman or
member.
Immonity _-185C. (1) Subject to the jurisdiction
from legal conferred on the Supreme Court under paragraph
Proceedings. (1) of Article 126, no court or tribunal shall have

the power or jurisdiction to inquire into, or


38 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
pronounce upon orin any manner call in question
any order or decision made by the Commission
‘or a Commitice, in pursuance of any power or

* duty, conferred or imposed on such Commission
‘or Committee under this Chapter or under any
other law.

Seereiayto _ 188D. There shall be a Secretary to the

Crank Commission and such other officers appointed

™ by the Commission on such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the
Commission.

Costs and 1SSE. The costs and expenses of the

Expenses. — Commission shall be a charge on the Consolidated
Fund,

Innerference —155F, (1) Every person who, otherwise than

Cn on in the course of such person's lawful duty, directly

* or indirectly by himself or by or with any other
person, in any manner whatsoever influences or
attempts to influence or interferes with any
decision of the Commission or a Committee. or
to so influence any member of the Commission
ora Committee, shall be guilty of an offence and

. shall on conviction be liable to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exeeeding seven
years, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) A High Court established under Article
154P of the Constitution shall have jurisdiction
to hear and determine any matter referred (0 in
Paragraph (1).

Bowers, 155G. (1) (a) The appointment, promotion.

he transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of

Commission. Holice officers other than the Inspector-General
of Police, shall be vested in the Commission. The
Commission shall exercise its powers of


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 39
promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal in consultation with the Inspector
Goneral of Police.

(b) The Commission shall not in the exercise
of its powers under this Article, derogate from
the powers and functions assigned to the
Provincial Police Service Commissions as and
when such Commissions are established under
Chapter XVIIA of the Constitution,

(2) The Commission shall establish
procedures to entertain and investigate public
complaints and complaints of any aggrieved
person made against a police officer or the police
service, and provide redress in accordance with
the provisions of any law enacted by Parliament
for such purpose.

(3) The Commission shall provide for and
determine all matters regarding police officers,
including the formulation of schemes of
recruitment and training and the improvement of
the efficiency and independence of the police
service, the nature and type of the arms,
ammunition and other equipment necessary for
the use of the National Division and the Provincial
Divisions, codes of conduct, and the standards to
be followed in making promotions and transfers,
as the Commission may from time to time
consider necessary or fit.

(4) The Commission shall exercise all such

_ powers and perform all such functions and duties
as are vested in it under Appendix I of List I
contained in the Ninth Schedule of the
Constitution. .
ot


40 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
Commitces 15SH. (1) The Commission may delegate to
oh son, Commitee of the Commission (not consisting
ommsssion of members of the Commission) as shall be
nominated by the Commission, the powers of
appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary
control and dismissal of such categories of police
officers as are specified by the Commission.

(2) The Commission shall cause to be
published in the Gazette the appointment of any

such Committee.

(3) The procedure and quorum for meetings
of such a Committce shall be according to rules
made by the Commission. The Commission shall
cause such rules to be published in the Gazette.

Delegation 155J. (1) The Commission may, subject to

_ such conditions and procedures as may be

Commission, Prescribed by the Commission, delegate to the
Inspector-General of Police or in consultation
with the Inspector-General of Police to any Police
Officer, its powers of appointment, promotion,
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of any
category of police officer,

(2) The Commission shall cause any such
delegation to be published in the Gazette.

Right of 155K. (1)A police officer aggrieved by any

appeal. order relating to promotion, transfer or any order

ona disciplinary matter or dismissal made by the

Inspector-General of Police or a Committee or

Police Officer referred to in Article 1SSH and 155)

in respect of himself, may appeal to the

Commission against such order in accordance

with rules made by the Commission from time to

time regulating the procedure and the period fixed

for the making and hearing of an appeal by the
Commission.


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 4)
. (2) The Commission shall have the power to
alter, vary, rescind or confirm such order upon
such appeal, or to give directions in relation there
to, or to order such further or other inquiry, as to
the Commission shall seem fit.

(3) The Commission shall from time to time
cause (0 be published in the Gazette, rules made
by it under paragraph (1) of this Article,

(4) Upon any delegation to the Inspector-
General of Police or a Committee or Police
Officer under Article ISSH and 155J of this
Chapter as the case may be, the Commission shall
not, whilst such delegation of its powers is in
force, exercise or perform its functions or duties
in respect of the categories of Police Officers in
respect of which such delegation is made, subject
to the right of appeal hereinbefore provided,

Appealsto «SSL. Any Police Officer aggrieved by any
ae order relating to promotion, transfer, or any order
Apnea NA disciplinary matter or dismissal made by the
Tribunal, Commission, in respect of himself, may appeal
therefrom to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal
established under Article 59, which shall have the
power to alter, vary or rescind any order or
decision made by the Commission.
Saving of 155M. Until the Commission otherwise
existing provides, all rules, regulations and procedures
rules and relating to the police force as are in force shall
mevlations. continue to be operative and in force.
Commission 15SN. The Commission shall be responsible
answerable and answerable to Parliament in accordance with
Partiamen, (86 provisions of the Standing Orders of
Parliament for the exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers, dutics and functions, and
shall forward to Parliament in cach calendar year
Aa report of its activities in such year”.


42 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
Armondient of 21. Article 156 of the Constitution is hereby amended
Aniicle 156 of the Bs.
Constitution, esitollaws -—

(1) in paragraph (2) of that Article, by the substitution for
the words “shall be appointed by the President”, of
the words “shall, subject to the provisions of Article
4IC, be appointed by the President”; and

(2) inparagraph (5) of that Article, by the substitution for
the words “the President shall appoint”, of the words
“the President shall, subject to the provisions of Article
4IC, appoint *.

Amendment of 22, Article 170 of the Constitution is hereby amended
Article 170 of the
Constitution. as follows -—

(1) in the definition of the expression “judicial officer”,

by the substitution for the words “other than in Article
114,”. of the words “other than in Article 111M."; and
(2) imthe definition of the expression “public officer”, by
the insertion immediately after paragraph (c), of the
following new paragraphs :—
“(ca) a member of the Constitutional Council :
(cb) a member of the Election Commission ;
(cc) amember of the National Police Commission ;
(ed) the Commissioner - General of Elections ;
(ce) officers appointed to the Election Commission,
by the Election Commission ;".


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 43
23. The Ninth Schedule to the Constitution is hereby Amendment of the
dedi s ° _— Ninth Schedule to
amended in Appendix I to List I as follows Ninth Sete
(1) by the substitution for item 3 of that Appendix of the
following :-— :
“3. Recruitment to the National Police Division and
promotion of Police Officers in the Provincial
Divisions to the National Division, shall be
made by the National Police Commission.”:

(2) in item 6 of that Appendix by the substitution for the

words “will be referred to the President,”, of the words
“will be referred to the National Police Commission,";

(3) in item 7 of that Appendix, by the substitution for the

words “with the approval of the President,", of the
words “ with the approval of the National Police
Commission.”; and

(4) in item 9:2 of that Appendix, by the substitution for

the words “The President may, where he considers it
necessary provide for alternate (raining for members
of any Provincial Division”, of the words “ The
National Police Commission may, where he considers
itnecessary provide for alternate training for members
of any Provincial Division.”.

24. (1) The persons holding office on the date prior to Commissions
the date of commencement of this Act, as members of the under repeated
Public Service Commission and the Judicial Service Ailes 56.and
Commission esiablished by Article 56 and Article 112 Conaitution to
respectively, of the Constitution, shall continue to hold office continue.
as such members continue (o exercise the powers vested in
those Commissions under the Constitution, prior to the date
of commencement of this Act, until the date on which the
members of the Public Service Commission and the Judicial
Service Commission respectively, are appointed under Article
54 and Article 111 respectively of the Constitution. .


44 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
(2) The persons holding office on the day prior to the date
of commencement of this Act, as the Secretary (o the Public
Service Commission and as the Secretary to the Judicial
Service Commission appointed under paragraph (7) of Article
56 and Article 113 respectively, of the Constitution, shall
continue (o hold such office under the same terms and
conditions.
Chiet Justice, 28. (a) The Chief Justice and all the Judges of the
Judges ofthe Supreme Court and the President and all the Judges of the
pe Court of Appeal holding office on the day prior to the date of
CourtotAppeat the commencement of this Act, shall, subject to the
&c. tocontinue te provisions of paragraph (3) of Article 41C, continue to hold
hold office. office,
(b) Every person holding office on the day prior to the
date of the commencement of this Act, as the Attorney-
General, the Auditor-General , the Inspector-General of Police,
the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration
(Ombudsman) and the Secretary-Gencral of Parliament shall,
subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of Article 41C.
continue to hold such office under the same terms and
conditions,
Judges ofthe 26. Every person holding office on the day prior to the
High Coun &e.t0 date of the commencement of this Act ~
eontinuc to hold
oe (a) asa Judge of the High Court;
(b) as a judicial officer, a scheduled public officer, a
public officer or a police officer,
shall, continue to hold such office under the same terms and
conditions.
‘Substitution and 27, (1) Unless the context otherwise requires, there shall
savings be substituted for the expressions “Commissioner of
Elections” and “Department of the Commissioner of
Elections” wherever such expressions occur in the


Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution 45
Constitution and in any written law or in any contract,
agrecment or other document, of the expression “Election
Commission”.

(2) The person holding office as the Commissioner of
Elections on the day immediately preceding the date of the
commencement of this Act, shall continue to exercise and
perform the powers and functions of the office of
Commissioner of Elections as were vested in him immediately
prior to the commencement of this Act, and of the Election
‘Commission, until an Election Commission is constituted in
terms of Article 103, and shall, from and after the date on
which the Election Commission is so constituted, cease to
hold office as the Commissioner of Elections.

(3) Allsuits, actions and other legal proceedings instituted
by or against the Commissioner of Elections appoirited under
Article 103 of the Constitution prior to the amendment of
such Article by this Act, and pending on the day immediately
prior to the date of commencement of this Act, shall be deemed
{o be suits, actions and other legal proceedings instituted by
or against the Election Commission, and shall he continued
and completed in the name of the Election Commission.

(4) Any decision or order made, or ruling given by the
Commissioner of Elections appointed under Article 103 of
the Constitution prior (o the amendment of that Article, by
this Act, and under any written law on or before the date of
the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be a
decision or order made or ruling given, by the Election
Commission.

28. All matters pertaining to the appointment, promotion, Pending matters
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of any police officer aos te rubtie
pending before the Public Scrvice Commission, on ot before Commission to
the date of the commencement ofthis Act, shall stand removed _ stand removed to
to the National Police Commission established by Chapter Xe National
XVIIIA of the Constitution and accordingly such matter shall Commission,
be continued and completed before such National Police
Commission.


46 Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
Sinhala text 10 29. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
prevail inesse of and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
inconsistency,


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of ths Parliament Rs, 385 (Local), Rs. 1,180

(Forcign), Payable to the Surerintenvent, Goverxent Pustications Bureau, No. 32.

“Taansworks Howse, Loris Roan, Cotoweo Ol before 15th Deceuiber each year in respect
ofthe year following.
