PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 21, 2009

[Certified on 21st August, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

AMBULUWAWA DISSANAYAKEMUDIYANSELAGE JAYARATNERELIGIOUS CENTRE AND BIO-DIVERSITYCOMPLEX TRUST FUNDACT, NO. 44 OF 2009

1Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

2PL 0041163,290 (05/2009)

[Certified on 21st August, 2009]

L.D.O. 57/2005.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A TRUST FUND CALLED

THE AMBULUWAWA DISSANAYAKE MUDIYANSELAGE JAYARATNERELIGIOUS CENTRE AND BIO-DIVERSITY COMPLEX TRUST FUND; TO

SPECIFY ITS OBJECTS AND POWERS AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the AmbuluwawaDissanayake Mudiyanselage Jayaratne Religious Centre andBio-diversity Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009.

2.(1) There shall be established a Trust Fund whichshall be called the Ambuluwawa DissanayakeMudiyanselage Jayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity Complex Trust Fund (hereinafter referred to as theFund).

(2) The Fund shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession, and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3.(1) The administration, management and control ofthe Fund shall be vested in a Board of Trustees constitutedas hereinafter provided.

(2) The Board of Trustees to the Fund (hereinafter referredto as the Board) shall consist of the following members:-

(a)the founder ;

(b)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Environment and NaturalResources ;

Short title.

Establishment ofthe AmbuluwawaDissanayakeMudiyanselageJayaratneReligious Centreand Bio-diversityComplex TrustFund.

Board ofTrustees of theFund.

Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

2

(c)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Buddha Sasana ; and

(d)seven persons appointed by the founder (hereinafterreferred to as appointed members).

(3) The Founder shall be the Chairman of the Board.

(4) An appointed member of the Board may at any timeresign his office by written communication addressed to theChairman.

(5) A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing in office as a member of the Board if he is

(a)a person who having been declared an insolvent orbankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or inany other country, is an undischarged insolvent orbankrupt ; or

(b)convicted of an offence involving moral turpitudeand punishable with imprisonment for a term notless than six months ; or

(c)under any law in force in Sri Lanka, found ordeclared to be of unsound mind or mentallydeficient.

(6) The term of office of an appointed member of theBoard shall subject to the provisions of paragraphs (7) and(8) shall be three years.

(7) Where an appointed member of the Board vacates hisoffice by death, resignation or otherwise before the expiryof his term of office, his successor shall hold office for theunexpired period of the term of office of his predecessor.

3Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

(8) The Founder may, at any time remove any appointedmember for reasons assigned.

(9) The Chairman of the Board shall preside at allmeetings of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman fromany meeting, the members present at such meeting shall electfrom among themselves a Chairman for that meeting.

(10) In the event of any difference of opinion betweenthe members of the Board, the decision of the majority shallbe binding and effectual.

(11) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemedto be invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancyamong the members.

(12) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall befour members.

(13) Subject to the provision of subsection (10), theBoard may make rules to regulate the procedure in regard toits meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

4.The objects of the Fund shall be

(a)to secure and develop the AmbuluwawaDissanayake Mudiyanselage Jayaratne ReligiousCentre and Bio-diversity Complex ;

(b)to improve the area round the Ambuluwawamountain range ;

(c)to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and co-operation among the community ;

(d)to promote and encourage inter-religious harmonyand social integration ;

Objects of theFund.

Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

4

(e)to promote the religious development of SriLankans ;

(f)to enhance the knowledge and understanding ofSri Lankans in the field of religion ;

(g)to improve the living conditions of persons whoare economically and socially disadvantaged in thecommunity, including improvement to their sheltersand the provision of other infrastructure facilities ;

(h)to encourage people to intelligently invest in banksand other financial institutions ;

(i)to establish relations with local and foreigninstitutions which have similar objects as those ofthe Fund;

(j)to provide financial or other assistance to anyperson engaged in any activity which is similar toany of the objects of the Fund ;

(k)to organize seminars, workshops and trainingprogrammes in Sri Lanka and abroad on religiousfields ;

(l)to organize programmes for creating awarenessamong the people on the human rights, duties andaccess to justice ;

(m)to provide adequate facilities for the improvementof sports and recreation capabilities of people ;

(n)to lead the nation to global peace based on religiousprinciples of co-existence and to thereby establishavenues for planned development ;

(o)to train youth labour for the development andwelfare of the common man;

5Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

(p)to encourage the farmers and establishment of youthfarmers organizations within the community;

(q)to draw the special attention of the youth fortraining in pre-vocational education and in the fieldof sports;

(r)to conduct seminars, lectures and exhibitions,lotteries and educational tours;

(s)to establish and maintain libraries; and

(t)to safeguard the interest of persons who have forgenerations been engaged in the practice ofindigenous medicine and to protect herbal andmedicinal plants, indigenous to Sri Lanka.

5.The seal of the Fund

(a)shall be in the custody of such person as the Boardmay from time to time determine;

(b)may be altered in such manner as may be determinedby the Board; and

(c)shall not be affixed to any document except withthe sanction of the Board and in the presence oftwo members of the Board who shall sign thedocument in token of their presence.

6.(1) The Board shall, in the name of the Fund have thepower to do all things necessary for, or conducive orincidental to the carrying out of the objects of the Fund.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1), the Board shall have thefollowing powers and functions:

(a)to raise funds and to receive grants, gifts ordonations whether from local or foreign sources;

Seal of theFund.

Powers andFunctions of theFund.

Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

6

(b)to take or hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by this Act or byvirtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise, and to sell, mortgage,lease, grant, convey, devise, assign, exchange orotherwise dispose of any property to which the Fundmay become entitled;

(c)to give grants, endowments, or scholarships locallyand abroad, for the furtherance of the objects of theFund;

(d)to conduct lotteries subject to any law for the timebeing in force to collect moneys for the furtheranceof the objects of the Fund;

(e)to enter into and perform either directly or throughofficers and servants or agents authorized in writingin that behalf by the Board, all such contracts andagreements as may be necessary for the exercise,performance and discharge of the powers, dutiesand functions and for carrying out the objects ofthe Fund;

(f)subject to the provisions of this Act, to appoint,employ and remunerate officers and servants of theFund and to make rules regarding the appointment,promotion, remuneration and disciplinary controlof its employees and the grant of leave and otherbenefits to them;

(g)to erect or caused to be erected any building orstructure on any land belonging to or held by theFund;

(h)to invest moneys belonging to the Fund at thediscretion of the Board in any such investments asare authorized by law for the investment of money

7Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

including trust money and to recall, re-invest andvary such investments at the discretion of the Boardand to collect income accruing from suchinvestments; and

(i)to open, operate and close bank accounts and toborrow or raise money with the property of the Fundas security or without such security, for the purposesof the Fund.

7.There shall be paid into the Fund

(a)all moneys presently lying with the Public Trusteein favour of the Fund and moneys lying in banks infavour of the Ambuluwawa EnvironmentDevelopment and Conservation Trust Fund;

(b)any moneys raised or collected or grants, gifts ordonations received locally or from abroad;

(c)grants received from the government from time totime for purpose of carrying out the aims and objectsof the Fund; and

(d)any income from investments or other receipts dueto the Fund.

8.There shall be paid out of the Fund

(a)expenses necessary for the establishment,maintenance and operation of the Fund;

(b)the payment of salaries to officers, servants andother employees; and

Payments into theFund.

Payment out ofthe Fund.

Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

8

(c)all such other payments as are approved by theBoard as being necessary for the purpose of carryingout the objects of the Fund.

9.All contracts, agreements, debts and liabilities ofthe said Trust Fund existing at the time of coming intooperation of this Act shall be deemed to be the contracts,agreements, debts and liabilities of the Fund herebyconstituted.

10.(1) The Board shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Fund.

(2) The Board shall cause its books to be balanced as onthe thirty-first day of December in each year and shall, beforethe thirty-first day of March next, cause to be prepared andincome and expenditure account and a balance sheetcontaining a summary of the assets and liabilities of theFund made up to the first mentioned date.

(3) The income and expenditure account and the balancesheet shall be signed by two members of the Boardauthorized to do so by a resolution passed by the Board.

(4) The Auditor-General shall audit the accounts of theFund every year in accordance with Article 154 of theConstitution.

11.The financial year of the Fund shall be the calendaryear.

12.The Minister shall with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance, in order tofacilitate the implementation of the aims and objects of theFund, exempt the Fund from the payment of any duties,levies and of any tax on the income or profits of the Fund tosuch extent as is permitted in terms of the Inland Revenue

Trust,contracts, &cof the Funddeemed to bethose of theFund.

Accounts andAudits.

Financial yearof the Fund.

Exemptionof the Fundfrompayment ofduties.

9Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

Act, No. 10 of 2006 or in terms of any other written law forthe time being in force governing the imposition of suchduty, levy or tax as the case may be.

13.(1) Any expense incurred by the Fund in any suit orprosecution brought by or against the Fund before any courtshall be paid out of the Fund and any costs paid to, orrecovered by, the Fund in any such suit or prosecution shallbe credited to the Fund.

(2) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referredto in subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution broughtagainst him before any court in respect of any act which isdone or is purported to be done by him under this Act or onthe direction of the Board shall, if the court holds that suchact was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund unlesssuch expense is recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

14.All officers and servants of the Fund shall be deemedto be public servants within the meaning and for the purposesof the Penal Code.

15.The Fund shall be deemed to be a Scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall accordingly apply.

16.In the event of death of the Founder, the son of theFounder shall succeed the founder and thereafter the eldestmale descendent shall be the successor.

Re-imbursement ofexpenses.

Officers andservants of theFund deemed tobe publicservants underthe Penal Code.

Fund deemed tobe a Scheduledinstitutionwithin themeaning ofBribery Act.

Succession ofthe founder.

Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

10

17.The provisions of this Act shall have effectnotwithstanding anything contained in the AmbuluwawaEnvironment Development and Conservation Trust Fund,and accordingly in the event of any conflict between theprovisions of this Act and the provisions of the AmbuluwawaEnvironment Development and Conservation Trust Fund,the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

19.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Ambuluwawa Environment Development and

Conservation Trust Fund means the Indentureand Declaration of Trust made and entered intoat Kandy on September 01, 2000, between andamong Honorable Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne and the members of the Board ofManaging Trustee thereon and the PublicTrustee of Sri Lanka, a body incorporated underthe Public Trustee Ordinance (Chapter 88); and

Founder shall be the Honourable Dissanayake

Mudiyanselage Jayaratne.

Provisions ofthis Act toprevail overprovisions ofthe Deed.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Interpretation.

11Ambuluwawa Dissanayake MudiyanselageJayaratne Religious Centre and Bio-diversity

Complex Trust Fund Act, No. 44 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.