PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 25, 2009

[Certified on 25th September, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

SECURED TRANSACTIONS ACT, NO. 49 OF 2009

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

1Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 2009

Short title anddate ofoperation.

[Certified on 25th September, 2009]

L. D.O. 29/2008.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE SECURING OF OBLIGATIONS IN RESPECT OF

MOVABLE PROPERTY, MAINTENANCE OF A SECURED TRANSACTIONSREGISTER; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Secured TransactionsAct, No. 49 of 2009 and shall come into operation on suchdate as the Minister may appoint by Order published in theGazette (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

PART I

APPLICATION OF THE LAW

2.Notwithstanding anything contained in any otherlaw any person who

(a)pledges, enters into a purchase agreement,conditional transfer, finance leasing agreement ormortgage of any movable property, assignment ofaccounts or other rights of payment of consignment;

(b)enters into an agreement for sale of accounts andchattel paper;

(c)enters into a lease agreement in respect of a movableproperty for a period exceeding one year;

(d)gives any undertaking in terms of section 2 of theInland Trust Receipts Act, No. 14 of 1990; or

(e)gives any undertaking of any consignment of goodsimported into Sri Lanka in terms of section 2 of theTrusts Receipts Ordinance (Chapter 86),

Scope of theAct.

Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 20092

may secure such pledge, mortgage or obligation, as isspecified in items (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) with a collateral inaccordance with the provisions of this Act:

Provided however the application of the provisions ofthis Act shall not depend on the ownership of the collateral:

Provided further the period of such obligation shall extendfor a period exceeding one year.

3.The following transactions shall be exempt from theapplication of the provision of this Act:

(a)the transfer of a claim for compensation of anemployee;

(b)the sale of accounts or chattel papers arising out ofa part of a sale of a business;

(c)the assignment of accounts or chattel paperinstrumental for the purpose of collection only;

(d)an obligation under a contract to assign the right ofpayment to an assignee; and

(e)the transfer of an interest in goods held by the debtoras equipment or consumer goods, where the goodsare registered under the Motor Traffic Act, No. 8 of2009, Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 52 of 1979,the Merchant Shipping Act, No. 52 of 1971, theCivil Aviation Authority Act, No. 34 of 2002,respectively.

4.The objective of the Act is to promote the interest ofthe national economy and economic activity in accordancewith the provisions of this Act and regulations madethereunder, by securing a pledge, mortgage or obligationspecified in section 2 of this Act by utilizing collateralrecognized by sections 2 and 3, in the manner specified.

Exemption fromthe applicationof this Act.

Objective.

3Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 2009

5.Any mortgagor, pledgor, conditional transferor, lessoror assignor may accept a collateral for securing suchmortgage, pledge, conditional transfer, financial lease orassignment:

Provided however no such person shall accept any securedinterest other than a secured interest in the purchase moneyof consumer goods belonging to the debtor:

Provided further such security interest may not be deemedto be invalid due to the rights enjoyed by the debtor to use,sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of such security.

6.Any interest in a collateral offered by a debtor tosecure an obligation, may be utilized to secure more thanone obligation.

PART II

SECURED TRANSACTIONS

7.(1) There shall be maintained a Secured TransactionsRegister (hereinafter referred to as the Register) whichshall for the purposes of this Act be maintained by the CreditInformation Bureau of Sri Lanka established under the CreditInformation Bureau of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1990. Inaddition to the powers specified in the said CreditInformation Bureau of Sri Lanka Act, the Bureau shall havethe following powers, duties and functions:

(a)to maintain in the manner as prescribed the Registerof Secured Transactions and the process ofregistration of security interest of movables in suchRegister;

(b)to register a notice of a security interest in collateralfiled by any person specified in item (a), (b), (c), (d)and (e) of section 2;

(c)to register a notice of interest of a judgment-creditor; and

Validity of asecured interest.

More than oneobligation maybe secured bythe samecollateral.

Maintenance ofSecuredTransactionRegister.

Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 20094

(d)to maintain records of all expired notices for aperiod of ten years from the date of expiry thereof.

(2) The powers, duties and functions in relation toregistration of security interest of movables shall be carriedout by the officers and servants of the Bureau under thedirections of the Board of Directors of the Credit InformationBureau of Sri Lanka appointed under section 5 of the CreditInformation Bureau of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1990 :

Provided that in carrying out the powers, duties andfunctions in relation to registration of the security interestof movables such officers and servants shall be subject tosuch regulations and rules as may be made from time to timeas provided for under this Act.

8.(1) Each notice filed of record, shall be entered in theRegister maintained in terms of section 7 by the CreditInformation Bureau of Sri Lanka, and shall be

(i)assigned a unique file number, in all instances whereit is an initial notice;

(ii)assigned a number to every notice (not being theinitial notice);

(iii)used to create a record that bears the numberassigned to the filed record and the date and time offiling; and

(iv)open for inspection by the public.

(2) The Register shall contain an index of every initialnotice by the name of the debtor and shall index all filedrecords relating to an initial notice in a manner that associatesthe initial notice.

(3) The Register shall be maintained in such a manner soas to be able to retrieve a record by the name of the debtorand by the file number assigned to the initial notice to whichthe record relates and other related records.

Duties of theFiling Office.

5Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 2009

(4) The Register shall contain records of lapsed noticesfor a period of ten years beyond the date on which it has solapsed.

(5) The acceptance or refusal to register a notice shallnot affect the accuracy, authenticity or validity of anyinformation contained in the notice.

9.(1) The Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka mayfurnish the following information to any person who mayapply to the office for the same:

(i)information regarding the availability of a debtsecured by a collateral in respect of a secured partyand the details of such debtor and the collateral asat a given date and time;

(ii)information relating to the file number and the dateand time of filing of the notice to which the requestrelates;

(iii)information contained in each notice, to which therequest relates.

(2) When forwarding an application for inspection tothe Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka, the applicantshall furnish the following information relating to thedebtor:

(i)the national identity card number of a debtor whois a natural person and a citizen of Sri Lanka and inthe case of a body corporate the registered numberapplicable thereto;

(ii)the name of the debtor if such debtor is a bodycorporate and a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(iii)where available the file number of the notice; and

(iv)the reasons why such information is required.

Informationfrom CreditInformationBureau Office ofSri Lanka.

Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 20096

(3) The Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka maycommunicate information in any language:

Provided that, if requested, the Credit Information Bureauof Sri Lanka shall issue a Certificate containing details ofthe information requested in the prescribed form signed byan officer authorized in that behalf and such certificate shallbe admissible in evidence and shall be prima facie evidenceof the facts stated therein.

10.(1) Every document entered in the Register shall bedeemed to be a public document.

(2) Any person who requires information in respect of acollateral relating to a secured transaction shall have theright to inspect and obtain copies of any document filedwith the Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka upon thepayment of a prescribed fee.

11.(1) Every initial notice shall contain

(i)the national identity card number of a debtor andthe name of the debtor with a mailing address withinSri Lanka and in the case of a body corporate theregistration number applicable thereto;

(ii)the national identity card number of the securedparty or an agent authorized by the secured party inwriting and in the case of a body corporate theregistration number applicable thereto and themailing address within Sri Lanka of the securedparty or of such agent or of the body corporate;

(iii)a description of the collateral covered by the notice;and

(iv)any other prescribed information required to assessthe creditworthiness of any person specified insection 2 of this Act:

Provided however, a notice shall, if such collateral coversfuture expectations of fixtures, contain a description of therelevant movable property.

All documentsentered in theRegister to bepublicdocuments.

Contents ofinitial notice.

7Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 2009

(2) A person who secures an obligation with a collateralshall be entitled to file an initial notice only where the debtorauthorizes the filing of such notice. Such authorization shallhowever not form part of the notice.

(3) Any debtor specified in section 2 of this Act shallauthorize the filing of an initial notice covering the collateralspecified in the security agreement and the proceeds, if any,of the collateral , by signing the agreement which he enteredinto irrespective of the period covered by such agreement.

(4) An initial notice may be filed before entering into asecured transaction.

12.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in anyother law, a notice shall be valid and effective if it clearlyprovides in the case of

(i)the debtor being a person, the name and the nationalidentity card number of such person;

(ii)the debtor being natural person and not a citizen ofSri Lanka the name of the person as specified onsuch persons passport and the place of issue of thepassport;

(iii)the debtor not being a natural person and isregistered under the Companies Act or otherwiserecognized as a person in terms of any other law ofSri Lanka, the name of the debtor as specified onthe Register maintained at the Registrar ofCompanies or the name recognized under any otherlaw of Sri Lanka;

(iv)the debtor being a foreigner other than a naturalperson, qualified to do business under theCompanies Act, the name of the debtor as specified

Name of thedebtor andsecured party.

Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 20098

on the Register maintained at the Registrar ofCompanies; or

(v)the debtor being a person other than a personspecified in paragraph (iv) of this section, the nameof the debtor as specified on the appropriate registryin the country where the foreign person is registered.

(2) When a notice provides the name of the debtoraccurately, absence of a trade name or other name of thedebtor shall not make such notice invalid:

Provided that such notice shall be invalid if the noticefails to specify accurately the name of the debtor.

(3) A person may provide in a notice the names of morethan one debtor and the name of more than one securedparty.

(4) Failure to specify the status of a person as an agent ofa secured party shall not invalidate such notice.

PART III

AMENDMENT, CONTINUATION AND TERMINATION OF THE NOTICE

13.(1) Where an obligee waives the requirement ofcollateral while its security interest or the obligation remainsin force, the initial notice filed of record shall continue to bevalid and effective, notwithstanding the fact that theknowledge or consent of the secured party may or may nothave been obtained for such waiver.

(2) Where a notice filed of record becomes misleadingdue to change of the name of the debtor, the notice shall bevalid and effective in order to perfect a security interest in

Effect ofchanges.

9Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 2009

collateral acquired by a debtor within four months from thechange of name of the debtor:

Provided however such notice shall be valid and effectiveto perfect a security interest acquired by the debtor after fourmonths from the date of change of the name, if such changeis brought to the notice of the Credit Information Bureau ofSri Lanka within four months from the date of such change.

(3) A notice remains valid and effective after the changeof the name of the debtor unless due to change ofcircumstances the notice fails to contain an accuratedescription of the details of the debtor.

14.(1) Every notice filed under this Act shall be validfor a period of five years from the date of filing unless theperiod of validity is extended by the filing of a continuationstatement.

(2) Upon the expiration of the validity of a notice, thesecurity interest perfected by such notice shall becomeinvalid unless the security interest is perfected without thefiling of a notice.

(3) If the security interest becomes invalid upon theexpiration of the validity of such notice it shall be deemednever to have been perfected against a prior or subsequentpurchaser of a collateral for value.

15.(1) An initial notice may be amended by makingone or more amendments. An amendment shall

(i)identify the initial notice by the unique file numberallocated to such notice;

(ii)specify the name of the secured party on the noticeand the name of the person who authorizes theamendment;

Validity of anotice.

Amendment ofnotice.

Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 200910

(iii)indicate that it is an amendment to the notice; and

(iv)provide all the relevant information required of aninitial notice, in a manner that reflects the amendedstate of the notice.

(2) Where an amendment makes an addition to thecollateral covered by a notice, or a debtor to a notice, suchamendment shall be effective if the debtor authorizes inwriting, the filing of such amendment.

(3) Where there is more than one secured party specifiedon the notice, the amendment shall be valid if one securedparty authorizes in writing, the filing of such amendment.

(4) An amendment made for the addition of a collateralto the notice shall be valid with respect to the collateral soadded, only from the date of the filing of such amendment.

(5) An amendment made for the addition of a name of adebtor to the notice shall be valid with respect to the debtorso added, only from the date of the filing of the amendment.

(6) Where a secured party specified on the noticeauthorizes in writing the filing of an amendment, such anamendment other than an amendment to add a collateral oradd a debtor shall be valid.

(7) An amendment shall be invalid where it deletes allnames of secured parties without providing a name of a newsecured party, or deletes the name of a debtor and fails toprovide a name of a debtor not previously specified on thenotice.

(8) Where there is more than one secured party on anotice, each secured party may be required to authorized thefiling of an amendment.

11Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 2009

(9) Subject to the provisions of section 11, the period ofvalidity of a notice, shall not be extended or deemed to beextended due to filing of an amendment.

16.(1) The period of validity of a notice may beextended by filing a continuation statement that

(i)identifies the initial notice by its unique filenumber;

(ii)identifies a secured party on the notice whoauthorizes the continuation statement; and

(iii)indicates the extension of the validity of the notice,with respect to the secured party who authorizedthe filing.

(2) A continuation statement may be filed within sixmonths prior to the expiration of the five year period of thenotice, and upon filing of a continuation statement withinthe period specified herein, the validity of the notice shallcontinue for a further period of five years commencing fromthe date on which the notice would have become invalid.

(3) Upon the expiration of the extended period of fiveyears as specified in subsection (2), the validity of suchnotice shall lapse unless prior to the expiration of the validityanother continuation statement authorized by that securedparty is filed. The validity of a notice shall thereuponcontinue only with respect to the secured party whoauthorized the filing of the continuation statement.

(4) Succeeding continuation statements may be filed inthe same manner to continue the validity of the notice.

17.(1) The validity of a notice may be terminated byfiling a termination statement in the prescribed form.

Continuation ofnotice.

Termination ofnotice.

Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 200912

(2) Upon the receipt of a written demand from a debtor,the secured party may file a termination statement if thereis

(a)no outstanding secured obligation;

(b)no commitment to make an advance; and

(c)written authorization for the filing of a notice bydebtor.

18.(1) An initial notice, amendment, continuationstatement, or termination statement, shall be deemed to bevalid from the date of registration and inclusion in theRegister.

(2) The Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka mayrefuse to accept any document for registration

(i)where such document is an initial notice and suchnotice fails to provide the name of a debtor;

(ii)where such document is an amendment and therecord fails to provide the name of a debtor;

(iii)where such document is a continuation statementand the record fails to provide the file number ofthe initial notice or has failed to deliver the samewithin a period of six months from the date of expiryof the first initial notice;

(iv)where such document is a termination statementand the record fails to provide the file number ofthe initial notice or the notice has lapsed withrespect of each secured party whos name isspecified in the notice; and

(v)where the obligor has failed to pay the required feeor no arrangement has been made for the periodicpayment of fees.

Effectivenessof notice.

13Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 2009

(3) Where Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka refusesto accept a record for reasons other than the ones set out inthis Act, such record shall be valid as filed of record exceptagainst in the purchase of collateral that gives the value inreasonable reliance upon the absence of the record from thefiles.

(4) Where the Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lankarefuses to accept a record for filing, it shall promptlycommunicate such fact with reasons, if any for its refusal, tothe person who presented the record.

(5) A notice authorized by one secured party on the noticeshall not affect the rights of another secured party on thenotice.

19.(1) A person who has reasons to believe that thename of the person is inaccurate or wrongfully specified inthe initial notice he shall forthwith take steps to bring suchfact to the notice of the Credit Information Bureau of SriLanka, and the Bureau shall upon consideration of the mattercorrect the name accordingly.

(2) A correction statement may

(a)identify the record to which it relates by the filenumber assigned to the initial notice;

(b)indicate that it is a correction statement;

(c)give reasons for the basis of the belief that suchstatement is inaccurate and the manner ofrectification of such statement; and

(d)indicate that the notice covers accounts or chattelpaper that have been sold but as to which the debtoror other person obligated has discharged itsobligation.

Claimconcerninginaccurate orwrongfully filednotice.

Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 200914

(3) A termination statement effectively terminates theinterest of a secured party on the notice, only if thetermination statement is authorized in writing by that securedparty. Upon the filing of an effective termination statement,the notice to which the termination statement relatesbecomes ineffective with respect to the authorizing of thesecured party.

20.(1) The Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lankashall cause the registration of any notice, an amendment,continuation statement or termination statement.

(2) The registration with the Credit Information Bureauof Sri Lanka shall provide the final and conclusive evidenceregarding availability or non-availability of a mortgage inrespect of a collateral.

(3) Where the Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lankarefuses to register any notice, amendment, continuationstatement or termination statement, it shall communicatethe reasons in writing to the person who applies for suchregistration.

(4) A notice authorized by one secured party on the noticeand filed of record shall not affect the rights of another party.

(5) Any person who notifies that the notice filed of recordcontains erroneous information, he shall file a documentrectifying such error forthwith.

21.(1) It shall be the duty of the Credit InformationBureau of Sri Lanka to furnish prescribed information toany person in relation to any notice filed therein.

(2) The Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka may issuea Certificate in the prescribed form containing the requiredinformation and maintain documents in the manner specifiedin the rules.

Registration ofnotice &c,.

Duty to giveinformation.

15Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 2009

PART IV

MISCELLANEOUS

22.(1) The Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka maymake rules in respect of the procedure relating toadministration, management, maintenance of documents andprocedure to be followed in the transaction of business interms of this Act.

(2) Every rule made by the Credit Information Bureau ofSri Lanka shall be published in the Gazette.

23.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act or in respect of matters for whichregulations are required or authorized by this Act to be madeincluding the following:

(i)the amount of the fees to be charged for servicesrendered and the manner of collecting such feeincluding the manner of carrying out the functionof maintaining the Register in terms of section 7and the matters to be included in such Register;

(ii)the manner to conduct searches including themanner to use electronic records;

(iii)form for the submission of notices and informationrequired;

(iv)particulars of the judgment creditor and the detailsof the movable property, identification details ofthe person owing payment or performance of thejudgment creditor, details and the notice of security.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified, therein.

Rules.

Regulations.

Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 200916

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall as soonas convenient after the date of its publication in the Gazette,be brought before the Parliament for approval. Any regulationwhich it is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescindedfrom the date of disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

24.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

25.For the purposes of this Act, unless the contextotherwise requires

assignment means the transfer from one person toanother, in whole or in part, of any right in anaccount, chattel paper, document, instrument, orother right to payment;

chattel paper means a record that creates a debt anda security interest in, or a lease of, goods;

credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka means theCredit Information Bureau of Sri Lankaestablished under section 2 of the CreditInformation Bureau of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of1990;

collateral means the property subject to a securityinterest, and may include movable things of anynature, intangible things of any nature, farmproducts, fixtures, timber to be cut, and mineralsto be extracted, and includes collateral that arisesin the future, and collateral located in or outsideof Sri Lanka, accounts and chattel paper that havebeen sold, leased goods, and proceeds;

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

17Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 2009

judgment creditor means

(i)a person who obtains a right in a securedpartys collateral, or a right to seize a securedpartys collateral, by order of a court or by anyauthority under prevailing law, other than theInland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006;

(ii)the liquidator under the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007;

(iii)the receiver under the Insolvency Ordinance(Chapter 97); and

(iv)a preferential creditor;

notice means a record filed or presented for filing inthe Register maintained by the Credit InformationBureau of Sri Lanka and includes an amendment,continuation statement, and terminationstatement that are filed or presented for filing. Aninitial notice is the notice to which anamendment, continuation statement, terminationstatement, or correction statement may relate;

National Identity Card means the national identitycard issued under the provision, of the Registrationof Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968;

proceeds means

(i)whatever is acquired upon the sale, lease,license, exchange, or other disposition ofcollateral;

(ii)whatever is collected on, or distributed withrespect to, collateral;

(iii)rights arising out of collateral;

Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 200918

(iv)to the extent of the value of collateral, claimsarising out of the loss or non-conformity of,defects in, or damage to the collateral; and

(v)to the extent of the value of collateral and tothe extent payable to the debtor or the securedparty, insurance payable by reason of the lossor non-conformity of, defects in, or damage tothe collateral;

secured party means a lender, seller or other personin whose favour a security interest is created undera security agreement, including a person to whomaccounts or chattel paper have been sold, and alessor of goods;

secured transaction means any transaction specifiedin section 2 of the Act;

value means the value that a person gives where theperson acquires the rights

(i)in return for a binding commitment to givecredit, whether or not drawn upon; or

(ii)as security for, or satisfaction of, a pre-existingclaim, in whole or in part;

(iii)by accepting delivery pursuant to a pre-existing contract for purchase; or

(iv)in return for anything given in exchange, forpromise.

19Secured Transactions Act, No. 49 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.