- ff ™S3
Jom
(ip =) i, .
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
PLANTATION MANAGEMENT
ACT, No. 45 OF 1979
4 : [Certified on 28th June, 1979] |
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July, 23, 1979
re al peur OF eens tit Oa de
=o ae eile rege cael
Price: Wanew.: seme Postage 25 cents


National Institute of Plantation Management
Act, No. 45 of 1979
[Certified on 28th June, 1979]

LD—O. 41/78
Aw Acr 70 Proviwe ror tie Estapuisumant oF a Navionat

Instrrure or PiaNtation MANAGEMENT AND FoR MaTTERs

Connecten THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the National Institute of short title
Plantation Management Act, No. 45 of 1979, and and date of
shall come into operation on such date, (hereinafter referred .
to as the “appointed date”), as may be appointed by the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette,

PART I
CONSTITUTION, OBJECTS, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PLANTATION MANAGEMENT

2, (1) There shall be established an Institute which shall pstablishment
be called the National Institute of Plantation Management” tational
(hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), which shall fastitute of
consist of the persons who are for the time being members Management.
of the Institute under section 6.

(2) The Institute shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its
corporate name.

(3) The members of the Board of Governors shall be
the members of the Institute.

3. (1) The general objects of the Institute shall be— General

objects of

(a) to provide, by itself or in association with other the Insitute,

institutions in Sri Lanka or abroad, training facili-
ties and programmes relating to plantation manage
ment to all categories of employees working in the
plantations ;

(b) to provide regular refresher and orientation courses

in Plantation Management to employees in service ;

(©) to offer training in Plantation Management to per-

sonnel working in the plantations both in the public
sector as well as in the private sector ;

2-6 41403—14,080 (19/00


2 National Institute of Plantation Management
Act, No. 45 of 1979

(d) to provide Diploma Courses in association with the
Tea Research Institute, the Rubber Research
Institute, the Coconut Research Institute and other
related institutions and to award Diplomas where
appropriate ;

(©) to sponsor and hold seminars, workshops and confer
ences and publish journals and magazines in
connection with plantation management and deve-
lopment ; and

(f) to carry out research into areas of plantation manage-
ment and labour relations that are not already
provided for in other similar institutions.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Institute to advise the

‘Minister on any or all of the matters referred to in subsection
(1) and on any other matter that may be referred to the
Institute for advice by the Minister.
Bowers 4. The Institute shall have such powers, rights and
Institute, functions as may reasonably be necessary to carry out its
objects and duties and in particular may—

(a) acquire in any manner and hold, take or give on lease
or hire, mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose
of, any movable or immovable property ;

(b) acquire, establish, instal and operate field training
centres and pilot projects relating to plantation
research ;

(©) import plant, machinery and equipment required for
the purpose of the Institute and receive equipment,
funds, personnel and any other assistance for the
efficient conduct of the Institute ;

(@) conduct, assist, co-ordinate and encourage research
into all aspects of plantation development ;

(@) levy fees or charges for any services rendered by
the Institute ;

(S) appoint, employ, remunerate and exercise disciplinary
control over its officers and servants ;

(g) establish and maintain provident funds and provide
welfare and recreational facilities for its employees ;

(h) make rules in respect of the administation of the
affairs of the Institute; and


National Institute of Plantation Management 3
Act, No, 45 of 1979

(® delegate to any member, the Director of the Institute,

or any employee such functions as the Board of
Governors may consider necessary for the efficient
2 transaction of its business,

5. In the exercise of its powers and the carrying out of its Institute to
objects, the Institute shall comply with the general policy XCTCN* 05,
of the Government in relation to plantation and lands and the directions
with any general or special direction issued by the Minister f,{h<
in relation to such policy.

6. (1) The Institute shall have a Board of Governors Constitution.
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of— of gi, Bons

(a) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in

charge of the subject of Plantation Industries who
shall be the Chairman ;

(b) the following ex officio members, namely—

(i) the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Tea Board ;
(ii) the Director of the Rubber Research Institute ;
(iii) the Director of the Coconut Research Board ;
(iv) the Chairman of the Tea Small Holdings Deve-
Z lopment Authority ; . ,
f (v) the Director of the Tea Research Institute ; and
(vi) a representative from any of the Universities
nominated by the University Grants Com-
mission ; .
(©) the following other members appointed by the
Minister, namely—
(@ one representative of the Ministry of the
- Minister in charge of the subject of Planta-
tion Industries and two others nominated by
the Minister in charge of the subject of
: Plantation Industries ;
(i) a representative of the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Planning ; °
Gil) a representative of the Ministry of the Minister
' in charge of the subject of Agriculture ;
(iv) @ representative of tle Minister in charge of
the subject of Industries
(v) a representative of the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Education ; and
(vi) a representative of the Ministry in charge of
the subject of Labour. F
8-6 4140s (70/00 : Ht


4 National Institute of Plantation Management
Act, No. 45 of 1979

(2) The Minister may in consultation with the Chairman
appoint a Vice-Chairman from among the members of the
Board.

(8) A person shall be disqualified for being appointed, or
continuing, as a member of the Board—

(a) if he is or becomes a Member of the Parliament ; or

(b) if he, directly or indirectly, holds or enjoys,

any right or benefit under any contract made
by or on behalf of the Institute ; or

* (c) if he has any such financial or other interest as is
likely to affect prejudicially the discharge by him
of his functions as a member of the Board.

(4) (a) Whete a member of the Board appointed under
paragraph (c) of subsection (1) dies or resigns or is removed
from office, the Minister may, having regard to the provi-
sions of that paragraph of that subsection, appoint another
person to be a member in the place of the member who
dies, resigns or is removed from office.

(b) Any member of the Board appointed under paragraph
(@) of this subsection shall, unless he earlier resigns or
vacates his office by death or removal, hold office for the
unexpired part of the term of office of the member whom he
succeeds. .

() Where a member of the Board appointed under
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) is, by reason of illness or
other infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the Minister may,
having regard to the provisions of that paragraph, appoint
any person to act in his place.

‘Terms of 7. (1) Every member appointed under paragraph (¢) of

omer CE ot subsection (1) of section 6, shall, unless he vacates office

fhe'Boara, earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office for a
period of three years.

(2) Every ex officio member of the Board shall hold office
as long as he holds the post by virtue of which he was
appointed a member of that Board.

Power of & (1) The Minister may, if he considers it expedient to
Minister to do so, remove, by Order published in thé Gazette, ae
office a member of the Board appointed under paragraph (c)
Fpember.of subjection (1) of section 6 without reasons stated.

(2) A member of the Board in respect of whom’an Order
under subsection (1) is made by the Minister shall vacate
his office on the date of the publication of such Order in
the Gazette.


National Institute of Plantation Management 5
Act, No. 45 of 1979
(3) The removal of any member under subsection (1)
shall not be called in question in any court.

9. A member of the Board other than an ex officio Resignation

~ member may at any time resign his office by letter addressed of members
to the Minister. of the Board.

10. Any member who vacates his office, other than a Eligibility for
member who is removed from office under section 8, shall be Teappoint=
eligible for reappointment, ember ofthe

Board.

UL. No act or proceeding of the Institute shall be deemed Acts or
to be invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy proceedings
in the Board or defect in the appointment of any member of institite
the Board, . deemed not,

by reason of
any,

Vacancy oF
defect in the
appointment
of'a member.

12, The members of the Institute shall not be paid any Reimburse-
remuneration, but shall be reimbursed by the Institute for Gpenies
such travelling, hotel and incidental expenses as they may $f the
incur for the purpose of attending meetings of the Institute ttt:
or for such other purpose connected with the activities of
the Institute as may be approved by the Institute.

13, Rules may be made under this Act in respect of the Meetings
meetings of the Institute and the quorum therefor and for Institute.
the procedure to be followed at such meetings.

14, The Board shall administer the affairs, may exercise Board to
the powers, and shall perform the duties of the Institute, the affairs

Institute

15. (1) The Board may delegate to the Chairman or any Delegation ot
other member or the Director of the Institute or any duties of |
employee of the Board any of its powers and duties,

(2) The Chairman, cther member, the Director or
‘employee to whom any of the power or duties of the Board
have been delegated under subsection (1) shall exercise
or perform the powers and duties so delegated subject to
general or special ditections of the Board, a ay


6 National Institute of Plantation Management
Act, No. 45 of 1979
PART
APPOLVIMENT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE INSTITUTE AND OTHER
OFFICERS AND SERVANTS OF THE BOARD
Employees 16. (1) The Minister may appoint to the staff of the
Institute, Institute a Director who shall be the chief executive officer.

(2) The Director shall execute or perform such powers,
functions and duties as may be delegated to him.

(3) The Minister may remove from office the Director
appointed under subsection (1) and such removal shall not
be called in question in any court.

(4) The Board may appoint to the staff of the Institute
such other officers and servants as may be necessary for the
purpose of the Institute,

Powers of j isi i

Bowers of 17. (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the
in regard Board may—

to appoint

ments to the (a) appoint, dismiss and exercise disciplinary control
cpeetes oe te over the staff of the Institute;

(b) fix the wages or salaries or other remuneration of

the staff;

(c) determine the terms and conditions of service of such

staff ; and

(@ establish and regulate provident funds and schemes

for the benefit of such stafi and make contributions
to any such fund or scheme.

(2) Rules may be made under this Act in respect of all
or any of the matters referred to in subsection (1).

‘Appoint 18. (1) At the request of the Board any officer in the

Gf public public service may, with the consent of that officer and of

ofteers 0 the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of

of the the subject of Public Administration, be temporarily

Institute. appointed to the staff of the Institute for such period as
may be determined by the Board with like consent or be
permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 13 of the Transport Board Law,
No. 19 of 1978, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in
relation to him, 4


National Institute of Plantation Management 7
Act, No. 45 of 1979

(8) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 13 of the Transport Board Law,

No. 19 of 1978, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relat
fon to such officer.

(4) Where the Institute employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he
has agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,
any period of service to the Institute by that person shall
be regarded as service to the Government for the purpose
of discharging the obligations of such contract.

(5) At the request of the Board any member of the Local
Government Service or any other officer or servant of any =.
local authority may, with the consent of such member or
officer or servant and the Local Government Service Advi-
sory Board or that authority, as the case may be, be tempo-
rarily appointed to the staff of the Institute for such period
as may be determined by the Board with like consent, or be
Permanently appointed to such staff, on such terms and
conditions including those relating to pension or provident
fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Board and the
Local Government Service Advisory Board or that local
authority.

(6) Where any member of the Local Government Service
or any officer or servant of any local authority is appointed
temporarily or permanently under subsection (5) to the
staff of the Institute, he shall be subject to the same disci-
plinary control as any other member of such staff.

19, (1) Any officer or servant of a public corporation Appoint.
may, with the consent of such officer or servant and the of officers
Board of Directors of such corporation, be temporarily or Sf‘publie
permanently appointed to the staff of the Institute on such fo"ROHPtOM®
terms and conditions, including those relating to provident Tstitute.
fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Board of Direc-
tors of that corporation and the Board of Governors of the
Institute,

(2) Where any person is appointed whether temporarily
or permanently under subsection (1) to the staff of the
Institute, he shall be subject to the same disciplinary control
as any other member of such staff. .


. 8 National: Institute of Plantation Management
Act, No. 45 of 1979
QMcers and 20, Al officers and servants of the Institute shall be
the Institute deemed to the public servants within the meaning of and
deemed to be
deemed to be for the purposes of the Penal Code.
Wants within
the meaning
of the Penal
Code.
Institute 21 The Institute shall be deemed to be a scheduled
Geemed to institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
a scheduled provisions of that Act shall be constructed accordingly.
institution
within the
‘peaning of
the Bribery
Ack
PART IIL
Finance
Capital of 22, (1) The initial capital of the Institute shall be such
the Institute. as may be made available to the Institute by the Govern-
ment on such terms and conditions as may be determined
by the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
(2) The capital of the Institute may be increased from
time to time by such amount as may be authorized by any
Appropriation Act or by resolution of the Parliament, and
that amount shall be paid or made available to the Institute
by the Government by way of grant or Ioan on such
terms and conditions as may be determined by the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance.
Application 23, The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38
Vislonsof the of 1971, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply ‘to the financial
Finance Act, control and accounts of the Institute.
No. 38 0f
awa.
toot 24, The financial year of the Institute shall be the period
the Insti- of tweleve months commencing on the first day of January.
tute.
PART IV
GENERAL
Acquisition | 25. (1)Where any immovable property is required to
ae le be acquired for any purpose of the Institute, and the
under the Minister by Order published in the Gazette approves of the
Kand Acquisi- proposed acquisition, the purpose for which the land is
tie required shall be deemed to be a public purpose and may
Institute, accordingly be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act
and be transferred to the Institute.


National Institute of Plantation Management 9
Act, No. 45.0f 1979.

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immov-
able property under the Land Acquisition Act for the
Institute shall be paid by the Institute.

26. (1) Where any immovable property of the State is State
required for the purpose of the Institute, such purpose shall Pree able
be deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or and immova-
lease of such property may be made under section 6 of the ble, made
Crown Lands Ordinance, and accordingly the provisions of to the
that Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of Tstitute.
such property to the Institute.

(2) Where any immovable property of the State is
required for the purpose of the Institute, the Minister may,
with the consent of the Secretary to the Ministry or the
head of the Department to which such property belongs or
which was in possession of such property by Order pub-
lished in the Gazette, transfer to and vest in the Institute *
the possession and use of such movable property.

21, ‘The Government shall provide for the use of the Government
Institute such land, building and other facilities as may be ‘0, TEKS.
deemed necessary. i Premises &e.

for the
use of the
Tastitute,
28, (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie— Protection
(a) against the Board for any act which in good faith is taken under
done or purported to be done by the Board under {his Act or
this Act; or aestion
(b) against any member, officer, servant or agent for any Board.
‘act which in good faith is done or purported to be
done by him under this Act or on the direction of
the Board. '
(2) Any expense incurred by such person as is referred
to subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought against
him before any court in respect of any act which is done
by him under this Act or on the direction of the Board
shall, if the court holds that the act was done in faith,
be paid out of the funds of the Board. ‘
29. No writ against person or property shall be issued No writ
against a member of the Board in any action brought ey
against the Board. person or
tome property of
B'member
of the
Board.


10 National Institute of Plantation Management
Act, No, 45 of 1979

Power of 30. (1) The Institute may make rules in respect of all

dnstitute or any matter for which rules are authorized or required

bl by this Act to be made,

(2) A rule made by the Institute under subsection (1) ~
shall not have effect until it is approved by the Minister
and is published in the Gazette.

Power of 31. The Minister may give special or general directions

ive seecist ° 2 writing as to the performance of the duties and the

Ergeneral exercise of the powers of the Board, and the Board shall

directions _—_give effect to such directions.

to the

Board.

Interpretation. _32,_In this Act, unless the’ context otherwise requires,
“public corporation” means any corporation, board or
other body which was or is established by or under any
written law other than the Companies Ordinance, with
funds or capital wholly or partly provided by the Govern-
ment by way of grant, loan or otherwise.
