Q | SN
fig =) jo wa
( @) BUG
O2Q ah’ -
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MULTILATERAL INVESTMENT
GUARANTEE AGENCY —-
; ACT, No. 57 OF 1988
[Certified on 17th December, 1988] ;
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988
Jrctis <i senna un coronene oe stn
nn nF
Price : Rs. 3.15 Postage : Rs, 2.30


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No. 57 of 1988
[Certified on 17th December, 1982]

L, DO. 16/87.
AN Act 20 ENABLE Sar LANKA TO FULFIL ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER

gus CONVENTION ESTABLISHING ©THE MULTILATERAL

InvestMeNT GUARANTEE AGENCY

WHEREAS Sri Lanka became, on October 3, 1986, a signa- Preamble,
tory to the Convention establishing the Multilateral Invest-
ment Guarantee Agency:
AND WHEREAS it is necessary to make legal provision to
‘enable Sri Lanka to fulfil its obligations tinder that Conven-
tion:

Now therefore be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Multilateral Investment ghon,
Guarantee Agency Act, No. 57 of 1988 and shall come into title ané
operation on such date as the Minister by Order published Operation
in the Gazette, certifies as the date on which the Convention
establishing the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
(hereinafter referred to as “the Convention”), and the
provisions of which are set out in the Schedule to this Act
enters into force in respect of Sri Lanka,

2 The Minister shall on behalf of the Government, Powerto
create and issue to the Multilateral Investment Guarantee 546 |,
Agency (hereinafter referred to as “the Agency”) estab- Agency.
lished by the Convention, such non-negotiable and non-
interest bearing promissory notes and or similar obligations
as may be necessary to meet Sri Lanka’s obligations to the
Agency, under paragraph (i) of Article 7 of the Convention.

3. There shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund of Payment
Sri Lanka— aise
(@) such sums as may from time to timé, be required to gsted

pay to the Agency, the initial subscription payable
by Sri Lanka under paragraphs (i) and (fi) of
Article 7 of the Convention ;

(®) such sums as may, from time to time, become paya-

ble to the Agency by Sri Lanka, under any other
provisions of the Convention ; and

(©) such sums as may be required for the redemption of

any notes or obligations created or issued to the
Agency under section 2 of this Act,
2—Dovds1e—6s0 88/09 +


2 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No, 7 of 1988
Tssuc of 4. (1) For the purpose of providing any sums required
iSossrie. to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund of Sri Lanka under
notes or section 3, the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance
piiantions is hereby authorized to raise loans, on behalf of the Govern-
Central ment of Sri Lanka, by the creation and issue to the Central
Bank Bank of Sri Lanka, in such form as he thinks fit, of non-
Tanke. interest bearing and non-negotiable notes or obligations.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in the Monetary Law Act
(Chapter 422) the Central Bank of Sri Lanka is hereby
. authorized to accept and hold any notes or obligations
created and issued in accordance with the provisions of sub-
* section (1) of this section.
: (8) There shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund of
Sri Lanka all sums required for the redemption of any notes
or obligations created and issued to the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka under subsection (1) of this section,
Receipts 5. All sums received by, or on behalf of, the Government
+ “of Sri Lanka from the Agency—
(@ as a refund under Article 10 of the Convention ;
(b) on a distribution of net-income under Article 27 of
‘the Convention ;
(c) on a liquidation of the Agency under Article 5 of
~ the Convention ; and
(@ under any other provision of the Convention, shall
be credited to the Consolidated Fund of Sri Lanka.
Status, 6.. The provisions of Articles 1, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48 and 50
ad of the Convention shall have the force of Law in Sri Lanka
Privileges and accordinigly—
of Agency.
(@) the Agency shall have in Sri Lanka, the status
‘and capacity specified in the aforesaid Article 1;
and .
(0) the Agency and its officials shall, subject to the afore-
said Article 50, have in Sri Lanka, the immunities
and privileges specified in the aforesaid Articles 44,
45, 46, 47 and 48,
Central 7. When designated as stich by the Government of Sri
Bank Lanka under Article 37 of the Convention, the Central Bank
Gepssitory of Sri Lanka shall be the depository of the Agency in Sri
iam. Lanka, for the purposes referred to in that Article.
Ialeenees 8 In this Act, ‘Central Bank’ means the Central Bank
tation of Sri Lanka established by section's of the Monetary Law,
Act (Chapter 422).


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 3
Act, No. 57 of 1988
SCHEDULE [Section I]
CONVENTION ESTABLISHING THE MULTILATERAL
INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY
‘PaEancou
The Contracting States 4

Considering the need to strengthen international co-operation
for ecoonomie development and to foster the contribution to such
development of foreign investment in general and private foreign
investment in particular ; y

Recognizing that the flow of foreign investment to developing
countries would be facilitated and further encouraged by
alleviating concerns related to non-commerical risks ;

Desiring to enhance the flow to developing countries of capital
and technology for productive purposes under conditions cou-
sistent with their development needs, policies and objectives, and
‘on the basis of fair and stable standards for the treatment of
foreign investment ;

Convinced that the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
can play an important role in the encouragment of foreign
investment complementing national and regional" investmeat
‘guarentee programs and private insurers of non-commercial risk
and

Realizing that such Agency should, to the extent possible, meet
its obligations without resort to its. callable capital and that such
fan objective would be served by continued improvement in
investment conditions, s

Have Agreed as follows :—

CHAPTER I
EstanuismMent, Status, Ponroses Ano DEFINITIONS
Article 1. Establishment and Status of the Agency,

(a)‘‘There is hereby established the Multilateral Investinent
Guarantee Agency (hereinafter called the ““ Agency”).

(by The Agency shall possess full juridical personality, and, in
particular, the capacity to—

(® contract

Gi) acquire anid dispose of movable and immovable property :

and

(Gti) institute legal proceedings,

Article 2. Objective and Purposes,

‘The objective of the Agency shall be to encourage the flow of
investments for productive purposes among member countries, and
in particular to developing member countries, thus supplementing
the activities of the International Bank for ‘Reconstruction and
Development (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank") the Interna~
tional Finance Corporation and other international development
finance institutions.


4 ‘Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No, 57 of 1988

‘To serve its objective, the Agency shall—

(a) assue guarantees,” including coinsurance and reinsurance,
against non-commercial risks in respect of investments in @
member country which flow from other member countries ;

(b) carry out appropriite complementary activities to promote
the flow of investments to and among developing member
countries ; and

(©) exercise such other incidental powers as shall be necessary
or desirable in the furtherance of its objective,

‘Tae Agency shall be guided in all its decisions by the provisions
of this Article.

Article 3, Definitions,

For the purposes of this Convention—

(a) & ‘(Special Majority” means an affirmative vote of not less
Convention has entered into force in accordance with Article 61.

(®) “(Host Country” or “Host government” mesns a member
its government.or any public authority of a member in whose ter-
itories, as defined in Article 68, an investment which has been
‘guaranteed or reinsured, or is considered for guarantee or reinsu-
rance, by the Agency is to be located,

(©) A “developing member country ® means a member which
is listed-as such in Schedule A hereto as this Schedule may be
amended from time to time by the Council of Governors referred
to in Article 30 (hereinafter called the “Council”.

(@) A “Special Majority” means an affirmative vote of not less
than two-thirds of the total voting power representing not less than
fifty-five per cent of the subscribed shares of the capital stock of
the agency.

(e) A “freely usable currency” means (i) any currency desig-
nated as such by the International Monetary Fund from time to
time and Gi) any other freely available and effectively usable
currency which the Board of Directors referred to in Article 30
(hereinafter called the “Board”) may designate for the purposes
of this Convention after consultation with the International Mone~
tary Fund and with the approval of the country of such currency.


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 5
Act, No. 57 of 1988
. CHAPTER 1
Muncsiastire AND Carat
Article 4, Membership,

(a) Membership in the Agency shall be open to all members
of the Bank and to Switzerland.

(b) Original members shall be the States which are Hsted in
Schedule A hereto and become parties t6 this Convention on or
before October 30, 1987.

Article 5. Capital, :

(u) The’ authorized capital stock of the Agency shall be one
billion Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,000,000,000). The capital
stock shall be divided into 100,000 shares having a par value of
SDR 10,000 each, which shall ‘be available for subscription by
members. All payment obligations of members with respect to
‘capital stock shall be settled on the ‘basis of the average value
of the SDR in terms of United States dollars for the period
January 1, 1981 to June 30, 1985, such value. being 1.082 United
States dollars per SDR.

(®) ‘The capital stock shall increase on the admission of a new ~
member to the extent that the then authorized shares are insuffi-
cient to provide the shares to be subscribed by such member
pursuant to Article 6.

(©) The Council, by special majority, may at any time increase
‘the capital stock of the Agency.

Article 6. Subscription of Shares,

Bach original member of the Agency shall subscribe at par to
the number of shares of capital stock set forth opposite its name
in Schedule A hereto. Each other member shall subscribe to
such number of shares of capital stock on such terms and condi-
tions as may be determined by the Council, but in no event at
on issue price of less than par. No-member shall subscribe to less
than fifty shares. The Council may’ prescribe rules by which
members may subscribe to ‘additional shares of the authorized
capital stock.

Article 7, Division and’ Calle of Subscribed Capital,

‘The initial subscription of each member shall be paid as
follow:— .

) within ninety days from the date on which this Convention
enters into force with respect to such member, ten per cent
of the price of each shares shall be paid in cash as stipu~
Jeted in section (a) of Article 8 and an additional ten
per cent in the form of non-negotiable, non-interest
bearing promissory notes or similar obligations to be
‘encashed pursuant to a decision of the Board in order to
meet the Agency's obligations.

(i) ‘The remainder shall be subject to call by the Agency when
required to meet its obligations.

3—Dooeons (88/09)


6 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency .
‘Act, No. 57 of 1988
Article 8, Payment of Subscription of Shares,

(a) Payments of subscriptions shall be made in freely usable.
currencies except that payments by developing member countries
may be made in their own currencies up to twenty-five per cent
‘of the paid-in cash portion of their subscriptions payable under
‘xticle 7-(i).

(®) Calls on any portion of unpaid subscriptions shall be
uniform on all shares.

(c) If the amount received by the Agency on a call shall be
insuficient to meet the obligations which have necessitated the
call, the Agency may make further successive calls on unpaid
subscriptions until the aggregate amount received by it shall be
sutcent to meet such obligations.

(a) Liability on shares shall be limited to the unpaid portion
of the issue price.

Article 9, Valuation of Currencies,

‘Whenever it shali be necessary for the purposes of this Conven-
tion 10 determine the value of one currency in terms of another,
sch value shall be as reasonably determined by the Agency, after
consultation with the International Monetary Fund,

Article 10, Refunds,

(a) The Agency shall, as soon as practicable, return to members
amounts paid oa calls on subscribed capital if and to the extent
that—

‘) the call shall have been made to pay a claim resulting from

‘2 guarantee oF reinsurance contract and thereafter the
: Agency shall have recovered its payment, in whole or
in part, in a freely usable currency ; or
Gi) the call shall have been made because of a default .in
payment by a member and thereafter such member shall
hhave made good such default in whole oF in part; or
Git) the Council, by special majority, determines that the
financial position of the Agency permits all or part af
ssuch amounts to be returned out of the Agency's revenues.
(®) Any refand effected under this Article to a member shall
be made in freely usable currency in the proportion of the pay-
ments made by that member to the total amount paid pursuant
fo calis made prior to such refund.
‘c) The equivalent of amounts refunded under this Article to
a member shall become part of: the callable capital obligations of
‘he member under Article 7 (ii).


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 7
_ Act, No. 57 of 1988
CHAPTER Ir’
Orzearrons
Article 11, Covered Risks,

{a) Subject to the provisions of sections (b) and (ec) below,
the Agency may guarantee eligible investments against a loss
resulting from one or more of the following types of risk :—

(® Currency Transfer

Any introduction attributable to the host government of
restrictions on the transfer outside the host country of its
currency into a freely usable currency or another currency
acceptable to the holder of the guarantee, including a
failure of the host government to act within a reasonabie
period of time on an application by such holder for such
transfer ;

Gi) Expropriation and Similar Measures

‘Any legislative action or administrative action or omission
attributable to the host government which has the effect
of depriving the holder of a guarantee of his ownership
or control of, or a substantial benefit from, his investment,
with the exception of non-discriminatory measures of
general application which governments normally take for
the purpose of regulating economic activity in their
territories ;

Gil) Breach of Contract .

‘Any repudiatfon or breach by the host government of a
contract with the holder of a guarantee, when (a) the
holder of a guarantee does not have recourse to & judicial
or arbitral forum to determine the claim of repudiation or
breach, or (b) a decision by such forum is not rendered
with im such reasonable period of time as shall be ores-
cribed in the contracts of guarantee pursuant to the
Ageney s regulations, or (ec) such a decision cannot be
fenforreed and .
(iv) War and Civil Disturbance

‘Any military action or civil disturbance in any territory
of the host country to which this Convention shall be
applicable as provided in Article 66,

(D) Upon the joint application of the investor and the host
Country, the Bosra, by special majority, may approve the exten
sion of coverage under this Article to specific non-commercial risks
other than thoze referred to in section (a) above, but in no case
4o the risk of devaluation or depreciation of currency.

(©) Losses resulting from the following shall not be covered :—

(i) any host government action or omission to which the
‘holder of the guarantee has agreed or for which he
hhas been responsible; and

. i i other

Gi) any host government action or omission or any
vent occurring before the conclusion of the con-
tract of guarantee,

4D oc0018 (88/09)


8 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

‘ Act, No,,57 of 1983
Article 12. Eligible Investments,

(a) Eligible investments shall include equity interests, including
medium or long-term loans made or guarantecd by holders of
‘equity in the enterprise concerned, and such forms of direct invast-
ment as may be determined by the Board,

(®) ‘The Board, by special majority may extend eligibility to any
ther medium or'long-term form of investment, except that loans
other than those mentioned in section (a) above may be eligible
aly if they are related to a specific investment covered or to be
covered by the Agency.

(©) Gurantees shall be restricted to investments, the imple-
mentation of which begins subsequent to the registration of the
application for the guarantee by the Agency. Such investments
may include—

GD) ony transfer of foreign exchange made to modernize, expand,
or develop an existing investment; and

Ui) the use of earnisigs from existing investments which could
otherwise be transferred outside the host country.

(@) In guaranteeing an investment, the Agency shall satisty

itself as to—

() the economic soundness of the investment and its contribu~
tion to the development of the host country ;

i) compliance of the investment with the host country’s laws
‘and regulations ;

(Gi) consistency of the investment with the declared development
objectives and priorities of the host country ; and

(iv) the investment conditions in the host country, including the
availability of fair and equitable treatment and legal
protection for the investment,

Article 18, Bligible Investors,

(a) Any natural person and any juridical person may be eligible
to receive the Agency's guarantee provided that—

@) such natural person is @ national of a member other than

the host country ;

(Gi) such juridical person is incorporated and has its principal
place of business in a member or the majority of its
capital is owned by a member or members or Nationals
‘thereof, provided that such member is not the host coun-
try jin ‘any of the above cases ; and

(Gli) such juridical person, whether or not it is privately owned,
operates on a commercial basis,

(B) In case the Investor has more than one nationality, for
the purposes if section (a) above the nationality of member
shall prevail over the nationality of a non-member and the
nationality of the host Country shall prevail over the na
tionality of any other member.


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 9
Act, No. 57 of 1988

(c) Upon the joint application of the investor and the host
country, the Board, by special majority, may extent eligibility to
4 natural person who is a national of the host country oa
juridical person which is incorporated in the host country or the
majority of whose capital is owned by its nationals, provided that
the assets invested are transferred from outside the host country,
Article 14. Eligible Host Countries

Investments thall be guaranteed under this Chapter only if they
‘are to be made in the territory of a developing member country,
Article 15, Host Country Approval F

‘The Agency shall not conclude any contract of guarantee before
the host government hss approved the issuance of the guarantee
by the Agency against the risks designated for cover.

Article 16, Terms and Conditions

‘The terms and conditions of each contract of guarantee shall be
determined by the Agency subject to ruch rules and regulations

* as the Board shall issue, provided that the Agency shall not cover
the total loss of the guaranteed investment, Contracts of guaran-
tee shall be approved by the President under the direction of the
Board,

Article 17, Payment of Claims

‘The President under the direction of the Board shall decide on
the payment of claims to a holder of a guarantee in accordance
with the contract of gurantee and such policies as the Board’ may
adopt. Contracts of guarantee chall require holders of guarantees
to seck, before a payment is made by, the Agency, such adminis-
trative remedies as may be approprite under the  cireumstances,
provided that they are readily avaliable to them under the laws
of the host country. Such contracts may require the lapse of
certain reasonable periods between the occurrence of events
siving rise to claims and payments of claims.

Article 18, Subrogation

(a) Upon paying or agrecing to pay compensation to a holder
of @ gurantee, the Agency shall be subrogated to such rights or
claims related to the guaranteed investment as the holder of &
guarantee may have had against the host country and other obliga-
fore. The contract of guarantee shall provide the terms and condi-
tions of such subrogation.

(®) The rights of the Agency pursuant to section (a) above
shall be recognized by all members.

(©) Amounts inthe currency of the host country acquired by
the Agency as subrogee pursuant to section (a) above shall be
accorded, with respect to use and conversion, treatment by the
host country as favourable as the treatment to which such funds
‘would be entitled in the hands of the holder of the gurantee, In


10 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

Act, No. 57 of 1988
any case, such amounts may be used by the Agency for the pay-
ment of its administrative expenditures and other costs, The
Agency shall also seck to enter into arrangements with host coun-
‘ries on other uses of such currencies to the extent that they are
not freely usable,
Article 19. Relationship to National and Regional Entities.

‘The Agency shall co-operate with, and seek to complement the
operations of national entities of members and regional entities
the majority of whose capital is owned by members, which carry
ut activities similar to those of the Agency, with a view to maxi-
mizing both the efficiency of their respective services and their
contribution to increased flows of foreign investment. To this
end the Agency may enter into arrangements with such entities
‘on the details of such co-operation, including in particular the
modalities of reinsurance and coinsurance.

Article 20. Reinsurance of National arid Regional Entities.

(a) The Agency may issue reinsurance in respect of a specific
investment against a loss resulting from one or more of non-
commercial risks underwritten by a member or agency thereof or
by a regional investment guarantee agency the majority of
whose capital is owned by members. The Board, by special
‘majority, shall from time to time prescribe maximum aniounts of
contingent liability which may be assumed by the Agency with
Tespect to reinsurance contracts. In respect of specific investments
which have been completed more than twelve months prior to
receipt of the application for reinsurance by the Agency, the
maximum amount shall initially be set at ten per cent of the aggre-
gate contingent liability of the Agency under this Chapter. ‘The con-
ditions of eligibility specified in Articales 11 to 14 shall apply to
reinsurance operations, except that the reinsured “investments
need not be impleniented subsequent to the application for reinsu-
ance.

(®) The mutual rights and obligations of the Agency and a
reinsured member or agency shall be stated in contracts of rein
surance subject to such rules and regulations as the Board shall
‘issue, The Board shall approve each contract for reinsurance cover
ing an investment which has been made prior to receipt of the
application for reinsurance by the Agency, with a view to mini-
mizing risks, assuring that the Agency receives premiums com-

mensurate with its risk, and assuring that the reinsured entity is
appropriately committed towards promoting new investment in
developing member countries.

(©) The Agency shall, to the extent possible, assure that it or
the teinsured entity shall have the rights of subrogation and
arbitration equivalent to those the Agency would have if it were
the primary guarantor. The terms and conditions of reinsurance
shall require that administrative remedies are sought in accordance
with Article 17 before a payment is made by the Agency, Subrog-

ation shall be effective with respect to the host country concerned
only after its approval of the reinsurance by the Agency, The
Agency shall include in the contracts of reinsurance provisions
requiring the reinsured to pursue with due diligence the rights or
claims related to the reinzured investment, :


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 11
Act, No. 57 of 1988

Article 21. Co-operation with Private Insurers and with Reinsu- _
ers

(a) The agency may enter into arrangements with private insurers

in member countries to enhance its own operations and encourage
such insurers to provide coverage of non-commercial risks in deve-
loping member countries on conditions similar to those applied by
the Agency, Such arrangements may include the provision of
reinsurance by the Agency under the conditions and procedures
specified in Article 20,

(b) The Agency may seinsure with any appropriate reinsurance
entity, in whole or in part, any guarantee or gurantees issued by
it. ‘

(c) The Agency will in particular seek to gurantee investments
for which comparable coverage on reasonable’ terms is not avail-
able from private insurers and reinsurers.

Article 22, Limits of Guarantee " .

+ (a) Unless determined otherwise by the Council by special
majority, the aggregate amount of contigent liabilities which may
be assumed by the Agency under this Chapter shall not exceed
one hundred and fifty per cent of the amount of the Agency's
unimpaired subscribed, capital and its reserves plus such portion
of its reinsurance cover as the Board may determine, The Board
shall from time to time review the risk profile of the Agency’s

* portfolio in the light of its experience with claims, degree of risk
diversification, reinsurance cover and other relevant factors with
a view to ascertaining whether changes in the maximum aggre-
gate amount of contingent liabilities should be recommended to.
the Council, The maximum amount determined by the Council
‘shall not’ under any circumstances exceed five times the
amount of the Agency's unimpaired subscribed capital, its reserves

* and such portion of its reinsurance cover as may be deemed
approriate.

(@) Without prejudice to the general limit of guarantee referred
to in section (a) above, the Board may prescribe—

@) maximum aggregate amounts of contingent liability which
may be assumed by the Agency under this Chapter for all
guarantees issued to investors of egch individual member.
Jn determining such maximum amounts, the Board shall
give due consideration to the’ share of the respective
member in the capital of the Agency and the need to
apply more liberal limitations in respect of investments
originating in developing member countries; and

Gi) maximum aggregate amounts of contingent liability which
may be assumed by the Agency with respect to such risk
diversification factors as individual projects, individual
‘host countries and types af investment or risk.


12 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No. 57 of 1988

Article 28, Investment Promotion

(@) The Agency shall carry out research, undertake activities to
promote investment flows and disseminate information on invest~
ment opportunities in developing member countries, with a view
to improving the environment for foreign investment flows to such
countries. The Agency may, upon the request of a member, provide
technical advice and assistance to improve the investment condi-
tions in the territories of that member. In performing these
activities the Agency shall—

(i) be guided by relevant investment agreements among member

countries;

i) seek to remove impediments, in both developed and

developing member countries; and

ii) coordinate with other agencies concerned with the promotion.

of foreign investment, and in particular the International
Finance Corporation.

(®) ‘The Ageney also shall—

( encourage the amicable settlement of disputes between

investors and host countries;

(i) endeavor to conclude agreements with developing member

countries, and in particular with prospective host countries,
‘which will assure that the Agency, with respect to invest-
ment guaranteed by it, has treatment at least as favourable
as that agreed by the member concerned for the most
favoured investment guarantee agency or State in an
agreement relating to investment, such agreements to be
approved by special majority of the Board; and

Gif) promote and facilitate the conclusion of agreements, among.

its members, on the promotion and protection of invest-
ments,

(©) ‘The Agency shall give particular attention in its promotionat
efforts to the importance of increasing the flow of investments
among developing member countries.

Article 24. Guarantees of Sponsored Investments

In addition to the guarantee operations undertaken by the Agency
under this Chapter, the Agency may guarantee investments under
‘the sponsorship arrangements provided for in Annex I to this:
Convention, Pou tie ot


it Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 13
Act, No. 57 of 1988
CHAPTER IV
Favancta Provisions
"Article 25. Financial Management

‘The Agency shall carry out its activities in accordanice with
sound business and prudent financial managenment practices with
a view to maintaining under all circumstances its ability to meet
its financial obligations,

Ariticle 26. Premiums and Fees

‘The Agency shall establish and periodically review the rates of
premiums, fees and other charges, if any, applicable to each type
of risk.

Article 27. Allocation of Net Income,

(a) Without prejudice to the provisions of section (a) (iii) of
Article 10, the Agency shall allocate net income to reserves until
such reserves reach five times the subscribed capital of the Agency.

(b) After’ the reserves of the Agency have reached the level
prescribed in section (a) above, the Council shall decide whether,
and to what extent, the Agency's net income shall be allocated to
reserves, be distributed to the Agency’s members or be used other~
wise, Any distribution of net income to the Agency's members shall
be made in proportion to the share of each member in the capital
of the Agency in accordance with a decision of the Council acting
by special majority.

Article 28, Budget . =

‘The President shall prepare an annual budget of revenues and
‘expenditures of the Agency for approval by the Board.

Article 29. Accounts

The Agency shall publish an Annual Report which shall include -
statements of its accounts and of the accounts of the Sponsorship
‘Trust Fund referred to in Annex I to this Convention, as audited
by independent auditiors. The Agency shall circulate to members
at appropriate intervals a summary statement of its financial
position and @ profit and loss statement showing the results of its
operations.


14. Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No, 57 of 1988
CHAPTER. V
Organization and»Management

Article 30, Structure of the Agency
‘The Agency shall have a Council of Governors, a Board of

Directors, a President and staff to perform such duties as the

Agency may determine.

Article $1. The Council

(a) All the powers of the Agency shall be vested in the Coun.
‘il, except such powers as are, by the terms of this Convention,
specifically conferred upon another ofgan of the Agency, The

Council may délegate to the Board the exercise of any of its

powers, excent the power to—

> G) admit new-members and determine the conditions of their

admission ;
Gd suspend a member ;~

(il) decide on any increase or descrease in the capital ;

(iv) increase the limit of the aggregate amount of contingent

~ " “Hiabilities pursuant of section (a) of Article 22;

(v) designate a member asa developing member country
‘pursuant to section (c) of Article 3;
(vi) classify a new member as beldnging to Category’ One or
Category Two for voting purposes pursuant to section
(a) of Article 39 or reclassify an existing member for the
same purposes 5

(vil) determine the ‘compensation of Directors and their Alter-

nates;

(vill) cease operations and liquidate the Agency ;
(ix) distribute assets to members upon liquidation; and
(x) amend this Convention, its Annexes and Schedules.

"(b) The Council’ shall be composed of one Governor and one

Alternate appointed by each member in such manner as it may

determine. No Alternate may vote except in the absence of his

principal. The Council shall select one of the Governors as
Chairman. ,
(©) The Council shall hold an annual meeting and such other
meetings as may be determined by the Council or called by the
Board, The Board shall call a meeting of the Council whenever
requested by five members or by members having twenty-five
per cent of the total voting power.
Article 32. The Board ai

(a) ‘The Board shall be responsible for the general operations of

‘the Agency and shall take, in the fulfillment of this resporisibility,
any action required or permitted under this Convention,


Multilaterat Investment Guarantee Agency 15
Act, No. 57 of 1988

(b) The Board shall consist of not: less than twelve Directors.
‘The number of Directors may be adjusted by the Council to take
into account changes in membership. Each Director may appoint
‘an Alternate with full power to act for him in ease of the Directors
absence or inability to act. The President of the Bank shall be ex-
officio Chairman of the Board. but shall have no vote except a
deciding vote in case of an equal division.

(©) The Council shall determine the term df office of the
Directors. The first [Board shall be constituted by the Council at
its inaugural meeting.

“ (@) The Board shall meet at the call of its chairman acting on
his own inillative or upon request of three Directors,

(e) Until such time as the Council may decide that the Agency
shall have a resident Board which functions in continuous session,
the Ditectors and Alternates shall receive compensation only for
‘the cost of attendance at the meetings of the Board and the *
discharge of other official functions on behalf of the Agency. Upon
the establishment of a Board in continuous session, the Directors
‘and Alternates shall receive such remuneration as may be deter-
mined by the Council.

Article 33. President and Staft :

(a) The President sholl. under the general control of the Board,
conduct the ordinary business of the Agency. He shall be
responsible for the organization, appointment and dismissal of the
sta.

(®) The President shall be appointed by the Board on the
nomination of its Chairman. ‘The Council shall determine the

. salary and terms of the contract of service of the President,

(©) In the discharge of their offices, the President and the staff
‘owe their duty entirely to the Agency and to no other authority.
Each member of the Agency shall respect the international
character of this duty and shall refrain from . all attempts to
influence the President or the staff in the discharge of their duties.

(a) Im appointing the staff, the President shall subject to the
paramount importance of securing the highest standards of
effcieney and of technical competence, pay due regard to the
importance of recruiting personnel on as wide a geographical basis
a3 possible,

(e) The President and staff shall maintain at all. times the
confidentiality of information obtained in carrying out the Agency's
operations.

Article 34. Political Activity Prohibited

‘The Agency, its President and staff shell not interfere in the
politiéal affairs of any member. Without prejudice to the right
of the Agency to take into account all the circumstances
surrounding an investment, they shall not be influenced in their
ecisions by the political character af the member or members
‘concerned. Considerations relevant to their decisions shall be
‘weighed impartially in order to achieve the purposes stated in
Article 2.


16 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No. 57 of 1988

Article 85. Relations with International Organizations

The Agency shall, within the terms of this Convention, co-
operate with the United Nations and with other inter-governmental
organizations having specialized responsibilities in related. elds,
{including in particular the Bank snd the International Finance
Corporation. .
Article 36, Location of Principal Ofice

(a) The principal office of the Agency shall be located in
Washingion, D.C., unless the Council, by special majority, decides
to establish it in another location,

(©) The Agency may establish other offices as may be necessary
for its work,

Article 37, Depositories for Assets

Bach member shall designate its central bank as a depository in
which the Agency may keep holdings of such member's currency
cr other assets of the Agency or, if it hes no central bank, it shall
esignate for such purpose such other institution as may be
acceptable to the Agency, =
Asticle 38. Channel of Communication

(a) Bach member shall designate an appropriate authority with
which the Agency may communicate in connection with any
matter arising under this Convention. The Agency may rely on
statements:of such authority as being statements of the member.
‘The Agency, upon the request of a member, shall consult with
that member with respect to matters dealt with in Articles 19 to
21 and related to entities or insurers of that member,

(b) Whenever the approval of any member is required before
any act may be done by the Agency, approval shall be deemed to
hhave been given unless the member presents an objection within
such reasonable period as the Agency may fix in notifying the
member of the proposed act,


‘Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 17
Act, No, 57 of 1988
CHAPTER VI

Vormc, ApsuSments oF SUBSCRIPTIONS aND REPRESENTATION
Article 59. Voting and Adjustments of Subscriptions

(a) In order to proviae for voting arrangements that reflect the
‘equal interest in the Agency of the two Categories of States listed
in Schedule A of this Convention, as well as the importance of
‘each member's financial participation, each member shall have 177
membership votes plus one subscription vote for each share of
stock held by that member.

(®) If at any time within three years after the entry into force
of this Convention the aggregate sum of membership and sub-
scription votes of members which belong to either of the two
Categories of States listed in Schedule A of this Convention is less
than forty per cent of the total voting power, Members from such
a Category shall have such number of supplementary votes as
shall be necessary for the aggregate voting power of the Category
to equal such a percentage of the total voting power. Such supple-
mentary votes shall be distributed among the members of such
‘Category in the proportion that the subscription votes of each bears
to the aggregate of subscription votes of the Category. Such supple-
mentary votes shall be subject to automatic adjustment to ensure

that such percentage is maintained and shall be cancelled at the
‘end of the above-mentioned three-year period.

(e) During the third year following the entry into force of this
Convention, the Council shall review the allocation of shares and
shall be guided in its decision by the following principles :—

() the votes of members shall reflect actual subscriptions to
‘the Agency’s capital and the membership votes as set out
in section (a) if this Article ;

Gi) shares allocated to countries which shall not have signed the
Convention shall be made available for reallocation 10
such members and in such manner as to make possible
voting parity between the above-mentioned Categories ;
and

(ii) the Council will take measures that will facilitate members’
ability to subscribe to shares allocated to them,

(@ Within the three-year period provided for in section (b)
of this Article, all decisions of the Council and Board shall be
taken by special majority, except that decisions requiring a higher
‘majority under this Convention shall be taken by euch higher
majority.

(@) In case the capital stock of the Agency is increased pursuant
to section (c) uf Article 5, each member which so requests shall
be authorized to subscribe a proportion of the increase equivalent
to the proportion which its stock therefore subscribed bears to
the total capital stock of the Agency, but no member shall be
obligated to subscribe any part of the increased capital.


18 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No. 57 of 1988

({) ‘The Council shall issue regulations regarding the making of
additional subscriptions under section (e) of this Article. Such
regulations shall prescribe reasonable. time limits for the submis-
sion by members of requests to make such subscriptions.

Article 40. Voting in the Council,

(a) Each Governor shal! be entitled to cast the votes of the
member he represents, Except as otherwise speciticd in this Con-
vention, decisions of the Council shall be taken by a majority of
the votes east.

(b) A quorum for any meeting of the Council shall be eonititut-
ed by a majority of the Governors exereising nol less than two-
‘thirds of the total voting power,

(©) The Council may by reguistion establish a precedure where
by the Board, when it deems such action to be in the best interests
‘of the Agency, may request a decision of the Council on @
specific question without calling a meeting of the Council.

Article 41. Blection of Directors

(a) Directors shell be elected in accordance with Schedule B,
~ (b) Directors sholl continue in office until their successors are
‘lected. If the olfice of a Director becomes vacant more than ninety
ays before the end of his term, another Director shall be elected for
the remainder of the term by the Governors. who elected the
former Director. A majority of the votes east shall be required for
lection, While the office remains vacant, the Alternate of the
former Diréctor shall exercise his powers, except that of appoint
ing an Alternate.

Article 42, Voting in the Boat ;

(@) Each Director shall be entitled to cast the number of ‘votes
of the members whose votes counted towards his election. All the
votes which a Director is entitled to cast shall be cast as a unit.
Except as otherwise specified in this Convention, decisions of the
‘Board shall be taken by a majority of the votes cast.

(®) A quorum for & meeting of the Board shall be constituted
by a majority of the Directors exercising not less than one half
of the total voting power. =

(©) The Board may by regulation establish a procedure whereby
its Chairman, when he deems such action to be in the best interests
of the Agency, may request a decision of the Board on a specefic
‘question without calling a meeting of the Board,


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 19
Act, No. 57 of 1988
CHAPTER VIL
Privileges and Immunities +
“Article 43, Purposes of Chapter E

‘To enable the Agency to fulfil its functions, the immunities and
privileges set forth in this Chapter shall be accorded to the Agency
in the territories of each member.

Article 44, Legal Process

Actions other than those within the scope of Articles 57 and 58
may be brought against the Agency only in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the territories of a member in which the Agency
has an office or has appointed an agent for the purpose of accepting
service or notice of process. No such action against the Agency
shall be brought (i) by members or persons acting for or deriving
claims from memibers or (ii) in respect of personnel matters. The
property and assets of the Agency shall, wherever located and by
whomsoever held, be immune from all forms of seizure, attach-
ment or execution before the delivery of the final judgment or
award against the Agency,

Article 45, Assets

(a) The property and assets of the Agency, wherever located
and by whomsover held, shall be immune from search, requisition,
confiscation, expropriation or any other form of seizure by
executive or legislative action.

(b) To the extent necessary to carry out its operations under
this Convention, all proverty and assets of the Agency shall be
free from restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any
nature ; provided that property and assets acquired by the Agency
as successor to or subrogee of a holder of a guarantee, a reintured
entity or an investor insured by a reinsured entity shall be free
from applicable foreign exchange restrictions, regulations and
controls in force in the territories of the member concerned to
‘the extent that the holder, entity or investor to whom the Agency
was subrogated was entitled to such treatment,

(e) For purposes of this Chapter, the term “assets” shall
Include the assets of the Sponsorship Trust Fund referved to in
Annex I to this Convention and other assets administered by the
Agency in furtherance of its objective,

Article-46, Archives and Communications .

(a) ‘The archives of the Agency shall be inviolable, wherever
they may be.

(0) The official communications of the Agency shall be accorded
by each member the same treatment that is accorded to the official
‘communications of the Bank.


20 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No. 57 of 1988
Article 47, Taxes 7:

(@) ‘The Agency, its assets, property and income, and its
operations and transactions authorized by this Convention, shall
be immune from all taxes and customs duties. The Agency shall
also be immune from liability for the collection or payment of any
tax or duty.

(®) Except in the case of Yocal nationals, no tax shall be levied
on or in respect of expense allowances paid by the Agency to
Governors and their Alternates or on or in respect of salaries,
‘expense allowances or other emoluments paid by the Agency to
the Chairman of the Board, Directors, their Alternates, the
President or staff of the Agoncy.

(c) No taxation of ay Kind shall be levied on any investment
guaranteed or reinsured by the Agency (including any earnings
therefrom) or any insurance policies reinsured by the Agency
(including any premiums and other revenues therefrom) by
whomssever held: (i). which discriminates against such invest-
‘ment or insurance policy solely because it is guaranteed or re-
insured by the Agency; or (ii) if the sole Jurisdictional basis
for such taxation is the location of any office or place of business
‘maintained by the Agency.

Article 48. Officials of the Agency

All Governors, Directors, Alternates, the President and staff of
the Agency—

(@) shall be immune from legal process with respect to acts

performed by them in their official capacity ;

(&) not being local nationals, shall be arcorded the same
immunities from immigration restrictions, alien registra
tion requirements and national service obligations, and
the same facilities as regards exchange restrictions as are
accorded by the members concerned to the representatives,
officials and employees of comparable rank of other
members; and

(Gli) shall be granted the same treatment in respect of travelling
facilities as is accorded by the members concerned to
Tepresentatives, officials and employees of comparable
rank of other members.

Article 49. Application of this Chapter
Each member shall take such action as is necessary in its own
territories for the purpose of making effective in terms of its own
law the principles set forth-in this Chapter and shall inform the
Agency of the detailed action which it has taken.
Article 50. Waiver
‘The immunities, exemptions and privileges provided in this
Chapter are granted in the interests of the Agency and may be
waived, to such extent and upon such conditions as the Agency
may determine, in cases where such a waiver would not prejudice
its interests. The Agency shall waive the immunity of any of its
staff in cases where, in its opinion, the immunity would impede
the course of justice and can be waived without prejudice to the
interests of the Agency.


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 21
Act, No. 57 of 1988
CHAPTER VIL
WrtHoRAWAL, SUSPENSION OF MEMBERSHIP AND CESSATION OF
OPERATIONS
Article 51. Withdrawal

Any member may, after the expiration of three years following
‘the date upon which this Convention has entered into force with
respect to such member, withdraw from the Ageney at any time
by giving notice in writing to the Agency at its principal office.
‘The Agency shall notify the Bank, as depository of this Conven-
tion, of the receipt of such otice.” Any withdrawal shall become
effective ninety days following the date of the receipt of such
notice by the Agency. A member may revoke such notice as long
as it has not become effective.

‘Article 52. Suspension of Membership

(a) If a member fails to fulfill any of its obligations under this,
Convention, the Council may. by a majority of its members
‘exercising @ majority of the total voting power, suspend its
‘membership.

(b) While under suspension a member shall have no rights
under this Convention, except for the right of withdrawal and
‘other rights provided in this Chapter and Chapter IX, but shall
‘remain subject to all its obligations.

(©) For purposes of determining eligibility for a guarantee or
reinsurance to be issued under Chapter III or Annex I to this
‘Convention, a suspended member shall not be treated as a member
‘of the Agency.

(@ The suspended member shall automatically cease to be
a member one year from the date of its suspension unless the
‘Council decides to extend the period of suspension or to restore the
member to good standing.

Article 53. Rights and Duties of States Ceasing to be Members

(@) When a State ceases to be a member, it shall remain liable
for all its obligations, including its contingent obligations, under
this Convention which shall have been in effect before the
cessation of its membership.

() Without prejudice to section (a) above, the Agency shall
enter into an arrangement with such State for the settlement of
‘their respective claims and obligations. Any such arrangement
shall be approved by the Board.

-Article 54, Suspension of Operations

(@) The Board may, whenever it deems it justified, suspend
the issuance of new guarantees for a specified period.

(®} In an emergency, the Board may suspend all activities of
the Agency for a period not exceeding the duration of such
emergency, provided that necessary arrangements shall be made
for the protection of the interests of the ‘Agency and of third
‘parties,


22 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No..57 of 1988 .

(c) ‘The decision to suspend operations chall have no effect on
the obligations of the members under this Convention or on the
obligations of the Agency towards holders of a guarantee or re-
{insurance policy or towards third parties.

Article 55. Liquidation i

(a) The Council, by special majority, may decide to cease
operitions and to liquidate the Agency. ‘Thereupon the Agency
Shall forthwith cease all activities, except those incident to the
orderly realization, conservation and preservation of assets and
settlement of obligations. Until final settlement and distribution
‘of assets, the Agency shall remain in existence and all rights
‘and obligations of members under this Convention shall continue
unimpaired,

(b) No distribution of assets shall be made to members until
all liabilities to holders of guarantees and other creditors shall
have been discharged or provided for and until the Council shall
Ihave decided to make such distribution. .

(©) Subject to the foregoing, the Agency shall distribute its
remaining assets to members in proportion to each member's
share in the subscribed capital. ‘The Agency shall also distribute
any remaining assets of the Sponsorship Trust Fund referred to

* in Annex I to this Convention to sponsoring members in the
proportion which the investmerits sponsored by each bears to the
total of sponsored investments. No member shall be entitled to
its share in the assets of the Agency or the Sponsorship Trust
Fund unless that member has settled all outstanding claims by
he Agency against it. Every distribution of assets shall be made
at such times as the Council shall determine and in such manzer
‘as it shall deem fair and equitable.


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 23
Act, No. 57 of 1988
CHAPTER IX
_ SEFTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
Article 56. Interpretation and Application of the Convention

(a) Any question of interpretation or application of the
provisions of this Convention arising between any member of
the Agency and the Agency or among members of the Agency
shall be submitted to the Board for its decision, Any member
which is particularly affected by the question and which is not
otherwise represented by a national in the Board may send a
representative to attend any meeting of the Board at which such
question is considered.

(b) In any case where the Board has given a decision under
section (a) above, any member may require that the question be
referred to the Council, whose decision shall be final. Pending
the result ‘of the referral to the Council, the Agency may, so far
as it dems necessary, act on the basis of the decision’ of the
Board.

Asticle 57. Disputes betwecn the Agency and Members

(c) Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 56 and
‘section (b) of this Article, any dispute between the Agency and
a member or an agency thereof and any dispute between the
‘Agency and a country (or agency thereof) which ‘has ceased to
te a member, shall be settled in accordance with the procedure
set out Annex II to this Convention.

(®) Disputes concerning claims of the Agency acting as
subrogee of an investor shall be settled in accordance with either
4) the procedure set out in Annex II.to this Convention, or (ii)
‘an agreement to be entered into between the Agency and the
‘member concerned on an alternative method or methods for the
settlement of such disputes. In the latter cese, Annex II to this
Convention shall serve as a basis, for such an agreement which ,
shall, in each ease, be approved by the Board by special majority
prior to the undertaking by the Agency of operations in the
territaries of the member concerned.

Article 58. Disputes Involving Holders of a Guarantee of
Reinsurance 7

Any dispute arising under a contract of guarantee or reinsurance
hetween the parties thereto shall be submitted to arbitration for
final determination in accordance with such rules as shall be
provided for or referred to in the contract of guarantee or
reinsurance.

5—D 000016 (€8j00)


2%4 —- Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No. 57 of 1988 “
CHAPTER X ‘
Aseenpoanrs
Article 59. Amendment by Council
(a) This Coavention and its Annexes may be amended by vote
of three-fifths of the Governors exercising four-fifths of the total
voting power. provided that,
(@) any amendment modifying the right to withdraw from the
“Agency provided in Article 51 or the limitation on liability
provided in section (a) of Article 8 shall requie the
‘aifirmative vote of all Governors; and
Gi) any amendment modifying the loss-sharing arrangement
‘Provided in Article 1 and 3 of Annex I to this Convention
which will result in an increase in any member's liability
thereunder shall require the affirmative vote of the Gover
nor of each such member.
(b) Schedules A and B to this Convention may be amended by
‘the Council by special majority.
(c) If an amendment affects any provision of Annex I to this
+ Convention, total votes shall include the additional votes alloted
lunder Article 7 of such Annex to sponsoring members and coun
‘ies hosting sponsored investments,
Article 60. Procedure *
‘Any proposal to amend this Convention, whether emanating from
a member or a Governor or a Director, shall be communicated to
‘the Chairman of the Board who shall bring the proposal before the
‘Boord. If the proposed amendment is recommended by the Board,
it shall be submitted to the Council for approval in accordance
‘with Article 59. When an amendment has been duly approved by
the Council, the Agency shall 20 certify by formal communication
addressed to ofl members, Amendments shall enter into force for
all members ninety days after the date of the formal communica~
tion unless. the Council shall specify a different date.


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 25
Act, No. 57 of 1988
CHAPTER XI
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 61, Entry into Foree .

(@) This Convention shall be open for signature on behalt of
ail members of the Bank and Switzerland and shall be subject to
‘ratification, acceptance or approval by the signatory States in
‘accordance with their constitutional procedures.

(b) This Convention shall enter into force on the day when not
less than five instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval
-sholl have been deposited on behalf of signatory States in Category
One, and not less than fifteen such instruments shall have been
Aepesited on behalf of signatory States in Category Two ; provided
that total subscriptions of these States amount to not Jess than
‘one-third of the authorized capital of the Agency as prescribed in
Article 5.

(6) For each State which deposits its instrument of ratification,
acceptance or approval after this Convention shall have entered
{nto force, this Convention shall enter into force on the date of
‘such, deposit,

(2) If this Convention shall not have entered into force within
‘two years after its opening for signature, the President of the
Bank shall convene a conference of interested countries to deter~
mine the futcre course of action.

Article 62, Inaugural Meeting

‘Upon entry into force of this Convention, the President of the
Bank shall eall the inaugural meeting of the Council. This meeting
shall be held at the principal office of the Agency within sixty days
‘rom the dato on which this Convention has entered into force oF as
soon as practicable thereafter.

Articte 63. Despository

Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval of this Con
‘vention and amendments thereto shall be deposited with the Bank
Which shall act as the depository of this Convention. The depost~
tory shall transmit certified copies of this Convention to States
members of the Bank and to Switzerland.

Article 64. Registration ;

‘The depository shall register this Convention with the Secre~
tariat of the United Nations in accordance with Article 102 of the.
‘Charter of the United Nations and the Regulations thereunder
‘adopted by the General Assembly.

Article 65, Notification

‘The depository: shall notify ll signatory States and, upon the
‘entry into force of this Convention, the Agency of the following :—

(a) signatures. of this Convention ;

(b) deposits of instruments of ratification, acceptance and

‘approval in accordance with Article 635


26 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No. 57 of 1988 j

(©) the date on which this Convention enters into force in
‘accordance with Article 61;

(@) exclusions from territorial application pursuant to Article
86; and 7

(e) withdrawal of a member from the Agency ’ pursuant to
Article 51.

Article 66. Territorial Application

‘This Convention shall apply to all territories under the juris-
diction of a member including the territories for whose interna-
tional relations a member is responsible, except those which are
excluded by such member by written notice’ to the depository of
‘this Convention either at the time of ratification, acceptance or
‘approval or subsequently.

Article 67. Periodic Reviews

(a) The Council shall periodically undertake comprehensive
reviews of the activities of the Agency as well as the results
achieved with a view to introducing any changes required to
enhance the Agency's ability to serve its objectives,

(b) The first such review shall take place five years after the
entry into force of this Convention. The dates of subsequent
reviews shall be determined by the Council.

DONE at Seoul, in a single copy which shall remain deposited
in the archives of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, which has indicated by its signature below its
‘agreement to fulfill the functions with which it is charged under
this Convention, . ,


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 27
Act, No. 57 of 1988
ANNEX 1
Guanawrisss oF Sponsor Investacenrs Unver ARTICLE 24
Article 1. Sponsorship

(@) Any meisber may sponsor for guarantee an investment to
be made'by an investor of any nationality or by investors of any
‘or several nationalities,

(b) Subject to the provisions of sections (b) and (c) of Article
3 of this Annex, each sponsoring member shall share with the
‘other sponsoring; members in losses under guarantees of sponsored
mvestments, when and to the extent that such losses cannot be "+
covered out of the Sponsorship Trust Fund referred to in Article 2
‘of this Annex, in the proportion which the amount of maximum.
contingent liability under the guarantees of investments sponsored
bby it bears to the total amount of maximum contingent liability
under the guarantees of investments sponsored by all members.

< (©) Im its decisions on the issuance of guarantees under this
“Annex, the Agency shall pay due regard to the prospects that the
‘sponsoring member will be in a position to meet its obligations
‘under this Annex and shall give priority to investments which are
-co-sponsored by the host countries concerned,

(@) The Agency shall periodically consult with sponsoring
members with respect to its operations under this Annex.
Article 2. Sponsorship Trust Fund

(a) Premiums and other revenues attributable to guarantees of
sponsored investments, including returns on the investment of such
premiums and revenues, shall be held in a separate secount which
shall be called the Sponsorship Trust Fund,

(®) All administrative expenses and payments on. claims attri-
‘butable to guarantees issued under this Annex shall be paid out
of the Sponsorship Trust Fund,

(©) The asstts of the Sponsorship Trust Fund shall be held ant
administered for the joint account of sponsoring members ang
shall be kept separate and apart from the assets of the Agency.
Article 3. Calls on Sponsoring Members

(ay To the extent that any amount is payable by the Agency on
account of a loss under a sponsored guarantee and such amount
cannet be paid out of assets of the Sponoring Trust Fund, the
Agency shall call on each sponsoring member to pay into such
Fund it's share of such amount as shall be determined in
accordance with section (b) of Article 1 of this Annex.

(®) No member shail be liable to pay shy amount on a eall pur-
suant to the provisions of this Article if as a result total payments
made by that member will exceed. the total amount of guarantees
‘covering investments sponsored by it.

(©) Upon the expiry of any guarantee covering an investment
sponsored by a member, the liability of that member shall be
@ecreased by an amount equivalent to the amount of such guar-
ante ; such liability shol? also be decteased on a pro rate basis


28 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

Act, No. 57 of 1988
‘upon payment by the Agency of any claim related to a sponsorea
investment and shall otherwise continue in effect until the expiry
of all guarantees of sponsored investments outstanding at the time
of such payment.

(@) If any sponsoring member shall not be liable for an amount
of a call pursuant to the provisions of this Article because of the
limitation contained in sections (b) and (c) above, or if any spon-
soring member shall default in payment of an amount due in
response to ony such call, the lisbility for payment of such amount
shall be shared pro rata by the other sponsoring members. -Liabi-
lity of members pursuant to this section shall be subject to the
imitation set forth in sections (b).and (c) above.

(@) Any payment by a sponsoring member pursuant to a call
in accordance with this Article shall be made promptly and in
freely usable currency.

Article 4, Valuation of Currencies and Refunds .

‘The provisions on valuation of currencies and refunds contained
in this Convention with respect to capital subscriptions shall be
applied mutatis mutendis to fund paid by members on account
of sponsored investments,

Article 5. Reinsurance a

(@) ‘The Agency may, under the conditions set Yorth in Article
I of this Annex, provide reinsurance to a member, an agency
‘thereof, @ regional agency as defined in section (a) of Article 20
of this Convention or a private insurer in a member country. The
provisions of this Annex concerning guarantees and of Articles 20
and 21 of this Convention shall be applied mutctis mutandis to
reinsurance provided under this section.

(®) The Agency may obtain reinsurance for investments guran-
teed by it under this Annex and shall meet the cost of such re-
insurance out of the sponsorship Trust Fund. The Board may
decide whether and to what extent the loss-sharing obligation of
sponsoring members referred to in section (b) of Article 1 of
this Annex may be reduced on’ account of the reinsurance cover
obtained.

Article 6. Operational Principles

Without prejudice to the provisions of this Annex, the provi-

sions with respect to guxantes eperations under Chapter IIT of
this Convention and to financisy management under Chapter TV
of this Convention shall be applied mutatis mutandis to gurantees
of sponsored investments exce;t that (i) such investments shall
‘qualify for sponsorship it made in the territories of any member,
and in particular of any developing member, by an investor or
investors eligible under section (a) of Article 1 of this Annex,
and (ii) the Agency shell not be liable with respect to its own
assets for any gurantee or reinsurance issued under this Annex
end each contract or guarantee or reinsurance concluded pursuant
to this Annox shall expressly so provide,


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 29

Act, No, §7 of 1988
Article 7. Voting ee
For decisions relating to spensored investments, each sponsoring
‘member shall have one additional vote for each 10,000 Special
Drawing Rights equivalent of the amount guranteed or reinsured
‘on the basis of its sponsorship, and each member hosting a spon-
sored javestment shal) have one additional vote for each 10,000
Special Drawing Rights equivaient of the amount guranteed or
reinsured with respect to any sponsored investment hosted by it.
Such additional votes shall be cast only for decisions related to
sponsored investments and chali otherwise be disregarded in

determining the voting power of members.


30 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No. 57 of 1988 :
ANNEX I
Sersuzmens of Disvures Burweex, A MEMBER AND su ACENCY
‘Unver Aericie 97
Aritele 1. Application of the Annex

‘All disputes within the scope of Article 67 of this Convention
shail be seitied in accordance with the procedure set out in this
‘Amex, except in the cases where the Agency has entered into
Gm agreement with a member pursuant to section (3) (ii) of
Artide 67.

Article 2. Negotiation

"The parties to a dispute within the scope of this Annex shall
‘attempt to seitle such dispute by negotiation before secking con-
Sihuton or arbitration. Negotiations shall be deemed to have been
Seiatsted if the parties fall to reach a settlement within a period
Bf one hundred and twenty days from the date of the request to
enter into negotiation.

Article 3. Conciliation .

(a) If the dispute is not resolved through negotiation, cither
pasty may submit the dispute to arbitration in accordance with
The grovisiune of Article 4 of this Annex, unless the parties, by
situa) consent, have decided to resort first to the conciliation
procedure provided for in this Article.

(®) The Agreement for recourse to conciliation shall apecify
ths matter in dispute, the claims of the parties in respect thereot
and, if available, the name of the conciliator agreed upon by the
parties. In the absence of agreement on the conciliator, the
parties may jointly request either the Secretary-General of the
International Contre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (here-
{nafter called ICSID) or the President of the International Court
‘of Justice to appoint @ conciliator. The conciliation procedure shall
terminate if the cot .ciliator has not been appointed within ninety
days etter the agreement for recourse to conciliation.

(2) Unless ofierwise provided in this Annex or agreed upon
by ihe parties, the conciliator shall determine the rules governing
the conciliation procedure and shall be guided in this regard by
the concilist‘on rules adopted pursuant to the Convention on the
Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals
of Other States,

(@ The parties shall co-operate in good faith with the concilia~
for and shall, in particular, provide him with all information and
documentation which would assist him’ in the discharge of his °
functions; they shall give their most serfous consideration to
bis recommendations.

(e) Unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties, the eonciliator
shall, within a period ot exceeding one hundred and eighty days
Grom the date of, his appointment, submit to the parties a report
Teeording the results of his efforts and setting out the issues
Controversial between-the porties and his proposals for their
settiement. \


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 31
Act, No, 57 of 1988
(f) Sach party shall, within sixty days from the date of the
recvipt of the teporl, express in writing its views on the repor!
to the other party.
(o) Neither party to a conciliation proceeding shall be entitled
to have recourse to arbitration uniess
4) the conciliator shall have failed to submit his report within
‘the period established in section (e) above ; or

4) the parties shall have failed to accept all of the proposals *
contained in the report within sixty days after its
receipt; oF :

(Gil) the parties, after an exchange of views on the report, shall

have failed to agree on a settlement of all controversial
issues within sixty days after receipt of the conciliator’s
report ;.or

Gv) @ party shall have failed to express its views on thie report

as prescribed in section (f) above.

(h) Unless the parties agree-otherwise, the fees of the concilia.
or shall be determined on the bassis of the rates applicable 10
ICSID conciliation. These fees and the other costs of the concilia-
tion proceedings shall be borne equally by the parties. Each
arty chall defray its own: expenses.

Article 4: Arbitration

(@} Arbitration rroccedings shall be instituted by means of a
notice by the party seeking arbitration (the claimant) addressed
to the other party or parties to the dispute (the respondent) .

“The notice shall specify the nature of the dispute, the relief
soughe and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the claimant.
‘The respondent shall, within thirty days after tne date of
Teveipt ot the’ not'ce, ‘notify the claimant of the name of the
arbitrator appointed by it. The two parties shall, within @ period
of thirty days from the date of appointment of the second arbitra.
tor, sclect a third arbitrator, who shall act as President of the
Arbitral Tribunal (the Tribunal) .

¢) If the Tribunal shall not have been constituted within sixty
days from the date of the notice, the abritrator not yet appointed
or the President not yet selected shall be appointed, at the joint
Tequest of the parties, by the Secretary-General of. ICSID. If
there i8 no such joint request, or if the Secretary-General shall
fail to make the appointment within thirty days of the request,
either party may request the President of the International Court
‘of Justice to make the appointment.

(©) No party shall have the right to ‘change the arbitrator
appointed by it once the hearing of the dispute has commenced.
In case any arbitrator (including the President of the Tribunal)
shall resiga, die, or become incapaciated, a successor shall be
appoint-d i the manner followed 1n the appointment of his pre-
Aesessor and such successor shall have the same powers and duties
of the arbitrator he succeeds. :

(@) The Tribunal shall convene first at such time and place
as shall be determined by the President. Thereafter, the Tribunal
shall determine the place and dates of its meetings.


32 Multilaterat Investment Guarantee Agency
Act, No. 57 of 1988

(e) Unless otherwise provided in this Annex or agrecd upon by-
the parties, the Tribunal shall determine its procedure and shall
bo guided in this regard by the arbitration rules adopted pursuant
to the Convention on the Settlement of Investments » Disputes:
Detween States and Nationals of Other States. :

(S) The Tribunal shal] be the judge of its own competence
except that, if an objection is raised before the Tribunal to the
effect that the dispute falls within the judisdiction of the Board o-
‘the Counci} under Article 56 or within the puridiction of a judicial
or arbitral body designated in an agreement under Article I of this.
Annex and the Tribunal is satisfied that the objection is gentine,
the objection shall be referred by the Tribunal to the Board or the
Council or the designated body, as the case may be, and the
arbitration proceedings shal] be stayed until a decision has been,
Teached on the matter, which shall be binding upon the ‘Tribunal.

(a) Th: Tribsnal shall, in any dispute within the scope of this
‘Annex, tpply the provisions of this Corfvention, any relevant
‘agreement between the parties to the dispute, the Agency's by-laws
and regulations, the applicable rules of “international law, the
domestic law of the member concerned as well as the applicable
provisions of the investment contract, if any. Without prejudice
to the provisions of this Convention, the Tribunal imay decide @
dispute ex aequo et bono if the Agency and the member concerned,
30 agree. The Tribunal may not bring a finding of non liquet on

the ground of silence or obscurity of the law,

(h) The Tribunal shall afford a fair hearing t6 all the parties.
All decisions of the Tribunal shall be taken by a majority vote
‘and shall state the reasons on which they are based. The award
of the Tribunal shall be in writing, and shall be signed by at least
‘two arbitrators and a copy thereof shall be transmitted to each
party, The award shall be final and binding upon the parties and
shall not be subject to appeal, annulment or revision,

) Tf any dispute shall arise between the parties as to the
‘meaning or scope of an award, either party may, within sixty days
after the award was rendered, request interpretation of the award
by an application in writing to the President of the Tribunal
which rendered the award, The President shall, if possible, submit
the request to the Tribunal which rendered the award and shall
convene such ‘Tribunal within sixty days after receipt of the
application. If this shall not be possible, a new Tribunal shall be
constituted in accordance with the ‘provisions of sections (a) to

(a) above. The Tribunal may stay enforcement of the award
pending its decision on the requested Interpretation.

G) Each member shall recognize an award rendered pursuant
to this Article as binding and enforceable within its territories
of the award shall be governed by the laws concerning the
as if it were @ final judgment of a court in that meraber Execution
execution of judgments in fore in the State in whose territories
such execution is sought and shall not derogate from the law
in force relating to immunity from execution,


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 33
Act, No. 57 of 1988
(ke) Unless the parties shall agree otherwise, the fees and
remuneration payable to the arbitrators shall be determined on
the basis of the rates applicable to ICSID arbitration. Eech party
shall defray its own costs associated with the arbitration
proceedings. The costs of the Tribunal shall be borne by the
parties in equal proportion unless the ‘Tribunal decides otherwise.
‘Any question concerning the division of the costs of the Tribunal
‘or the procedure for payment of such costs shall be decided by the
_ Tsibunal.
Article 5. Service of Process
Service of any notice or process in connection with any,
proceeding under this Annex shall be made in writing. It shall be
‘made by the Agency upon the authority designated by the member
concerned pursuant to Article 38 of this Convention and by that
member at the principal office of the Agency.


84 .. Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency.
‘Act, No. 57 of 1988
SCHEDULE A
“Mespensire ANO SUBSCRIPTIONS
: CATEGORY ONE
Country \ Mumberof Shares Suseription
(millions of SDR)
Australia. os» Onis 1133
Austria ce 18 178
Belgium +2080 20.30
Conde o 2,985 - 29.65
Denmark”. oo MBLs 18
Finland 600 6.00
Fran, s. se 4860 48.00
Germany, Federal Republic of -. 6,071 son
Tesland 90 0.90
Teland 2 369. 3.69
aly " + 2820 2200”
apen - so | 6,098 50.98
Loxembourg MG 16
Notherlands s 268 21.09
Now Zeland = BB 53
Normy 6 6.99
South Afrion M8 9.43
Bwedon 1,089 1049
‘Switzerend 1,800 16.00
United Kingdom 4880 48.60
United States .. + 20,618 205.19
_——— sara. ——— 04.13


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 35
Act, No. 57 of 1988
Country Number of Sharia" Subseription
(milions of SDR)
CATEGORY TWO
Afghanistan. 5 us 1s
Algerie. i. OD 6.49
Antigua and Barbuda ts 60 0.50
Argontinn tee 12.54
Behamas rs = 100 1.00
Behrin. - 1 om
Bangladesh. | MO 3.40
Barbados ©. - 6 0.88
Belizo ” - 0 0.80
Benin - . on ot
Bhoton |. « 50 0.50
Bolivia BB 1.25
Botewans f 0 00
Brosil 7 20 MT 14.70
Burkina Faso... 2 a 01
Burma - * 18 1
Burundi, 2 “ one
Cameroon. 18 Lor
Capo Borde. : 50 0.50
Central African Republic. 60 0.60
Chad « * co 0.60
Chile 4 3 495 4.88
China x s 888 31.38
Colombia. 487 437
Comores. # 50 0.50
Congo, People’s Republic of thi 65 0.85
Costa Rica... = nt at
Cyprus = stot 1.08
Djjbooti zs 60 0.30
Dominica . 50 0.50
Dominican Republio sO NT 1a
Eouder . 382 182
Egypt, Arab Republicof —.. | 480 * 459
ElSalvador. ee 3.22
‘Equetorial Guinea a 50 0.50
‘Countries listed under Category Two aro developing r:en.ber countries
for the purposes of this Convention.
CATEGORY TWO
Ethiopia”, Pa 0 070
Fil ee a 1 on
Gabon |, es 6 0.98 .


36 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
‘Act, No. 57 of 1988
Country Number of Shares Subscription
(oilions of SDR)

Gambia, The. i 50 0.50
Ghane = ee 2.46
‘Greece mu 280 2.80
Grenada a 80 0.60 .
Guatemala. Mo 1.40
Gainee s ” a 0.91
Guinea-Bissau. ze 50 0.60
Guyane za ey 0.84
Haiti a a 18 0.78
Honduras. ve 10 1.01
Bongary OH 6.64
India i rr 30.48
Indonesia. 1088 1049
‘en, Islamie Republic of... 1,659 16.59
Iraq. = z 350 3.50
Israel c at am
Ivory Const. 16 1.76
Semin. eT 1.81
Jordan - - 97 097
Kempuchoa, Democratio 93 0.93
Konys 5 ~ Ma 1
Koria Ropublio of HO 449
Kawait - 880 9.80
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 60 0.60
Iabanon, eee 142
Lewotho # 50 0.50
Liberia = ” a ost
Libyon Arab Jamahiriya: 4.649 5.40
Madagascar. 100 1.00
Molewi . ” 1 om
Maloysio ar) 5.79
Maldives. % 0 0.50
Mati _ m a1 ot
Malta es es 6 0.18
Mouritenia Es 6 0.63
Mauritius ” 87 087
Moxico Panty 11.92
‘Moroso. MB 3.48
Mozambique. cen 7 ost
Nepal “ ie 6 0.69
Nicaragus |. 08 1.02
Rigor ” ” e 0.82
Nigeria, we on
Oman = " ” 0.96


Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 37
Act, No. 57 of 1988
Country Number of Shares Subscription
(rsillion of SDR)
Pokistan x 660 6.60
Ponema ~~ a1 1st
Papua Now Guinée, ma 96 0.96
Peroguay o 80 0.80
Poru ma de 313 3.73
Philippines. ma 484 438
Portugal. = 382 3.82
“Qatar am. a7 137
Romenia a 535 5.55
Rwanda. & cS 08
‘St. Christopher and Nevis. 50 0.50
St.Lucia a 50 050,
St. Vinoont # 50 0.50
‘Sao Tomo and Principe “ 50 0.60
“Saudi Arabia .. w 8A3T 337
‘Sonogel - ae us 145
‘Seychelles - 80 "0.80
Sierra Leone. - 75 - 075
Singapore. te 156 1.56
‘Solomon Islands wa 0 0.50
Somalia > 6 0.78
‘Spain - o 1288 12.85
Sritenka —.. on. am am
Sudan - 8 206 2.08
Suriname. . 82 082
Syrian Arab Republic a 168 1.88
Swasilend % 58 0.58
Tonzonia | a aa Lat
‘Thailand =. n 421 421 .
‘Togo = = 7 om
‘Trinidad and Tobago Re 203 2.03
‘Tunisia a 3 156 1.68,
Turkey = 4 462 462
United Arab Emirates 3 32 3.72
Uganda... & a2 1.32
Uruguay a 202 2.02
Vanuatu 1 o 50 0.50
Vonomuela No aaa 1427
VietNam te 220 2.20
‘Western Samoa’ ” 60 0.50
‘Yomon Arab Republic t oF 0.61
‘Yomon, Poople's Democratic Republic of 115, 1s
‘Yugoslavia. = 635 6.35
Zaire ne = 338 3.38
Zambia i ie a8 318
Zimbabwo = 236 2.38
: _——— 40,521 ————_ 40827
‘Total. 100,000 1,000.00


38 Multilateral Investment Guarantee agency
Act, No. 57 of 1988
SCHEDULE B :
Euscrion oF Dmecrors

1, Candidates for the office of Director shall be nominated by
‘the Governors, provided thar a Governor may nominate only
one person.

2. The clection of Directors shall be by ballot of the Governors.

3. In balloting for the Directors, every Governor shall cast for
‘ono candidate all the votes which the member represented by him
is entitled to cast under section (a) of Article 40, A

4, One-fourth of the number of Directors shall be elected.
separately, one by each of the Governors of members having the:
largest number of shares. If the total number of Directors is not
ivisible by four, thé number of Directors so elected shall be one~
fourth of the next lower number that. is divisible by four. .

5. The remaining Directors shall be elected by the other
Governors in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 6 to
11 of this Schedule.

6. If the number of candidates nominated equals the number of
such remaining Directors to be elected, all the candidates shall be
elected in the first ballot ; except that a candidate ‘or candidates
hhaving received less than the minimum percentage of total votes
determined by the Council for such election shall not be elected =
if any candidate shall have received more than the maximum

__ percentage of totai votes determined by the Council.

17. If the number of candidates nominated exceeds the number of
such remaining Directors to be elected, the candidates receiving
the largest number of votes shall be elected with the exception of
any candidate who has received less than the minimum percentage
of the total yotes determined by the Council.

8, If all of such remaining Directors are not elected in the first
ballot, a second ballot shall be held. The candidate or candidates
not elected in the first ballot shell again be eligible for election.

9. In the second ballot, voting shall be limited to (1) those
Governors having voted in the first ballot for a candidate not
lected and (ji) those Govemors having voted in the first ballot
for an elected candidate who had already received the maximum
percentage of total votes determined by the Council before taking
their votes into account,

10. In determining when an elected candidate has received more
than the meximum percentage of the votes, the votes of the
Governor casting the largest number of votes for such candidate
shall be counted first, then the votes of the.Governors casting the
next largest number, and s0 on until such percentage is reached,

11. If not all the remaining Directors have been elected after
the second ballot, further ballots shall be held on the same
principles until all the remaining Directors are elected, provided
‘that when only one Director remains to be elected, this Director
may be elected by a simple majority of the remaining votes and
‘shall be deemed to have been elected by all such votes,
