PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THEPROTECTION OF ALL PERSONS FROMENFORCED DISAPPEARANCEACT, No. 5 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 21st of March, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 16.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 23, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

2PL 05071 2977 (03/2017)

Preamble.

Short title.

[Certified on 21st of March, 2018]

L.D.O. 9/2016.

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THEPROTECTION OF ALL PERSONS FROM ENFORCED DISAPPEARANCE; TO

ENSURE THE RIGHT TO JUSTICE AND REPARATION TO VICTIMS OFENFORCED DISAPPEARANCE; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS Sri Lanka became a signatory to theInternational Convention for the Protection of All Personsfrom Enforced Disappearance on December 10, 2015(hereinafter referred to as the Convention):

AND WHEREAS by an instrument of ratification dated May3, 2016, and deposited with the Secretary-General of theUnited Nations Organization on May 25, 2016, Sri Lankaratified the aforesaid Convention:

AND WHEREAS the aforesaid Convention has entered intoforce in respect of Sri Lanka, with effect from June 24, 2016:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary for theGovernment of Sri Lanka to make legislative provision togive effect to Sri Lankas obligations under the aforesaidConvention:

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the International Conventionfor the Protection of All Persons from EnforcedDisappearance Act, No. 5 of 2018 and shall come into forceon the date of Certification in terms of Article 79 of theConstitution.

2International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

ConventionStates.2.The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette,certify the States which are parties to the Convention. AState in respect of which an Order is made under this section,is hereinafter referred to as a Convention State.

3. (1) Any person who, being a public officer or actingin an official capacity, or any person acting with theauthorization, support or acquiescence of the State -

(a)arrests, detains, wrongfully confines, abducts,kidnaps, or in any other form deprives any otherperson of such persons liberty; and

(b)(i)refuses to acknowledge such arrest, detention,wrongful confinement, abduction, kidnapping,or deprivation of liberty; or

(ii)conceals the fate of such other person; or

(iii)fails or refuses to disclose or is unable withoutvalid excuse to disclose the subsequent orpresent whereabouts of such other person,

shall be guilty of the offence of enforced disappearance, andshall after conviction after trial on indictment by the HighCourt, be punished with imprisonment for a term notexceeding twenty years, and also be liable to pay a fine notexceeding one million rupees and shall further be liable topay compensation not less than five hundred thousandrupees to a victim.

(2) Any person who -

(a)wrongfully confines, abducts, kidnaps or inany other form deprives any other person ofsuch persons liberty; and

(b)(i)refuses to acknowledge such wrongfulconfinement, abduction, kidnapping, ordeprivation of liberty; or

EnforcedDisappearanceetc.

3International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

(ii)conceals the fate of such other person; or

(iii)fails or refuses to disclose or is unablewithout valid excuse to disclose thesubsequent or present whereabouts ofsuch other person,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall afterconviction after trial on indictment by the High Court, bepunished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding twentyyears, and also be liable to pay a fine not exceeding onemillion rupees and shall further be liable to paycompensation not less than five hundred thousand rupees toa victim.

(3) A superior who

(a)knows, or consciously disregards informationwhich clearly indicated, that subordinates underthe effective authority and control of suchsuperior were committing or about to commit anoffence under subsection (1);

(b)exercises effective responsibility for and controlover activities which were concerned with theoffence of enforced disappearance; and

(c)fails to take all necessary and reasonablemeasures within his power to prevent or repressthe commission of an offence under sub section(1) or to submit the matter to a law enforcementauthority for investigation and prosecution,

shall be guilty of the offence of enforced disappearance, andshall after conviction after trial on indictment by the HighCourt, be punished with imprisonment for a term notexceeding twenty years, and also be liable to pay a fine notexceeding one million rupees and shall further be liable topay compensation not less than five hundred thousandrupees to a victim.

4International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

(4) In this section wrongful confinement, kidnappingand abduction have the same meaning as in sections 331,350, 351, 352 and 353 of the Penal Code.

4.(1) Any person who aids or abets the commission ofany offence set out in section 3, or conspires or attempts tocommit any offence set out in section 3, shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act, and shall after conviction after trialon indictment by the High Court, be punished withimprisonment for a term not exceeding twenty years, andalso be liable to pay a fine not exceeding one million rupeesand shall further be liable to pay compensation not less thanfive hundred thousand rupees to a victim.

(2) In this section abet and conspiracy have the samemeaning as in sections 100, 101 and 113A respectively, ofthe Penal Code.

5.Every offence under this Act shall be a cognizableoffence and a non-bailable offence, within the meaning,and for the purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979.

6.(1) The High Court of Sri Lanka holden in Colombo,or the High Court established under Article 154P of theConstitution, for the Western Province holden in Colombo,shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, have exclusive jurisdiction to try offences undersections 3 and 4 of this Act.

(2) Where an act constituting an offence under this Act iscommitted outside Sri Lanka, the High Court referred to insubsection (1), shall have the jurisdiction to try such offenceas if it were committed within Sri Lanka, if -

(a)the offender whether he is a citizen of Sri Lanka ornot is present in any territory under the jurisdictionof Sri Lanka;

Cognizable andnon-bailableoffence.

Aiding, abetting,attempt &conspiracy.

High Court totry offencesunder this Act,and penalties.

5International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

(b)the person alleged to have committed the offenceis a citizen of Sri Lanka, or a national of anotherState which is a party to the Convention, or by astateless person who has his habitual residence inSri Lanka; or

(c)such act is committed against, or on board -

(i)a ship flying the flag of Sri Lanka; or

(ii)an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka at the timeof the commission of the offence;

(d)the person in relation to whom the offence is allegedto have been committed is a citizen of Sri Lanka.

7.Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka isarrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall beentitled -

(a)to communicate without delay, with the nearestappropriate representative of the State of which heis a national or which is otherwise entitled to protecthis rights, or if he is a stateless person, with thenearest appropriate representative of the State inthe territory of which he was habitually resident;

(b)to be visited by a representative of that State; and

(c)be informed of his rights under paragraphs (a)and (b).

8.Where a request is made to the Government ofSri Lanka, by or on behalf of the Government of a ConventionState for the extradition of any person accused or convictedof an offence under sections 3 or 4, the Minister shall, onbehalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, forthwith notify theGovernment of the requesting State of the measures which theGovernment of Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take, forthe prosecution or extradition of that person for that offence.

Rights of certainpersons arrestedfor offencesunder this Act.

Minister tonotifyrequesting Stateof measurestaken againstpersons forwhoseextraditionrequest is made.

6International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

9.(1) The provisions of the Mutual Assistance inCriminal Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall, wherever it isnecessary for the investigation and prosecution of an offenceunder sections 3 or 4, be applicable in respect of the providingof assistance as between the Government of Sri Lanka andother States who are either Commonwealth countriesspecified by the Minister by Order under section 2 of theaforesaid Act or Non-Commonwealth countries with whichthe Government of Sri Lanka entered into an agreement interms of the aforesaid Act.

(2) In the case of a country which is neither aCommonwealth country specified by the Minister by Orderunder section 2 of the aforesaid Act nor a Non-Commonwealth country with which the Government ofSri Lanka entered into an agreement in terms of the aforesaidAct, then the Government may afford all such assistance to,and may through the Minister request all such assistancefrom, a Convention country, as may be necessary for theinvestigation and prosecution of an offence under sections3 or 4, to the extent required for the discharge of its obligationsunder the Convention (including assistance relating to thetaking of evidence and statements, the serving of processand the conduct of searches).

(3) The grant of assistance to a Convention country maybe made subject to such terms and conditions as the Ministerthinks fit.

10. Where there is an extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State inforce on the date on which this Act comes into operation,such arrangement shall be deemed for the purposes of theExtradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include provision for theextradition in respect of the offences under this Act.

Existingextraditionarrangementswith ConventionStates deemed toprovide foroffences.

Assistance toConventionStates.

7International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

11.Where there is no extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State,the Minister may by Order published in the Gazette, treatthe Convention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law,No. 8 of 1977 as an extradition arrangement, made by theGovernment of Sri Lanka with the Convention Stateproviding for extradition in respect of the offences underthis Act.

12.The Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 is herebyamended in the Schedule to that Law, by the additionimmediately after item 37 of the items appearing immediatelybefore Part B of that Schedule, of the following item:

(37A) An offence within the scope of the Conventionfor the Protection of All Persons from EnforcedDisappearance Act, No. 5 of 2018..

13.Notwithstanding anything in the Extradition Law,No. 8 of 1977, an offence specified in the Schedule to thatLaw or an offence under this Act, shall for the purposes ofthat Law be deemed not to be an offence of a politicalcharacter or an offence connected with a political offence oran offence inspired by political motives, for the purposesonly of the extradition of any person accused or convictedof any such offence, as between the Government of Sri Lankaand any Convention State, or of affording assistance to aConvention State under section 9 of this Act.

14.(1) Every victim and relative of a victim shall havethe right to know the truth regarding the circumstances of anenforced disappearance, the progress and results of theinvestigation as are carried out by the law enforcementauthorities, and the fate of the disappeared person.

(2) Every victim and relative of a victim shall, subject torestrictions placed by law, have the right to form and freelyparticipate in organizations and associations concerned withattempting to establish the circumstances of offences

Minister maytreat Conventionas an extraditionarrangementbetweenSri Lanka andcertainConventionStates.

Amendment tothe ExtraditionLaw, No. 8 of1977.

Offences underthis Act not tobe politicaloffences for thepurposes of theExtradition Law.

Rights of victimsand relatives vis--vis lawenforcementauthorities.

8International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

committed under section 3 and the fate of disappearedpersons, and to assist victims of offences under section 3.

(3) Where there are reasonable grounds for believing thata person has been subjected to an offence under section 3,law enforcement authorities shall undertake aninvestigation, even if there has been no formal complaint.

(4) Law enforcement authorities shall take all appropriatemeasures to search for and locate the disappeared person,and in the case of a person held in secret detention, procurethe release of such person, and in the event of death, tolocate, respect and return the remains of such person.

15.(1) No person shall be held in secret detention.

(2) Any person deprived of liberty shall have the right tocommunicate with and be visited by his relatives, attorney-at-law or any other person of his choice, subject only to theconditions established by written law.

(3) Law enforcement authorities, and the Human RightsCommission of Sri Lanka, shall have access to the placeswhere persons are deprived of liberty.

(4) Law enforcement authorities shall assure thecompilation and maintenance of up-to-date official registersor records of persons deprived of liberty, which shall bepromptly made available, upon request, to any judicial orother competent authority or institution authorized for thatpurpose by the law, and shall contain -

(a)the identity of the person deprived of liberty;

(b)the date, time and place where the person wasdeprived of liberty and the identity of the authoritythat deprived the person of liberty;

Obligationsconcerningdeprivation ofliberty.

9International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

(c)the authority that ordered the deprivation of libertyand the grounds for the deprivation of liberty;

(d)the authority responsible for supervising thedeprivation of liberty;

(e)the place of deprivation of liberty, the date andtime of admission to the place of deprivation ofliberty and the authority responsible for the placeof deprivation of liberty;

(f)information relating to the state of health of theperson deprived of liberty;

(g)in the event of death during the deprivation ofliberty, the circumstances and cause of death andthe destination of the remains; and

(h)the date and time of release or transfer to anotherplace of deprivation of liberty, the destination ofthe place of deprivation of liberty to which a personis transferred, and the authority responsible for thetransfer.

16.(1) Any relative of a person deprived of liberty, therepresentative of a person deprived of liberty or an attorney-at-law of a person deprived of liberty shall have the right toaccess the following information:-

(a)the person or authority that ordered the deprivationof liberty;

(b)the date, time and place where the person wasdeprived of liberty and admitted to the place ofdeprivation of liberty;

(c)the authority responsible for supervising thedeprivation of liberty;

Rights ofrelatives,representativesand attorneys-at-law.

10International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

(d)the whereabouts of the person deprived of liberty,including, in the event of a transfer to another placeof deprivation of liberty, the destination and theauthority responsible for the transfer;

(e)the date, time and place of release;

(f)information relating to the state of health of theperson deprived of liberty; and

(g)in the event of death during the deprivation ofliberty, the circumstances and cause of death andthe destination of the remains.

(2) Any person referred to in subsection (1) of this section,as well as persons participating in the investigation, shall beprotected from any ill-treatment, intimidation or sanction asa result of the search for information concerning a persondeprived of liberty.

(3) Without prejudice to consideration of the lawfulnessof the deprivation of a persons liberty, any person referredto in subsection (1) shall have the right to a prompt andeffective judicial remedy as a means of obtaining withoutdelay the information referred to in subsection (1) of thissection, and such right to a remedy shall not be suspendedor restricted in any circumstances.

17.(1) any person, including a person suspected ofhaving committed an offence under sections 3 or 4 of thisAct, who -

(a)interferes with the conduct of an investigation;

(b)influences the progress of an investigation bymeans of pressure or acts of intimidation or reprisalaimed at the complainant, witnesses, relatives ofthe disappeared person or their attorney-at-law orpersons participating in the investigation;

Interferencewith andinfluencinginvestigations,and failure torecord or refusalto provideinformation.

11International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

(c)being the officer responsible for the official register,intentionally fails to record the deprivation ofliberty of any person, or records any informationwhich he knew to be inaccurate;

(d)refuses to provide information on the deprivationof liberty of a person, or provides inaccurateinformation, notwithstanding the fact that legalrequirements for providing such information havebeen met,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)shall after conviction after trial on indictment by the HighCourt, be punished with imprisonment for a term notexceeding seven years and to a fine not exceeding fivehundred thousand rupees.

18.(1) No person shall be expelled, returned,surrendered or extradited to another State where there aresubstantial grounds for believing that such person would bein danger of being subjected to enforced disappearance.

(2) For the purpose of determining whether there are suchgrounds referred to in subsection (1) of this section, allrelevant considerations, including, where applicable, theexistence in the State concerned of a consistent pattern ofgross, flagrant or mass violations of human rights or of seriousviolations of international humanitarian law shall be takeninto account.

(3) The Minister may make regulations prescribing thecriteria upon which a person may be expelled, returned,surrendered or extradited to another State.

19.Without prejudice to the use of information incriminal proceedings relating to an offence committed underthis Act, or the exercise of the right to obtain reparations,

No extraditionwhere there is apossibility ofsuch personbeing subjectedto enforceddisappearance.

Privacy and dataprotection.

12International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

personal information, including medical and genetic data,which is collected or transmitted within the framework ofthe search for a disappeared person, shall not be used ormade available for purposes other than the search for thedisappeared person, and shall not be collected, processed,used or stored in a manner that infringes or has the effect ofinfringing the fundamental rights and freedoms or dignityof a person.

20.(1) Without prejudice to any judicial or other remedyprovided for by or under any written law, any person with alegitimate interest shall be entitled to apply by way ofpetition addressed to the High Court seeking the enforcementof sections 7, 14, 15, 16 or 19 of this Act and to plead forsuch relief or redress as shall be prayed for in such petition.

(2) The jurisdiction of the High Court may be invokedunder subsection (1) of this section by any person with alegitimate interest, by himself or through any other personon his behalf, within three months of the date on which thenon-enforcement of sections 7, 14, 15, 16 or 19 of this Actbecomes known to such person, as the case may be.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherlaw, the High Court may, where it considers it appropriate atany stage of the proceeding relating to a petition made to itunder subsection (1) of this section, refer such matter to theHuman Rights Commission of Sri Lanka for an inquiry andreport and request such Commission to submit its report tothe High Court within such time as shall be stipulated by theCourt for that purpose.

(4) The High Court shall have the power to grant therelief prayed for in a petition made to it under subsection (1)or grant such other relief or make such direction as it mayconsider just and equitable, in the circumstances of the case.

(5) Any person aggrieved by an order made by the HighCourt in any petition filed under this section, shall have a

Enforcement ofthe provisions ofthis Act.

13International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

right of appeal to the Supreme Court against such orderwithin six weeks of the date on which such order is made.

21.The Minister may from time to time issue guidelinesor such general or special directions as may be required forthe effective implementation of the principles and provisionsof the Convention to such extent as is necessary to give fulleffect to Sri Lankas international obligations under theConvention.

22.(1) Without prejudice to any provision in this Act,the Minister may make regulations for the purpose of givingeffect to the principles and provisions of this Act or anymatter which is prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare required or authorized under this Act to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

23.The provisions of this Act shall have effectnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other writtenlaw and accordingly in the event of any inconsistency orconflict between the provisions of this Act and such otherwritten law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

24.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Provisions ofthis Act toprevail overother writtenlaw.

Regulations.

Minister to issueguidelines ordirections.

14International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

Interpretation.25.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -

effective authority and control means the powerto issue orders to subordinates and thecapacity to ensure compliance with suchorders;

deprivation of liberty means the confinementof a person to a particular place, where suchperson does not consent to that confinement;

Human Rights Commission of Sri Lankameans the Human Rights Commission ofSri Lanka, established by the Human RightsCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996;

law enforcement authority means a police officeror any other person or institution authorizedby or under any written law to investigateinto the commission of an offence;

secret detention means circumstances in whicha person is held in a place that is not a placeof detention authorized by or under anywritten law, and where the whereabouts orfate of the person are not known to hisrelatives or others;

victim means the disappeared person and anyindividual who has suffered harm as the directresult of an enforced disappearance.

15International Convention for the Protection ofAll Persons from Enforced DisappearanceAct, No. 5 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.