PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL AUTHORITY ON TOBACCO ANDALCOHOL ACT, No. 27 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 29th August, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 19.00Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 01, 2006

1National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

[Certified on 29th August 2006]

L. D. O. 2/2005

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONALAUTHORITY ON TOBACCO AND ALCOHOL FOR THE PURPOSE OFIDENTIFYING THE POLICY ON PROTECTING PUBLIC HEALTH ; FOR THE

ELIMINATION OF TOBACCO AND ALCOHOL RELATED HARM THROUGH THE

ASSESSMENT AND MONITORING OF THE PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND

CONSUMPTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ALCOHOL PRODUCTS ; TO

MAKE PROVISION DISCOURAGING PERSONS ESPECIALLY CHILDREN FROM

SMOKING OR CONSUMING ALCOHOL, BY CURTAILING THEIR ACCESS TO

TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ALCOHOL PRODUCTS ; AND FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the National Authority onTobacco and Alcohol Act, No. 27 of 2006 and shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may, appoint byOrder published in the Gazette. Different dates may beappointed in respect of different provisions of this Act.

PART I

2.(1) There shall be established an Authority which shallbe called the National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the Authority).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3.(1) The Authority shall consist of the followingmembers appointed by the Minister

(a)an officer, not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary, of the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Health, nominated by that Minister ;

Establishment ofthe NationalAuthority onTobacco andAlcohol.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Members of theAuthority.

2National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(b)an officer, not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary, of the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Justice, nominated bythat Minister ;

(c)an officer, not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary, of the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Education, nominated by thatMinister ;

(d)an officer, not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary, of the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Media, nominated by thatMinister ;

(e)an officer, not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary, of the Ministry of the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Trade, nominated by that Minister ;

(f)an officer, not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary, of the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Sports and Youth Affairs, nominatedby that Minister ;

(g)The Chairman of the National Dangerous DrugsControl Board ;

(h)a representative of the Commissioner-General ofExcise nominated by the Commissioner-General ofExcise ;

(i)a representative of the Inspector-General of Policenominated by the Inspector-General of Police ; and

(j)five members appointed by the Minister from amongpersons who have wide experience and knowledge,in the field of medicine, and other fields related totobacco products and alcohol products.

3National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(2) The members appointed under paragraph (j) ofsubsection (1) are hereinafter referred to as appointedmembers.

4.A person shall be disqualified from being appointed,or continuing, as a member of the Authority

(a)if he is or becomes a member of Parliament or anyProvincial Council or any local authority ;

(b)if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

(c)if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in anyother country, found or declared to be of unsoundmind ;

(d)if he is serving, or has served, a sentence ofimprisonment imposed by any Court in Sri Lankaor any other country ;

(e)if he holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by, or on behalf of the Authority ; or

(f)if he has any financial or other interest as is likelyto affect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Authority.

5.(1) An appointed member of the Authority may resignhis office by letter addressed to the Minister and suchresignation shall be effective from the date on which it isaccepted by the Minister.

(2) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove anappointed member of the Authority from office.

(3) Where an appointed member of the Authority dies,resigns or is removed from office, the Minister shall, havingregard to the provisions of section 3, appoint another memberin his place.

(4) A member appointed under subsection (3) shall holdoffice for the unexpired part of the term of office of the memberwhom he succeeds.

Disqualificationfor being amember.

Removal andresignation ofmembers.

4National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

6.Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) ofsection 5 the term of office of an appointed member of theAuthority shall be three years and such member shall beeligible for re-appointment.

7.The members of the Authority shall be paid suchremuneration or allowances at such rates as may bedetermined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

8.(1) The Minister may appoint one of the appointedmembers of the Authority to be the Chairman of the Authority,and such Chairman shall be the Chief Executive Officer ofthe Authority.

(2) The terms of office of the Chairman shall be three yearsand he shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(3) If the Chairman is by reason of illness or absence fromSri Lanka, temporarily unable to perform the duties of hisoffice, the Minister may appoint another member of theAuthority to act in his place.

(4) The Chairman shall not engage in any paidemployment outside the duties of his office, without theapproval of the Minister.

(5) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairmanby letter addressed to the Minister and such resignation shallbe effective from the date on which it is accepted by the Minister.

(6) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove theChairman from the office of Chairman.

(7) Subject to the provisions of subsections (4) and (5),the term of office of the Chairman shall be the period of hismembership of the Authority.

9.(1) The Chairman shall, if present, preside at everymeeting of the Authority. In the absence of the Chairmanfrom any such meeting, a member elected by the memberspresent, shall preside at such meeting.

Term of officeof members.

Remuneration orallowance ofmembers.

Chairman of theAuthority.

Meetings ofthe Authority.

5National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Authority shall beseven members.

(3) The Chairman or other member presiding at anymeeting of the Authority, shall in addition to his own vote,have a casting vote.

(4) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section, theAuthority may regulate the procedure in regard to themeetings of the Authority and the transaction of business atsuch meetings.

10.No act, decision or proceeding of the Authority, shallbe deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence ofany vacancy of the Authority or any defect in the appointmentof any member thereof.

11.(1) The seal of the Authority may be determined anddevised by the Authority, and may be altered in such manneras may be determined by the Authority.

(2) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody ofsuch person as the Authority may decide from time to time.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except with the sanction of theAuthority and in the presence of the Chairman and onemember who shall sign the instrument or document in tokenof their presence.

(4) The Authority shall maintain a register of theinstruments and documents to which the seal of the Authorityhas been affixed.

12.In the exercise of its powers and the discharge of itsfunctions, the Authority shall comply with such general orspecial directions as may from time to time be issued to it bythe Minister :

Provided that compliance by the Authority with anygeneral or special direction so issued shall be subject to theprovisions of any other law for the time being inforce.

Authority toexercise itspowers under thedirection of theMinister.

Seal of theAuthority.

Acts notinvalidated byreason of avacancy.

6National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

13.(1) The Authority may delegate any of the powersand functions of the Authority to the Chairman.

(2) The Chairman to whom any of the powers and functionsof the Authority have been delegated under subsection (1)shall exercise and discharge the powers and functions sodelegated, subject to the general or special directions of theAuthority.

14.The functions of the Authority shall be to

(a)advise the Government on the implementation of theNational Policy on Tobacco and Alcohol ;

(b)encourage and assist health promotion through themedia sponsorships and community based projects ;

(c)recommend measures to minimize the harm arisingfrom the consumption of tobacco products andalcohol products ;

(d)recommend measures in consultation with theNational Dangerous Drugs Control Board, for theelimination or minimization of illicit drug use;

(e)recommend legal, taxation, administrative and othermeasures necessary for the implementation of theNational Policy on Tobacco and Alcohol ;

(f)monitor and evaluate the implementation of suchpolicy ;

(g)evaluate the impact of policy measures and advisethe government on such modifications to the Policyas may be necessary ;

(h)encourage and assist research on issues relating totobacco and alcohol ;

(i)monitor economic, health and other issues relatingto the production, consumption and marketing oftobacco products and alcohol products ;

Delegation ofpowers andfunctions of theAuthority.

Functions of theAuthority.

7National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(j)to conduct, promote and co-ordinate research inrelation to the use of tobacco and alcohol ;

(k)secure participation of all necessary governmental,or non-governmental agencies and private sectororganisations in the implementation of the NationalPolicy on Tobacco and Alcohol ;

(l)encourage active community participation in theimplementation and monitoring of the NationalPolicy on Tobacco and Alcohol ;

(m)receive communications from the public on issuesrelating to tobacco and alcohol and to recommendnecessary action in relation thereto theimplementing agencies ;

(n)act as the co-ordinating agency for all activitiescarried out by the government and non-governmental agencies and organisations relatingto minimizing the harm arising from the productionand consumption of tobacco products and alcoholproducts ;

(o)monitor the progress of all investigations relatingto tobacco and alcohol ;

(p)to liase with local, regional and internationalorganisations on issues relating to tobacco andalcohol.

15.The Authority shall have the power

(a)to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, anymovable or immovable property ;

(b)to borrow, with or without security, moneys, on suchterms and conditions as may be approved by theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance for thepurpose of discharging its functions ;

Powers of theAuthority.

8National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(c)to accept gifts, grants or donations, whether in cashor otherwise, and to apply them for discharging itsfunctions ;

(d)to appoint such officers and servants as may benecessary for discharging the functions of theAuthority ;

(e)to appoint sub-committees or to co-ordinate withunits at provincial level, for the effective dischargeof its functions ;

(f)to determine the remuneration payable to the officersand servants so appointed ;

(g)to establish a social security scheme, and providewelfare and recreational facilities for its officers andservants ;

(h)to enter into and perform all such contracts whetherin or outside Sri Lanka as may be necessary for theexercise of the powers and discharge of the functionsof the Authority ;

(i)to inquire and investigate into any matter indischarging of the functions of the Authority ;

(j)to recommend adherence to such InternationalTreaties and Conventions dealing with Tobacco andAlcohol as the Government may ratify and accedeto ;

(k)generally, to do all such other things as are necessaryto facilitate the proper discharge of the functions ofthe Authority.

16.For the purposes of this Act

(a)any Food and Drugs Inspector or Public HealthInspector as appointed by the Minister ; and

(b)any Polic Officer, or an Excise Officer,

shall be an Authorized Officer of the Authority for the purposesof this Act.

AuthorizedOfficers.

9National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

17.(1) Where any Authorized Officer has reasonablegrounds to believe that there has been a violation of anyprovision of this Act or of any regulation made thereunder,he may

(a)at any reasonable time enter any place where hebelieves any tobacco product or alcohol product ismanufactured, prepared, preserved, packaged,exposed for sale or stored and examine any suchtobacco product or alcohol product and takesamples thereof and also examine anything that hebelieves is used for the manufacture, preparation,preservation, packaging or storing of that tobaccoproduct or alcohol product ;

(b)for the purpose of carrying out effective searchoperation, stop or detain any vehicle in which hebelieves that any tobacco product or alcohol productis being conveyed, search that vehicle and examineany tobacco product or alcohol product which isbeing so conveyed and take samples thereof ;

(c)open and examine any receptacle or package thathe believes contains any tobacco product or alcoholproduct ;

(d)seize and detain for such time as may be necessaryany tobacco product or alcohol product by meansof, or in relation to which he believes any provisionof this Act or regulation made thereunder has beencontravened,

in furtherance of the powers, duties or functions conferred onor assigned to him under the Act.

(2) An Authorized Officer acting under this section may, ifso required, produce his authority.

(3) The owner or person in charge of a place which by anAuthorized Officer enters in pursuance of subsection (1) andevery person found therein shall give the Authorized Officerall reasonable assistance in his power and furnish him withsuch information and such samples as he may require.

Powers ofAuthorizedOfficer.

10National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(4) Information obtained by an Authorized Officer undersubsection (3) shall not be disclosed except to a GovernmentDepartment or to a Court unless other is required for thepurposes of administration or enforcement of this Act.

(5) No person shall obstruct any Authorized Officer actingin the exercise of his powers under this Act or any regulationsmade thereunder.

(6) No person shall knowingly make any false ormisleading statements either orally or in writing to anyAuthorized Officer, engaged in the exercise of his powersunder this Act or any regulations made thereunder.

(7) Every vendor of a tobacco product or alcohol productshall if so required by an Authorized Officer, disclose to theAuthorized Officer the name, address and other particulars asmay be required of the person from whom that vendorpurchased that tobacco product or alcohol product.

(8) Any tobacco product or alcohol product seized underthis Act may, at the option of an Authorized Officer, be keptor stored in the building or place where it was seized or mayat his discretion be removed to any other place.

(9) It shall be the duty of every Authorized Officer toforthwith inform the Authority of any seizure made underthis Act.

18.Where a tobacco product or alcohol product inrespect of which an offence has been committed is seizedunder this Act by an Authorized Officer, such tobacco productor alcohol product may, where the Authority is satisfied thatthere has been a contravention of any of the provisions ofthis Act or any regulation made thereunder and uponobtaining an Order of a Magisrate be destroyed or otherwisedisposed of as the Magistrate may direct.

19.(1) An Authorized officer shall submit any tobaccoproduct or alcohol product seized by him or any portionthereof or any sample taken by him, unless destroyed asprovided for in section 18, to the Government Analyst foranalysis or examination.

Produce inrespect ofarticles seized.

Analysis.

11National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(2) After the Government Analyst has made the analysis orexamination of any tobacco product or alcohol productsubmitted to him under subsection (1), he shall issue a certificateor report thareon to the Authority or to the Court, setting out theresults of his analysis or examination as the case may be.

20.The Minister may on the advice of the Authorityissue general or special directions not inconsistent with theprovisions of any written law for the time being in force toany Government Department or statutory institution,requiring any such Department or Institution to carry outsuch acts as are specified in such direction relating to the useof tobacco products and alcohol product.

21.(1) The Authority may appoint such officers andservants as it considers necessary for the efficient dischargeof its functions.

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection(1) shall be remunerated in such manner and at such rates andshall be subject to such conditions of service as may bedetermined by the Authority with the approval of the Minister.

(3) At the request of the Authority an officer in the publicservice may, with the consent of the officer and the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofPublic Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staffof the Authority or with like consent, be permanentlyappointed to such staff.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

(6) Where the Authority employs any person who hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service to the Authority by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such agreement.

Staff of theAuthority.

Minister mayissue directions.

12National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

22.(1) The Authority shall have its own fund (hereinafterreferred to as the Fund).

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund

(a)all such sums as may be made available to theAuthority out of the Consolidated Fund ; and

(b)all such sums of money received by the Authorityby way of gifts, grants or donations whether fromwhithin Sri Lanka or abroad.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums as arerequired to defray any expenditure incurred by the Authorityin the exercise, and discharge of its powers and functionsunder this Act or under any other written law and all suchsums as are required to be paid out of the Fund.

23.(1) The financial year of the Authority shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.

24.(1) For the purpose of enabling the Authority toexercise, and discharge any of the powers, and functions undersection 14 and section 15 of this Act, the Authority, or anyperson authorized in that behalf by the Authority may by noticein writing require any manufacturer or trader to furnish to theAuthority or to the person authorized, within such period asshall be specified in the notice, all such returns or informationrelating to any tobacco product or alcohol product, as areknown to be, or are, in the possession of such person.

(2) It shall be the duty of the manufacturer or trader who isrequired to furnish any return or information by a noticeunder subsection (1) to comply with such requirement withinthe time specified in such notice, except where such personis precluded from divulging such information under theprovisions of any law.

(3) The Authority or any member thereof or any officer orservant of the Authority, shall not disclose to any person anyinformation in the possession of the Authority or use anyreturns or information furnished under subsection (1), unlessrequired to do so by a court of law or for the purposes ofdischarging the functions of the Authority as the case may be.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts.

Returns andinformation.

Fund of theAuthority.

13National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

25.The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Commission to InvestigateAllegations of Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994 andthe provisions of that Act, shall be construed accordingly.

26. All members, officers and servants of the Authorityshall be deemed to be public servants within the meaningand for the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

27.(1) Where any immovable property is required to beacquired for any specific purpose of the Authority and theMinister by Order published in the Gazette approves of theproposed acquisition for that purpose, that property shall bedeemed to be required for a public purpose and mayaccordingly be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act(Chapter 420).

(2) Any sum payable, for the acquisition of any immovableproperty under the Land Acquisition Act for the Authorityshall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority.

28. Any expenses incurred by any such person in anyaction or prosecution instituted against him in respect of anyact which is done by him under this Act or on the direction ofthe Authority shall be paid by the Authority, if the Courtholds that such act was done in good faith.

29.The Minister may, from time to time, direct theAuthority to furnish to the Minister in such form as he mayrequire returns, accounts and other information with respectto the work of the Authority and the Authority shall carry outevery such direction.

30.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are authorized or required by this Act tobe made.

Officers andservants of theAuthoritydeemed to bepublic servants.

Authority to be ascheduledinstitution withinthe meaning ofthe Commissionto InvestigateAllegations ofBribery orCorruption Act,No. 19 of 1994.

Acquisition ofimmovableproperty underthe LandAcquisition Act.

Regulations.

Furnishing ofinformation tothe Minister.

Expensesincurred by anyperson to be paidby the Authority.

14National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1), the Minister may makeregulations

(a)identifying the tobacco products that are harmful orinjurious to human health ;

(b)specifying the types or categories of tobaccoproducts which do not generate smoke.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall after thirtydays of its publication in the Gazette, be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any regulation which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date ofsuch disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is deemed to be rescinded shall be publishedin the Gazette.

PART II

31.(1) A person shall not sell, offer for sale, or permit orpromote the sale of any tobacco product or alcohol productto any person under twenty-one years of age.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act andshall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistratebe liable to a fine not exceeding four thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

(3) It shall be a defence to any person found guilty of anoffence under this section to prove that he took all reasonablesteps to ascertain that the person to whom he sold the tobaccoproduct or alcohol product was above twenty-one years of age.

Prohibition ofthe sale of anytobacco productor alcoholproduct topersons undertwenty one yearsof age.

15National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

32.(1) A person shall not install, or permit the installationand operation of, any automatic vending machine thatdispenses, or is capable of dispensing, any tobacco product oralcohol product in any place to which the public have access.

(2) In this section, automatic vending machine thatdispenses or is capable of dispensing any tobacco product oralcohol product means any self service machine that

(a)on the insertion of a coin or token or any other meansdispenses by way of sale, any tobacco product oralcohol product whether automatically or with theassistance of the purchaser ; and

(b)does not require replenishment between each suchsale.

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act andshall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistratebe liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

33.(1) A person shall not manufacture, import, sell oroffer for sale, any tobacco product as may be prescribed byregulations.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act andshall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistratebe liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

34.(1) A manufacturer of a tobacco product shall causeto be displayed, conspicuously and in easily legible print,on every packet containing tobacco products manufacturedby such manufacturer, a label of such dimensions as may beprescribed containing a statement of the tar and nicotinecontent in each tobacco product in such packet and suchhealth warnings as may be prescribed. Different dimensionsmay be prescribed in respect of packets of different sizes.

Prohibition oninstallation ofvendingmachines fordispensingtobacco productor alcoholproduct.

Prohibition ofthe manufactureor sale oftobacco productswhich areprescribed.

Prohibition onthe sale oftobaccoproducts withouthealth warningand the tar,nicotine contentin each tobaccoproduct.

16National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(2) A person shall not sell or offer for sale, a packetcontaining tobacco products unless there is displayed onsuch packet, a label of the prescribed dimensions containinga statement of the tar and nicotine content in each tobaccoproduct in such packet and the prescribed health warning.

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) or subsection (2) shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act, and shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding two thousand rupees or to imprisonment for aperiod not exceeding one year or to both such fine andimprisonment.

35.(1) A person shall not publish or cause to bepublished, or authorize the publication of, a tobaccoadvertisement or an alcohol advertisement.

(2) It shall not be a contravention of subsection (1)

(a)to display a trade mark or a brand name of a tobaccoproduct or alcohol on such tobacco product oralcohol product or on any package containing suchtobacco product or alcohol product ;

(b)for any manufacturer or importer of a tobaccoproduct or alcohol product to send a notice to adistributor of such product, describing the tobaccoproducts or alcohol product manufactured orimported, as the case may be, by such manufactureror importer, as the case may be, and indicating theirrespective prices ;

(c)to display, inside a place where tobacco products oralcohol product are available for sale to the public,a notice of the prescribed dimensions, identifyingthe tobacco products or alcohol product that areavailable for sale in that place and indicating theirrespective prices ;

Prohibition oftobacco oralcoholadvertisements.

17National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(d)to insert in a book, magazine or newspaper,available in Sri Lanka but printed outside Sri Lanka,a tobacco advertisement or alcohol advertisement,unless such book, magazine or newspaper isintended for sale or distribution only or mainly inSri Lanka ;

(e)to transmit or broadcast, to Sri Lanka from outsideSri Lanka a tobacco advertisement or alcoholadvertisement or any television programme orradio programme containing a tobaccoadvertisement or alcohol advertisement, unless suchtransmission or broadcast, as the case may be, isintended to be seen or heard, as the case may be,only or mainly by viewers or listeners, as the casemay be, in Sri Lanka ;

(f)to publish, transmit or broadcast any scientific,educational, social, medical technical or othermaterial or information beneficial to the publicpertaining to tobacco products or alcohol products.

(3) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection(1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liableto a fine not exceeding two million rupees.

(4) In this section

alcohol advertisement means any distinctive writing,still or moving picture, sign, symbol or colours orother visual image or any audible message or anycombination of the aforesaid that promotes or isintended to promote

(a)the drinking of liquor ;

(b)the purchase or use of an alcohol product ;

(c)a trade mark registered in respect of anyalcohol product or articles that includealcohol products ;

(d)a brand name associated with an alcoholproducts ;

(e)the name of the manufacturer of an alcoholproducts.

18National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

publish in relation to a tobacco advertisement oralcohol advertisement includes the following:

(a)the displaying, screening or playing, of theadvertisement or anything containing theadvertisement so that it can be seen or heardin or from any place or vehicle to which thepublic have access ;

(b)the insertion of the advertisement in anewspaper, magazine, programme, leaflet,handbill, or other document that is available,or distributed, to the public or a section of thepublic ;

(c)the inclusion of the advertisement in a film,video, radio programme or televisionprogramme or through the internet that is seenor heard, or intended to be seen or heard bythe public or a section of the public ;

(d)the sale, hire or supply or the offer for sale,hire or supply, of the advertisement oranything containing the advertisement to thepublic or a section of the public.

tobacco advertisement means any writing, still ormoving picture, sign, symbol or distinctive coloursor other visual image or any audible message or anycombination of the aforesaid that promotes or isintended to promote

(a)smoking ;

(b)the purchase or use of a tobacco product;

(c)a trade mark registered in respect of a tobaccoproduct or articles that include tobaccoproducts ;

(d)a brand name associated with a tobaccoproduct ;

(e) the name of the manufacturer of a tobaccoproduct.

19National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

36. (1) A person shall not use a brand name or trade markof, or any symbol associated with, a tobacco product or alcoholproduct or the name of a manufacturer of a tobacco product oralcohol product in association, whether directly or indirectly,with such tobacco product or alcohol product

(a)in connection with the promotion of anyeducational, cultural, social or sportingorganization, activity or event ;

(b)in such a manner as indicates, or acknowledges, thatany financial or other assistance has been given by,or on behalf of, the manufacturer, importer ordistributor of such tobacco product or alcohol producttowards such organization, activity or event.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act andshall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistratebe liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a period not exceeding two years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

37.(1) A manufacturer, importer or distributor of anytobacco product or alcohol product shall not

(a)distribute any tobacco product or alcohol product ;

(b)supply any tobacco product or alcohol product toany other person for subsequent distribution,

free of charge.

(2) A person shall not offer any prize, gift, cash rebate, discountor the right to participate in any contest, lottery or game to thepurchaser of a tobacco product or alcohol product inconsideration of the purchase of that product or to any person inconsideration of the furnishing of evidence of such purchase.

(3) It shall not be a contravention of subsection (2) for amanufacturer, importer, or distributor of a tobacco product oralcohol product to offer trade discount at the rates prevalentin the relevant trade.

Prohibition ofsponsorships &c.

Freedistribution&c. oftobaccoproducts oralcoholproductprohibited.

20National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(4) A manufacturer, importer or distributor of a tobaccoproduct or alcohol product who contravenes the provisionsof subsection (1) or any person who contravenes the provisionsof subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence under this Actand shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistratebe liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or toimprisonment for a period not exceeding two years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

38.(1) A person shall not distribute, sell or offer for sale,any article which is not a tobacco product or an alcoholproduct, bearing the trade mark, characteristic symbols,distinctive logo, or brand name of a tobacco product or anyalcohol product.

(2) A person shall not manufacture or import for sale, ordistribute free of charge, any article which is not a tobaccoproduct having the appearance of a tobacco product.

(3) Any manufacturer or importer who contravenes theprovisions of subsection (1) or any person who contravenesthe provisions of subsection (2) or subsection (3) shall beguilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a finenot exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment for aperiod not exceeding two years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

39.(1) No person shall smoke or allow any person tosmoke any tobacco product within any enclosed public place.

(2) Any person who being the owner, occupier, proprietor,manager, trustee or person in charge of any enclosed publicplace shall ensure that no person smokes any tobacco productwithin any such enclosed public place :

Provided however,

(a)any hotel, guest house or lodge having thirty roomsor more ;

Offencesrelating to trademarks oftobaccoproducts andalcoholproducts.

Smoking in anarea to whichthe public haveaccess to be anoffence.

21National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(b)any restaurant or club having the seating capacityof a minimum of thirty persons ; or

(c)an airport,

may, notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), havewithin its premises an enclosed space or enclosed area as thecase may be, set aside exclusively for smoking. Such areashall be provided with adequate ventilation and shall conformto the prescribed air quality standards.

(3) The Minister may, in consultation with the Director-General of Health Services, from time to time, issue generalor special directions not inconsistent with any written law, asmay be required for the enforcement and monitoring of theprovisions of this section.

(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsections (1) and (2) shall be guilty of an offence underthis Act, and shall on conviction after summary trial before aMagistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousandrupees or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding oneyear or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(5) For the purposes of this section,

public place means any place to which the public haveaccess, whether as of right or otherwise,

enclosed public place includes any governmentdepartment, statutory authority or board or publicinstitution, office premises, bank, court house,auditorium, sports complex, hospital, clinic,dispensary, laboratory, school, university or othereducational institution, library, museums, places ofworship, hotel, guest house, lodge, hostel, restaurant,club, internet cafe, cinema, theatre, supermarket,airport, a waiting room in a railway station or busterminal, any public conveyance, building, any builta in area and lift.

22National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

40.Every manufacturer and every importer of a tobaccoproduct shall, at such intervals and in accordance with suchrequirements, as may be prescribed, in consultation with thenecessary Government Analyst conduct tests for the purposeof identifying the constituents of each brand of tobaccoproduct manufactured or imported, as for the case may be, bysuch manufacturer or importer and for the respective quantitiesof those constituents, and shall cause the results of such teststo be sent to the Authority.

41.Where any person appears, or is produced, before aCourt accused or suspected of committing an offence undersubsection (1) of section 151, or subsection (1A) of section151, or subsection (2) of section 151 of the Motor Traffic Act,the court may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary insuch law, suspend the driving licence issued to such personunder the aforesaid Act until the conclusion of the trial ofsuch offence; and if after trial such person is convicted ofsuch offence may suspend such driving licence for suchfurther period as may be determined by the Court havingregard to all the circumstances of the case.

42.Where in any prosecution instituted under this Act,any question arises as to whether any article is a tobaccoproduct or is an alcohol product or as to the constituents of atobacco product or an alcohol product, a Certificatepurporting to be under the hand of the Government Analyst,to the effect that the article referred to in the Certificate is atobacco product or any alcohol product or as to theconstituents of the tobacco product or any alcohol productreferred to in the Certificate, shall be admissible in evidencewithout proof of signature and shall be prima facie evidenceof the facts stated therein.

43.Every person who

(a)fails to furnish any return or information incompliance with any requirement imposed on himunder this Act;

(b)knowingly makes any false statement in any returnor information furnished by him;

Provisionrelating to theMotor TrafficAct.

Evidence.

Miscellaneousoffences.

Tests forconstituentsof tobaccoproducts.

23National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

(c)being a member, officer or servant of the Authoritydiscloses any information obtained by him in or inconnection with the exercise of his powers or thedischarge of his functions under this Act, to anyperson for any purpose other than a purpose forwhich he is authorized to disclose such informationby this Act; or

(d)contravenes the provisions of this Act or anyregulation made thereunder, or fails to comply withany direction given to him by the Authority,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Every person who commits an offence under this Actfor which no punishment is expressly provided for shall onconviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a finenot exceeding two thousand rupees or to imprisonment for aperiod not exceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

(3) Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector or officer of that body corporate; or

(b)if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of thatfirm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence :

Provided however, that a director or an officer of suchbody corporate or partner of such firm shall not be deemed tobe guilty of such offence if he proves that such offence wascommitted without his knowledge or that he used all duediligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

(4) An officer or servant authorized in writing by theAuthority shall be deemed to be a public officer within themeaning of section 136 of the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979, for the purpose of instituting proceedingsin respect of offences under this Act.

24National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

44.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

45.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

alcohol product means a beverage containing a volumeof one per centum (1%) or more of alcohol;

Chairman means the Chairman of the Authorityappointed under section 8 ;

local authority means any Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyauthority created or established by or under any lawto exercise perform and discharge, powers, dutiesand functions corresponding to or similar to thepowers duties and functions exercised, performedand discharged by any such Council or Sabha ;

National Dangerous Drugs Control Board means theNational Dangerous Drugs Control Boardestablished by the National Dangerous DrugsControl Board Act, No. 11 of 1984;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished under Chapter XVIIA of theConstitution ;

tar means the raw anhydrous nicotine free condensateof smoke ;

tobacco product means any product manufacturedwholly or partly from tobacco and which is intendedto be smoked, sniffed, sucked or chewed.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Interpretation.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.