PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 16, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th of September, 2022]

TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OF WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 23 OF 2022

1Termination of Employment of Workmen(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022

Short title

L.D.O. 24/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OF WORKMEN(SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 45 OF 1971

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Termination ofEmployment of Workmen (Special Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022.

2.Section 2 of the Termination of Employment ofWorkmen (Special Provisions) Act, No. 45 of 1971(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution forthe words fine not exceeding one thousandrupees of the words fine not exceeding twentythousand rupees;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)thereof, of the following:

(3A) (1) Where an employer is convicted of anoffence under subsection (3), such employer shallbe liable, if he continuously fails to comply withthe decision made by the Commissioner-Generalunder subsection (2), to pay the workman, inaddition to any fine imposed under subsection (3),an additional fine of five hundred rupees for eachday on which the noncompliance is continued afterthe conviction.

(2) Where any employer fails to pay any sumpayable to a workman under paragraph (e) ofsubsection (2), such amount may be recovered by

Amendment ofsection 2 of Act,No. 45 of 1971

[Certified on 16th of September, 2022]

2Termination of Employment of Workmen(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022

an order of a Magistrates Court by which theemployer was convicted as if it were a fine imposedon him by that court, and the amount recoveredshall be paid to the workman..

3.Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words a fine of fifty rupees of the wordsa fine of five hundred rupees.

4.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 10 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 10A and 10B of that enactment:

10A. (1) Where an employer is dissatisfiedwith an order of the Magistrates Court, suchemployer may make an application in revisionby a written petition, against that order to theHigh Court established under Article 154P ofthe Constitution, to the Province within whichsuch Magistrates Court is situated.

(2) Every employer who makes anapplication under subsection (1) shall furnishto such Magistrates Court, a security in cashwhere the order which is the subject of suchapplication directs the payment of a sum ofmoney to the workman, of an amount equal tosuch sum.

(3) Every application made undersubsection (1) shall be supported by acertificate under the hand of the Registrar ofthe relevant Magistrates Court, to the effectthat the security as specified in subsection (2)has been duly furnished by such employer.

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment

Insertion of newsections 10A and10B in theprincipalenactment

Employer tofurnish asecurity inrespect of anapplication tothe HighCourt

3Termination of Employment of Workmen(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022

(4) The Registrar of the Magistrates Courtshall cause all such sum of money furnished assecurity under subsection (2), to be sent to theCommissioner General to deposit in an accountbearing interest, maintained by theCommissioner General, in any approved bankin Sri Lanka.

10B. (1) Where an employer is dissatisfiedwith an order made by Commissioner-Generalunder section 6 or 6A, such employer may makean application to the Court of Appeal againstsuch order for the issue of an order in the natureof a writ.

(2) Every employer who makes anapplication under subsection (1) for the issueof an order in the nature of a writ shall furnishto the Court of Appeal, a security in cash, wherethe order which is the subject of suchapplication directs

(a) both the payment of a sum of money ascompensation and the reinstatment, ofan amount of money, as salary or wageswhich is to be calculated from the dateof such order to the date on which suchworkman shall be reinstated, and anamount of twelve times the monthlysalary or wages of such workman forthe reinstatement; and

(b) only the payment of a sum of money tothe workman as compensation, of anamount equal to such sum.

Employer tofurnish asecurity inrespect of anapplication tothe Court ofAppeal

4Termination of Employment of Workmen(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022

(3) Every application for the issue of anorder in the nature of a writ, made undersubsection (1) shall be supported by acertificate under the hand of the Commissioner-General to the effect that the security asspecified in subsection (2) has been dulyfurnished by such employer.

(4) The Commissioner-General shall causeto be deposited the sum as specified insubsection (2), in an account bearing interest,maintained by the Commissioner-General, inany approved bank in Sri Lanka.

(5) The Commissioner-General shall refundthe sum furnished under subsection (2) togetherwith the interest on such sum to the relevantparty in terms of the final determination of theapplication to the Court of Appeal or theSuperme Court, as the case may be..

5.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words fine notexceeding one thousand rupees of the words fine notexceeding twenty thousand rupees.

6.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment

5Termination of Employment of Workmen(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.