PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 9.50 Postage : Rs. 6.75

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of March 28, 2003

[Certified on 23rd March, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

ARTICLES AND SERVICES (REGULATION ANDMAINTENANCE) (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS)ACT, No. 14 OF 2003

Articles and Services (Regulation and Maintenance)(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 20031

Short title anddate of operation.

[Certified on 23rd March, 2003]

L.D.O. 20/2003.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE A STRATEGY TO DEAL WITH SHORTAGES WHICH

ARE LIKELY TO ARISE DUE TO THE OUTBREAK OF HOSTILITIES

OUTSIDE THE TERRITORY OF SRI LANKA ; TO ENSURE THE

AVAILABILITY OF SUPPLIES OF ARTICLES ESSENTIAL TO THE LIFE

OF THE COMMUNITY ; TO PROVIDE FOR THE EQUAL DISTRIBUTION

OF SUCH ARTICLES AT FAIR PRICES ; TO ENSURE THE MAINTENANCE

OF UTILITY SERVICES ESSENTIAL TO PUBLIC LIFE AND TO REGULATE

THE PRICES OF SUCH SERVICES ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS there exists the probability of an outbreak ofarmed hostilities between certain nations in the near future :

AND WHEREAS, the outbreak of armed hostilities is likelyto result in a shortage in the supplies of any article essentialto the life of the community in Sri Lanka, or is likely to disruptthe distribution of supplies of such articles and to therebyresult in a shortage of such article, or to interrupt themaintenance of utility services essential to public life :

AND WHEREAS it appears to be necessary for theGovernment to vest itself with such powers as are necessaryto ensure the availability of a regular supply of articlesessential to the life of the community and also to ensure theequitable distribution of such articles at a fair price to theconsumers and the uninterrupted maintenance of utilityservices essential to public life and to regulate the prices ofsuch services :

NOW Therefore be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Articles and Services(Regulation and Maintenance) (Temporary Provisions) Act,No. 14 of 2003. The provisions of the Act shall be broughtinto operation by the Minister, by Order published in the

2H 180185,600 (03/2003)

Preamble.

Articles and Services (Regulation and Maintenance)(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 20032

Gazette, in consultation with the Cabinet of Ministers, fromtime to time, for such periods of time which shall not exceedone month at a time, so however that the total period ofoperation of the Act, shall not in the aggregate exceed threemonths.

(2) In making an Order under subsection (1), the Ministershall take into consideration -

(a) the likelihood of the continuation of armed hostilitiesoutside Sri Lanka ;

(b) the likelihood of there being a disruption in thedistribution of supplies of any article essential to thelife of the community resulting in a shortage of sucharticle ;

(c) the likelihood of there being any interruption in themaintenance of any utility service essential to publiclife ; and

(d) the need to ensure the availability of a regular supplyof such articles and the uninterrupted maintenanceof such utility services.

(3)Any Order made under subsection (1) shall be placedbefore Parliament for approval immediately on the makingthereof. However if Parliament is not sitting during such time,the Order shall be so placed for approval at the next date ofsitting of Parliament.

(4) Where prior to the expiry of the period of threemonths set out above, Parliament is of opinion that it isnecessary to extend the operation of the Act for a furtherperiod, it may by Resolution, extend the period of operationof the Act for periods not exceeding one month at a time.

2.(1) The Minister shall appoint, by name or by office,a person to be the Competent Authority for the purposes ofthis Act.

Appointment of aCompetentAuthority and hisfunctions &c.

Articles and Services (Regulation and Maintenance)(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 20033

(2) The Competent Authority may appoint such otherofficers and servants as may be necessary to assist him in theimplementation of the provisions of this Act.

(3) The Competent Authority shall exercise and dischargethe following powers and functions :

(a)enter and inspect any premises in which any article,in respect of which an Order under section 5 hasbeen made, is stored ;

(b)securing the enforcement of all Orders made in termsof section 5 ;

(c)administer and implement a regulatory system asprovided for in terms of an Order made undersection 5 ;

(d)setting out the procedures relating to collection anddistribution to be followed in respect of any articlewhich is purchased.

(4) The Competent Authority shall, prior to exercising thepowers conferred on him by paragraph (a) of subsection (3),obtain a warrant for such purpose from the Magistrate withinwhose jurisdiction the said premises are situated.

(5)The Minister shall in consultation with the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance, determine by Order theremuneration payable to the Competent Authority and theofficers and servants appointed under subsection (2). Suchremuneration shall be charged to the Consolidated Fund.

(6) The Competent Authority and the officers and servantsappointed in terms of this section shall be deemed to be publicofficers for the purposes and within the meaning, of the PenalCode.

Articles and Services (Regulation and Maintenance)(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 20034

3.The Minister may from time to time issue to theCompetent Authority such general or special directions asmay appear to him to be necessary for the discharge by theCompetent Authority, of the functions conferred on him bythe Act. It shall be the duty of the Competent Authority tocomply with such directions.

4.(1) There shall be an Advisory Committee (hereinafterreferred to as the Committee) appointed by the Minister,whose function it shall be to advise the Minister on the exerciseof his powers in terms of the Act.

(2) The Committee shall consist of,

(a)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance, who shall be theChairman ;

(b)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Commerce ;

(c)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Co-operatives ;

(d)the Competent Authority ;

(e)a representative of the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Policy Development ; and

(f)a representative of the Trade Chambers nominatedby the Chamber.

(3) The Committee shall discharge the followingfunctions :

(a)to advise the Minister on the likelihood of there beinga shortage in the supplies of any article essential tothe life of the community in Sri Lanka, or on thelikelihood of any disruption in the distribution ofsupplies of such articles, or on the likelihood of anyinterruption in the maintenance of utility servicesessential to public life, as a result of the outbreak ofarmed hostilities outside Sri Lanka ;

Minister mayissue directions.

AdvisoryCommittee.

Articles and Services (Regulation and Maintenance)(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 20035

(b)to advise the Minister, in relation to the sale ofarticles, on

(i)the maximum, wholesale and retail price,above which an article should not be sold ;

(ii)the price structure according to which suchwholesale or retail prices shall be fixed ;

(iii)the system of rationing to be adopted ;

(iv)the system of purchasing to be adopted;

(v)the steps that need to be taken to ensure thatthe normal market forces and distributionsystems come into operation as soon aspossible ;

(c)to advise the Minister, in relation to the provision ofutility services, on

(i)the maximum price to be fixed for the supplyof any public utility services ;

(ii)the formula to be used in setting the pricestructure according to which the maximumprice shall be fixed.

5.(1) Where it appears to the Minister that there is orthere is likely to be in Sri Lanka, a shortage of any article orof any service, as a result of an outbreak of armed hostilitiesbetween certain nations outside Sri Lanka, the Minister onthe advise of the Committee, may in order to ensure thatthere is no disruption in the distribution or availability of anyarticle or in the provision of any public utility service, withthe approval of the Cabinet of Ministers, by an Order publishedin the Gazette, called the Exigent Service Order (hereinafterreferred to as the Order)

(a)fix the maximum wholesale and retail prices abovewhich an article in respect of which an Order is made,should not be sold; or

Exigent ServicesOrders.

Articles and Services (Regulation and Maintenance)(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 20036

(b)specify a price structure according to which themaximum price of an article in respect of which anOrder is made, is to be fixed; or

(c)specify the conditions subject to which an article inrespect of which an Order is made, may be sold, thetime and place of sale of such article and the quantityof such article which may be sold; or

(d)provide for the allocation of supplies of any articlein respect of which an Order is made, to thedistributors or traders thereof; or

(e)provide for the organization and administration ofsystem of rationing subject to which an article inrespect of which an Order is made, is made availableto the public ; or

(f)provide for the transport and conveyance of an articlein respect of which an Order is made ; or

(g)specify the conditions (with specific reference to thedifferent services) under which a service in respectof which an Order is made, is to be provided.

(2) Every Order made under subsection (1) may beamended, altered or varied by the Minister with the approvalof the Cabinet of Ministers.

(3) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall come intooperation on the date of its publication in the Gazette or onsuch later date as may be specified therein.

(4) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall be placedbefore Parliament along with a motion that such Order beapproved, within two weeks from the date of its publicationin the Gazette. If Parliament is not sitting during suchperiod, it shall be so placed on the next date of sitting ofParliament.

Articles and Services (Regulation and Maintenance)(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 20037

(5) Any Order not approved by Parliament shall bedeemed to be rescinded with effect from the date of suchdisapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(6) Notification of the date on which any such Order is sorescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

6.(1) The Competent Authority may, if it appears to himto be expedient or necessary so to do, in order to ensure theequitable distribution of any article in respect of which an Orderunder section 5 has been made, make order for the purchaseof any quantity of such article as is available or is necessaryfor such purpose. The Minister may issue such directions asare necessary for the purchase of any such article and forpayment to be made in respect of such purchase in terms ofthe wholesale price fixed for the same under section 5.

(2) Every order made under subsection (1) shall specify

(a)the name and address of the person in whosepossession the stocks of such article are and the exactquantity to be purchased ;

(b)the time at which and the place at which the stocksof the article purchased shall be delivered by theperson required to do so in terms of the order.

(3) In the event of any person refusing to sell to theCompetent Authority any article in respect of which theCompetent Authority has made an order of purchase in termsof subsection (1), the Competent Authority may, obtain anOrder from the Magistrate within whose jurisdiction the articleis stored, compelling such person to sell the required quantityof such article to the Competent Authority.

7.(1) Any person who

(a)resists or obstructs the Competent Authority or hisofficers or servants, in the exercise of his powers orthe discharge of his functions in terms of this Act; or

Purchasing ofarticles.

Offences.

Articles and Services (Regulation and Maintenance)(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 20038

(b)sells any article which is the subject of an Orderunder section 5 at a price which is above the pricefixed for the sale of such article in terms of paragraph(a) of scction 5 ; or

(c)knowingly furnishes a statement which is false inany particulars stated therein,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to imprisonmentof either description for a term not exceeding five years or toa fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand, or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

(2) The Court may in convicting a person of an offenceunder this Act, order that the articles in respect of which theoffence is committed be forfeited to the State.

(3) Any article forfeited to the State under subsection (1)shall

(a)if no appeal is preferred against the order offorfeiture, vest absolutely in the Competent Authorityfree of any mortgage, pledge, lien or otherencumbrance, charge or claim whatsoever upon theexpiration of the period within which such appealmay be preferred ;

(b)if an appeal has been preferred against the order offorfeiture, vest absolutely in the Competent Authorityupon the final determination of such appeal :

Provided that no person shall be deemed to be guilty of anoffence if he proves that such offence was committed withouthis knowledge and that he exercised due diligence to preventthe commission of such offence.

8. When an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons Offences by bodyof persons.

Articles and Services (Regulation and Maintenance)(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 20039

(a)where the body of persons is a body corporate, everyperson who at the time of the commission of theoffence was a director, manager, secretary or othersimilar officer of that body corporate;

(b)where the body of persons is a firm, every partner ofthat firm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he provesthat the offence was committed without his consent orconnivance and that he exercised all such diligence to preventthe commission of that offence as he ought to have exercisedhaving regard to the nature of his functions and in all thecircumstances.

9.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurposes of carrying out or giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act, or in respect of matters that are by thisAct required to be prescribed.

(2) Every such regulation shall be published in theGazette and shall come into operation on the date of suchpublication or on such later date as may be specified in theregulation.

(3) Every such regulation shall, as soon as convenientafter its publication in the Gazette, be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any such regulation that is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date ofdisapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which a regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

10.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Regulations.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Articles and Services (Regulation and Maintenance)(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 200310

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.