PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 21.00 Postage : Rs. 20.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 05, 2016.

[Certified on 04th August, 2016]

Printed on the Order of Government

RIGHT TO INFORMATIONACT, No. 12 OF 2016

1Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

Short title anddate ofoperation.

2PL 0098453,161 (03/2016)

[Certified on 04th August, 2016]

L.D.O. 4/2015

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE RIGHT OF ACCESS TO INFORMATION; TO

SPECIFY GROUNDS ON WHICH ACCESS MAY BE DENIED; TO ESTABLISH

THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION COMMISSION; TO APPOINT INFORMATIONOFFICERS; TO SET OUT THE PROCEDURE AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Constitution guarantees the right of accessto information in Article 14A thereof and there exists a needto foster a culture of transparency and accountability inpublic authorities by giving effect to the right of access toinformation and thereby promote a society in which thepeople of Sri Lanka would be able to more fully participatein public life through combating corruption and promotingaccountability and good governance.

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Right to InformationAct, No. 12 of 2016.

(2) The provisions of this section, Part IV, sections 23,36, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44 shall come into operation on thedate on which the certificate is endorsed in respect of thisAct in terms of Article 79 of the Constitution.

(3) The provisions of all other sections of this Act, shallcome into operation in respect of such public authorities orcategories of public authorities and on such dates as may beprescribed by the Minister by Order published in the Gazette:

Provided however, that the dates so prescribed shall be atleast six months after the certification referred to insubsection (2) above, and that all provisions of this Actshall be applicable to all public authorities no later thanone year of such certification.

Preamble.

2Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

Provisions ofthis Act toprevail overother writtenlaw.

2.It shall be the responsibility of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject of mass media to ensure theeffective implementation of the provisions of this Act.

PART I

APPLICATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF THE ACT

3.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 5 of this Act,every citizen shall have a right of access to information whichis in the possession, custody or control of a public authority.

(2) The provisions of this Act, shall not be in derogationof the powers, privilages and practices of Parliament.

4.The provisions of this Act shall have effectnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other writtenlaw and accordingly in the event of any inconsistency orconflict between the provisions of this Act and such otherwritten law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

PART II

DENIAL OF ACCESS TO INFORMATION

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) a requestunder this Act for access to information shall be refused,where

(a)the information relates to personal information thedisclosure of which has no relationship to anypublic activity or interest, or which would causeunwarranted invasion of the privacy of theindividual unless the larger public interest justifiesthe disclosure of such information or the personconcerned has consented in writing to suchdisclosure;

When right ofaccess may bedenied.

Responsibility toensure effectiveimplementation.

Right of accessto information.

3Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(b) disclosure of such information

(i)would undermine the defence of the State orits territorial integrity or national security;

(ii)would be or is likely to be seriouslyprejudicial to Sri Lankas relations with anyState, or in relation to internationalagreements or obligations under internationallaw, where such information was given by orobtained in confidence;

(c)the disclosure of such information would causeserious prejudice to the economy of Sri Lanka bydisclosing prematurely decisions to change orcontinue government economic or financialpolicies relating to-

(i)exchange rates or the control of overseasexchange transactions;

(ii)the regulation of banking or credit;

(iii)taxation;

(iv)the stability, control and adjustment ofprices of goods and services, rents and othercosts and rates of wages, salaries and otherincome; or

(v)the entering into of overseas tradeagreements;

(d)information, including commercial confidence,trade secrets or intellectual property, protectedunder the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003,the disclosure of which would harm the competitiveposition of a third party, unless the public authorityis satisfied that larger public interest warrants thedisclosure of such information;

4Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(e)the information could lead to the disclosure of anymedical records relating to any person, unless suchperson has consented in writing to such disclosure;

(f)the information consist of any communication,between a professional and a public authority towhom such professional provides services, whichis not permitted to be disclosed under any writtenlaw, including any communication between theAttorney General or any officer assisting theAttorney General in the performance of his dutiesand a public authority;

(g)the information is required to be kept confidentialby reason of the existence of a fiduciaryrelationship;

(h)the disclosure of such information would-

(i)cause grave prejudice to the prevention ordetection of any crime or the apprehensionor prosecution of offenders; or

(ii)expose the identity of a confidential sourceof information in relation to law enforcementor national security, to be ascertained;

(i)subject to the provisions of section 29(2)(c), theinformation has been supplied in confidence to thepublic authority concerned by a third party and thethird party does not consent to its disclosure;

(j)the disclosure of such information would be incontempt of court or prejudicial to the maintenanceof the authority and impartiality of the judiciary;

(k)the disclosure of such information would infringethe privileges of Parliament or of a ProvincialCouncil as provided by Law;

5Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(l)disclosure of the information would harm theintegrity of an examination being conducted bythe Department of Examination or a HigherEducational Institution;

(m)the information is of a cabinet memorandum inrelation to which a decision has not been taken; or

(n)the information relates to an election conducted bythe Commissioner of Elections which is requiredby the relevant election laws to be kept confidential.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), arequest for information shall not be refused on any of thegrounds referred to therein, other than the grounds referredto in paragraphs (a), (b), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and (j) of thatsubsection, if the information requested for is over ten yearsold.

(3) Any information relating to any overseas tradeagreement referred to in subsection (1) (c ) (v) of this section,where the negotiations have not concluded even after a lapseof ten years shall not be disclosed.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), arequest for information shall not be refused where the publicinterest in disclosing the information outweighs the harmthat would result from its disclosure.

(5) An information officer may seek the advice of theCommission, with regard to an issue connected with thegrant of access to any information which is exempted frombeing disclosed under subsection (1), and the commissionmay as expeditiously as possible and in any event give itsadvice within fourteen days.

6Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

6.Where a request for information is refused on any ofthe grounds referred to in section 5, access shall neverthelessbe given to that part of any record or document whichcontains any information that is not exempted from beingdisclosed under that section, and which can reasonably besevered from any part that contains information exemptedfrom being disclosed.

PART III

DUTIES OF MINISTERS AND PUBLIC AUTHORITIES

7.(1) It shall be the duty of every public authority tomaintain all its records duly catalogued and indexed in suchform as is consistent with its operational requirements whichwould facilitate the right of access to information asprovided for in this Act.

(2) In discharging its obligations under subsection (1),every public authority shall comply with any direction givenby the Commission under section 14(h).

(3) All records being maintained by every publicauthority, shall be preserved

(a) in the case of those records already in existence onthe date of coming into operation of this Act, for aperiod of not less than ten years from the date ofcoming into operation of this Act; and

(b)in the case of new records which are created afterthe date of coming into operation of this Act, for aperiod of not less than twelve years from the dateon which such record is created.

(4) No record or information which is the subject matterof a request made under this Act, shall be destroyed duringthe pendency of such request or any appeal or judicialproceeding relating to such request.

Severabilityunder certaincircumstances.

Publicauthorities tomaintain andpreserve itsrecords.

7Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2),every public authority shall endeavor to preserve all itsrecords in electronic format within a reasonable time, subjectto the availability of resources.

8.(1) It shall be the duty of every Minister to whomany subject has been assigned to publish biannually beforethe thirtieth of June and thirty first of December respectivelyof each year, a report in such form as shall be determined bythe Commission as would enable a citizen to exercise theright of access to information granted under section 3 of thisAct.

(2) The report referred to in subsection (1) shall contain-

(a)the particulars relating to the organisation,functions, activities and duties of the Ministryof such Minister and of all the public authoritiesfalling within the functions so assigned;

(b)the following particulars pertaining to theMinistry and the public authorities referred toin paragraph (a):-

(i)the powers, duties and functions of officersand employees and the respectiveprocedures followed by them in theirdecision making process;

(ii)the norms set for the discharge of theirfunctions, performance of their duties andexercise of their powers;

(iii)rules, regulations, instructions, manualsand any other categories of records, whichare used by its officers and employees inthe discharge of their functions,performance of their duties and exerciseof their powers;

Ministers duty topublish a report.

8Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(iv)the details of facilities available to citizensfor obtaining information;

(v)the budget allocated, indicating theparticulars of all plans, proposedexpenditures and reports on disbursementsmade;

(vi)the name, designation and otherparticulars of the information officer orofficers appointed.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), itshall be the duty of every Minister, within six months of thedate of coming into operation of this Act, to publish in suchform as may be determined by such Minister, a reportcontaining the information referred to in paragraphs (a) and(b) of subsection (2).

(4) The reports referred to in subsections (1), (2) and (3)shall be-

(a)published in the official languages and be madeavailable in electronic form; and

(b)made available for public inspection and copies ofthe same may be issued to a citizen, on the paymentof such fee as shall be determined by theCommission.

For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declaredthat any reference to the Minister shall also includea reference to a Minister of a Provincial Councilestablished under Chaper XVIIA of the Constitution.

9Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

9.(1) (a) It shall be the duty of the Minister, to whomthe subject pertaining to any project has been assigned, tocommunicate, three months prior to the commencement ofsuch project, to the public generally, and to any particularpersons who are likely to be affected by such project allinformation relating to the project that is available with theMinister, as on the date of such communication:

Provided however, in the event of an urgent project,information shall be provided one week prior to thecommencement of such project and reasons for such urgencyshall be communicated to the Commission.

(b)The Commission shall issue guidelines specifying themanner in which the communication referred to in paragraph(a) shall be made.

(2) (a)The Minister shall, on a written request made inthat behalf by a citizen, make available updated informationabout a project referred to in subsection (1), throughout theperiod of its development and implementation.

(b)The information shall be made available on thepayment of such fee, as shall be prescribed by theCommission for that purpose.

(3) For the purposes of this section, project means anyproject the value of which exceeds-

(a)in the case of foreign funded projects, one hundredthousand United States dollars; and

(b)in the case of locally funded projects, five hundredthousand rupees.

For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that anyreference to the Minister shall also include a reference toa Minister of a Provincial Council established underChapter XVIIA of the Constitution.

Duty of theMinister toinform publicabout theinitiation ofprojects.

10Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

10.Every public authority shall submit annual reportsto the Commission before the thirty first day of Decemberimmediately succeeding the year to which the report relateswhich shall be made available to the public in its office andon its official website, furnishing information such as-

(a)the total number of requests received during theyear and information provided and rejected;

(b)the amount of fees collected during the year;

(c)the number of requests rejected under section 5;

(d)the number of times information was provided atthe direction of the Commission;

(e)any suggestions for improving the effectiveness ofthe regime of transparency;

(f)the number of appeals from refusal to communicateinformation;

(g)practices relating to the maintenance, managementand destruction of records; and

(h)its activities under section 8.

PART 1V

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION COMMISSION

11.(1) There shall be established for the purposes ofthis Act, a body called the Right to Information Commission(in this Act referred to as the Commission).

(2) The Commission shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporatename.

Duty of publicauthorities tosubmit reportsetc.

Establishmentof the right toInformationCommission.

11Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

12.(1) The Commission shall consist of five personsappointed by the President upon the recommendationof the Constitutional Council. In making suchrecommendations, the Constitutional Council shallrecommend one person nominated by each of the followingorganisations or categories of organisations:-

(a)Bar Association of Sri Lanka which shall nominatean Attorney-at-Law of eminence or a LegalAcademic in consultation with Attorneys -at-Lawand Legal Academia;

(b)organizations of publishers, editors and mediapersons;

(c)other civil society organizations.

(2) (a) In making recommendations under subsection (1),the Constitutional Council shall ensure that the persons whoare being recommended are persons who-

(i)have distinguished themselves in public life withproven knowledge, experience and eminence inthe fields of law, governance, publicadministration, social services, journalism,science and technology or management;

(ii)are not Members of Parliament, any ProvincialCouncil or a local authority;

(iii)do not hold any public or judicial office or anyother office of profit;

(iv)are not connected with any political party; or

(v)are not carrying on any business or pursuing anyprofession.

(b) In nominating persons for the consideration of theConstitutional Council the organizations referred to insubsection (1) shall ensure that the persons nominated meet

Constitution ofthe Commission.

12Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

the criteria specified herein. In the event the ConstitutionalCouncil is of the opinion that the nominees do not meet thecriteria set out herein fresh nominations shall be called for.

(3) The Constitutional Council shall make itsrecommendations under subsection (1), within one monthof the date of coming into operation of this Act or the date ofa vacancy arising in the Commission. In the event, any or allof the organisations concerned fail to make nominationswithin such period, the Constitutional Council shall makeits own recommendations after the expiry of the said period.In the event any nominations are rejected the ConstitutionalCouncil shall make its own nominations if no acceptablenominations are resubmitted within two weeks from therejection.

(4) Where a member of the Commission while holdingsuch office becomes a Member of Parliament, any ProvincialCouncil or a local authority or appointed to any public orjudicial office or an office bearer of any political party suchmember shall cease to be a member of the Commission onsuch appointment.

(5) The President shall nominate one of the membersappointed to the Commission to be its Chairperson.

(6) The members of the Commission shall hold office fora period of five years.

(7) A member of the Commission shall not disclose anyinformation that cannot be disclosed under the provisionsof this Act.

(8) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall applyto and in respect of the members of the Commission and theconduct of its meetings.

13Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

13.(1) The Commission shall appoint-

(a)a Director-General who shall be the ChiefExecutive Officer of the Commission;

(b)such officers and other employees as itconsiders necessary.

(2) The Director-General shall be responsible for thegeneral supervision, direction and management of the affairsof the Commission and exercise disciplinary control overthe officers and employees of the Commission.

(3) The Director-General and other officers and employeesappointed under subsection (1), shall be subject to suchterms and conditions of service as shall be determined bythe Commission and be paid such remuneration asdetermined by the Commission in consultation with theMinister assigned the subject of Finance.

14.The duties and functions of the Commission shallbe, to

(a)monitor the performance and ensure the duecompliance by public authorities, of the duties caston them under this Act;

(b)make recommendations for reform both of a generalnature and those in regard to any specific publicauthority;

(c)issue guidelines based on reasonableness, fordetermining fees to be levied by public authoritiesfor the release of any information under this Act;

(d)prescribe the circumstances in which informationmay be provided by an information officer, withoutthe payment of a fee;

(e)prescribe the fee Schedule based on the principleof proactive disclosure, in regard to providinginformation;

Appointment ofofficers andemployees oftheCommission.

Duties andfunctions of theCommission.

14Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(f)co-operate with or undertake training activities forpublic officials on the effective implementation ofthe provisions of this Act;

(g)publicise the requirements of this Act and the rightsof individuals under the Act;

(h)issue guidelines for the proper record managementfor public authorities.

15.For the purpose of performing its duties anddischarging of its functions under this Act, the Commissionshall have the power-

(a)to hold inquiries and require any person to appearbefore it;

(b)to examine such person under oath or affirmationand require such person where necessary to produceany information which is in that personspossession, provided that the information which isexempted from disclosure under section 5 shall beexamined in confidence;

(c)to inspect any information held by a publicauthority, including any information denied by apublic authority under the provisions of this Act;

(d)to direct a public authority to provide information,in a particular form;

(e)to direct a public authority to publish anyinformation withheld by a public authority fromthe public, subject to the provisions of section 5;

(f)to hear and determine any appeals made to it byany aggrieved person under section 32; and

(g)to direct a public authority or any relevantinformation officer of the authority to reimbursefees charged from a citizen due to any informationrequested for not been provided in time.

Powers of theCommission.

15Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

16.(1) The Commission shall have its own Fund intowhich shall be credited-

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted uponfrom time to time by Parliament for the use ofthe Commission; and

(b)donations, gifts or grants from any sourcewhatsoever, whether in or outside Sri Lanka.

(2) Where any money is received by way of donations,gifts or grants under subsection (1)(b), the sources andpurpose for which such donation, grant or gift was madeavailable shall be made public.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums ofmoney required to defray the expenditure incurred by theCommission in the exercise, discharge and performance ofits powers, duties and functions.

17.(1) The financial year of the Commission shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Commission shall cause proper books of accountsto be maintained of the income and expenditure and allother transactions of the Commission.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Commission.

18.The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38of 1971 shall, mutatis mutandis apply to the financial controland accounts of the Commission.

19.The members and officers and all other employeesof the Commission shall be deemed to be public servantswithin the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code(Chapter 19) and every inquiry held by the Commissionunder this Act shall be deemed to be a judicial proceedingwithin the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979.

Members etc,of theCommissiondeemed to bepublic servants.

Fund of theCommission.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts.

Part II of theFinance Act, No.38 of 1971 toapply.

16Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

20.The Commission shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter 26)and the provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

21.Any expenses incurred by any member, officer oremployee of the Commission in any suit or prosecutionbrought by or against such person before any court in respectof any act or omission which is done or purported to be doneby such person in good faith for the purpose of carrying outthe provisions of this Act shall, if the court holds that suchact or omission was done in good faith, be paid out of thefund of the Commission unless such expenses are recoveredby him in such suit or prosecution.

22.The Commission shall within six months of itsestablishment, formulate and give adequate publicity to theprocedural requirements for the submission of appeals tothe Commission under section 32.

PART V

APPOINTMENT OF INFORMATION OFFICERS AND PROCEDURE FORGAINING ACCESS TO INFORMATION

23.(1) (a) Every public authority shall for the purposeof giving effect to the provisions of this Act, appoint, withinthree months of the date of coming into operation of thisAct, one or more officers as information officers of such publicauthority and a designated officer to hear appeals.

(b) Until such time that an information officer is appointedunder paragraph (a) the Head or Chief Executive Officer ofthe public authority shall be deemed to be the informationofficer of such public authority, for the purposes of this Act.

(2) Every information officer shall deal with requests forinformation made to the public authority of which he or shehas been appointed its information officer, and render allnecessary assistance to any citizen making such request toobtain the information.

(3) The Information Officer may seek the assistance ofany other officer as he or she may consider necessary, for the

Application ofthe Bribery Act.

Expensesincurred in anysuit orprosecution.

Proceduralrequirementsto be published.

Appointment ofInformationofficers anddesignatedofficers.

17Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

proper discharge of the duty imposed on him under this Act,and where assistance is sought from any such officer, it shallbe the duty of such officer to provide the required assistance.

24.(1) Any citizen who is desirous of obtaining anyinformation under this Act shall make a request in writing tothe appropriate information officer, specifying theparticulars of the information requested for:

Provided that where any citizen making a request underthis subsection is unable due to any reason to make suchrequest in writing, such citizen shall be entitled to make therequest orally and it shall be the duty of the appropriateinformation officer to reduce such request to writing on behalfof the citizen.

(2) Where a citizen

(a)wishes to make a request to a public authority; or

(b)has made a request to a public authority whichdoes not comply with the requirements of thisAct,

the information officer concerned shall take all necessarysteps to assist the citizen, free of charge, to make the requestin a manner that complies with this Act.

(3) On receipt of a request, an information officer shallimmediately provide a written acknowledgement of therequest to the citizen.

(4) Where an information officer is able to provide animmediate response to a citizen making a request and suchresponse is to the satisfaction of the requester, theinformation officer shall make and retain a record of therequest and the response thereto.

(5) A citizen making a request for information shall:

(a)provide such details concerning the informationrequested as is reasonably necessary to enable

Procedure forobtaininginformation.

18Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

the information officer to identify theinformation;

(b)identify the nature of the form and language inwhich the citizen prefers access;

(c)where the citizen making the request believesthat the information is necessary to safeguardthe life or liberty of a person, include a statementto that effect, including the basis for that belief;and

(d)not be required to give any reason for requestingthe information or any other personal detailsexcept those that may be necessary for contactinghim or her.

(6) For the purpose of this section

writing includes writing done through electronicmeans; and

appropriate information officer means theInformation Officer appointed to the publicauthority from which the information is beingrequested for.

25.(1) An information officer shall, as expeditiously aspossible and in any case within fourteen working days ofthe receipt of a request under section 24, make a decisioneither to provide the information requested for on thepayment of a fee determined in accordance with the feeschedule referred to in section 14(e) or to reject the requeston any one or more of the grounds referred to in section 5 ofthis Act, and shall forthwith communicate such decision tothe citizen who made the request.

(2) Where a decision is made to provide the informationrequested for, access to such information shall be grantedwithin fourteen days of arriving at such decision.

(3) Where the request for information concerns the lifeand personal liberty of the citizen, the response to it shall bemade within forty-eight hours of the receipt of the request.

Decision onrequestssubmitted undersection 24.

19Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(4) Notwithstanding the requirement made for thepayment of a fee under subsection (1), the Commission mayspecify the circumstances in which information may beprovided by an information officer, without the payment ofa fee.

(5) The period of fourteen days referred to in subsection(2) for providing access to information may be extended fora further period of not more than twenty one days where-

(a)the request is for a large number of records andproviding the information within fourteen dayswould unreasonably interfere with the activities ofthe public authority concerned; or

(b)the request requires a search for records in, orcollection of records from, an office of the publicauthority not situated in the same city, town orlocation as the office of the information officer thatcannot reasonably be completed within the fourteendays.

(6) Where a period for providing information is to beextended for any of the circumstances referred to insubsection (5), the information officer shall, as soon asreasonably possible, but in any case within fourteen days,notify the citizen concerned of such fact giving the followingreasons:

(a)the period of the extension; and

(b)reasons for the extension.

(7) A citizen who is dissatisfied with the reasons givenunder subsection (6) may lodge an appeal with thedesignated officer.

26.(1) Every public authority shall display in aconspicuous place within the official premises and on awebsite of such public Authority if any, a notice specifying

(a)contact details of the Commission and the membersof the Commission;

Public authorityto display detailsof informationofficers and feesto be charged.

20Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(b)contact details of the information officer;

(c)contact details of the designated officer;

(d)fees to be charged for obtaining any informationfrom such public Authority.

(2) The fee referred to in subsection (1)(d), shall bedetermined in accordance with the fee scheduled formulatedby the Commission under section 14(e).

27.(1) Where decision has been made to grant a requestfor information, such information shall be provided in theform in which it is requested for, unless the information officeris of the view that providing the information in the formrequested for would not be detrimental to the safety orpreservation of the relevant document or record in respect ofwhich the request was made.

(2) Where an information officer is unable to provide theinformation in the manner requested for, it shall be the dutyof such officer to consult the citizen and render all possibleassistance to the citizen to determine an appropriatealternative means of providing access to the informationand to facilitate compliance with such request.

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), a citizen,whose request for information has been granted, is entitledto:

(a)inspect relevant work, documents, records;

(b)take notes, extracts or certified copies of documentsor records;(c)take certified samples of material;

(d)obtain information in the form of diskettes, floppies,tapes, video cassettes or any other electronic modeor through printouts where such information isstored in a computer or in any other device.

Manner inwhichinformation is tobe provided.

21Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

28.Where a request for information is refused by aninformation officer, such officer shall specify the followinginformation in the communication to be sent under section25(1), to the citizen who made the request

(a)the grounds on which such request is refused; and

(b)the period within which and the person to whom anappeal against such refusal may be preferred undersection 32 of this Act.

29.(1) Where a request made to an information officerby any citizen to disclose information which relates to, orhas been supplied by a third party and such information hasbeen treated as confidential at the time the information wassupplied, the information officer shall, within one week ofthe receipt of such request, invite such third party by noticeissued in writing, to make representation for or against suchdisclosure, within seven days of the receipt of the notice.

(2) An information officer shall be required in makinghis decision on any request made for the disclosure ofinformation which relates to or has been supplied by a thirdparty, to take into consideration the representations madeby such third party under subsection (1), and shall, wherethe third party-

(a)does not respond to the notice, disclose informationrequested for;

(b)responds to the notice and agrees to the disclosureof the information requested for, disclose suchinformation;

(c)responds to the notice and refuses to the disclosureof the information requested for, deny access to theinformation requested for:

Whereinformationrequested forwas supplied bya third party.

Refusal of arequest to becommunicated.

22Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

Provided however, the Commission may on theapplication made in that behalf by the citizenmaking the request, direct the disclosure of theinformation in question notwithstanding anyobjections raised by such third party against itsdisclosure, where the release of the informationconcerned demonstrably outweighs the privateinterest in non disclosure.

30.No liability, whether civil or criminal, shall attachto any public authority or any information officer or anyother officer of such public authority, for anything which ingood faith is done by such officer in the performance orexercise of any function or power imposed or assigned tosuch officer under this Act.

PART VI

APPEALS AGAINST REJECTIONS

31.(1) Any citizen who is aggrieved as a result of

(a)refusing a request made for information;

(b)refusing access to the information on theground that such information is exemptedfrom being granted under section 5;

(c)non- compliance with time frames specifiedby this Act;

(d)granting of incomplete, misleading or falseinformation;

(e)charging an excessive fees;

(f)the refusal of the information officer to provideinformation in the form requested; or

(g)the citizen requesting having reasonablegrounds to believe that information has been

Exemption fromsuit orprosecution.

Appeals againsta rejection of arequest.

23Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

deformed, destroyed or misplaced to preventsuch citizen from having access to theinformation,

may, prefer an appeal to the designated officer withinfourteen days of the refusal, act or date of becoming awareof the grounds on which the appeal is sought to be made, asthe case may be:

Provided however, that the designated officer may admitthe appeal after the expiry of the period of fourteen days ifhe or she is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by areason beyond his or her control from filing the appeal intime.

(2) The designated officer shall issue a receipt on theacceptance of the appeal, to the citizen making the appeal,and in any case within three working days.

(3) The decision on any appeal preferred under subsection(1), shall be made by the designated officer within threeweeks of the receipt of the appeal and shall include thereasons for the said decision including specific grounds forthe same.

(4) The right of a citizen to prefer an appeal undersubsection (1) shall be without prejudice to his or her rightto make an application to the Commission.

(5) The designated officer may where reasonable cause isgiven for failure to submit an appeal within a period specifiedby subsection (1) by the citizen making such an appeal mayat his discretion hear the appeal notwithstanding such delay.

32.(1) Any citizen aggrieved by:

(a)the decision made in respect of an appealunder section 31(1), may within two monthsof the communication of such decision; or

Appeals to theCommission.

24Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(b)the failure to obtain a decision on any appealmade within the time specified for giving thesame under section 31(3), may within twomonths of the expiry of the period so specified,

may appeal against that decision or the failure, to theCommission and the Commission may within thirty days ofthe receipt of such appeal affirm, vary or reverse the decisionappealed against and forward the request back to theinformation officer concerned for necessary action.

(2) The Commission may admit the appeal after the expiryof the period of two months if the commission is satisfiedthat the appellant was prevented by a reason beyond his orher control from filing the appeal in time.

(3) The Commission shall give reasons for its decisionsin writing, to the appellant, the information officer and thepublic authority concerned.

(4) On appeal, the burden of proof shall be on the publicauthority to show that it acted in compliance with this Actin processing a request.

33.Where the aggrieved party is unable due to anyreason to make an appeal under section 31 or section 32, asthe case may be, such appeal may be made by a person dulyauthorized in writing by the aggrieved party to prefer thesame.

34.(1) A citizen or public authority who is aggrievedby the decision of the Commission made under section 32,may appeal against such decision to the Court of Appealwithin one month of the date on which such decision wascommunicated to such citizen or public authority.

(2) Until rules are made under Article 136 of theConstitution pertaining to appeals under this section, therules made under that Article pertaining to an applicationby way of revision to the Court of Appeal, shall apply inrespect of every appeal made under subsection (1) of thissection.

Appeal may bemade on behalfof an aggrievedparty.

Appeals to theCourt of Appeal.

25Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

PART VII

GENERAL

35.Every officer in any public authority giving adecision which affects any person in any way, shall berequired on request made in that behalf by the personconcerned, to disclose to that person in writing the reasonsfor arriving at such decision.

36. Nothing in this Act is intended to prevent ordiscourage information holders from publishing or givingaccess to information or prevent any person from seekingand obtaining information, which may be provided in duecompliance with the law.

37.(1) The Commission shall cause to be prepared areport of its activities as often as it may consider necessary,so however, that it shall prepare at least one report in eachcalendar year. The Commission shall transmit a copy ofevery such report to be tabled before Parliament and a copyof same shall also be sent to the President.

(2) A copy of the report prepared under subsection (1)shall, within two weeks of it being tabled before Parliament,be made available for public inspection at the office of theCommission and wherever possible, a copy of the same maybe made available on its website.

38.(1) Where

(a)any information officer willfully -

(i)refuses to receive an application forinformation from any citizen;

(ii)refuses a request made for information,without giving reasons for such refusal;

(iii)stipulates excessive fees in breach of thefee Schedule referred to in section 14 (e);

Duty to disclosereasons for adecision.

Nothing in thisAct to preventor discourageinformationfrom beingpublished.

Commission toprepare a reportof its activities.

Commission toinform theappropriatedisciplinaryauthority.

26Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(iv)otherwise fails to process a request inaccordance with the provisions of this Act;or

(b)any designated officer willfully

(i)under section 31 refuses an appeal, madeon any ground other than a ground specifiedin section 5 of this Act;

(ii)failed without any reasonable cause to makea decision on an appeal, within the timespecified under section 31(3) for makingsuch decision,

the Commission shall, bring the matter to the noticeof the appropriate disciplinary authority.

(2) The relevant disciplinary authority shall inform theCommission of the steps taken in respect of any matterbrought to the notice of such disciplinary authority within aperiod of one month.

39.(1) Every person who

(a) deliberately obstructs the provision ofinformation or intentionally providesincorrect, incomplete or inaccurateinformation;

(b)destroys, invalidates, alters or totally orpartially conceal information under his or hercustody, or to which he or she has access to orknowledge of due to the exercise of his or heremployment in such public authority;

(c)fails or refuses to appear before theCommission when requested to do so by theCommission;

Offences.

27Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(d)appears before the Commission, and fails orrefuses to be examined by the Commissionor to produce any information which is inthat persons possession or power ordeliberately provides false information underoath or affirmation;

(e)fails or refuses to comply with or give effectto a decision of the Commission;

(f)resists or obstructs the Commission or anyofficer or other employee of the Commission,in the exercise of any power conferred on theCommission or such officer or employee, bythis Act;

(g)discloses any information in contraventionof the provisions of section 12(7) of this Act,

commits an offence under this Act and shall on convictionafter summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment for aterm not exceeding two years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

(2) Any officer whose assistance was sought for by aninformation officer under section 23(3) and who fails withoutreasonable cause to provide such assistance, shall commitan offence under this Act, and shall on conviction aftersummary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees.

(3) A fine imposed for the commission of an offencereferred to in subsection (1) or (2) of this section, shall be inaddition to and not in derogation of any disciplinary actionthat may be taken against such officer by the relevantauthority empowered to do so.

(4) A prosecution under this Act shall be instituted bythe Commission.

28Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

40.Notwithstanding any legal or other obligation towhich a person may be subject to by virtue of being an officeror employee of any public authority, no officer or employeeof a public authority shall be subjected to any punishment,disciplinary or otherwise, for releasing or disclosing anyinformation which is permitted to be released or disclosedunder this Act.

41.(1) The Minister may in consultation with theCommission make regulations in respect of all mattersrequired by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of whichregulations are necessary to be made in order to give effectto the principles and provisions of this Act.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall,forthwith after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore Parliament for approval and any regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) The date on which any regulation is deemed to be sorescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

42.(1) The Commission may make rules concerningany of the following matters:-

(a)the form and manner in which appeals may be madeto the Commission;

(b)the procedure for holding inquiries;

(c )fee schedule in respect of providing information;

Rules.

Release ordisclosure ofinformation byan employee ofa publicauthority.

Regulations.

29Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(d)the format of the reports to be prepared under section10.

(2) No rule made under this section shall have effect untilit is approved by the Minister and notification of suchapproval is published in the Gazette.

43.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

citizen includes a body whether incorporated orunincorporated, if not less than three-fourths ofthe members of such body are citizens;

designated officer means a designated officerappointed under section 23 of this Act;

Higher Educational Institution means a University,Campus or University College establishedor deemed to be established or made bythe Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 oracknowledged by the University GrantsCommission or established under the provisionsof any other Act;

information includes any material which isrecorded in, in any form including records,documents, memos, emails, opinions, advices,press releases, circulars, orders, log books,contracts, reports, papers, samples, models,correspondence, memorandum, draft legislation,book, plan, map, drawing, diagram, pictorial orgraphic work, photograph, film, microfilm,sound recording, video tape, machine readablerecord, computer records and other documentarymaterial, regardless of its physical form orcharacter and any copy thereof;

information officer means an information officerappointed under section 23 of this Act;

Interpretation.

30Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

local authority means a Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil or a Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyauthority created or established by or under anylaw to exercise, perform and discharge powers,duties and functions corresponding or similar tothe powers, duties and functions exercised,performed or discharged by any such Council orSabha;

non governmental organisation means anyorganization formed by a group of persons on avoluntary basis and receiving funds directly orindirectly from the Government or internationalorganisations and is of a non governmentalnature;

public authority means

(a)a Ministry of the Government;

(b)any body or office created orestablished by or under theConstitution, any written law, otherthan the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007,except to the extent specified inparagraph (e), or a statute of a ProvincialCouncil;

(c)a Government Department;

(d)a public corporation;

(e)a company incorporated under theCompanies Act, No. 7 of 2007, inwhich the State, or a public corporationor the State and a public corporationtogether hold twenty five per centumor more of the shares or otherwise has acontrolling interest;

31Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(f)a local authority;

(g)a private entity or organisation whichis carrying out a statutory or publicfunction or service, under a contract, apartnership, an agreement or a licensefrom the government or its agencies orfrom a local body, but only to the extentof activities covered by that statutoryor public function or service;

(h)any department or other authority orinstitution established or created by aProvincial Council;

(i)non-governmental organisations thatare substantially funded by thegovernment or any department or otherauthority established or created by aProvincial Council or by a foreigngovernment or internationalorganisation, rendering a service to thepublic in so far as the informationsought relates to the service that isrendered to the public;

(j)higher educational institutionsincluding private universities andprofessional institutions which areestablished, recognised or licensedunder any written law or funded, whollyor partly, by the State or a publiccorporation or any statutory bodyestablished or created by a statute of aProvincial Council;

(k)private educational institutionsincluding institutions offeringvocational or technical educationwhich are established, recognised or

32Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

licensed under any written law orfunded, wholly or partly, by the Stateor a public corporation or any statutorybody established or created by a statuteof a Provincial Council;

(l)all courts, tribunals and institutionscreated and established for theadministration of justice;

44.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

SCHEDULE[Section 12(8)]

PROVISIONS RELATING TO MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION

(1) A member of the Commission shall cease to be a member,where such member:-

(a) resigns his or her office earlier by writing addressed to thePresident;

(b)is removed from office by the President;

(c)is convicted by a court of law;

(d)is deemed to have vacated office by absenting himself orherself from three consecutive meetings of the Commission,without obtaining prior leave of the Commission; or

(e)engages in any employment outside the duties of his office,during the term of office.

(2) The President may on the recommendation of the ConstitutionalCouncil remove from office a member of the Commission, where:-

(a)such member has become permanently incapable ofperforming his or her duties owing to any physical disabilityor unsoundness of mind ;

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

33Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(b)such member is unfit to perform his or her duties on thebasis of moral turpitude; or

(c)such member is convicted of an offence by a competentcourt of law.

(3) The Chairperson or any other member of the Commissionmay resign from such office by letter in that behalf addressed to thePresident and the resignation shall become effective from the date ofits acceptance by the President in writing.

(4) In the event of the vacation of the office of any member of theCommission, the President shall follow the same procedure as set outin section 12(1) and appoint another person to hold such office forthe unexpired term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(5) (a) Where a member of the Commission, is temporarily unableto discharge his or her duty due to ill health, absence from Sri Lankaor for any other cause, the President may on the recommendation ofthe Constitutional Council, appoint another person to act in place ofsuch member during his or her absence.

(b) Where the Chairperson of the Commission, is temporarilyunable to discharge his or her duty due to ill health, absence from SriLanka or for any other cause, the President shall appoint anothermember of the Commission, to act in place of such Chairpersonduring his or her absence.

(6) The members of the Commission, shall be paid suchremuneration as shall be determined by the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance.

(7) (a) The Commission shall meet at least once in every month oras often as may be necessary.

(b) The quorum for any meeting of the Commission shall be threemembers.

(c) The Chairperson of the Commission shall preside at all meetingsof the Commission, and in the absence of the Chairperson at any suchmeeting, the members present shall elect from amongst them, a memberto preside at such meeting.

(d) The Chairperson or the person presiding at any meeting ofthe Commission, shall in addition to his vote, have a casting vote.

(e) The Commission shall regulate the procedure in regard to itsmeetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

34Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(8) The seal of the Commission:

(a)shall be as determined from time to time by theCommission;

(b)shall be in the custody of such person as the Commissionshall determine;

(c)may be altered in such manner as may be determinedby the Commission; and

(d)shall not be affixed to any document or instrument,except with the sanction of the Commission, and in thepresence of the Chairperson and one other member ofsuch Commission both of whom shall sign suchdocument or the instrument in token of their presence.

35Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.