ki ES
Feehan
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
DECLARATION OF
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
(AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 74 OF 1988
[Certified on 17th December, 1988]
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part IL of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988
_ re mi me evr ms faut Lome
TO BE FURGHAGED Ax 8 GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price: Re. 1.20 : Postage : Re. 1.15


Declaration of Assets and Liabilities (Amendment)
Act, No. 74 of 1988
[Certified on 17th December, 1988].
L.D—O 19/86
Aw Act 10 AMEND THE DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND

Lrasitres Law, No. 1 oF 1975
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Regublic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1, This Act may be cited as the Declaration of Assets and Short tile.
Liabilities (Amendment) Act, No. 74 of 1968.

2 Section 2 of the Declaration of Assets and Liabilities Amendment
Law, No. 1 of 1975 (hereinafter referred to as “the $f fqn
principal enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (1) No. 1 of 1975.
of that section, as follows:—

(a) by the substitution for paragraph (b) of that sub-

section, of the following paragraph :—

“(b) Judges and public officers appointed by the
President, public officers appointed by the
Cabinet of Ministers, judicial officers 7
and scheduled public officers appointed by
the Judicial Service Commission and staff \
officers in Ministries and Government
Deyartments ;” ;

(>) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (4)

of that subsection, of the following paragraphs :—
“ (da) office-bearers of recognized political
parties for the purposes of elections under
‘the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of
1981, the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1
of 1981 or the Provincial Councils Elections
‘Act, No, 2 of 1988 or the Development
Councils (Elections) Act, No. 20 of 1981 or
% the Trade Unions Ordinance ;
(db) the executive of trade unions registered under
the Trade Unions Ordinance ;
(de) candidates nominated for election at elections
to be held under the Presidential Elections
4 Act, No. 15 of 1981, the Parliamentary
Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981, the Provincial
Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988, the
Development Councils (Elections) Act, No.
vo 20 of 1981 or the Local Authorities Elections
Ordinance ;


2 Dectaretion of Assets and Liabilities (Amendment)
Act, No, 74 of 1988
(dey proprietors, editors and members of the
editorial staff of newspapers in respect of
which declarations have been made under
section 2 of the Newspapers Ordinance ;
(de) Chairman, Directors and staff officers of
companies registered under the Companies
‘Act, No. 17 of 1982, in which the majority of
2 shares are held by the State or by a public
corporation ;”.
Amendment 3.""'Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby
of section
Sot ine amende as follows :—
principal »
enactment. (a) by the addition at the end of subsection (2) of that
section, of the following proviso :—

“Provided that a person to whom this Law
applies referred to in paragraph (de) of subsection
(1) of section 2 shall be deemed to have complied
with the provisions of this subsection if he makes
a declaration of his assets and liabilities as at the
date of his nomination as a candidate for election
under any of the Acts referred to in that paragraph
on the date of such nomination or before he func-
tions, or sits or votes, as President, a Member of
Parliament, a member of a Provincial Council, a
member of a Development Council or any other
Loca! authority, as the case may be, and in the
case of an unsuccessful candidate at an election
within a period of three months after the date of
nomination. ” ;

(b) by tae repeal of subsection (3) of that section, and
the substitution therefor, of the following sub-
section :—-

“ (8) Every person who is required to make the
first declaration of assets and liabilities under sub-
section (1) or subsection (2) shall, unless such
person ceases to be a person to whom this Law
applies, by the thirtieth day of June in each year,
make in the prescribed form, a declaration of his
assets and liabilities as at the thirty-first day of
March of such year and include in“such declaration
the assets and liabilities he held on the date on
which he was first required to make a declaration
of his assets and Mabilities under this Law:


Declaration of Assets and Liabilities (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 74 of 1988
Provided that, where a person who is required
to make a declaration of assets and liabilities under
subsection (2) has made the first declaration as at
any date within six months preceding the thirty-
first day of March in any year, he shall not be
required ts make another declaration for such
year.”
4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended as follows :— gt section
of the
principal
(a) by the substitution for paragraph (c) of that section *4ctmen
of the following paragraph :— .
“(c) to the Judicial Service Céunsalestone by
judicial officers and by scheduled public
officers within the meaning of Article 114
of the Constitution ;” ;
(b) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (i)
of that section of the following paragraphs :—
* (ia) to the Commissioner of Elections—
(i) by office-bearers of recognized political
parties for the purposes of elections
under the Presidential Elections Act,
No, 15 of 1981, Parliamentary Elections
‘Act, No. 1 of 1981, the Provincial
Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988,
the Development Councils (Elections)
Act, No. 20 of 1981 or the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance ;
(ii) by candidates nominated for election at
‘elections to be held under the Presi-
dential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981,
the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1
of 1981, the Provincial Councils
Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988, the Deve-
lopment Councils (Elections) Act,
No. 20 of 1981 or the Local Authorities
Elections Ordinance ;
(ib) to the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of ‘the subject of Labour by the
executive of trade unions registered under
the ‘Trade Unions Ordinance ;


4 Declaretion of Assets and Liabilities (Amendment)
‘Act, No, 74 of 1988
(ic) to the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of news-
papers by proprietors, editors and members
of the editorial staff of newspapers, in
respect of which declarations have been
made under section 2 of the Newspapers
Ordinance ;
(id) to the Registrar of Companies, by Chairman,
Directors and staff officers of companies
registered under the Companies Act, No. 17
of 1982, in which the majority of the shares
are held by the State or by a public
corporation ; ”
‘Amendment §, Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby
Biot the, amended by the addition immediately after subsection (2)
Ensetment, _of that section of the following subsection :—

“ (2) Any person shall, on payment of a preseribed fee
to the appropriate authority, have the right to call for and
refer to any declaration of assets and liabilities and on
payment of a further fee to be prescribed, shall have the
right to obtain a certified copy of such declaration.

In this subsection “appropriate authority” in relation
to  declarotion of assets and liabilities means the person
to whom that declaration of assets and liabilities has been
made under section 4,”,

Amendment 6, Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
of the amended by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section and
enactment. _the substitution therefor of the following subsection :--

“ (4) Save as provided in subsection (1) and for the
purposes of a proceeding under section 94, it shall be an
offence for any person to make a public statement con-
cerning a persoh to whom this Law applies alleging that
such person has made recent acquisitions of wealth or
property, or recent financial or business dealings, or
incurred recent expenditures not commensurate with the
Imnown sources of wealth and income of such person, or


Declaration of Assets and Liabilities (Amendment) 5
Act, No. 74 of 1988
‘as to the contents of any declaration of assets and
Yiabilities of such person, or to make any such public
statement in respect of any investigation being made by
an appropriate authority upon a written communication
made by him under the provisions of subsection (1).”.
7. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended as follows :— Sof the
Principal
“ (1) by the repeal of the subsection (1) of that section ™etment.
and the substitution therefor of the following sub-
section :—
“(1) Except in the performance of his duties
under this Law or as may be necessary for the
institution of proceedings under, or for the pur-
pose of carrying into effect the provisions of, this .
Law, a person shall preserve and aid in preserving
secrecy with regard to all matters relating to the
affairs of any person to whom this Law applies,
or which may come to his knowledge in the per-
formance of his duties under this Law or in the
exercise of his right under subsection (3) of
section 5, and shall not communicate any such
matter to any person other than the person to
whom such matter relates, or suffer any unautho-
rized person to have access to any papers or records
which may have come into his possession in the
performance of his duties under this Law or in
the exorcise of his right under subsection (3) of
section 5.”; and
(2) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following sub-
section :—
“ (8) Any person required to preserve and aid
in preserving secrecy under the provisions of sub-
section (1) shall not be required to produce in any
court any declaration of assets and liabilities or
any other document relating thereto, or to divulge
or communicate to any court any matter or thing


6 Declaration of Assets and Liabilities (Amendment)
Act, No. 74 of 1988
coming to his notice in the performance of his
duties under this Law or in the exercise of his
right under subsection (3) of section 5, except as
may be necessaty for proceedings instituted or to
be instituted under, or for the purpose of carrying
into effect the provisions of, this Law or the
Bribery Act, the Exchange Control Act, the Inland
‘ Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 or the Customs
Ordinance. ”-

Amendment 8, Section: 9 of the principal enactment is hereby

Sof the emended as follows :—

principal

enactment. (1) in subsection (1) of that section by the insertion

immediately after paragraph (b) of the following
paragraph :—
(bb) who wilfully omits any asset or liability
from any such declaration ; or";
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (3) of
that section of the following subsection :—
* (3a) Where any person is convicted of an offence
under paragraph (bb) of subsection (1) the asset
in respect of which the offence was committed shall
by virtue of such conviction be vested in the State
free of all incumbrances.
(88) The vesting of any assets in the State under
subsection (3a) shall take effect—
(@ where an appeal has been preferred to
the Court of Appeal or the Supreme
Court against the order of forfeiture,
upon the determination of the appeal,
conforming or upholding the order of
forfeiture ;

. (b) where no appeal has been preferred to
the Court of Appeal against the order
of forfeiture after the expiration of the
period within which an appeal may be
preferred to the Court of Appeal
against the order of forfeiture.”


Declaration of Assets and Liabilities (Amendment) 7
Act, No. 74 of 1988
9. The following new section is hereby inserted imme- Insertion of
diately after section 9 of the principal enactment and shall Pew section
have effect ar section 94 of that enactment :— » pinta,
“Procedure 9a. An offence under paragraph (b) or “™*Cett
ft ome, (4b) of subwection (1) of secre 9 (Wn the
tat of section reierred to as “the relevant offence”)
feterfed to shall be inquired into, tried and otherwise
sieeclion 9(1) dealt with, according to the provisions of the
"Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979 (in this section referred to as “the
Criminal Procedure Act") subject to the
following modifications—

(a) no complaint under section 136(1)
(a) of the Criminal Procedure Act
in respect of the relevant offence
shall be entertained by a Magistrate
unless it is—

() in writing ;

(ii) drawn and countersigned by @
pleader ;

(iii) signed by the complaint ; and

(jv) accompained by & certified copy,
obtained under subsection (3)
of section 5 of this Law, of the
declaration in respect of
which the offence is alleged to
have been committed ;

(b) notwithstanding anything in sub-
section (5) of section 9, of this Law,
the prior sanction of the Attorney-
General shall not be necessary for
‘the institution of a prosecution for
the relevant offence ;

Bre () where a complaint in respect of the
relevant offence is entertained by a

Magistrate, the Magistrate shall

where he is of opinion that there is

sufficient ground for proceeding

against the person alleged to have

committed the offence, not issue

summons, under section 139 of the

Criminal Procedure Act requiring

‘ the attendance of such person, unless
the complainant deposits in court,

~ such sum as the Magistrate may


& Declaration of Assets and Liabilities (Amendment)
Act, No. 74 of 1988
determine, as security for the pay-
ment of the costs incurred, or likely
to be incurred, by the accused and
of any compensation that may be
ordered under paragraph (d) ;

(@) whenever a Magistrate acquits or
discharges a person accused of the
relevant offence and declares that
the complaint was frivolous or
vaxatious, the Magistrate shall order
the complainant to pay the State
reasonable costs in a sum determined
by the Magistrate and shall also
order the complainant to pay to the
accused the amount of the costs
incurred by the accused and such
compensation as the Magistrate
shall think fit from and out of the
security deposited by the
complainant ;

(e) nothing in subsection (7) of section 17
of the Criminal Procedure Act shall
limit the amount of the compensation
that may be ordered by a Magistrate
under paragraph (d) ;

(f) where the complainant in a prosecu-
tion for the relevant offence pays the
State costs and compensation ordered
against him under paragraph (4),
the accused shall not be entitled to
institute, or maintain, an action for
damages in any civil court against
such complainant in respect of such
prosecution ; and

(g) notwithstanding anything in section
318 of the Criminal Procedure Act,
the complainant in a prosecution for
the relevant offence may appeal
against the acquittal of the pers%n
accused of such offence, without the
written approval of the Attorney-
General.”.


Declaration of Assets und Liabilities (Amendment) 9
Act, No. 74 of 1988
10. The following new section is hereby inserted imme- Insertion
diately after section 10, and shall have effect as section 108 Section 10
of the principal enactment :— eee ‘pal
“Value of 10a. Nothing in this Law shall be read and “#c!™en*.
construed as requiring any person to whom
this Law applies to indicate the value of any
asset included in any declaration made by
him under this Law except where such asset
consists of holdings in cash.”.
11. Section 12 of the principal enactment, as amended by Amendment
Act No, 29 of 1985, is hereby further amended as follows:— of Secticn
(a) by the substitution for the definition of assets and rtwnPene,
liabilities of the following definition :—
““assets and liabilities” means assets and liabilities
in and outside Sri Lanka, and includes
movable and immovable property owned by
the declarant in whole or in part, any pro-
perty in which the declarant has a benificial
interest and any property acquired by the
declarant during the period to which the
declaration relates, in the name of his
spouse or child ;’;
(b) by the insertion immediately after the definintion of
“Commissioner of Local Government” of the
following definition :—
“oxeeutive” when used with reference to a trade
union has the same meaning as in the Trade
Unions Ordinance ;’;
(c) by the substitution for the definition of “local
‘authority ” of the following definition :—
“Jocal authority” means any Municipal Council,
‘Urban Council or Development Council, or
Pradeshiya Sabha, and includes any
authority created and established by or i
under any law to exercise, perform and
discharge powers, duties and functions
corresponding to or similar to the powers,
duties and functions exercised, performed
and discharged, by any such Council or
Sabha ;;


10 Declaration of Assets and Liabilities (Amendment)
Act, No. 74 of 1988
(d) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
“Jocal authority” of the following definition :—
“ office-bearers” in relation to a recognized political
party means the President, Vice-President,
Secretary or a member of the Executive
committee of such recognized political party
and any other person who is duly empower-
ed to give directions in regard to such poli-
cal party and includes the leader of such
political party, howsoever designated, whe-
ther as Patron, President, Advisor or other-
wise ;; and
(e) by the substitution for the definition of “ staff officer”
of the following definition :—
“staff officer” means—
(a) in the case of any employee of the
Government or a local authority any
. officer—
@) holding any office. created prior to
November 18, 1970, the initial of
the salary scale of which was,
on November 18, 1970, not less
than Rs. 6,720 per annum, or such
other amount per annum as
would, under any subsequent
revision of salary scales, cortes-
pond to such initial,
(ii) holding any. office created after
November 18, 1970, the initial of
the salary scale of which is, on
the date of the creation of that
office, not less than the initial of
F the salary seale applicable, on
that date, to an office referred
to in item (i) or such other
amount per annum as would,
under any subsequent revision
b of salary scales, correspond to the
first-mentioned initial ;


Declaration of Assets and Liabilities (Amendment) 11

Act, No. 74 of 1988,

(b) in the case of any employee of a public
corporation any officer—

(i) holding any office created prior to
November 18, 1970, the initial of
the salary scale of which was, on
November 18, 1970, not less than
Rs. 7,200 per annum, of such other
amount per annum as would,
under any subsequent revision
of salary scales, correspond to
such initial ;

Gi){ holding any office created after
November 18, 1970, the initial of
the salary scale of which is, on
the date of creation of that office,
not less than the initial of the

‘ salary scale applicable, on that
date, to an office referred to in
item (i) or such other amount
per annum as would, under any
subsequent revision’ of salacy
scales, correspond to the first
mentioned initial ;’ é
