Ee pecan

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

LAND GRANTS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
ACT, No. 43 OF 1979

[Certified on 25th June, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratie
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 29, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT “PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price: 80 cents Postage 25 cents


Land Grants (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 43 of 1979

[Certified on 25th June, 1979]
L.D.—O. 29/79

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE VESTING IN THE STATE, OF
AGRICULTURAL OR ESTATE LAND WHICH IS VESTED IN THE LAND
ReFrormM CoMMISSION UNDER THE LAND REFORM Law; TO
ENABLE THE TRANSFER, FREE OF CHARGE, TO THE LANDLESS, OF
THE LANDS SO VESTED IN THE STATE; AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Land Grants (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 43 of 1979.

2. (1) The Minister may—

(a) having regard to the need to augment the area of
land available to the State, for the purposes of
distribution ;

(b) with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of
the subject of land reform ; and

(c) by an Order published in the Gazette,
vest in the State, any agricultural or estate: land which is
vested in the Land Refoym Commission under the Land
Reform Law.

(2) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall—
(a) specify the extent of agricultural or estate land vested
in the State by such Order ;
(b) make reference to the survey plan made by the
Surveyor-General or under his direction in respect
of such agricultural or estate land ;

(c) specify any servitude attaching to such agricultural or
estate land.

(3) Every Order made under gibieection (1) shall be
final and conclusive and shall not be called in q{iieedon | in
any court.

(4) Where any soeicaitaedl or estate land is vested in the
State by an Order made under subsection (1)—

(a) the State shall, with effect from the date of such
Order, have absolute title to such agricultural or
estate land free from all encumbrances (other
than any servitude specified in such Order) ; and

2—8 4208N—14.495 (79/08)

Short title. -

Power of
Minister to
vest in the
State, land
vested in
the Land
Reform
Commission.


President
may
transfer free
of charge
lands vested
in the

State under
this Act.

Survey of
land to
precede
transfer.

Transfers
to be
subject to
certain
conditions.

2 Land Grants (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 43 of 1979

(b) the State shall pay to the Land Reform Commission
in respect of such agricultural or estate land,
compensation of an amount equal to the compen-
sation payable under the Land Reform Law in’
respect of such agricultural or estate land by the
Land Reform Cloommission to the former owner
of such agricultural or estate land.

3. The President may, by an instrument of disposition
substantially in the Form set out in the Schedule hereto,
transfer, free of charge, any portion of any land vested in
the State by virtue of an Order made under section 2, to
any citizen of Sri Lanka over eighteen years of age.

In transferring any State land under this section, the
President shall have regard to—

(a) the fact that the prospective transferee does not
own any land;

(b) the level of income of the family of the prospective
transferee ; and 7

(c) the capacity of the prospective transferee to develop
such land.

4. No State land shall be transferred under section 3
until after such land has been surveyed and demarcated
to the satisfaction of the Land Commissioner.

5. (1) Every transfer of any State land under section 3
shall be deemed to be subject to the following conditions,
whether or not such conditions are inserted in the instru-
ment of disposition effecting such transfer :— e

(a) no disposition of such land shall be effected except
with the prior consent in writing of the Land
Commissioner ; .

'(b) the transferee shall carry out on such land such soil
conservation measures as the Government Agent
of the administrative district within which such
land is situated, may from time to time require;

(c) the transferee’s title to such land shall be subject
to any servitude attaching to such land;

(d) such transfer shall be deemed not to confer any right
to any mineral in, under, or upon such land and
every such mineral shall be deemed to remain, and
shall remain, the absolute property of the

.. Republic ;


Land Grants (Special Provisions) 3
Act, No. 43 of 1979

(e) the transferee shall be liable for the payment of
any irrigation rates payable under the Irrigation
Ordinance in respect of such land ;

(f) the title to such land shall revert to, and vest in,
the State if there is a failure by the transferee to
comply with any condition to which such transfer
is deemed to be subject by virtue of this sub-
section ; and

(g) such other conditions as may be prescribed in the
interests of the proper utilization and management
of such land.

(2) Upon proof that there has been a failure to comply
with or to observe any condition to which any transfer
of State land under section 3 is deemed to be subject, the
State shall be entitled, upon application to a court of
competent jurisdiction, to a decree cancelling the instru-
ment of disposition effecting such transfer and declaring
such land to be vested in the State, free from all
encumbrances.

6. (1) Every instrument of disposition whereby a trans-
fer of State land is effected under section 3 shall be signed
and executed by the President.

: (2) The President may, if he thinks fit, instead of signing
_ the original of any such instrument of disposition, cause
a facsimile of his signature to be stamped thereon; and
any original so stamped shall be deemed to be signed by
the President.

(3) The facsimile of the signature of the President shall
be stamped on the original of the instrument of disposition
by, or in the presence of, the Secretary to the President
or some other person authorized in that behalf by
President; and the Secretary or such other person shall
certify on such original that the Presidient’s signature
was stamped thereon by him or in his presence, as the
case may be.

7. (1) A copy of every instrument of disposition signed
or deemed to be signed in accordance with section 6 shall
be authenticated by the signature of the Government
Agent of the administrative district within which the land
transferred by such instrument is situated and shall be
deposited for purposes of record at the office of the
Registrar of Lands of the district within which such land

is situated.

Execution
and

authenti-
cation of
instruments
of
disposition
effecting
transfers
of State
Jand under
section 3.

Authenti-
eation of
copies of
instruments
of
disposition
affecting
transfers of
‘State land
under
section 3.


Registration
of .
instruments

re)
disposition.

Nomination
of successor
to State
land trans-
ferred under
section 3.

4 Land Grants (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 43 of 1979

(2) Any such copy as is referred to in subsection (1)

-shall, if authenticated in the manner specified in that

subsection, be primary evidence, within the meaning of :
section 62 of the Evidence Ordinance, of the instrument of
which it purports to be a copy.

8. Every instrument of disposition whereby a transfer
of State land is effected under section 3 shall, when effected,
be registered at the instance of the Government Agent of
the administrative district within which such land is
siuated. No fee shall be paid or recovered for such

_ registration.

9. (1) A person to whom any State land is transferred
under section 3 or any person on whom the rights of the
first-mentioned person in such land have devolved (in this

. subsection referred to as “the grantee”) may nominate a

successor who shall be entitled to succeed to the rights of
the grantee in such land upon the death of the grantee. A
nomination made in pursuance of this subsection shall be
deemed not to be a disposition within the meaning of °
section 5(1) (a).

(2) Any nomination of a successor made in pursuance of
subsection (1) may at any time be cancelled by the person
who made such nomination and a fresh nomination of a
successor may be made by such person.

(3) The nomination‘of a successor and the cancellation
of any such nomination shall be effected by a person to.
whom State land has been transferred under section 3 or
any person on whom the rights of the first-mentioned person
in such land have devolved—

(a) In a document substantially in the prescribed form
executed and witnessed in duplicate before a Gov-

ernment Agent, a Registrar of Lands, a Notary or
a Justice of the Peace; or

(b) by his last will.


Land Grants (Special Provisions) a)
Act, No. 43 of 1979
(4) The provisions of subsections (4), (5), (6), (7) and
(9) of section 6 of the Agricultural Lands Law, No. 42 of
1978, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to, a
nomination effected in accordance with paragraph (a) of
subsection (3).

(5) Regulations may be made prescribing the procedure
for the registration of a document referred to in paragraph
(a) of subsection (3).

10. Where a person to whom State land has been trans-
ferred under section 3 or any person on whom the rights of
the first-mentioned person in such land have devolved (in
this section referred to as “the grantee”) dies and the gran-
tee has not nominated a successor under section 9, or where
the successor nominated by the grantee under that section
is dead, the rights of the grantee in such land shall devolve
on his surviving spouse and, failing such spouse, on one only
of the relatives of the grantee in the following order—

(1) sons,
(2) daughters,
(3) grandsons,
(4) grand-daughters,
(5) father, ag aK
(6) mother,
(7) brothers,
(8) sisters,
_ (9) uncles, -
(10) aunts,
(11) nephews,

(12) neices,

the oldest being preferred to the others where there are

more relatives than two in any group, and the older being
preferred to the other where there are only two relatives
in any group.

4
t

Devolution
of rights
in State
land trans-
ferred
under
section 3,
in the
absence of
nomination
under
section 9.


Conditions
to which

a transfer
under
section 3 is
deemed to
be subject,
to run with
the land.

Disposition
of land
transferred
under
section 3
without the
consent in
writing,

of the
Land
Commis-
sioner void
and
inoperative.

Rectification

of errors &c.

in instru-
ment of
disposition.

6 ‘Land Grants (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 43 of 1979
In this section, “relative” means a relative by blood and

not by marriage.

11. The burden of any condition to which any transfer. of
State land under section 3 is denied to be subject, shall
run with the land and shall be binding upon the transferee
and upon all persons claiming that land through, from, or

under, such transferee.

12. Where any person to whom any State land is trans-
ferred under section 3 effects a disposition of that land
without the prior consent in writing of the Land Commis-
sioner given in accordance with the provisions of section
5 (1) (a) such disposition shall be void and inoperative

for all purposes.

13. Where it appears to the Government Agent of the
administrative district within which any State land

transferred under section 3 is situated that any instrument

of disposition effecting such transfer contains any clerical

or other error or requires amendment in respect of the
description of the land comprised therein or in respect of
the inscription or recital of the name or designation of the
transferee or of any other material fact, such error may be
rectified or such amendment may be made by an endorse-
ment on such instrument of disposition signed by such
Government Agent and the transferee ; and. any endorse-
ment so signed shall be sufficient for all purposes to rectify
the error or to effect the amendment ; and the instrument on
which any such endorsement is made shall have effect as
though it had been originally issued or executed as so

rectified or amended.


Land Grants (Special Provisions) 7
Act, No. 43 of 1979 ;

14. Any alluvial or other accretion to any State land
transferred under section 3 shall, together with all rights
appertaining or belonging to such accretion, be the property
of the Republic and is hereby declared to be vested in the
Republic.

15. The Government Agent of the administrative district
within which any State land transferred under section 3 is
situated, or any officer authorized in writing by such
Government Agent, may at any time enter and inspect such
land, for the purposes of ascertaining whether any condition
to which such transfer is deemed to be subject is being com-
plied with.

16. (1) The Land Commissioner shall be responsible for
and charged with the administration of this Act.

(2) In the exercise of his powers and in the performance

of his duties under this Act, the Land Commissioner shall .

be subject to the general direction and control of the
Minister. .

17. (1) Any public officer entrusted with any duties in
respect of, or connected with, the implementation of this
Act shall, on his own or at the instance of the Land Comrnis-
sioner, refer to. such Land Commissioner for.decision, any
question of doubt or difficulty in connection with the per-
formance of such duties.

(2) Any direction or decision of the Land Commissioner
shall be duly complied with, or given effect, to by every such
public officer.

18. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
all or any of the matters which are required by this Act to
be prescribed.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
‘the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.

Alluvial
and other
accretions

transferred,

under
section 3.

Power to
inspect
any State
land
trans-
ferred
under
section 3.

Adminis-
tration o
this Act.

Reference
to Land
Commis-
sioner in
case of
doubt.

Regula-

tions.


Provi-
sions of
this

Act to
prevail

over any °
other law.

Interpre-
tation.

8 Land Grants (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 43 of 1979

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
brought before Parliament for approval. Every regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of disapproval, but without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done thereunder. Notification
of the date on which any regulation, is deemed to be so
rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

19. The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwith-
standing anything contained in any other written law and
accordingly, in the event of any conflict or any inconsistency
between the provisions of this Act and such other written
law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

20. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“ agricultural land” has the same meaning as in the Land
‘Reform Law ;

“ disposition ” with its grammatical variations and cognate
expressions, means any transaction of whatever
nature affecting land or the title thereto, and
includes any conveyance, transfer, surrender, ex-
change, lease or mortgage of land or the creation of
a trust attaching to land ;

“estate land” has the same meaning as in the Land Re-
form Law ;

“Land Commissioner ” means the Land Commissioner
appointed under the Land Development Ordinance ;

“and Reform Commission” means the Land Reform
Commission established by the Land Reform Law ;

“and Reform Law ” means the Land Reform Law, No. 1
of 1972, as amended by Law No. 39 of 1975 ;

“mineral” has the same meaning as in the Mines and
Minerals Law, No. 4 of 1973 ;

“ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulation made under
section 18. - a


~Land Grants (Special Provisions) 9
Act, No. 43 of 1979

2) Nelvauawcuisaay , Gta

[Section 3]
SCHEDULE

Instrument of disposition effecting transfer of land under section
3 of the Land Grants (Special Provisions) Act, 1979

Li A; cenawes s sweets s eeeweines vewkiews 5 een 5 x ee , President of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, do hereby transfer
WFILO  opaieisiistttn o teteteerunes ‘... (hereinafter called the transferee), free

of any payment, the State land described in the First Schedule
hereto, subject to the conditions set out in the Second Schedule
hereto and the provisions of the Land Grants (Special Provisions)
Act, 1979.

2. The title to the land transferred by this instrument shall
revert to, and vest in, the State if the trnasferee fails to comply
with any condition set out in the Second Schedule hereto or any
Provisions of the Land Grants (Special Provisions) Act, 1979.

Given under my hand this day of , 19

I certify under section 6 (3) of the Land Grants (Special
Provisions) Act, 1979 that the above facsimile of the President’s
Signature was stamped hereon by me/in my presence.

Secretary to the President.

FIRST SCHEDULE

SECOND SCHEDULE

8—e 42080 (79/05)
