NATIONAL SECURITY LEVY (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 21 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 27th July, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 30, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

1National Security Levy (Amendment)Act, No. 21 of 1999

[Certified on 27 th July, 1999]

L.D.O.65/98.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL SECURITY LEVYACT, NO. 52 OF 1991

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the National Security Levy(Amendment) Act, No.21 of 1999.

2. Section 3 of the National Security Levy Act, No.52 of1991 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) ishereby amended as follows :-

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal of allthe words from every quarter of every yearcommencing on or after to the end of thatsubsection, and the substitution of the followingtherefore: -

every quarter or part thereof of every yearcommencing on or after January 1, 1997(hereinafter referred to as the relevant quarter)a National Security Levy (hereinafter referredto as the levy) on the turnover or part thereof,of that person for that quarter or part thereof,calculated at the appropriate rates specified inthe Schedule to this Act.

(2) in subsection (2) of that section -

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (g) of thatsubsection, for the words taken out of SriLanka for repairs, and , of the words takenout of Sri Lanka for repairs;.

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (h)of thatsubsection, for the words owned or charteredby such airline or shipping company, of thewords, owned or chartered by such airline orshipping company; and

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 3 of ActNo. 52 of 1991.

H - 022545

2National Security Levy (Amendment)Act, No. 21 of 1999

Amendment ofSection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

(c)by the addition, at the end of that subsection,of the following paragraph:-

(i) the proceeds from the sale of any article, orany sum received or receivable in respect ofthe provision of any service to the UnitedNations Organisation or to any specializedagency of such Organization or to thediplomatic mission of any foreign Governmentor to any member of the diplomatic staff ofsuch mission.

3. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:-

(1) in paragraph (g) of that section by the substitution,for the words and figures for every quarter of everyyear commencing on or after January 1, 1997. of thewords and figures for every quarter commencingon or after January 1, 1997 but prior to October, 1,1998;, and

(2) by the addition, immediately after paragraph (g), ofthe following paragraph:-

(h) for the quarter commencing on October 1, 1998-

(i) an amount equivalent to -

(A) four and one half Per centum of theturnover of that person not beingturnover referred to in item (B) of thissub-paragraph; and

(B) one half Per centum of the turnover ofthat person arising from the import ormanufacture of any plant, machinery or

3National Security Levy (Amendment)Act, No. 21 of 1999

equipment, not being any motor car,motor coach or lorry within the meaningof the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),

for the period commencing on October 1, 1998and ending on November 5, 1998, in that quarter,on or before the fifteenth day of November, 1998;

(ii) an amount equivalent to -

(A) five and one half per centum of theturnover of that person, not beingturnover referred to in item (B) of thissub-paragraph; and

(B) one half Per centum of the turnover ofthat person arising from the import ormanufacture of any plant, machinery orequipment, not being any motor car,motor coach or lorry within the meaningof the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),

for the period commencing on November 6, 1998and ending on November 30, 1998, in that quarter,on or before the fifteenth day of December, 1998;

(iii)the amount of the levy payable by suchperson for that quarter reduced by theaggregate of the amounts paid by him inaccordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (i) and sub-paragraph (ii) of thisparagraph, on or before the fifteenth day ofthe month immediately succeeding the endof that quarter; and

4National Security Levy (Amendment)Act, No. 21 of 1999

(i) for every quarter commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 1999

(ii) an amount equivalent to -

(A) five and one half per centum of theturnover of that person, not beingturnover referred to in item (B) of thissub-paragraph; and

(B) one half Per centum of the turnover ofthat person arising from the import ormanufacture of any plant, machinery orequipment, not being any motor car,motor coach or lorry within the meaningof the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),

for the first month of that quarter, on or before thefifteenth day of the second month of that quarter,

(ii) an amount equivalent to

(A) five and one half per centum of theturnover of that person, not beingturnover referred to in item (B) of thissub-paragraph; and

(B) one half Per centum of the turnover ofthat person arising from the import ormanufacture of any plant, machinery orequipment, not being any motor car,motor coach or lorry within the meaningof the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),

for the second month of that quarter, on or beforethe fifteenth day of the third month of that quarter;and

5National Security Levy (Amendment)Act, No. 21 of 1999

(iii) the amount of the levy payable by such personfor that quarter reduced by the aggregate ofthe amounts paid by him in accordance withthe provisions of sub-paragraph (i) and sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, on or beforethe fifteenth day of the month immediatelysucceeding the end of that quarter.

4. The Schedule to the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) in item 7 of that schedule by the substitution for thewords and figures every quarter of every yearcommencing on or after January 1, 1997, of the wordsand figures every quarter of every year commencingon or after January1, 1997 but prior to October 1, 1998;.

(2) by the addition, at the end of that Schedule of thefollowing items:

8. For the quarter commencing on October 1, 1998

(i) on turnover other than turnover referred toin paragraph (ii)

(a) arising for the period commencing onOctober 1, 1998 and ending onNovember 5, 1998

4 1/2 per centum

(b) arising for the period commencing onNovember 6, 1998 and ending onDecember 31, 1998

5 1/2 per centum

Amendment ofthe Schedule tothe principalenactment.

6National Security Levy (Amendment)Act, No. 21 of 1999

(ii) on turnover arising from the import ormanufacture of any plant, machinery orequipment, not being any motor car, motorcoach or lorry within the meaning of the MotorTraffic Act (Chapter 203)0.5 Per centum

9. For every quarter of every year commencing on orafter January 1, 1999

(i) On turnover other than turnover referred to inparagraph (ii), of this item5 1/2 per centum

(ii) on turnover arising from the import ormanufacture of any plant, machinery orequipment, not being any motor car, motorcoach or lorry within the meaning of the MotorTraffic Act (Chapter 203)0.5 per centum.

5. where the Director- General of Customs collects duringthe period commencing on November 6,1998 and ending onthe date of commencement of this Act, from an importer of anarticle not being plant, machinery or equipment, an amount inexcess of four and one half per centum of the value of sucharticle, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes tohave been, and to be, validly made, and such Director -Generalof Customs is hereby indemnified against all actions, civil orcriminal, in respect of such collection.

6. Where a person to whom this Act applies is required bysection 4 of the principal enactment as amended by section 2of this Act, to pay to the Commissioner-General in respect ofthe period from November 6, 1998 to the date of commencementof this Act, an amount in excess of four and one halfper centum of the turnover of that person for that period,such person shall be deemed for all purposes, to have

Validation.

Transitionalprovision.

7National Security Levy (Amendment)Act, No. 21 of 1999

complied with the requirements of that section, if he pays tothe Commissioner-General, within thirty days of the date ofcommencement of this Act, the difference between the amounthe was required by section 4 of the principal enactment asamended by section 2 of this Act, to pay for that period, andthe amount paid, by him for that period, as the case may be.Where such difference is not so paid, such difference shall bedeemed to be in default after the expiration of thirty days fromthe date of commencement of this Act, and such person shallbe deemed to be a defaulter within the meaning of the principalenactment, with effect from that date.

7. The amendment made to section 3 of the principalenactment by section 2 (2) of this Act, shall be deemed for allpurposes to have come into force on April 1, 1999.

8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Retrospectiveeffect.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.