PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC

eo SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
4 SRI LANKA
1

GOODS AND SERVICES TAX (AMENDMENT )
ACT, No. 11 OF 1998

{Certified on 31st March, 1998}

Printed on the Order of Government

:
. —

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of Apri! 3, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRi LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO {

Price: Rs. 13.50 Postage : Rs. 4.00


Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 11 of 1998

[Certified on 31st March, 1998]
L.D.—O. 43/97.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE GOODS AND SERVICES TAX
Act, No. 34 oF 1996

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Goods aid Services Tax
(Amendment) Act, No I1 of 1998, and shall come into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette.

2. Section 2 of the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34
of 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment’)
is hereby amended by the repeal of subsection (3) of that
section and the substitution therefor of the following
subsection:—

“(3) The tax on importation of goods shall be
charged, levied and collected as if it were a cusioms
duty and as if all goods imported into Sri Lanka are
dutiable and liable to customs duty. These provisions
shall not be applicable to any goods entered into
customs bonded area in terms of the Customs
Ordinance : .

Provided however, that the Director-General of
Customs may defer the payment of the tax due on any
goods imported by a registered person who imports
goods to be used for the purposes of manufacture and
exports the goods so manufactured, or any other person
referred to in subsection (6) of section 22, for a period
not exceeding forty-five days or such other period not
exceeding ninety days as may be determined by the
Minister by notification published in the Gazette,
from the date of importation of such goods, subject to
the furnishing of a bank guarantee or a corporate
guarantee which covers the amount of the tax due on
the goods so imported.”.

2—D 047342 — 9,550 (98/03)

Short titte.

Amendmeni of
section 2 of Act,
No. 34 of 1996.


Amendment of
section 40f the
priucipal

chav (ment.

Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment,

3.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. [1 of 1998

section ° of the principal enactment is amended as

follows .- -

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

4.

(1)

by ihe insertion immediaiely after subsection (1) of
that section of the following subsection :—

“(1A) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
(d) of subsection (1), where an invoice is issued in
respect of gocsis supplied within ten days from the
date of delivery of such goods, the time of supply of
such goods shail be deemed to be the: time at which
the invoice was issued.” ;

by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) of
crat section of the following subsection:—

“(2a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
(a) of subsection (2), when an invoice is issued in
respect of services supplied within ten days from the
date of performance of such service, the time of supply
of such service shall be deemed to be the time at which
the invoice was issued.” ;

in paragraph (a) of subsection (3) of that section by
the substitution for the words “under an agreement”
of the words “under an agreement entered into on or
after the appointed date” ;

by the addition at the end of that section of the
following subsection : —

“(4) Where the Commissioner-General has
directed any registered person to account for tax on a
payment basis under section 23, the time of supply of
goods and services supplied by such person shall be
the time at which the payment in respect of such supply
is received.”.

Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amended

as follows :—-

in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words and figures “any tax chargeable under
this Act, and any excise duty payable under the Excise
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989”, of the words
“any tax chargeable under this Act,” ;


Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 11 of 1998

(2) in paragraph (i) of subsection (5) of that section by
the substitution for the words “by a person after the
time” of the words “by a person at the time” ;

QB

—

in subsection (10) of that section by the substitution
for the words “shall be the amount paid for such ticket
or the amount deposited”, of the words “shall be the
amount paid for such ticket less the tax payable under
this Act or the amount deposited less the tax payable
under this Act” ; and

(4

~

by the addition at the end of that section of the
following subsections:-—

“(11) Where goods or services are supplied under
‘an agreement entered into on or before 23rd December,
1996 not being a hire purchase agreement and which
is not reviewable the value of such supply shall be the
consideration for such supply as stipulated in such
agreement less the tax determined by the
Commissioner-General as being attributable to such
consideration.

(12) Where any goods supplied under a lease
agreement is subsequently transferred to the lessee at
the expiry of the period of the lease, for a consideration
not exceeding ten per centum of the total consideration
of the iease agreement, such consideration shall be
considered a part of the consideration of the lease

agreement.”.
5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amended Amendment of
as follows:— section 6 of the
principal

enactment.

(1) in paragraph (6) of subsection (1) of that section by
the substitution, for the words “and any cess”, of the
words and figures “any cess and any excise duty
payable under the Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No.
13 of 1989” ;

(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section.


Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 10 of the
principal
enactment.

4

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 11 of 1998

6. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section as folows:—

(1) in sub-paragraph (iii) of that paragraph by the

substitution for the words “for use outside Sri Lanka”,
of the words “for use outside Sri Lanka ; and” ;

(2) by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph (iii)

7.

of that paragraph, of the following new paragraph :-—

“(iv) international transportation (including
transhipment) of goods or passengers.”

Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal of
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of that subsection and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraphs :—

“(a) atthe end of any taxable period of one month or turce

(b)

(c

4

months, as the case may be, the total value of his
taxable supplies of goods or services or goods and
services made in Sri Lanka in that taxable period of
one month or three months, as the case may be, has
exceeded five hundred thousand rupees ; or

in the twelve months period then ending, the total
value of his taxable supplies of goods or services or
goods and services made in Sri Lanka has exceeded
one million and eight hundred thousand rupees ; or

at any time there are reasonable grounds to believe
that the total value of his taxable supplies in Sri Lanka
of goods or services or goods and services in the
succeeding one month or three months taxable period,

_as the case may be, is likely to exceed five hundred

thousand rupees or in the succeeding twelve months
period is likely to exceed one million and eight
hundred thousand rupees :

Provided however that where the Commissioner-
General is of opinion that the supply of goods relate
to an isolated transaction, the value of such supply
may be excluded ‘i: calculating the total value of
taxable supr'*. ior the purposes of this section.”.


Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) 5
Act, No. 11 of 1998

8. Section 1! of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section by
the substitution for the words and figures “section 10 or
section 12” of the words and figures “section 10 or section
12 or is deemed to be a registered persun under subsection
(1) of section 75”.

9. Section 13 of the principa! enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (a) of that section by the substitution
for the words and figures “section 10 or section 12”, of the
words and figures “section 10 or section 12 or is deemed to
be a registered person under subsection (1) of section 75 ”.

10. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (3) of that section by the substitution
for the words “certificate at conspieous place” of the words
“certificate at a conspicuous place.”. -

11. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal of all
the words from “eight successive taxable periods
following the date of registration” to the end of that
subsection and the substitution therefor of the
following :—

“a period of twenty-four months following the date
of registration where such registered person has ceased
to carry on or carry out a taxable activity or the total
value of his supplies during any taxable period within
such period does not exceed the value set out in
section 10.”;

(2) in subsection (3) of that section by the substitution
for the words and figures “any person registered under
section 10 or section 12 where the Commissioner-
General is of the opinion”, of the words “any person,
where he is of the opinion”.

Amendment of
section 1! of the
principal _
enactment.

Amendment of
section 13 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 15 of the
principai
enactment.

Amendment of

_ section 16 of the

principal
enactment.


6

. Amendment of 12.

section 20 of the
principal
enactment. . ()

(2)

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. Il of 1998

Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended as follows:—

in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “shall issue to another registered person
to whom a supply is made”, of the words “shall issue
to the person to whom such supply is made”;

in subsection (2) of that section—

(a) by the repeal of paragraph (5) of that subsection
and the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:-—

“(b) the name and address of the person to
whom the supply was made ;”; and

(b) in paragraph (f) of that subsection, by the

substitution for the words and figures “the
amount of any excise duty payable under the
Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989
any national” of the words “the amount of any
national”;

(3) by the repeal of subsection (6) of that'section and the

substitution therefor of the following: —

“¢“, Notwithstanding the provisions of section 2,
where a registered person makes a taxable supply, the
vais of which does not exceed two thousand rupees
such registered person may issue a tax invoice setting
out the following: —

(a) the name, address and the registration number
of the supplicr,

(b) the date on which the tax invoice was issued
and its serial number;

(c) the date of supply and the description of goods
or services supplied;

(d) the quantity or volume of the supply;

(e) the consideration inclusive of the tax for the
supply and the relevant rate of tax.”.


13.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) 7
Act, No. 11 of 1998

Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended as follows:—

(1)

(2

—

(3

—

14,

in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “fifteen days”, of the words “last day of
the month”;

by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section;

by the repeal of subsection (12) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following subsection:—

“(12) Except where the Commissioner - General,
imposes a penalty under subsection (10), every person
who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) or
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence under this
Act and shall be liable on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees or to an imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment.”.

Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended as follows:—

(1)

(2

—

(3)

in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “any output tax that is due to him”, of
the words “any output tax that is due to him:

Provided however, any person adopting a payment
basis of accounting, is entitled to claim credit on so
much of his input tax as is allowable under this Act,
only in respect of a supply for which the payment has
been made by such person.”;

in subsection (4) of that section by the substitution
for the words “the expiration of one month”, of the
words “ the expiration of two months”;

by the repeal of the proviso to subsection (4) of that
section and the substitution therefor of the following
proviso :—~

Amendment of
section 21 of the
Principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 22 of the
principal
enactment.


(4)

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 11 of 1998

“Provided however, that where in a taxable
period—

(a) the value of zero rated supplies was not less
than fifty per centum of the total taxable
supplies for that taxable period, such part of
the excess of the input tax (inclusive of any
excess brought forward from a preceding
taxable period) as is equivalent to the
proportion that the zero rated supplies bear
to the total taxable supplies ; or

(b

—

there is an excess of input tax, in the case of a
person who has entered into an agreement
with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
during the period referred to in item (XXVII)
or (XXVIII of the Schedule to this Act ; or

(c) there is an excess of input tax, in the case ofa
person referred to in subsection (6),

such part of the excess or such excess, as the case
may be, shall be refunded, subject to the provisions
of section 58, not later than one month after the end
of the taxable period or from the date of the receipt of
the return for such taxable period, in which the excess
arose, whichever is later. In the event of a failure to
pay such refund within such period, interest on such
refund shall be payable from the date on which the
refund becomes due to the date of payment thereof at
such rate as may be prescribed under section 59.";

in paragraph (1) of subsection (5) of that section by
the substitution for the words “for the transportation
of any goods;”, of the words “for the transportation
of any goods or motor vehicle forming part of any
stock in trade of any taxable activity”;


Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) 9
Act, No. II of 1998

(5) by the addition immediately after subsection (5) of
that section of the following subsections:—

(6) Where any registered person has proved to
the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General that such
person has commenced any business in Sri Lanka, and
undertakes to make the taxable supplies in respect of
such business within a period of thirty months from
the date of such commencement, the Commissioner-
General may allow credit for input tax in respect of
such business subject to such conditions as may be
specified by him.

(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 33,
any refund in excess of the amount due, or any excess
amount of input tax claimed shall be assessed by an
Assessor on the registered person to whom the refund
has been made or making such claim, as the case may
be, and such amount shall be deemed to be tax in
default on the first day of the taxable period in which
the excess of input tax first arose resulting in such
refund or excessive claim in excess as the case may
be.”.

15. Section 25 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows :— section 25 of the
. principal
enactment.
(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution,
for the words “a supply made to a registered person”,

of the words “a supply made to another person” ; and

(2) in paragraph (6) of subsection (2) of that section by
the substitution, for the words “the supply was made
shall pay”, of the words “the supply was made shall if
such person is a registered person pay”.


Amendment of
section 26 of the
principal
enactment,

Amendment of
section 27 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 30 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 33 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 48 of the
principal
enactment.

10 Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 11 of 1998

16. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “not later than the fifteenth day of”, of
the words “not later than the last day of ” ;

(2) by the repeal of both the provisos to that section.

17. Section 27 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (5) of subsection (1) of that section,
by the substitution for the words “fifteenth day”, wherever
those words appear in that paragraph, of the words “last day”.

18. Section 30 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “avoid the payment
of tax he shall”, of the words “avoid the payment of tax or
where the supply relates to a transaction between associated
persons he shall”.

19. Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “has furnished a
return in respect of that period”, of the words “has furnished
a return as provided in section 21 in respect of that period”.

20. Section 48 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “whether such officer is responsible or
not for such default”, of the words “as if such officer
is responsible for such default unless he proves the
contrary to the satisfaction of Commissioner-
Genera!” ;

(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and the
substitution therefor of the following subsection :—

(2) Where an unincorporated body of persons has
not paid any tax on or before the due date, it shall be
lawful to proceed under all or any of the provisions of
this Chapter against any partner or office-bearer of
such unincorporated body of persons as if he is
responsible for such default unless he proves the
contrary to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-
General, notwithstanding anything in any other written
law.”.


Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) ial
Act, No. 11 of 1998

21. Section 57 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) by renumbering of that section as subsection (1) of
that section ;

(2

—

by the addition immediately after the renumber€d
subsection (1) of the following subsection :—

“(2) Where an unincorporated body of persons is
dissolved and where any tax to which such
unincorporated body is liable, cannot be recovered
then every person who was a partner or office - bearer
of that unincorporated body at any time during the
period in respect of which such tax is payable shall be
jointly and severally liable for the payment of such
tax unless he proves that the default in payment of the
tax cannot be attributed to any gross neglect,
malfeasance or breach of duty on his part in refation
to the affairs of such unincorporated body and the
provisions of this Act relating to collection and
recovery of tax shall apply accordingly.”

- 22, Section 58 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section by the
repeal of paragraphs (i) and (ii) of that proviso and
the substitution therefor of the following paragraphs—

“(i) a registered person who makes zero rated
supplies ; or

(ii) any registered person referred to in paragraph
(b) of the proviso to subsection (4) of section
22;

(iii) any registered person referred to in subsection
(6) of section 22”;

(2) in subsection (3) of that section—

(a) _ by the substitution in paragraph (a) thereof
for the words “any taxable period or a month
in a taxable period”, of the word: “any

- taxable period” ;

Amendment of
section 57 of the
principal
enactment,

Amendment of
section 58 of the
principal
enactment.


Amendment of
section 59 of the
principal
enactment.

Repeal of Chapter ~

XI of the principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section

68 of the principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section .

71 of the principal
enactment.

Insertion of new
sections 71a and
71s in the
principal
enactment.

12 Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 11 of 1998

(b) by the substitution in paragraph (b) thereof
for the words “any taxable period or in a
month ina taxable period has not furnished

- areturn for any taxable period or a month in
_ a taxable period”, of the words “any taxable
period has not furnished a return”.

23. Section 59 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “by the Minister from time to time.” of the words
“by the Minister from time to time :

Provided however, no such interest shal! be payable where
there was a delay on the part of the registered person in
complying with any requirement made by the Assessor in
respect of any records of the registered person.”.

24. Chapter XI of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed. .

25. Section 68 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (f) of that section.

26. Section 71 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (4) of the section by the substitution
for the words “ a Deputy Commissioner of Inland Revenue”
of the words “a Deputy Commissioner of Inland Revenue or
a Senior Assessor of Inland Revenue.”.

27. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 71 and shall have effect as sections
71a and 718 respectively of the principal enactment.

“Goods and 71a. (1) There shall be established a Fund
Services Tax calied the Goods and Services Tax Refund
Refund Fund. Fund (hereinafter referred to as “the Fund”).


Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) 13
Act, No. 1] of 1998

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund—

(a) a sum of Rupees one hundred
million which shall be paid out
of the Consolidated Fund to the
Fund ,;

twenty five per centum of the
Goods and Services Tax
collected every month
commencing from the
appointed date, on or before the
fifteenth day of the month
immediately succeeding that
month.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all
refunds required to be paid in accordance with
the provisions of this Act.

(b

—

(4) (i) The Commissioner-General or any
other officer of the Department of Inland —
Revenue authorised by him in that behalf in
writing shall administer the Fund.

(ii) Regulations may be made as regards the
manner and mode in which the refunds may
be made.

Rewards to

, 71s. The Commissioner-General may pay,
informants.

from sums appropriated for that purpose by
Parliament, such sums of money as he
considers reasonable in the circumstances of
the case, to any individual who provides
information which results in the assessment
of the tax payable by any other person and the
collection of tax from such person”.

28. Section 75 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows :— section 75 of the
4 principal
(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution — enactment.
for the words “exceeds two hundred thousand rupees”,

of the words “exceeds five hundred thousand rupees”;


14

(2)

(3)

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. il of 1998

in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “for the period specified in subsection
(1)” of the words “for any taxable period after the
appointed date”;

by the addition immediately after subsection (3) of
that section of the following subsection:—

“(4) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner-General that any registered person has
paid turnover tax under section 12 of the Turnover
Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981 in respect of goods imported
into Sn Lanka by such person before the appointed
date and such goods are supplied by such person in
the course of making taxable supplies which are not
whithin section 3, on or after the appointed date, such
turnover tax paid or part thereof attributable to such
taxable supply shall be deemed to be input tax credit
for the purposes of section 22, if such turnover tax or
apart thereof is not given credit for or refundable under
sections 47, 48, 48a, and 488 of the Tumover Tax Act,
No. 69 of 1981 or not refunded.under section 49 of
the said Act”.

29. Section 76 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—-

(1)

by the insertion immediately after the definition of
“Assessor” of the following definition :— .

“associated persons” means—

(a) any two or more companies which consist
of the same shareholders or are managed and
controlled by the same Directors; or

(b) any company and any shareholder, where
such shareholder or the spouse or child of
such shareholder or any trustee of such
shareholder or any trustee of the spouse or


Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) 15
Act, No. 11 of 1998

the child of such shareholder hold jointly or
severally twenty five per centum or more of
the paid up capital or twenty five per centum
or more of the nominal value of the allotted
shares of that company; or

(c

—

any two individuals one of whom is the
spouse or child of the other or is a trustee
for such spouse or child; or

(d) a partnership and an individual where such
individual is related to any partner of such
partnership;

(e) ajoint venture and any person who is related
to a member of such joint venture; or

(f) any two persons one of whom is a trustee
for the other;

(g) any two individuals related to each other;

(2) by the repeal of the definitions respectively of “open
market value” and “taxable period” and _the
substitution therefor, of the following definitions :—

“open market value” in relation to the value of a
supply of goods or services at any date means the
consideration in money less any tax charged under
this Act, excluding the national security levy payable
under the National Security Levy Act, No. 52 of 1991,
which a similar supply would generally fetch, if
supplied in similar circumstances at that date in
Sri Lanka, being a supply freely offered and made
between persons who are not associated persons;

“taxable period” means—
(a) a period of one month—

(i) where the value of taxable supplies of
any person has exceeded rupees thirty
million during the preceding twelve
months; or


16 Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 11 of 1998

(ii) where the value of taxable supplies of
any person for the period of the
succeeding twelve months is estimated
to exceed rupees thirty million; or

(iii) where the total turn over of any person
under the Turn Over Tax Act, No. 69 of
1981 has exceeded rupees thirty million
during four consecutive quarters ending
six months immediately preceding the
appointed date;

(iv) where any person makes zero rated
supplies;

(v) where any person has entered into an
agreement with the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka referred to in items
(XXVID or (XXVIL) of the Schedule,

(vi) where any person has commenced a
business and undertakes to comply with
the requirements of subsection (6) of
section 22;

(b) a period of three months commencing
respectively on the first day of January, the
first day of April, the first day of July and
the first day of October of each year in
respect of a registered person who is not
referred to in paragraph (a) or a person who
makes zero rated supplies and who opts to”
submit quarterly return on approval by the
Commissioner-General;”.

Amendment of the 30. The Schedule to the principal enactment is hereby

Schedule to the amended as follows :—
* principal «tte (5 vats
enactment. (1) in item (i) of that Schedule, by the substitution for the

words “supply of coconuts, desiccated coconuts,
coconut fibre, coconut poonac, copra, rubber” of the
words “supply or import of coconuts, desiccated
coconuts, coconut poonac, unprocessed forestry
products”;

in item (ii) of that Schedule by the substitution for the
words “The import” of the words “the supply or
import”;

—

(2

r
ta

~
4


Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) 17
Act, No. 11 of 1998

(3) by the repeal of item (iv) of that Schedule and the

(4

—

(5

—

(6

—

o
~]
—

substitution therefor of the following item :—

“(iv) The supply or import of bread of any
description”;

in item (vi) of that Schedule, by the substitution for
the words “The supply” of the words “The supply or
import”;

in item (xii) of that Schedule, by the substitution for
the words “and liquid petroleum gas” of the words
“liquid petroleum, gas and petrol” , ;

in item (xv) of that Schedule, by the substitution for
the words “The import” of the words “The supply or
import” , ;

in item (xix) of that Schedule, by the substitution for
the words “Republic of Sri Lanka” of the words
“Republic of Sri Lanka or of a Provincial Council;”;

in item (xxii) of that Schedule, by the substitution for
the words “The import” of the words “The supply or
import” ;

by the repeal of item (xxv) of that Schedule;

in item (xxvi) of that Schedule, by the substitution for
the words and figures “upto 75 kwh. per consumer”
of the words and figures “upto 90 kwh. per consumer”;

by the repeal of item (xxix) of that Schedule;

by the repeal of item(xxx) of that Schedule, and by
the substitution therefor of the following item :—

(xxx) The supply, in Sri Lanka, of architectural,
engineering, quantity surveying or
construction management services by anon
resident person within the meaning of the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, to a
company with which an agreement has
been entered into by the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka under section 17


18 Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)

Act, No. 11 of 1998

of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
Law, No. 4 of 1978, on or before the
appointed date, if the total cost of the
project to which such agreement relates is
not less than US $ 50 million or its
equivalent;

(13) by the addition at the end of that Schedule of the
following items :-—

(xxxii)

(Xxxili)

(xxxiv)

(xxxv)

(xxxvi)

(xxxvii)

The supply, lease or rent of residential
accommodation;

The supply or import of timber;

The supply of ali health care services
provided by medical institutions or
professionally qualified persons providing
such care;

The supply of hotel accommodation to
tourists during the period of two years
commencing from the appointed date;

the supply of inbound services to tourists
by travel agents registered with the Tourist
Board established by Ceylon Tourist Board,
Act, No. 10 of 1966 during the period of
two years commencing from the appointed
date ;

The supply and import of pearls, diamonds,
natural or synthetic precious. or semi-
precious stones, diamond and other powder,
precious metals or metals clad with precious
metal, and gold coins;



Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) 19
Act, No. 11 of 1998

(xxxviii) The supply and import of machinery,
Medical and Surgical instrument, apparatus
and accessories including medical and
dental equipment and ambulances for the
provision of Health Services.

31. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act the Sinhala Text shall prevail,

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


i

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),

payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, No. 32, Transworxs House,
Lotus Roab, Cotomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
