PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC _
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ;
SRI LANKA

DEVELOPMENT LOTTERIES BOARD
ACT, No. 20 OF 1997

[Certified on 12th August , 1997 ]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a-Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 15, 1997

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO l

Price: Rs. 10.25 , . Postage : Rs. 4.60


Development Lotteries ‘Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

[Certified on 12th August, 1997]
L. D.—O. 8/96. |
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEVELOPMENT

LOTTERIES BOARD FOR THE CONDUCT OF LOTTERIES AND FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enlacted by the Parliament of t the Dainioctatic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :— | ~

1. This Act may be cited as the Development Lotteries
Board Act, No. 20 of 1997.

PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEVELOPMENT LOTTERIES BOARD

2. (1) There shall be established a Board which shall be
called the Development Lotteries Board, (hereinafter referred
to as “the Board”.)

(2) The Board shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession

and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporal
name. aun

3. (1) The Board shall consist of— |

(a) the following ex-officio members :—

(i) the Chairman of the Mahapola Higher Education
Scholarship Trust Fund or his representative ;

“ (il) the secretary to the Eresident or his
representative ; Vays eee

(iii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister or
his representative ; and

(b) two other members appointed by the Minister. . -

Short title.

Establishment of
the Development
Lotteries Board.

Constitution of the
Board.

A member appointed under paragraph (b) shall hereinafter be —

referred to as an appointed member.

2—D 044937—8,550 (97/05)


Term of office of
members,

2 Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or
continuing as a member of the Board if he—

(a) isa Member of Paliament, a member of a Provincial
Council or a member of a local authority ;

(6) directly or indirectly, by himself or by any other
person on his behalf, holds or enjoys any right or
benefit under any contract made by or on behalf of,
the Board ;

(c) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country, found or declared to be of unsound mind ;
. ey at
(d) is a person who, having been declared an insolvent,
or a bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or
in any other country, is an undischarged insolvent or
bankrupt ; or

(e) Is a person on whom a sentence of imprisonment
(including a suspended sentence) has been imposed
by any court in Sri Lanka or in any other country.

4. (1) Every appointed member of the Board shall,
unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation or re-
moval, hold office for a period of three years reckoned from
the date of his appointment and shall unless has been removed
from office, be eligible for reappointment.

(2) Every ex-officio member of the Board shall hold office

"$0 long as he holds the post by virtue of which he was a

member of the Board.’

(3) Where an appointed member by reason of illness,
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period of not less
than three months is temporarily unable to perform the duties
of his office, it shall be the duty of such member to inform the —
Minister of such inability and thereupon the Minister may,
having regard to the provisions of section 3 appoint some

~ other person to act in his place.


Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

3

5. (1) The Minister may, by Order published in the Removal and
Gazette remove any appointed member from office without resignation of

assigning any reason therefor.

A member in respect of whom an Order under this section
__ is made shall be deemed to have vacated his office on the date
__ of publication of such Order in the Gazette. ©

| (2) Any appointed member, may at any time resign his
office by letter to that effect addressed to the Minister and sent
by registered post.

(3) Inthe eventof the vacation of office by death, resignation
or removal of any appointed member, the Minister may
‘having regard to the provisions of section 3 appoint any other
“ person to succeed such member. Any person so appointed
shall hold office for the unexpired term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.

_ 6 (1) The Minister shall appoint a Chairman of the
Board from among the members of the Board.

(2) The Chairman shall be the chief executive officer of
the Board and subject to the direction and control of the Board,

be charged with the administration and management of the
affairs of the Board.

(3) If the Chairman of the Board becomes by reason of
illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, ’ temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the Minister may
appoint any other member of the Board to act in his place.

(4) The Minister may, without assigning any reason
therefor, remove the Chairman from office and such removal
ree anal not be called in question in any court. o°

i » (5) ‘The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairman
34) by letter addressed in that behalf to the Minister.

: (6) Subject to the provisions of subsections (4) and (5), the
term of office of the Chairman shall be the period of his
membership of the Board.

appointed members.

Chairman of the
Board.


Meetings of the

' Act.

4 Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

“° "7, -(1) Meetings of the Board shall be held at least once
Board. ty

in every month and in addition, as frequently as are necessary
for the purpose of discharging its functions under this

(2) The Chairman of the Board shall if present, preside at

_ every meeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman

from any such meeting, the members present at such meeting
shall elect one of the members present, to preside at such
meeting.

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be
three members.

(4) The Chairman or any member presiding at any meetin g
of the Board, shall in addition to his own vote, have a casting

. Vote,

“— (5) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Board

Acts or proceedings ~ * |

of the Board
deemed not to be
invalid by reason of
any vacancy or
defect in the
appointment of a |
member,

Remuneration of }
Members of the
Board.

may regulate the procedure in regard to the meetings of the
Board and the transaction of business at such meetings.

8. No act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy in the Board or any defect in the appointment of any

member thereof.

9. The members of the Board may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund of the Board in such manner and
at such rates, as may be determined by the Minister.

eke

Seal of the Board. _

10. (1) The seal of the Board may be determined and
devised by the Board and may be altered in such manner as

fos may be determined an the Board.

“@) The seal of the Board 1 shall be i in the se custody of such
person as the Board may decide from time to time.


Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997 5

(3) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any
+, instrument or document except with the sanction of the Board
--and in the presence of the Chairman and one member of the
Board both of whom shall sign the instrument or document
in token of their presence and such signing shall be independ-
ent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instruments
and documents to which the seal of the Board has been affixed.

11.

(a)

(5)

(1) The functions of the Board shall be—

to conduct, or arrange for the conduct, of lotteries for
the purpose of generating funds for the President's
Fund ;

to remit, as provided for in this Act, the proceeds of
lotteries so congciee to the President’s Fund to
enable the President’s Fund to make contributions to
the Mahapola Higher Education Scholarship Trust
Fund. cs

Functions of the
Board.

(2) For the purpose of discharging the functions referred |

to in subsection (1) the Board shall have the following
powers :—

(a)

_ (6)

(d)

to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,

mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, any ©

movable or immovable property of the Board ;

to obtain loans on such terms and conditions as may
be approved by the Minister for the purpose of
discharging its functions ;

to accept gifts, grants or donations whether in cash or
otherwise, and to apply them for the purpose of
discharging its functions ;

+ Ee

to employ in consultation with the Minister, such
officers and servants as may be necessary for
discharging the functions of the Board and determine
the terms and conditions of such employment ;


Minister to give
directions to the
Board.

Fund of the Board.

6 Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

(e) to determine in consultation with the Minister the
wages, salaries or other remuneration payable to
such officers and servants ;

(f) to establish, in consultation with the Minister and
regulate, provident funds and other schemes for the
benefit of such officers and servants, and make
contributions to any such fund or scheme ;

(g) to enter into and perform all such contracts whether

in or outside Sri Lanka, as may be necessary for the

“exercise of the powers and the discharge of the
functions of the Board ;

(h) to make rules in respect of the administration of. the
affairs of the Board ; and

generally, to do all other things as are necessary to
facilitate the proper Gischarge of the functions of the
~ Board.

~—

(i

12. In the exercise of its powers and the discharge of its

, functions under this Act, the Board shall be subject to such

general or special direction, as may be issued to it by the
Minister.

PART II

FINANCE AND STAFF OF THE BOARD

13. (1) The Board shall have its own Fund. (hereinafter
referred to as the “Fund”)

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund—

(a) allsuchsums of money as may be voted from time to
time by Parliament, for the use of the Board ; and

~ (b) all such sums of money as are required by this Act to
be paid to the Fund.

. (3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of

;° money as are required to defray the expenditure incurred by
_ the Board in the exercise and discharge of its powers and

functions under this Act and all such sums of money as are
required to be paid out of the Fund by this Act.


Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

(4) All cheques for the payment of moneys out of the fund
shall be signed by such member of the Board and by any such

officer employed by the Board as may be prescribed by rules
made by Board. | . . |

14. (1) The financial year of the Board shall be the
calender year.

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to be
kept of the income and expenditure including the contributions
. Made by it to the President’s Fund, assets and liabilities and all
other transactions of the Board.

| (3) The provisions of Article 154, of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of Public Corporations
Shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Board.

15. (1) At the request of the Board, any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and of the
' Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
* subjectof Public Administration or of the appropriate Ministry,
~ be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Board for such
period as may be determined by the Board, with like consent,
or with like consent be permanently appointed to such staff.

‘ (2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions of subsection
(2) of section 13 of the Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978.
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to him.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 13 of the Transport Board Law,

_ No. 19 of 1978 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in
~ relation to him.

(4) Where the Board employs any person who has entered
“into a contract with the Government to serve the Government
- fora specified period, any period of service to the Board shall
be regarded as service to the Government, for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such contract.

7

Financial year and
audit of accounts.

Appointment of
public officers to
the staff of the
Board.


The Board to
conduct
lotteries.

Development

lottery prizes.

8 Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

PART III
Conpucr oF LoTTERIES

16. (1) The Board shall conduct or arrange for the
conduct of lotteries for the purpose of this Act. Every lottery
so conducted shall hereinafter in this Act be referred to as “‘a

' development lottery”.

(2) Every development lottery shall be conducted in such
manner as may be prescribed, subject however to the provisions
of this Act.

17. (1) The number of the prizes to be awarded in each
development lottery and the type and value of each of such
prize shall be as prescribed.

(2) Every prize awarded in a development lottery may
consist of any one or more of the following :—

(a) ahouse ;

(b) amotor vehicle ;

(c) any article of whatsoever description ; or
(d) asum of money.

(3) Any prize awarded under subsection (2) shall be
exempt from the payment of income tax under the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979.

(4) The prize winners in every development lottery shall

_ be determined by the drawing of lots in public or in such
other manner as may be prescribed.

(5) After the expiration of a period of six months reckoned
from the date of the determination of prize winners in any
development lottery, any prize in such lottery which has not
been awarded to the person entitled thereto by reason of the
fact that such person is not to be found shall be forfeited and
where the prize is a sum of money such sum of money, or


Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

where the prize is a house, a motor vehicle or other article, the
proceeds from the sale of such house, motor vehicle or article
shall be credited to the Fund in the first instance and thereafter
credited to the President’s Fund:

Provided, however, that where any action or proceeding
arising out of any claim made in respect of such prize is
pending before any Court at the expiration of the period
aforesaid, such forfeiture shall not be made, and if in the final
determination of that action or proceeding any person is
‘declared to be entitled to such prize, the Board shall award
such prize to that person, and if no person is so declared and
where the prize is a sum of money, such sum of money, or
where the prize is a house, a motor vehicle or other article, the
proceeds from the sale of such house, motor vehicle or article
shall be credited to the Fund in the first instance and thereafter
credited to the President’s Fund.

18. (1) The proceeds of every development lottery
conducted under this Act, shall in the first instance be credited
to the Fund.

(2) The Board shall pay to the President’ s Fund the balance
of the proceeds of every development lottery after the deduction
from such proceeds an amount approved by the Secretary to
the Ministry in charge of the subject of Finance as the amount
necessary for the purpose of-—

(a) defraying, or reimbursing the Fund for the payment
of, the expenses incurred by the Board in conducting

such lottery, including the value of the prizes awarded
~ in such lottery ;

(b) paying the whole or part of the remuneration, if any,
~ of the members of the Board and the remuneration of
the officers and servants of the Board ;

(c) paying the whole or a part of any eoatitbutions
payable by the Board to any such provident fund or
scheme as is referred to in section 11(2) A; and

(@) meeting other liabilities of the Board.

9

Proceeds of
development
lotteries.


Rules.

10 Development Lotteries Board Act , No. 20 of 1997

(3) where any prize money ina development lottery is not
won by any person, such prize money shall, notwithstanding
anything in this section, be credited to a “Prize Reserve
Account”, and the sums accumulated in such account shall be
used for the award of prizes in subsequent development
lotteries.

19, (1) The Board may make rules in respect of all
matters stated or authorized by this Act to be prescribed or in
respect of which rules are authorized to be made by this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions
of subsection (1), rules may be made in respect of all or any
of the following matters :—

(a) the price at which tickets in every development
lottery are to be sold ;

(b) the particulars to be stated on every development
lottery ticket ;. |

(c) themannerin which tickets inevery such development
lottery are to be sold or offered for sale ;

(d) theemploymentof agents for the sale of development
lotteries tickets and the remuneration payable to
such agents ;

(e) the publication of the number of each winning ticket
in every such development lottery and of the name
and address of the person entitled to such ticket ; and

(f) all other matters in respect of which rules are required
to be made under this Act.

(3) Norulemade by the Board under this section shall have
effect until ithas been approved by the Minister and published

in the Gazette as soon as it may be convenient. |


Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997
PART IV

' GENERAL’

20. The Board shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

21. All officers and servants of the Board shall be
- deemed to be public servants within the meaning and for the
purposes of the Penal Code.

Pie

22. (1) The provisions of the Lotteries Ordinance
(Chapter 45) and Part J of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963
shall not apply to and in relation to any lottery, conducted or

arranged to be conducted under this Act.

(2) For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared
that—

(a) the conduct or the arranging for the conduct of ;
(6) the drawing of a ticket in ;

(c) the buying or selling of a ticket in ;
(d) assisting in the conduct of ; or

(e) the use of any premises for the conduct of,

a development lottery shall not be a contravention of any
provision of the Lotteries Ordinance (Chapter 45) and the
Board shall not be liable to pay, in respect of a development
lottery, any tax under section 19 of that Ordinance.

23. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie—
(a) against the Board for any act which in good faith is

done or purported to be done by the Board under this
Act ; or : ) afi} ai

11

Board to be a
Scheduled
Institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Officers and
servants of the
Board deemed to
be public servants.

Lotteries Ordinance
not to apply to
Lotteries.

Protection for
action taken under
this Act or on the
direction of the
Board.


Offences.

12 Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

(b) against any member, officer or servant of the Board
for any act which in good faith is done or purported
to be done by him under this Act or on the direction
of the Board.

(2) Any expenses incurred by the Board in any suit or
prosecution brought by, or against, the Board before any
Court shall be paid out of the Fund of the Board and any costs
paid to, or recovered by, the Board in any such suit or
prosecution shall be credited to the Fund.

(3) Any expense incurred by any person as is referred to in
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any such suit or prosecution
brought against him before any Court, in respect of any act,
which is done or purported to be done by him under this Act,
or on the direction of the Board shall, if the Court holds that
such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of the
Board, unless such expense is recovered by him in such suit
or prosecution.

24. Every person who— |

(a) sells, or offers for sale, any ticket for the purposes of
any development lottery at a price exceeding the
price specified in respect of such ticket by rule made
under this Act ; or

. * (b) forges or alters any ticket for the purposes of any
) such lottery ; or

“(c) sells, or offers for sale, any ticket for the purposes of
any such lottery, knowing it to be forged or altered,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable

~ toa fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment

of either description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment. a


Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

25. (1) All trust property held by the Trustee under the
Development Lotteries Trust created on May 25th, 1993
(hereinafter referred to as the “Trust”) on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall, with
effect from the date of commencement of this Act, be deemed
to vest in, and to be, the property of the Board, free from any
trust atfaching thereto.

on All contracts entered into by the Trustee of the Trust
created on May 25th, 1993. and subsisting on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall, with effect from the date of commencement of this Act,
be deemed to be contracts of the Board.

| (3) The liabilities incurred by the Trustee of the Trust and
subsisting on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall, with effect from the date of

commencement of this Act, be deemed to be the liabilities of
the Board.

(4) Every person employed by the Trustee of the Trust for
the purposes of the Trust and in employment on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be offered employment in the Board on terms not less
favourable than the terms enjoyed by him in the service of the

Trust, on the day immediately preceding) the date of
commencement of this Act.

_ 26. Inthe eventofany inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

27. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority created and established by, or under, any
law toexercise, perform and discharge powers, duties

13

Transitional
provisions.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of

inconsistency.

Interpretation.

and functions corresponding, or similar, to the |

powers, duties and functions exercised, performed
or discharged by any such Council or Sabha ;


14 Development Lotteries Board Act, No. 20 of 1997

“Mahapola Higher Education Scholarship Trust Fund”
means the Mahapola Higher Education Scholarship
Trust Fund established by the Mahapola Higher
Education Scholarship Trust Fund Act, No. 66 of
1981 ;

“prescribed” means prescribed by rule made under this
Act;

“President’s Fund” means the President’s Fund established
by the President’s Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978 ;

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council
established by Article 154 of the Constitution.


a ee, ene as ,

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign)
payable to the SuPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, No, 32, TRANSWORKS Houst.
Lotus Roap, CoLomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
