PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

DEFAULT TAXES (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, NO. 16 OF 2010

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 07th December, 2010]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.7.00Postage : Rs.10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 10, 2010

1Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

2PL 0052714,190 (10/2010)

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Preamble.

[Certified on 07th December, 2010]

L.D.O. 14/2010.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR A STREAMLINED AND SPEEDIER PROCESS FOR

THE RECOVERY OF TAXES IN DEFAULT IN A TIME BOUND MANNER ; TO

PROVIDE FOR THE WRITING-OFF OF TAXES IN DEFAULT IN CERTAIN

CIRCUMSTANCES AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS it has become imperative to formulate amechanism for the speedy recovery of taxes imposed undercertain specified laws and which have been in default forover a long period of time :

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary in order tofacilitate such process, to evolve a method for the recoveryof some of these default taxes in a manageable and justifiablemanner and to ensure that in the future, taxes in arrears aremaintained at a reasonable limit and the officials entrustedwith this task be made more accountable towards thecollection of these taxes :

AND WHEREAS it has also become necessary to write-offsome of the taxes which are in default, adopting a transparentand an accountable process :

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Default Taxes (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 16 of 2010 and the provisions of thisAct other than this section, shall come into operation onsuch date as may be determined by the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date). The provisions of this section shall comeinto effect, in terms of paragraph (1) of Article 80 of theConstitution, on the date on which the Certificate of theSpeaker is endorsed.

2Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

2.Notwithstanding anything in any other written lawto the contrary, the provisions of this Act shall apply to therecovery, discharge or write-off of taxes charged and leviedon or before December 31, 2009 under any of the lawsspecified in the Schedule to this Act and which continue tobe in default under any such laws, for a period of over twoyears or more, or where applicable, after the appellateprocedures specified in any such laws for the recovery ofany such tax (in this Act referred to as tax in default) havebeen exhausted :

Provided however where pursuant to any action taken forthe recovery of any tax in default prior to the appointeddate, a defaulter has agreed to or an effective arrangementhas been made for the settlement of such tax in default, bythe payment of the same in installments or otherwise andthe defaulter concerned has thereafter failed to comply withsuch agreement or arrangement, as the case may be, theprovisions of this Act shall apply in regard to the recoveryof the balance sum remaining unpaid in terms of suchagreement or arrangement, other than in instances wheresuch agreement or arrangement was entered into or made, inpursuance of an order made by a court.

3.(1) The Minister shall appoint an AdvisoryCommittee (hereinafter referred to as the Committee)consisting of five members of whom one member shall be aretired judge of the Supreme Court or of the Court of Appealor of the High Court, as the case may be, who shall be theChairman of the Committee. The other four members shallbe selected from among persons who have knowledge,experience and shown capacity in taxation law, accountancyand auditing, business management or finance.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Committee shallbe three members and the Chairman shall preside at allmeetings of the Committee. In the absence of the Chairmanfrom any meeting of the Committee, the members presentshall elect one of the members present to preside at suchmeeting.

Appointment ofan AdvisoryCommittee.

Application ofthe provisions ofthe Act.

3Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

(3) The Committee may regulate the procedure in regardto the meetings of the Committee and the transaction of allbusiness at such meetings.

(4) The Minister may for reasons assigned therefor, removea member of the Committee from his office by a letter sent tohim in that behalf. A member of the Committee may resignfrom his office by letter to that effect addressed to the Ministerand such resignation shall take effect upon it being acceptedby the Minister writing.

(5) The members of the Committee may be paid an honorariumin such amount as may be determined by the Minister.

4.(1) The functions of the Committee shall be to:

(a)respond to communications received from theCommissioner-General under section 7, regardingthe write-off of any tax in default ; and

(b)advise on any matter referred to it for its advice bythe Commissioner-General or the Minister, as thecase may be.

(2) In the discharge of its functions, the Committee shallhave the power to summon any person whom it considers isable to give any information or produce any document, withregard to a matter which is before such Committee for itsdeliberation.

5.There shall be established a unit called the DefaultTax Recovery Unit under the purview of the Commissioner-General, with a Deputy Commissioner-General assigned tobe in charge of such unit.

6.The Commissioner-General shall within six monthsof the date of the appointment of the Committee, cause theDefault Tax Recovery Unit to prepare and finalize a report,identifying taxes in default of:

(a)Public Corporations ;

Functions of theCommittee.

Establishment ofthe Default TaxRecovery Unit.

Report on taxesin default to beprepared.

4Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

(b)Government Owned Business Undertakings ;

(c)Government Owned Business Undertakingsestablished as corporations under section 2 of theConversion of Government Owned BusinessUndertakings into Public Corporations Act, No. 22of 1987 ;

(d)Government Ministries ;

(e)Government Departments ; and

(f)Co-operative Societies registered under theCo-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972,including any Corporative Rural Bank.

7.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), withregard to taxes in default of any institution identified undersection 6 of this Act, the Commissioner-General shall:

(a)having verified from the persons concerned of theaccuracy of the amount recorded as being due astax in default ; and

(b)having obtained the confirmation of the Secretaryto the Treasury that such institutions is dependenton Government funding to meet its tax liabilities,

take all necessary steps to write-off the tax in default of suchidentified institution.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall three months priorto taking necessary steps to write-off any tax in default undersubsection (1), inform the Committee of such fact and theCommittee shall be entitled to make any comments on thesame within three months of the receipt of such information.In the event the Committee makes any comments, it shall bethe responsibility of the Commissioner-General to respondto such comments immediately.

Certain taxes indefault to bewritten off.

5Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

8.Where any tax in default is written-off under section7 of this Act:

(a)the Commissioner-General shall, notwithstandingany provision relating to secrecy contained in thelaw under which the tax in default was levied andcharged, publish that information in the Gazette,within thirty days of the date of such write-off ; and

(b)the tax in default which had been written-off issubsequently recovered under the provisions of therelevant law under which such tax was charged andlevied, the amount so recovered shall not berefunded to the defaulter.

9.(1) Where any tax in default is not written-off undersection 7, then, notwithstanding:

(a)any agreement that may have been entered into bythe defaulter with the Commissioner-General forthe payment in installment of the sum in default ;or

(b)the commencement of any proceedings for therecovery of such tax under the law under whichsuch tax was levied and charged, other than whereany proceedings for recovery has been filed in acourt,

the Commissioner-General shall issue a notice to thedefaulter concerned, setting out the details of the amountdue as tax in default and requesting that such amount besettled within sixty days of the receipt of such notice.

(2) A defaulter who is issued with a notice under subsection(1) may, prior to the expiry of the sixty days referred to therein,shall write to the Commissioner-General:

(a)requesting that such defaulter be permitted to settlethe amount of tax in default in installments as shallbe agreed to with the Commissioner-General ; or

write-off of anytax in default tobe published inthe Gazette.

Issue of noticeto those whosetax in default isto be recovered.

6Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

(b)raising any objections in regard to the payment ofthe tax in default referred to in the notice.

(3) Where a defaulter makes a request for the payment ofthe tax in default in installments, the Commissioner-Generalmay agree to such payment, subject to the condition that thepayment of the amount due is paid in full within a period notexceeding three years from the date of entering into suchagreement. The Commissioner-General shall also inform theCommittee of the details of the agreement entered into withthe defaulter.

(4) Where the defaulter raises any objections in regard tothe payment of the tax in default referred to in a notice sent,the Commissioner-General shall make his decision in regardto the same within sixty days of the receipt of such objectionsand where the objection involves a re-determination of thetax liability concerned, he shall discharge the excess if any,of the tax in default over the amount so determined.

10.Where a defaulter to whom a notice is sent undersubsection (1) of section 9:

(a)fails to respond to the notice within the periodspecified in that subsection ; or

(b)having entered into an agreement with theCommissioner-General to pay the tax in default ininstallments, has failed to pay any installment forover thirty days,

the Commissioner-General shall issue a Notice of Defaulton the defaulter and the amount due as tax in default shallbe recovered by action instituted in that behalf in a HighCourt established for a Province under Article 154P of theConstitution and which is empowered with civil jurisdiction,by an Order made under section 2 of the High Court of theProvinces (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 1996.

Consequences ofnot respondingto a notice sentunder section 9.

7Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

11. The Commissioner-General may for the purpose ofany recovery of tax in default under this Act, by notice issuedin that behalf require any person to furnish such informationwithin such period as shall be specified in such notice, andit shall be duty of such person to furnish the informationrequested for within the period so specified. Where howeverthe person is unable for whatever reasons to furnish theinformation requested for, it shall be his duty to forthwithinform the Commissioner-General of those reasons.

12.It shall be the duty of the Commissioner-General toensure that the aggregate of any taxes, not including anypenalty accrued thereon or any part of tax held over ordeferred, which is in default under any law specified in theSchedule to this Act as at the end of any calendar yearcommencing on or after January 1, 2010, over the aggregateof taxes in default as at the end of the immediately precedingyear, shall not exceed three per centum of the total taxcollected from the taxes levied and charged under the saidlaws, in the immediately preceding year.

13.(1) Where the aggregate of taxes, not including anypenalty accrued thereon or any part of tax held-over ordeferred, which is in default under any law specified in theSchedule to this Act as at the end of any calendar yearcommencing on or after January 1, 2010, over the aggregateof taxes in default as at the end of the immediately precedingyear, exceeds three per centum of the total tax collectedfrom the taxes levied and charged under the said laws in theimmediately preceding year, the Commission-General shallsubmit a report to the Minister within four months of the endof that year, giving reasons for such excess and makerecommendations in regard to any remedial action that maybe adopted, to overcome such excess.

(2) In the event that the reasons given by theCommissioner-General in his report submitted undersubsection (1) are accepted by the Minister, he shall requestthe Commissioner-General to take all such steps as he shallconsider necessary, to give effect to the recommendationsmade in the report submitted.

Commissioner-General torequest forinformation.

Tax in arrearsnot to exceedcertainpercentage.

Commissioner-General tosubmit a reportwhere there is anexcess.

8Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

(3) Where the reasons given by the Commissioner-Generalin his report submitted under subsection (1) is not acceptedby the Minister as being adequate to warrant such excess,the Minister shall in writing require the Commissioner-General to comply with the requirement imposed by thatsubsection, within six months of the receipt of hiscommunication.

(4) Where the Commissioner-General fails to comply witha request made under subsection (3) within the timestipulated under that subsection, the Cabinet of Ministersshall take such action against the Commissioner-General, asit shall deem appropriate in the circumstances.

14.Every members of the Committee shall, beforeentering upon his duties as such member, sign a declarationpledging to observe strict secrecy in respect of all matterswhich has come to his knowledge in the discharge of thefunctions of the Committee under section 4 of this Act andshall by such declaration, pledge himself not to discloseany such matter to anyone, except:

(a)when required or called upon to do so by any courtof law ; or

(b)for the purpose of discharging his functions underthis Act.

15.The Commissioner-General may delegate to theSenior Deputy Commissioner-General, any DeputyCommissioner-General, Senior Commissioner,Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner or an Assessorappointed or deemed to have been appointed under theInland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, any of the functions orpowers conferred upon him by this Act.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

TheCommissioner-General maydelegate hisfunction andpowers underthis Act.

Sinhala text toprevail in theevent of anyinconsistency.

Secrecy.

9Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

17. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:

Commissioner-General, Senior Deputy Commissioner-General Deputy Commissioner-General, SeniorCommissioner, Commissioner, DeputyCommissioner and Assessor, shall have the samemeaning as given to those terms in the InlandRevenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 ;

defaulter means any person whose tax is in default interms of the provisions of section 2 of this Act ; and

Government Owned Business Undertaking means abusiness undertaking acquired by or vested in theGovernment, under the Business Undertaking(Acquisition) Act, No. 35 of 1971.

18.The First Schedule to the High Court of the Provinces(Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 1996, is hereby amendedby the addition immediately after item (3) of that Schedule,of the following new item :

(4) Actions instituted under section 10 of the DefaultTaxes (Special Provisions) Act, No. 16 of 2010..

SCHEDULE[Section 2]

1.Betting and Gaming Levy Act, No. 40 of 19882.Capital Levy Act, No. 51 of 19713.Debits Tax Act, No. 16 of 20024.Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 20065.Estate Duty Act, No. 13 of 19806.Finance Act, No. 11 of 19637.Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20048.Finance Act, No. 11 of 2004 - Part I9.Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005 - Part I10.Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 199611.Inland Revenue Act, No. 4 of 1963

Interpretation.

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule to Act,No. 10 of 1996.

10Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

12.Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 197913.Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200014.Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 200615.National Security Levy Act, No. 52 of 199116.Profits Tax (Special Provisions) Act, No. 36 of 196417.Rice Subsidy Tax Act, No. 13 of 196718.Save the Nation Contribution Act, No. 5 of 199619.Stamp Duty Act, No. 43 of 198220.Surcharge on Wealth Tax Act, No. 25 of 198221.Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 26 of 198222.Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 12 of 198423.Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 7 of 198924.Surcharge on Wealth Tax Act, No. 8 of 198925.Surcharge on Income Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 17 of199126.Surcharge on Income Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 32 of199227.Surcharge on Income Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of199328.Surcharge on Income Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of199429.Surcharge on Income Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of199530.Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 6 of 200131.Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 198132.Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

11Default Taxes (Special Provisions)Act, No. 16 of 2010

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.