PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 08, 2010.

[Certified on 05th October, 2010]

Printed on the Order of Government

CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE (AMENDMENT)ACT, NO. 11 OF 2010

1Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2010

Short title.

[Certified on 05th October, 2010]

L. D. O. 52/2007.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Civil Procedure Code(Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2010.

2.Section 338 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution forparagraph (b) thereof, of the following paragraph :

legal representative means an executor oradministrator or in the case of an estate below thevalue of rupees four million, the next of kin whohave adiated the inheritance:

Provided however, that in the event of anydispute arising as to who is the legal representativethe provisions of section 397 shall, mutatismutandis, apply..

3.Section 394 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof by the substitution forthe definition for the expression legal representative ofthe following definition:

legal representative means an executor oradministrator or in the case of an estate below thevalue of rupees four million, the next of kin whohave adiated the inheritance..

4.Section 524 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section andthe substitution therefor, of the following subsection :

(4) The petitioner shall tender with the petitionproof of payment of charges to cover the cost ofpublication of the notice under section 529..

Amendment ofsection 394 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 338 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 524 ofthe principalenactment.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 20102

5.Section 525 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words five hundredthousand rupees of the words four million rupees.

6.Section 527 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution, for the words five hundredthousand rupees of the words four million rupees.

7.Section 528 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the additionimmediately after paragraph (b) thereof of the followingparagraph :

(c)notices on the respondents who have notconsented to the application, requiring them tofile objections if any, to the application on orbefore the date specified in the notice undersection 529. Such notice shall be sent by theprobate officer by registered post..

8.Section 529 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words incorporating the informationrelating to of the words, relating to;

(2)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words to any person to whom the noticerelates of the words to any person specified in theapplication made under section 524 or 528.

9.Section 530 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words named in suchnotice of the words of the deceased.

10.Section 541 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words the respondents to the original petition for

Amendment ofsection 528 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 529 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 530 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 541 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 527 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 525 ofthe principalenactment.

3Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2010

probate or letters of administration or certificates of heirshipof the words the heirs of the deceased or other persons whohave objected to the application.

11.Section 545 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

545. No person shall effect any transfer ofany property movable or immovable, in SriLanka, belonging to or included in, the estateor effects of any person dying testate or intestatein or out of Sri Lanka within five years prior tothe effecting of the transfer, unless grant ofprobate has been issued in the case of a persondying testate, or letters of administration orcertificates of heirship have been issued in thecase of a person dying intestate and leaving anestate amounting to, or exceeding four millionrupees in value..

12.Section 554 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (2) thereof by the substitution for thewords which is over rupees five hundred thousandof the words which is over rupees four million,;

(2)in subsection (3) thereof for the substitution for thewords which is less than rupees five hundredthousand of the words which is less than rupeesfour million..

13.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows:

(1)by the substitution for Form 82 thereof of thefollowing Form:

Amendment ofsection 545 ofthe principalenactment.No transferto be effectedin certaincases.

Amendment toFirst Schedule tothe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 554 ofthe principalenactment.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 20104

No. 82(Section 517/524)

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR PROBATE OR FORADMINISTRATION WITH THE WILL ANNEXED

In the matter of the will of A. B. deceasedC. D. ofPetitioner

1. A. B. late of............died on the......... day of...................20...........

2. The said A. B. duly executed his last will dated the.........day of...............20......... (now deposited in this court or and the said will isappended hereto or as the case is.........see section 524).

3. To the best of your petitioners knowledge the heirs of thesaid A. B., deceased, are :

4. Full and true particulars of the property left by the deceased, sofar as your petitioner has been able to ascertain the same, are containedin the Schedule hereto annexed.

5. Your petitioner claims as (executor, creditor, &c., as the caseis)

Your petitioner therefore humbly prays for an order declaring thesaid will proved, and that he may be declared executor of the saidwill, and that probate thereof may be issued to him accordingly (or,where the case is so, for a grant of administration with copy of the willannexed, &c.). (If a limited grant is asked for, set out to that effect.)

(Formal conclusion).

SCHEDULE

(Support paragraph 2 and 5 by affidavit or oral evidence. If thetestator died out of Sri Lanka, state that the applicant has obtained anOrder appointing the court to have sole testamentary jurisdiction.).

5Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2010

(2)by the substitution, for Form 83 thereof, of thefollowing Form :

No 83(Section 517)

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR ADMINISTRATION WHERETHERE IS NO WILL OR FOR CERTIFICATE OF HEIRSHIP

(Formal parts proceed as in last form)In the matter relating to the will of A. B. deceased

C. D. of .......... Petitioner

V

(For respondents name intestate heirs of the deceased to the best ofthe petitioners knowledge)

1. The said. A. B., late of...................died on the................ dayof............ 20.........

2. The said A. B. did not execute a last will/no last will of the saidA. B. can be found.

3. To the best of the petitioners knowledge the heirs of the saidA. B. deceased, are:

4. Full and true particulars of the property left by the deceased, sofar as your petitioner has been able to ascertain the same, are containedin the schedule hereto annexed.

5. Your petitioner claims as (creditor, &c. as the case is).

Your petitioner therefore humbly prays for an order declaringthat he is entitled as such (creditor, or as the case is) to administer theestate of the said intestate and directing that letters of administrationof the said estate or certificates of heirship thereto be granted to himaccordingly. (If a limited grant is asked for, set out to that effect).

(Formal conclusion).

SCHEDULE

(Support paragraphs 2 and 5 by affidavit or oral evidence and ifthe deceased died out of Sri Lanka, state that the applicant has obtainedan Order appointing the Court to have sole jurisdiction.); and

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 20106

(3)by the substitution, for Form 84 thereof, of thefollowing Form:

No. 84(Section 529 (2))

FORM OF NOTICE TO BE PUBLISHED BY THE PROBATEOFFICER

Notice under section.......................................................of the CivilProcedure Code.

It is hereby notified that the following applications have beenmade for the proof of will/probate/grant of letters of administration/issue of certificates of heirship, in respect of the estates of the deceasedpersons described in the Schedule hereto.

Any person having objections to the making of an Order declaringa will proved or the grant of probate or letters of administration withor without a will annexed or the issue of certificates of heirship to thepersons named in the petitions, shall make such objections in writingsupported by affidavit and filed on or before the dates fixed by therespective District Courts specified below:

SCHEDULE

DISTRICT COURT OF ......................

Last date for filling of objections:................day of...........20........

SCHEDULE

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIColumn IV

District CourtName andWhetherName andRegistrationAddressDeceasedAddress No.of Deceasedleft willof Applicant

Date:.....................Signed Probate OfficerDistrict Court of..........................

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

7Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2010

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.