PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

INLAND REVENUE
(AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 16 OF 1996

[Certified on 17th July, 1996]

Printed on the Order of Government

bublished as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 19th July, 1996

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: Re. 1.50 Postage: Rs. 2.55


ye Inland Revenue (Amendment)
a ae Act, Ne. 16 of 1996

one

[Certified on 17th July, 1996]
%,B.—B 74/95 |
As Act to amend the Inland Revenne Act, No. 28 of 1978

SW it eaacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Soolalis
Sepabe of Sri Lanka as followsi—

&. Whis Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Ast, Mo. 16 of 1996.

8. Seetion 8 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 (bereia-
after referred to, as the “principal enactment ’”’) is hereby
amended in paragraph (a) of that section as follows ;—

(i) is sub-paragraph (Lxix) of that paragraph, by the substh
tution for the words “Overseas Economic Co«
operation Fund of Japan; and”, of the worde
** Oversea: Economic Co-operation Fund of Japan;”’ j

{8) in sub-paragraph (Lxx) of that paragraph,! by the sub-
stitution for the words ‘‘ World Conservation Union. 4
of the words ** World Conservation Union; ”’ ; and

{8} by the addition, immediately after sub-paragraph (Lxx) of .
that paragraph, of the following sub-paragraphs ;—

“(Lxxi) the Institute of Personnel Management, §s|
Lanka, incorporated by the Institute of Pes.
sonne! Management, Sri Lanka, Law, No. 2%
of 1976 ;

{uzxii) Public Enterprises Reform Commission of Si
Lanka, established bythe Pub ic Enterprises
Reform Commission of Sri Lanka, Act Mo. ]
of 1996.”.

$. Hection 11 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
48 fellgws —

§t} by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (ea) of
that section, of the follwoing new paragraph :—
“(aaa) any dividend paid by a company with which af

agreement has becn entered into on or aftes
November 8, 1995, by the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka under section 17 of the Board ef
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978, te
any shareholder of that company during the

—A--% 980878 6/06)

Beer: tun

Amen tmen
Sestion &
Am, Kis. & 3/
ipis.

Amate tse. +
gastita 2L &
the priaQes
Sates,


Amecadment of
wien 15 of
‘Be = peincipal
*nedieseat.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 16 of 1996

period for which the profits and income of that

company arc exempt from income tax under

the terms of that agreement or within one year

thereafter, out of the profits and income which
are exempt from income tax 3”

(2. in paragraph (5} of thay section, by the sudstitutioa for
the figures ‘‘ 173, 18 "’, of the figures “‘ 17J, 17K, 18°’;

(33) in peracgraph (2) of that Section, by the suostitution, for
the words ‘osaragcaph (a) or (b)”’’, of the words
“paragraph (a) or paragraph (aa) or paragraph (aau)
or paragraph (0)"”; and

(4) ix paragravh (cc) of thst section, by the substitution, for
the words “paragraph (a) or (5)*’ Wierever those
Words occur in that peregraph, of the words “ para-
graph (a) or paragraph (aa) or paragraph (aaa), or
paragraph (b)”.

4, Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as f sicws :—

(1) &y the izsert’on. immediately after paragraph (v) of that
g:cbon, of the fol'owing new paragrarh :—

‘“yy) such part of any sum as caes not exceed two
thousand rupees received in any year of assess-
men! commencing on or after April 1, 1990, by
the Sri Lanka Bureau of Forcign Employment
establ sh. d by the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreiga
Employment Act. No. 21 of 1985, in respect of
any Sri Lankan for Whom employment outside
Si! Lanka has been provided or secured by
s ‘ch Bureau;”’:

(2) in Birasraph (w) of that section by the substitution, for the
wo ¢s ‘any quoted public company ; and”, of the
worcs * aay quoted public compeny; ”

(3) “a ceregraph (x)cfthat section by the substitution, for
the vords “ Minister in csarge of the subject of fine
arts ierature or sports, as the case may be;”’ of the
wo ds ** Minister in charge of the subject of fine arts,
literature, or sports, 25 the case may be; and,”

(4) sy tee adci on immediatcly after peragraph (x) of that
se “on, of the foilowime new peragreph :—

“‘(y) the profits aad income fromthe Farmers Lottery
conducted by the National Lotteries Board, ®


Inland Revenue (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 16 of 1996

{

5. The following new section is hereby inserted snimedtiatety Insertion of
new Section 1¥¢

after section 175 of the princinal enactment, and shall have effect in the prineipad

Os g20%i ing i" "K of | fhe prince sina! ¢ att nats ment ‘—, ‘naciment.

“Exemption 17K, (1) The profits and income attributable to
from incom? the pew capital ex cpenditure of any undertaking
tax of the 2 : 7

grofiigand °OF the production or manufacture of any goods or
income. of an SS ™Mmodities or for the provision of any service:
undertaking and referred to in subsection (2), shall be exempt
acquirng and trom income tax for a period of five years reckoned

utilizing f-om the relevant date.
aavanced

2 logy.
shno ogy 2) The provisions oF subsection @) shall apply

to aay undertaking which —

a) kas incurred, within a period of twelve
Taoaths coasmencing from the relevant
date, new carital expenditore of not less
thaa ton million rupees in amount on
the areuisition and utilization of advanced
tecbanusiag 2 ad

(b) is approved by the Minister to be an under-
leaking 10 Which this section applies, by
Order published in the Gazette on or
before March 31, 1997, on an application
in writing in that behalf made on or
before September 30, 1996 ; and

{c) employs, as at the relevant date or not later
than six months from such date, and
continues to employ, until the expiry of
the said period of five years not less than
fifty employees more than the average
aumber of employees, employed by that

ndertaking during the year ending on the
relevant cate :

Provided that where at any time during any
year of assessment within the said five year period
referred to in subsection (1), the number of
employees employed in such undertaking does not
exceed such average number by fifty, such profits
and income of that undertaking as are referred to
in aubsection (1), shall not be exempt from income

tax.


Inland Revenue (Amendment) ee
' Act, No. 16 of 1996

Ia this subsection the expressions “ employee”
and “average number” shal! have the respective
meanings assigned to them under sub-paragraph
(iv) of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section

— - 16D, :

(3) For the purpose of this section —

(a) the éxpression “profits and income attri
butable to the new capital expenditure *
in relation to any year of assessment an€
to any undertaking means the excess of—~-

(i) the profits and income, within the
meaning of paragraph (a) of
section 3 (other than any profite
and income from the sale of any
capital assets or from the purchase
-and resale of any goods or
commodities) of that undertaking
for that year of assessment reduced
by the appropriate per centum
specified in the Scheduleto this
paragraph as being applicable fop
that year of assessment, over,

Gi) the annual average of such profits ang
income of that undertaking as aré
referred to in sub-paragraph (i),
such average being computed for
a period of three years immediatel¢
preceding the relevant date where
the undertaking has been carrying
on business for a period of three
years or more prior to the relevant

- date or for the entire period during
Which it has been carrying on
business, where the undertaking.
has been carrying on business fos
a period of less than three yeart-
-prior to the relevant date,

buat shall not exceed one hundred and twenty per
eentum of the sum which bears to the profits ané.
income within the meaning of paragraph (a) ef
section 3 (other than any profits and income from
the sale of any capita! assets or from the purchase
and resale of any goods or commodities) of that
undertaking for that year of assessment, the ssme
proportion as the proportion which, the amount of


é

STUGHW AVCUCIHWS Leh iiewrwivoryy

Act, No. 16 ef 1996

the new capital expenditure bears te the aggregate.
of the new capital-expenditure and the value et
acquisition of any —

(i) plant, machinery, fixtures ov equipment | and

(ii) asset not included im sub-paragraph (i),
(other than any land or building)

which was being used for the productiea or manc-
facture of any goods or commodities or fer the
provision of any service by such undertaking on the
relevant date }

Provided that in relation to any year of aseess.
ment where the undertaking referred to im subs
section (2) is also an undertaking to which the
provisions of seclion 17F apply, the provisions ef
the section whichever provides, for the highes
relief shall apply in respect of such pear of

assessment,

SCHEDULE

‘She year of assessment (hereinafter in this

Schedule referred to as the “relevant

year’’) iw which the relevant date falls
The first year succecding the

relevant year

Yhe second year succeeding the
relevant year

- Phe third year succceding the

relevant year

Whe fourth year succeeding the
relevant year

Whe fifth ycar succecding the
relevant yeur

.. 10 per centum

.. 10 percentum
.» 12.5 percentum —
a cs per centums
»o 17.5 per centum

-- 20 per centum;

(b) the expression “ relevant date ’’ means the
first day of any calendar month not
earlier than November 1995, and not
later than April 1997, and selected by
thet undertaking and notified to the
Commissioner-General in wri ‘mz not
later than thirty days from the las date

ef that month:


Amendment ::f
aection 22 pDDD
of the priactpa!
@enactmen! .

Aracn.imen: of
section 23 «f
the prigsiral
@sactment

é

Amsadment :f
section 29 of
the pciastpal
eaacemest.

LG Inland Revenue (Amendment)

Act, No. 16 of 1996

Provided that where the relevant date
is nct so notified tothe Commissioners
General the relevant date shal] be
deemed to be April 1, 1996 ;

(c) the expression, “ n=w czpital expenditure”
means expenditure incurred by the unm
de. tak'ng in the purchase of any new —

(:) plant, mach'nery, fixtures or
equipment ; and

(ii) asset not incluced in sub-parn.-
graph (+). (other than any land
or building) for the acquis'tion

“and outihzation of advanced
technology:

Provded thet any exp:nditure
incurred for the rep'accment after the
relevent Gate of any plant, mach'nery,
fixtures or equipmeut, which fermed
part of the assets of hat uncertek ng on
or before therelevant date, shall be
deemed not to be new capital
expend ture.”.

6. Section 22:‘pppp of the principal enactment is hereby:
amended by the substitution for the words “shall be exempt
from income tax for a period of five years reckoned from, ”.
of the words “ shall be exempt from income tax for a period of
seven years reckoned from,”.

7. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
in the proviso to subsection (5) of that section by the
substitution for the words “carried om by that person.”. of
the words and figures” carried on by that person :

Provided further that nothing in the provisions of
sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) shall apply in respect
of any capital asset let on hire on or after April 1, 1995,
by any person. if such person is a company engaged in
the business of letting capital assets on hire.”

8. Section 29 of the principal enactment is hereby amended.
in subsection (2) by the insertion imin:ediately after paragraph
(a) of that subsection, of the following paragraph :—

‘For the purposes of this paragraph’ the term “interest?
for any year of assessment commencing on or after April:
1, 1996 means any interest pid on a loan obtained for—.


Inland Revenue (Amendment) | 7

Act, No. 16 of 1996

(i) the construction or purchase of any building, of
for the purchase of any site for the construction
of any building ; ;

(ii) the purchase of any share in any quoted public
company;

(ili) the acquisition of any capital asset for use ty

any trade, business, profession or vocation; ’,

9. Section 30 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
8% follows :— |

(1) in subsection (1) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (aaaaaa) of that
Subsection, for the words and figures “ any
year of assessment commencing on or afteg
April 1, 1995, and”, of the words and figures

“the year of assessment comniencing o6
April 1, 1995; ;

(@) by the insertion. immediately after paragrapk
(aaaaaa) of that subsection, of the following

paragraph :—

“(aaaaaaa) an allowance of one hundred thom
Sand rupees in respect of any year of
assessment commencing on or after
April 1, 1996, and’; and

(c) by the substitution, in the proviso to that sub.
section, for the words “ or paragraph (aaaaa),

or paragraph (aaaaaa) in ascertaining”, ef

the words “or paragraph (aaaaa) or paragraph
(aaaaaa) or paragraph (aaaaaaa) in ascertai ning”

(2) in subsection (2) of that section—

(a) in the first proviso to that subsection—

(i) by the substitution, in paragraph (zg) of that
proviso, for the words and figures “* any
year of assessment commencing on or
after April 1, 1995:”, of the words and
figures “‘ the yea1 of assessment commen-
cing oa April 1, 1995;"—


fatand Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 16 ef 1996

(H) by the insertion, immediately after para-
graph (g) of that proviso, of the following
paragraph :—

“(4) an allowanses of one hundred
thousand rupess in respect of any
year of assessment commencing of
or after April 1, 1996:”;

(9) In the second proviso to that subsection—

() by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (ii) of
that proviso, for the words and figures
“an year of asscagmont commencing oa
er after April 1, 1992, but prior te
April 1, 1995 ; and”, of the words and
figures “ an year of soecesment commen.
cing on of after Apail 1, 1992, bat prioz
to April 1, 1993 ;”;

(i) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (iii) of
that proviso, for the words and figures
“an yoar of assessment commencing or
or after April 1, 1995:”, of the words
and figures ‘‘the year of assessment
eommencing on April 1, 1995; and”,
and

fili) by the addition, immediately after sub-
paragraph (iii) of that proviso, of the
following new sub-paragraph :—

*(iv) one hundred thousand rupees,
where such year of assessment is
an year of assessment commoncing
on os after April 1, 1996; ””.

19, Szction $1 of the principal enactment is hereby amended

wi fcllows :—

{4) in paragraph (5) of subsection (5) of that section, by the

substitution for the words and figures “any year of
assessment commencing on or after April 1, 1979, ”, of
the words and figures “* any year of assessment commen-
cing on of after April 1, 1979 but prior to April 1,
1996," 3

Amendmen? 8
section 3) of
the princi ps}
cnactmcns,


Inland Revenue (Amendment) | i
Act, No. 16 of 1996

£3} tn subsection (5p) of that section by the substitution, fos
the words and figures “for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 1990, of the words
aad figures “for any year of assessment commencing
on or after April 1, 1990, but priorto April 1,1996” 3
and :

<B} hy the insertion, immediately after subsection (5p), of
te following subsection :—

' “($a) the deduction from the assessable income ef—

(a) any person, other than a company, for any
year of assessment commencing on of
after April 1, 1996—

(i) in respect of all qualifying payments
other than those referred to in
paragraphs (b), (c),.(m), (7) and
(g) of subsection (2), made by
him, or deemed to have been-
raade by him, shall not exceed
crc-third of such assessable
lacome ortwenty-five thousand
rupees, Whichever is less ;

(ii) in respect of all qualifying payments
referred to in paragraphs (c)
(m) and (n) of subection (2),
made by him, or deemed to have
been made by him, shall not
exceed twenty-five thousand
rupees ;

(ii) in respect of all qualifying payments
referred to in paragraph (q) of
subsection (2), made by him or
deemed to have been made by
him, shall not exceed one-third of
such assessable income; and

fiv) ia respect of the aggregate of all
qualifying payments referred to in ©
peragraphs (i) and (ii) of this
gu beection, shall not exceed twenty-
five thousand rupees j;


10° _ Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 16 of 1996

(6) any company for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 1996,.
in respect of all qual.fying payments
other than those referred to in.
paragraphs (0). (c), (7) and (#) of sub-
sect:on (2) mide by that company or
deemed io have been made by that
company, in that ycar of assessment,
shall not exceed onc-fifth of such asses-

?

gable income.’

Amendment of tk. Section 32 of the princ:pal enacimert s hereby amended
section32 of Rey

the principal as follows :

enactment.

(J) in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section, by the
addition immedietely after sub-p:ragii pb (viii) of the:
following sub-peragriph :—

“ (ix) im respect of any yeur of assessment commencing
on or after April 1, 1996, at the appropriate
¢ates specified in Part iG of the F.rst Schedule
to this Act ;”’

(2) in the proviso to subsection (i) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (v) of that.
proviso. forthe words anc figures “for any year
of assessment commenc.ng onor after April I,
1992, but prior to April 1, 1995 ; and ”’, of the
words and figures “‘ for any year of assessment
commencing on or efter April 1, 1992, bat
prior to April 1, 1995;”;

(b) bythe substitution, in sub-paragraph (vi) of that
proviso for the Words and figures “for any
year of assessment commencing on or. after
April 1, 1995 °*, of the words and figures “* for
the year of assessmen: commencing cn April},
1995 ; and”; and

* (c) by the acdition, immediately after sub-parggrapi.
_ (vi) of that proviso, of the follow:ng new
sub paragreph :-

(vii) one hundred thousand rupees, for any
year of assessment commencing on or
after April 1,1996.”’;


Inland Revenue (Amendment) — 11
Act, No. 16 of 1996 .

'

(3) in subsection (2) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, inpsaragrepb (6) of that sub-
section for the words “ other than such part of
such sum as exceeds one mifiicn five huncred
thousand rupces, or” , of the Words “ othe
than such part of such sum as exececds—

one million five hundred thousend
rupees ; or

a sum cquivalent to the average monthly
salary or Wage paid to such individual
curng the period of three — years
immediatly preceding his retirement
from any employment under the
tmployer who pays such gratuity,
multiplied by the number of completed
. years of s.rvice,

Whichever is greater, or” ;

(b) by the subs‘itu'ion, inpzragraph (viii) of that
subsect on. for the words and figures “ any
year of assessmen! commene.ng on or aster
April 1. 1994: "’, of the words and figures “ any
year of asscssmcn' commening on or after’ °
Apr:l 1, 1994. but prior to April 1, 1996 ; or’;
and ”

{c) by the addition, immediatcly after paraereph
(vit) of that subsecton, of the following
preg ph :— ae

“(ix) Part Ilo of the First Schcdule to this
Act in respect of any year of assessment
commence ng on or after April 1, 1996:”. .

12. The following new section is kereby inserted immediately Insertion of new
after section 32cc of the principal enactment and shall have section 32ccc

effect as section 32ccc of the principal enactment :— in the principal
enactment.

1e rate of 32ccc (1) Where an individual who is
me tax On deemed, under subsection (7) of section 67 to be
mtg ign non-resident for a period of three years, continues
vloyment, for : :
ecified to te employed in Sri lanka after the expiry of
od ofanon- Sttch pericd, the profits from such employment
ren employed of such individual for a period of two years
3ri Lanka. commencing from the end of such pericd of three
years shall, notwiths.anding anything to the
contrary in this Act, be chargeable with ipcome

tax at the rate of fifteen per centum,


ED | ; Inland Kevenue (Amendment) ge Y
Act, No. 16 of 1996 "4

(2) Where an individual who is employed in e
company being a flagship company,. within the
meaning of paragraph (aa) of section 11, and
which has, on or after November 8, 1995, entered
into an agreement with the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka under section )17 of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law No.4 of 1978, ang
who is deemed under the proviso’ to subsestion
(7) of section 67 to be non-resident for a period of
five years, continues to be employed im svok
flagship company after the expiry of such peris4,
the profits from employment in such fagshig
company of such individual for the parisd
commencing from the end of such period of five.
years and ending on the date on whieh the
exemption of the profits and income of suck.
flagship company, under the terms of suck
agreement, ceases, shall notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in this Act, be chargeable with
income tax at the rate of fifteen per centian.”.

Amendment of 13. Soetion 3258 of the principal enactment is hereby
Bertien 32 4b @mended im subsection (1) of that section as follows i—

of the princ!pal

Spastiment.

@) (a paragraph (c)of that qitsection by the substitution fos
the words and. figures “* any year of assessment commen
eng on or atter April 1, 1995,"", of the words snG
figures “the year of assessment commencing ow April
1, 1995,” ; and

(2) by the addition'immediately after paragraph (c) of that
subsection of the following puragruph :—

“(d) where such year of assessment is any year of
assessment! commenc ng on or after April 1,
1996 and where for that year of assessment
the amoum of the relevant px ofits from employe
‘Recm of such :ndividual—

6) docs mot cxcecd onc hundred end forty-fous
Unoueand rupoes, an amount equal to—

few thewand sight hundred and fifty
_ Peposs, or


Inland Revenue (Amendment) 13
Act, Ne. 16 of 1996

. the amount of income tax which {s
attributable to the relevant pre “its
from employment of that indivi-
dual for that year of assessment,

whichever is less;

G1) exceeds one hundred and forty four thousand:
rupees but docs not exceed one hundred
and fifty thousand rupses, an amount
equal te— :

three thousand two hundred ané

forty eight rupees reduced by fifty-
four per cenrum of the excess of
the relevant profits from employ-

ment of such individual for that ©

year of assessment over one hum
dred and fourty-four thousand
rupees, or

the amount of income tax which
isattributable to the relevant
profits from employment of that
individual for that year of aesess-
ment,

Whichever is less.” Seg

86. Seetica $2: of the principal enactment is hereby amended

&3 feilews :—

£43 Sp gabsection (1) of that section, by the substitution im
paragraph (iii), for the words “and paid by sueh
company within one year from the date of receipt ef
the first-mentioned dividend by such company,”, ef
the words “if the first-mentioned dividend is paid
during the year of assessment in which the second
mentioned dividend was received by that eompany 6¢
within one year thereafter, ’’;

48} ia subsection (2) of that section—
(a) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (1)

of that subsection and the substitution therefor, ,

of the following sub-paragraph :—

* (a) out of, —
the qualified export profits and ineeme
referred to insection 32H or section 32K, eg
the profits and income referred te ia
section 32m or section 32»

Amenément
sestica 325 af
the principal
encetment.


Amendment of
‘section 33a of
the prncipal
@naCciment.

Amendment of
*eCtiOn 33c of
the principal
enactment.

Amendment of

section 38 of
“the principal

enaciment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 16 of 1996

paid during the period in which such profi
and income are taxable at the rate of fiftoea pi:
centum or within one year thereafter: ”; and

(6) by the substitution, in paragraph (iii) of that sul
section, for the words “and paid by suc
company within one year from the date «
receipt of the first-mentioned dividend by suc

_ company”, of the words “ if tne first - mentior
ed dividend is paid during the year of asses:
ment in which the second - mentioned dividen
wast received by that company or within on
year thereafter ”’:

15. Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby amende
as follows :—

(t) ia

(2) in

subsection (2) of that section by the substitution fc
the words and figures “ section 32¢ or section 32a ¢
section 32K” wherever those words occur in tha
subsection, of the words and figures “‘ section 32F ¢
section 32H or s.ction 32K or section 32m or sectio
32N ” ; and

subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution fc
the words and figures “‘ section 32H or section 32x
wherever those words occur in that subsection, of th
words and figures “section 32H, section 32K, sectio
32M or section 32N”.

_ 16... Section 33¢ of the principal enactment is hereby amende
in paragraph (2) of that section. by the repeal of sub-paragrap
(6) of that paragraph and the substitution therefor of th
following sub-paragraph :—

**(6) profits and income taxable—

(i) under section 32p,
(ii) under section 32n,
(iii) under section 32K,
(iv) under section 32M,
(v) under section 32n,

(vi) at the rates other than those snecified in the Secom
Schedule to this Act ; and”

17. Section 38 of the principal enactment is hereby amendex
in paragraph (iii) of subsection (24) of that section, by the sub
stitution for the words, and figures ‘section 324 or section 321
for any year of assessment “’, of the words and figures ** section
32H or section 32k or section 32m or section 32N for any yes
of assessment ”,


Inland Revenue (Amendment) “15
Act, No. 16 of 1996

18. Section 73 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
ia subsection (1a) of that section as follows :-—~

(1) in paragraph (vi) of that section by tho substitution, for
the words and figures “for any year ‘of assessment

commencing on or after April 1, 1995,”, of the words -

and figures “* for the year of assessinent commencing
‘on April 1, 1995 ; and ”’; and

(2) by the addition immediately after paragraph (vi) of tha!
subsection of the following paragraph :—

“ (vii) one hundred thousand rupees ‘for any year of,
assessment commencing on or after April 1,
1996, ”.

:9. Section $2 cf the principal enactment is hereby amended

‘a subsection (2AA) of that section by the substitution, for the

words ** an Azsessor shall within thirty days from the end”’, of the

words “an Assessor-shall before the expiry of thirty days from
he end”

28. ection 99 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section, and the aubsti-
#etiea therefor, of the following subsection:—

(1) Every employer who employs—

(a) an individual who receives remuneration in excess
of eight thousand three hundred and thirty-three
rupees rer mensum or
Tupees per annum ; or

(5) any non-resident individual receiving remune-
ration for services rendered in Sri Lanka in
excess cf eighty-five rupees per mensum or one
thousand Tupees per annuin; and

wseo bas not given notice to the Commissioner-General under
Subsection (]) of section i07c of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 4
of 1963 or under this Chapter of this Act, shall give notice to
the Commissioner-General not later than September 30, 1996
that he has in his employ such individual (hereinafter in this
‘suapter referred to as a “* specified employee ”).

21. Section 113K of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in sub-paragresh (i) of paragraph (a) of subsection
(2) of that sect’on dy the sudstitution for the words ‘‘a specified
fee of or specifi :d fees -zgreg..ting to” of the words “a specified
tee of or Specificd fues aggrcgating to”

one hundred thousand |

Amendment of
section 73 of
of the principal
enactment.

Amendment ef
section 92 of
the principal
enactment

Amendment of
Section 99 of
the principal!
en acimecnt.

Amendment of
Section 113k of
the principal
enactment.


16 ia ; Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 16 of 1996

Amendment of 22. Section 113R of the principal enactment is herebs-

qeetiog 1132 of amcaded as follows :—
the principal
casMmcat, . fi} {m paragraph (c) of that section by the substitution, fo:

the words and figures “for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 1995 the excess of™,
of the words and figures “forthe year of assessment:
commencing en April 1, 1995, the excess of ® ; and

(2) by the addition, immediately after paragraph (¢} of thai
section of the foilowing paragraph :—

% (d) for any year of assessment commencing O8

_or after April 1, 1996, the income tas-

eomputed at the rates specified in Part

II G of the First Schedule to this Act oz

, such emoluments of such employee afte

deducting therefrom a sum of one
hundred thousand rupees. ”.

Amenémcat of 23. ‘The Piest Schedule to the principal enactment is herebs-
cao ade ' amended as follows :—

Sohedule to

‘Re prigcipa) $1) im Part 11P of that Schedule by the substitution, for the
sonement , 8 words and figures ‘“‘ The rates of income tax for anf

year of assessment commencing on or after April 1,
1994, shall be as follows:—’’, of the words and figuret

_* The rates of income tax for the two years of assess
Ment commencing respectively on April 1, 1994 and
April 1, 1995, shall be as follows :—’’ ; and

8) by the insertion, immediately after Part IF oF ther
Schedule, of the followiag Part :—

“ Part I @

Tho rates of income tax for any year of agsese-
ment commencing on or after April 1,
1996, shall be as follows :—

On the first Rs. 35,000 of the

taxable income -- 10 per cortem
On the next Rs. $5,000 of the .

taxable income +. IS per cesium.
On the next Rs. 35,000 of the

taxable income -- 25 per senium
On the balanos of the taxable

income .. “«s 35 per centum™..


Inland Revenue (Amendment) 17
Act, No. 16 of 1996

24, The Seventh Schedule te the principal enactment is
hereby amended by the sudstitution, for the words and Saeutes
“section 32x or section 33%°? wherever those words and
Geures occur in that Schedule, of the words and figures “gectioz

22K or section 32M or section S21”.

a5. {1} The amendment to section 15 made by section 4 of
this Act, shali be dcemed for ali purposes to have come into
force on April 1, 1990.

(2} The amendnicat to section 23 of the principal enactment
made by section 7 of tiie Act, shall be deemed for all purpo-
ses to have come into force on April J, 1995.

(3) The amendment to section 321, section 33a, section
33¢, section 38 and te the Seventh Schedule of the principal
enactment made by section: 13, 14, 15, 16 and 23 of this Act,
shall be deemed for all purposes to have come into force on
October 31, 1994.

(4) The amerximent to section 113K, of the principal enzst-
ment made by ecction 20 of this Act, shall be deemed for
all purposes to have come ini force on November 18, 1992.

26. In the event of any inconsistency between the Binkala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinbala text shall prevail.

Amendment of
the Seventh
Schedule to
the principal
enactment.

Retrospective
Operation.

Sinhala text
to prevail

in case of
inconsistency.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs, 885 (Local),

Rs. 1,180 (Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

Bureau, No, 32, Transworks House, Lotus Road, Colombo 01,. before 15th.
December each year in respect of the year following.
