PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 31 OF 2017

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 14th of December, 2017]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 15, 2017

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2017

2PL 0105102962 (11/2017)

Short title.

[Certified on 14th of December, 2017]

L.D.O. 55/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 262)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Local AuthoritiesElections (Amendment) Act, No. 31 of 2017.

2.Section 65A of the Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Chapter 262) (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactement) is hereby amended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words, The counting officer shall declarefirst the candidate of the recognized political partyor the Indipendent group, who or which as the casemay be, who polled the highest number of votes, anelected member for that ward and the balancenumber of members required to be elected asmembers of that ward, being declared accordingly.of the words, The counting officer shall declarethe candidates of the recognized political party orthe independent group, as the case may be whichpolled the highest number of the votes, as electedmembers for that ward.

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section.

3.Section 65AA of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures, under subsection (3) of

Amendment ofsection 65A ofChapter 262.

Amendment ofsection 65AA ofthe principalenactment.

2Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2017

section 65(3) and such number of members soelected do not include any women members, thenthe provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of thissection shall not apply to such recognized politicalparty or independent group. of the words andfigures, under subsection (3) of section 65B andsuch number of members so elected do not includeany women members, then the provisions ofsubsections (3) and (4) of this section shall notapply to such recognized political party orindependent group.;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures, and has less than threemembers elected or returned, then the provisions ofsubsections (3) and (4) of this section shall notapply to such recognized political party orindependent group. of the words and figures,and has less than three members elected or returned,then the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) ofthis section shall not apply to such recognizedpolitical party or independent group.;

(3)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figure, The apportionment ofwomen members and subsection (2) of thissection respectively, of the words and figure, Theapportionment of women members andsubsection (2) of this section, respectively;

(4)in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figure, the shortfall in the numberof members shall be returned from among thewomen candidates in the first nomination paper orthe additional nomination paper other than thewomen condidates who have been elected or aredisqualified to be a member under section 9. of

3 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2017

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

the words and figure, the shortfall in the numberof members shall be returned from among thewomen candidates in the first nomination paper orthe additional nomination paper other than thewomen candidates who have been elected or aredisqualified to be a member under section 9.; and

(5) by the repeal of the marginal note to that section,and the substitution therefor of the following:

Apportionment of women members..

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

4Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2017