PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 22, 2021

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th of January, 2021]

ACT, No. 6 OF 2021EVIDENCE (AMENDMENT)

Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20211

L.D.O. 45/2016

AN ACT TO AMEND THE EVIDENCE ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 14)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Evidence (Amendment)Act, No. 6 of 2021.

2.Section 6 of the Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 14)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended in the illustration (b) to that section, by thesubstitution for the words, waging war against the Queen.of the words, waging war against the Republic.

3.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the illustration to that section, by the substitutionfor the words, A has joined in a conspiracy to wage waragainst the Queen of the words, A has joined in aconspiracy to wage war against the Republic.

4.Section 37 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution for all the words starting from,contained in any Act of the Parliament of the UnitedKingdom to the words, any part of such Realm orTerritory, is a relevant fact. of the words, containedin any enactment of Sri Lanka or in the legislationof any foreign country or in any proclamation ornotification of the Government of Sri Lanka,appearing in the Government Gezette of Sri Lanka,or in any proclamation or notification of theGovernment of any foreign country, appearing inany official publication of the Government of suchforeign country, is a relevant fact.; and

(2)in the marginal note to that section, by thesubstitution for the words, contained in any UnitedKingdom Act, enactment or notification, of thewords. contained in any enactment or notification,.

Short title

Amendment ofsection 6 ofChapter 14

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 37 of theprincipalenactment

[Certified on 18th of January, 2021]

2Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2021

5.Section 57 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution in paragraph (1) of that section,for the words, to be in force in any part of Ceylon;of the words, to be in force in any part ofSri Lanka;;

(2)by the substitution in paragraph (3) of that section,for the words, war for Her Majestys Navy, Army orAir force; of the words, war for the Sri Lanka Army,Navy or Air force;;

(3)in paragraph (4) of that section-

(i)by the substitution for the words, Parliamentand of the Legislature of Ceylon; of the words,the Legislature of Sri Lanka; and

(ii)by the omission of the words starting fromexplanation to the words, (e) the Parliamentof Northern Ireland.;

(4)by the substitution in paragraph (5) of that section,for the words, the accession and the Sign Manualof the Sovereigns for the time being of Ceylon andof the United Kingdom; of the words, the PublicSeal of the Republic of Sri Lanka;;

(5) by the substitution in paragraph (6) of that section,for the words, all seals of which English courtstake Judicial Notice; the seals of all the courts ofCeylon; the seals of Courts of Admiralty andmaritime jurisdiction and of notaries public; and allseals which any person is authorized to use by anyAct of the Parliament of the United Kingdom orother Law in force for the time being in Ceylon; ofthe words, the seals of all the courts of Sri Lankaand of notaries public; and all seals which any

Amendment ofsection 57 of theprincipalenactment

Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20213

person is authorized to use by any enactment for thetime being in force of the Legislature of Sri Lankaor of the Legislature of any foreign Country;

(6)by the substitution in paragraph (7) of that section,for the words, any public office in any part ofCeylon, of the words, any public office in anypart of Sri Lanka,;

(7)by the substitution in paragraph (8) of that section,for the words, Sovereign recognizedby Her Majesty; of the words, Sovereignrecognized by the Republic of Sri Lanka;;

(8)by the substitution in paragraph (10) of that section,for the words, Her Majestys Realms andTerritories; of the words, the territorial limits ofthe Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka andof its divisions;;

(9)by the substitution in paragraph (11) of that section,for the words, between Her Majesty and any Stateor body of persons; of the words, between theRepublic of Sri Lanka and any foreign State or bodyof persons;; and

(10)by the substitution in paragraph (12) of that section,for the words, advocates, proctors, of the words,attorneys-at-law,.

6.Section 65 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (6) of that section, by the substitutionfor the word, Ceylon of the words, Sri Lanka.

7.Section 69 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words, executed in theUnited Kingdom, of the words, executed in any foreignCountry,.

Amendment ofsection 65 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 69 of theprincipalenactment

4Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2021

8.Section 74 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution in subparagraph (iii) of paragraph(a) of that section, for the words, Ceylon or of anyother part of Her Majestys Realms and Territories,or of a foreign country; of the words, Sri Lanka orof a foreign counrty; and

(2)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of that section,for the word, Ceylon, of the word, Sri Lanka,.

9.Section 78 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution in paragraph (1) of that section,for the words, Government of Ceylon of the words,Government of Sri Lanka;

(2)by the substitution in paragraph (3) of that section,for the words, issued by Her Majesty or by the PrivyCouncil, or by any department of Her MajestysGovernment - by copies or extracts contained in theLondon Gazette or in the Gazette of Ceylon orpurporting to be printed by the Queeens printer;of the words issued by the President or any Ministeror any department of Government-by copies orextracts contained in the Gazette of Sri Lanka;;

(3)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (iii) ofparagraph (4) of that section for the words, publicenactment of Ceylon; of the words, publicenactment of Sri Lanka;.

(4)by the substitution in paragraph (5) of that sectionfor the words, Municipal body in Ceylon- of thewords, Municipal body in Sri Lanka-; and

(5)by the substitution in subparagraph (ii) of paragraph(6) of that section for the words, of a British Consulor Diplomatic Agent, of the words, of anyAmbassador, High Commissioner, or otherdiplomatic agent of Sri Lanka,.

Amendment ofsection 74 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 78 of theprincipalenactment

Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20215

10.Section 79 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words, duly certified byany officer in Ceylon, of the words, duly certified by anyofficer in Sri Lanka.

11.Section 81 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for all the words starting fromevery document purporting to be the London Gazette tothe words, by the Queens printer, of the words, everydocument purporting to be the Gazette of Ceylon or Sri Lanka.

12.Section 82 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

13.Section 85 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words, British Consulor Vice - Consul, or representative of her Majesty, or of theGovernor - General of Ceylon, or of the Government of India,of the words, an Ambassador or High Commissioner or otherdiplomatic representative of Sri Lanka,.

14.Section 86 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for all the words starting fromany country not forming part of Her Majestys Realms andTerritories to the words, Government of India, of the words,any counrty other than the Republic of Sri Lanka is genuineand accurate, if the document purports to be certified in anymanner which is certified by any representative of theRepublic of Sri Lanka,.

15.Section 90A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the definition of the expressioncompany and the substitution therefor of the followingdefinition:-

company shall have the same meaning assignedto it under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007..

Amendment ofsection 79 of theprincipalenactment

Repeal ofsection 82 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 85 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 81 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 86 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 90A ofthe principalenactment

6Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2021

16. Section 90B of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words, within Ceylon,of the words within Sri Lanka,.

17.Section 91 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in exception 2, to that section, by the substitutionfor the word, Ceylon of the word, Sri Lanka.

18.Section 100 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the word, Ceylon, of theword Sri Lanka,.

19.Section 111 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the illustration (a) to that section, by thesubstitution for the words, a proctor and the proctorwherever those words appear in that illustration of the wordsrespectively, an attorney-at-law and the attorney-at -law.

20.Section 126 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words, Advocate,Proctor, wherever those words appear in that section, of thewords, attorney-at-law.

21.Section 127 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words, advocates,proctors, wherever those words appear in that section of thewords, attorneys-at-law.

22.Section 128 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words, advocate,proctor, wherever those words appear in that section of thewords, attorney-at-law.

23.Section 132 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words,her Majesty of the words, the State.

Amendment ofsection 90B ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 91 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 100 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 111 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 126 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 127 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 128 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 132 ofthe principalenactment

Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20217

24.Section 149 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in the illustration (a) to that section, by thesubstitution for the words, An Advocate isinstructed by a proctor of the words, An attorney-at- law is instructed; and

(2)in the illustration (b) to that section, by thesubstitution for the words, A Proctor and theproctor wherever those words appear in thatillustration, of the words respectively as, AnAttorney-at- law and the Attorney-at- Law.

25.Section 150 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words, advocate orproctor, wherever those words appear in that section of thewords, attorney-at-law.

26.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof anyinconsistency

Amendment ofsection 149 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 150 ofthe principalenactment

8Evidence (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2021

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.