PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
- SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRILANKA |

NATIONAL AQUATIC RESOURCES RESEARCH AND ©
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (AMENDMENT) ACT,
No. 32 OF 1996

[Certified on 13th November, 1996]
(Printed on the Order of Government)

Published as a Supplement to Part Il of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist si i of Sri Lanka of November 15, 1996

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price : 90 Cents. . ! ._ atte, Postage : Rs. 2.00


National Aquatic Resources Research and Develop-
ment Agency (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 1996

L.D.—O. 42/96. .
(Certified on 13th November, 1996] -

An ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL AQUATIC RESOURCES
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY AcT, No. oa
oF 1981

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist

~ Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

~ 1. This Act may be cited as the National Aquatic Resources
Research and Development Agency (Amendment) Act,
. No. 32 of 1996.

2. Section 2 of the National Aquatic Resources Research
and Development Agency Act, No. 54 of 1981 (hereinafter

‘referred to as the “ principal enactment”) is hereby amended |

by the substitution for the words “ and management activities

on the subject of aquatic resources ”, of the words “ manage- . |

ment and conservation activities on the subject of aquatic
resources, hydrographic surveying and nautical charting ".

3. Section 4 of the principal cnactment is hereby amended
as follows :-—
(i) in paragraph (0) of that section—

(a) by the substitution: for the words “ manage-

ment and development ”, of the words -

“ management, conservation and develop-
ment” ;

‘ (6) in subparagraph (i) of that paragraph by.
the Substitution for the word “ oceano:
graphy ;’ :”, of the words * oceanography
and hydrography ;’ hie

(c) in subparagraph (iv) of that paragraph by the
substitution forthe words “ fish and related
products ” , of.the words “ ‘fish and aquatic
products ” ;

2—D 041394—7,355 (96/10)

Short title.

Amendment of
section 2 of Act
No. 54 of 1981.

Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
cnactment.


Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
‘enactment.

' 2 National Aquatic Resources Research and Develop-

ment Agency (Amendment}Act, No. 32 of 1996

(ii) in paragraph (c) of that section by the substitution for
the words “‘ management and development ”, of |
the were “management, conservation and devel-
opment ”

(tll) in ar (d) of that section by the aihaifition
for the words “ control and management ”, of

the words “ conservation,.contro] and manage-
ment” ; | :

(iv), in paragraph (e) of that section by the substitution for _
the words “ for the development ”, of the words

“for the management, conseqvation and develop-
“ment”

(v) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (e) of
that section, of the following paragraph :—

“ (ee) to undertake the collection, processing and
publication of hydrographic data and nau-
tical information on the near shore and off
shore areas and inland waters, and to have
overall control of such activities in Sn
Lanka ;"

" 4, Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(a) in paragraph (g) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “ management and development ”,

of the words “ management, conservation and
development ” ;

(b) ‘in paragraph (a) of that section, by the substitution in
subparagraph (i) of that paragraph for the words
“to which the subject of Fisheries ”, of the words
“to whom the subject of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources Development ”

© in paragraph (/) of that section, by the substitution in *
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph for the words
a management and development ”, of the words
__ “ management, conservation and development ” ;


‘National Aquatic Resources Research and Develop- 3
ment Agency (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 1996

(d) in paragraph (k) of that section, by the substitution

. . for the words “ Management, Development, ” of

the words “ ae Conservation,
Development, ”

(e) | by the eel of paragraphs (m) and (n) of that

section as paragraphs (p) and (q) Spey: of
that section ; and

(f) by the substitution for paragraph (/) of that section, Ror
the following new paragraphs :—

“(D) to initiate and conduct surveys of national
aquatic resources and off-shore areas of Sri
Lanka ;. |

(m) to establish standards and procedures for

gathering, processing and presenting, of
hydrographic data and nautical informa
tion ;

_ (n) to train personnel, conduct examinations,
establish national professional standards

and issue licences to persons to function as -.

hydographic surveyors ;

(0) to control and co-ordinate all hydrographic -
surveying and nautical charting activities -

in Sri Lanka ;”,
‘ §. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amended’

in subsection (1) of that section as follows :— «

(a) by the substitution in paragraph (a) of that subsection
x for the words ‘“‘ management, research ”, of the
words “ management, conservation, research ”,

(2) by the substitution for paragraph (b) of that subsec-
' * tion, of the following new paragraph :— :

Amendment of
section 6 of the

. principal

enactment.


4 National Aquatic Resources Research and Develop-.
ment Agency (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 1996

“(b) the foilowing ex-officio members—

o the person for the time being holding
office as the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister incharge
of the subject of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources Development
-+ ' ___ orhis representative nominated by

such Minister ; .
(ii) the person for the time being holding
| _ Office. as the Secretary to the
' Ministry of the Minister incharge.
of the subject of Ports and Shipping |
or his representative nominated by

such wane

- ii) the person for the time bering holding
office as the Secreiary to the

Ministry of the Minister incharge
of the subject of Finance or his

representative nominated by such
Minister ;
(). the person for the time being holding
office as the Secretary to. the
or Ministry of the Minister incharge
i _. _. of the subject of Scientific Affairs
aa .tiwe ~ or his representative nominated by
such Minister ; .
~ (v)_ the person for the time being holding
~ office as the Commander of the Sri
Lanka Navy or his representative
nominated by such Commander ;
(vi) the person for the time being holding.
° office as the Surveyor General ;
¢vii) the person for the time being holding
-. office as the Director, Fisheries .
and Aquatic Resources Deve-
lopment ; and
(viii) the person for the time being holding
| ** office as the Director-General of
~ the Agency.”

a


National Aquatic Resources Research and Develop- 5
ment Agency (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 1996

6. Section 7 of the principal enactment is: hereby
“amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution

for paragraph (g) of that subsection, of the following

_ paragraphs :—

““(g) advise and make recommendations to the Minister

on matters relating to the management, develop-

ment and conservation of squat resources in Sri
Lanka; ==

‘(A) prepare and keep under continual review, the Agiiatc ,
Resources Management, ibaa: Conser-,

vation and Research Plan ;

(i) appoint a competent person iB certify hydrographic

surveys, hydrographic fairsheets, charts and inauti-_

cal publications ;

~ (j) delegate to the Chairman or the —

any of its powers or duties relating to the appoint- .

~ ment, dismissal or disciplinary control of the staff
of the Agency ;

(k): administer and manage the pues of the Agency.” ;

“ei Dg Sections 13, 14, 1Sand \6of ibe pincipal enactment ar
hereby ce

8. Section 17 of the Seincipale enactmentis icky by epeaed

and the following section substituted therefor : —.,

“ Sciemtificand. ‘17; (1) The following’ shall ‘constitute

Technical a Standing. Committee of the Agency
Committee. —_ known as the Scientific and Technical:Com-

mittee (hereinafter referred to as the.

Ph “ Committee ):—. ge
- (a@)° the Chairman ; .
©) the Director-General

Amendment of
section Fofthe .

_ Principal

enactment.


Posi

6_ National Aguzitic Resources Research and Develop-

ment Agency (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 1996

(c)_ the Heads of Research Divisions, and of
_the Hydrographic Office, of the
- Agency ;

(d) the Director of Coast Conservation ;

~ (e)  tworepresentatives from the Ministry of
_ the Minister to be nominated by the
Secretary to such Ministry ;

(f} two representatives from the aquatic
industry to be appointed by the
Minister ;

(g) two eminent members of the scientific
community to be appointed by the
Minister ; and

(h) two members of the Board to be
* nominated by the Board. ©

(2) Every member of the Commitee
appointed under paragraphs (f) and (g) of
subsection (1) shall, uniess he carlier vacates
office by death, resignation or removal, hold
office for a period of two years and shall be
eligible for reappointment.

(3) Where any member appointed under
patagraphs (f) and (g) of subsection (1) vacates
office prior to the expiration of his term of

Office, the Minister ‘shall appoint another

.., person in his place to hold office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds. ”.

9. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (c) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “ Board or the Council, as the case may be”, of

4 the word “ Board ”.

10. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section,-by the substitution

_ for the word “ two”, of the word.“ three ”.


2

. National Aquatic Resources Research and Develop- 7 -

"ment Agency (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 1996

11. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
“amended as follows -—

(a) by the substitution for the word “ Council "of the

-word | “ Committee ” ; and

(b) inthe marginal note tothat section, by the substitution
' forthe word “Council”, of the word “Committee ”.

12. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby

_ amended as follows :—

(a) by the substitution for the word “ Council” wherever

Anrendiment of
section 20 of the
principal

‘enactment.

Amendment of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment. - _

it occurs in. that: section, of the word -:

“ Committee ” -

mOy by the substitution’ "fet the words and figures
“ appointed under paragraph (a) of subsection (2)
of section 13”, of the words and figures “ appointed
under paragraphs (f} and (g) of subsection (1) of
_ Section 17 "sand

(c) inthe marginal note to that section, by the substitution
for the word “Council "s of the word “Committee ”.

13. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby

. amended as follows :—

- (a) ‘by the substitution for the mae : Council ‘ ' wherever
it occurs in that section, of the word “ Commit-
tee” ;and .

(6) in the marginal note to that section, by the substitu-

’ Amendment of
- section 22 of the
. Principal

enactment.

-tion for the. word “ Council * of the word --

= Committee "

14. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(@) by the substitution for the word & ‘ Council " of the

. word * Committee ” ;and
b): rin. she qnatdingl nostothaleection: by the substitution
for the word “Council”, of the word “Committee °. "

Pe en of
‘section 23 of the

principal
enactment.


“8 National Aquatic Resources Research and Develop. —
ment Agency (Amendment)Act, No, 32 of 1996

Insertion ofnew ‘15. The following new scction is hereby inserted immedi-
section 38a inthe ately after section 38 of the principal cnactment and shall have
‘principal . — effect as section 38a of the principal cnactment :—

enaciment.
fag .“ Restriction on 38a. Noofficer of the Agency shall publish
publicationof or cause to be published, any report or
reports, &. research finding of the Agency, without
obtaining the prior written permission of the
Director-General. *y

-* Amendment of ~~ 16. Section 42 of the principal ' enactment is hereby
section 42 of the . : amended as follows :—
principal
enactment. ~ (a) by the repeal of the definitions respectively, of the .
expressions “ Ceylon Fisheries Corporation ” and
“ Ceylon Fishery Harbours Corporation ” ;
(b) by the insertion immediately after-the definition of
. ” -the expression “coastal wetlands” of the follow-
ing new definition :— :
‘“ Exclusive Economic Zone " means the area
declared to be the Exclusive Economic —
Zone of Sri Lanka by proclamation made
under section 5 of the Maritime Zones Law,
No. 22 of 1976 ; a

_ (cy. by the. insertion immediately after the. definition -
. of the expression “inland waters * of the follow- _
- ing new definition :—
*“ Minister” means the Minister appointed under
. Article 44 of the Constitution to be in charge
of the subject of Fisheries and Aquatic
_ Resources Development ; ’ ;

(d) by the aibetnaioa in the definition of the expression.
"--*  “ offshore-areas ” for the words “ Maritime Zones
. - Law, No. 22 of 1976”, of the words “ Maritime -
- Zones Law, No. 22 of idk and includes the
| ' Exclusive Economic Zone ;”

.. Sithala text to
peorell ip cate
Salis

18. In the event of any inconsistency ‘between the Sinhala
_ and Tamil texts sof this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail
