PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 4 OF 2004

[Certified on 21st January, 2004]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part 11 of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of January 23, 2004

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT ‘TUE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs. 4.50


Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment)
Act, No. 4 of 2004

[Certified on 21st January, 2004]

L.D.—O. 65/2002

AN ACY TO AMEND THF. FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES
Acr, No. 2 or 1996

BE it‘enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited asthe Fisheries and Aquatic — Shon Title.
Resources (Amendment) Act, No. 4 of 2004.

2. Section 27 of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, — Amendment of
No. 2 of 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal Section 27 of Act
ny: ; No. 2 of 1996,
enactment”) is hereby amended as follows —

(1) in subsection (1) of that section —

(a) tn paragraph (a) of that subsection by the
substitution for the words “any poisonous,
explosive or stupcfying substance” of the words
“any poisonous, explosive or stupefying
substance (including dynamite)” ;

(b) by the repeal of paragraph (J) of that subsection
and the substitution, therefor, of the following
paragraph :—

“(b) carry, or have in his possession any
poisonous, explosive or stupelying
substance (including dynamite) or other
noxious or harmful material (not being a
fishing net) or any substance for any
purpose referred to in paragraph (a)" ; and

(2) in subsections (2) and (3) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “poisonous, explosive or
stupefying substance” of the words “poisonous,
explosive or stupefying substance (including
dynamite)” .

2—H 18817— 5,650 (07/2003)


Insertion of new
section

29 Ain the
principal
enactment.

Insertion of new
section 46a in the
principal
enaclinent.

rendment of
tion 49 of the
Acipal
actment.

2 Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment)

Act, No, 4 of 2004

3. The following new scction is hereby inserted
immediately after section 29 of the principal cnactment and
shall have elect as section 29a of that enactment :—

“Presumption.

29a. In any prosecution for an offence referred
to in section 27 it shall be presumed, unless the
contrary is proved, that such poisonous, explosive
or stupefying substance (including dynamite) or
other noxious or harmful material or substance
was uscd, carried or possessed for any of the
purposes referred to in section 27." .

4. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately aficr section 46 of the principal enactment and
shall have the effect as section 46a of that enactment :-

“Granting of
bail.

“46a. No bail shall be allowed by a Magistrate
to any person who is accused of an offence under
paragraph (a) or () of subsection (1) or
subsection (3) of section 27 of this Act :

Provided however, the High Court of the
Province established under Article 154p of the
Constitution may, for exceptional circumstances
shown to the satisfaction of the Court, allow bail
to such person who is accused of an offence under
paragraphs (a) or (b) of subsection (1) or
subsection (3) of section 27 of this Act.”.

$5. Section 49 of the principal enactment is hercby
amended by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following subsections :—

“(3) Any person who contravenes the
provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) or
subsection (3) of section 27, of this Act shall be
guilty of an offence'ahd shall on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to


Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment) 3

Act, No. 4 of 2004

imprisonment of cither description for a term nol
less than three years and not exceeding five ycars
or to a fine not less than one hundred thousand
rupees and onasccond or subsequent conviction
to imprisonment of cither description for a term
not less than five years and not exceeding seven
years or to a fine not less than five hundred
thousand rupees.

(3a) Ary person who contravenes the
provisions of paragraph (5) of subsection (1) or
subsection (2) of section 27 of this Act, shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than one year and
not exceeding three years or to a fine not Icss
than fifty thousand rupees and on a second or
subsequent conviction to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than three years
and not excceding five ycars or to a fine not less
than onc hundred thousand rupecs”.

6. The following new section is hereby inscrted
immediately after section 49 of the principal cnactment and
shall have effect as section 49a of that cnactment —

“Sanction of
the Director-
General.

49a. No prosecution shall be commenced in
respect of an offence under section 27 except with
the prior written approval of the Director-
General.”.

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Insertion of new
section 49a in the
principal
enactment.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


i

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. J, 80(Foreign),

payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GovERNMENT PuBLICATIONS Buriau, No, 32, Transworks House,
Lotus Roav. Cotomao ()! before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
