PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

WIDOWERS’ AND ORPHANS’ PENSION SCHEME
(ARMED FORCES) ACT, No. 60 OF 1998

[Certified on 15th December , 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of December 18, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50


Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme
(Armed Forces) Act, No. 60 of 1998

(Certified on 15th December, 1998]
L.D.—0O.10/90

AN ACT TO ESTABLISH AND MAINTAIN A SCHEME FOR THE GRANT OF
PENSIONS TO WIDOWERS AND CHILDREN OF DECEASED MEMBERS
OF THE ARMED FORCES AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Widowers’ and Orphans’
Pension Scheme (Armed Forces) Act, No. 60 of 1998.

2. There may be established, in accordance with the
regulations, a Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme
(hereinafter referred to as the “pension scheme”) for the grant
of pensions to the widowers and orphans of deceased members
of the armed forces who have been, or are deemed to have
been, contributors to such pension scheme.

3. (1) Any person who became a member of the armed
forces on or before July 31, 1983, and who continues to be
such member after that date may before the prescribed date
elect to be a contributor to the pension scheme :

Provided that where such person dies before the prescribed
date and without making an election under the preceding
Provisions of this subsection, she shall, if she leaves a husband
or child or a husband and child or a husband and children, be
deemed to have elected to be a contributor to the pension
Scheme.

(2) Any person who has become or becomes a member
of the armed forces on or after August 1, 1983, shall be a
Contributor to the pension scheme, from the date on which
She becomes a member of the armed forces :

Provided that, where any such person has died prior to the
date of commencement of this Act, she shall, if she leaves a
husband or child or a husband and child or a husband and
children, be deemed to be a contributor to the pension scheme.

2—D 049829 — 8,550 (98/09)

Short title.

“Establishment of

Widowers’ and
Orphans’ Pension
Scheme.

Contributors to
the pension
scheme.


Extension of the
pension scheme
include members
who are
continuing in
service, or who
have retired or
died.

2 Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme
(Armed Forces) Act, No. 60 of 19S8

(3) Where any person is deemed to be a contributor to the
pension scheme under the proviso to subsection (1) or (2) of
this section, the person administering the estate of such person -
shall pay to the pension scheme all arrears of contributions
for the period commencing from August 1, 1983 and ending
on the date of her death or the period commencing from the
date on which she became a member of the armed forces and
ending on the date of her death, as the case may be, with
interest thereon at four per centum per annum.

(4) An election made under subsection (1) shall be final.

4. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, any person
who became a member of the armed forces on or before July
31, 1983, and who continued to serve as such member after
that date, and who has subsequently retired, may, before the
prescribed date, elect to be a contributor to the pension
scheme :

Provided that any person who became a member of the
armed forces on or before July 31, 1983, who has continued
to serve as such member after that date and who has died
prior to the date of commencement of this Act, or dies before
making an election under the preceding provisions of this
subsection, such person shall if she leaves a husband or child,
or a husband and child or a husband and children, be deemed
to have elected to be a contributor to the pension scheme.

(2) Any person who elects to become a contributor under
this section, or in the case of persons who are deemed to have
elected to become contributors to the pension scheme under
this section, the person administering the estate of such
deceased person, shall pay to the pension scheme all arrears
of contributions for the period commencing from August 1,
1983, until the date of election, retirement or death, as the
case may be, with interest thereon at four per centum per
annum.

(3) An election made under the provisions of
subsection (1) shall be final.


5.

(a)

(5)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(g)

(A)

)

Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme 3
(Armed Forces) Act, No. 60 of 1998

(1) Regulations may be made—

providing for the establishment, regulation,
administration and management of the pension
scheme ;

prescribing the conditions and circumstances in which,
and the restrictions subject to which, the widowers
and children of deceased contributors will be eligible
for the grant of pensions ;

providing for the particulars to be furnished by
contributors ;

fixing the contributions to be made to the pension
scheme by contributors ;

fixing the contributions, if any to be made to the
pension scheme by the Government ;

authorizing the deduction of contributions from the
pay and allowances of, or from other moneys due or
in respect of, contributors and prescribing the
procedure for making such deductions ;

prescribing the manner in which contributions for
periods in respect of which a contributor has not made
any contribution, are to be recovered ;

providing for the apportionment of the pension
between the widower of acontributor and the children
of such contributor in cases where such contributor
has contracted more than one marriage-+
authorizing the payment into the Consolidated Fund
of contributions made to the pension scheme by
contributors ;

Regulations for

. the pension

scheme.


Pensions, &c. to
be a charge on the
Consolidated
Fund.

Contributions,
&c., not to be
assigned or
attached.

Minister to make
regulations.

4 Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme
(Armed Forces) Act, No. 60 of 1998

(j) prescribing the circumstances in which, and the
conditions subject to which, the contributions made
to the pension scheme by a contributor may be
refunded and providing for the payment of interest on
contributions so refunded ;

(k) prescribing the mode of calculating the pensions
payable to the widowers and children of deceased
contributors ;

(2) inrespect of all matters incidental to or connected with
the administration and management of the pension
scheme.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions
of subsection (1), regulations made under that subsection in
respect of any matter may make provision similar to that made
in respect of the same matter in the Widowers’ and Orphans’
Pension Act, No. 24 of 1983.

6. All pensions, refunds and interest on refunds payable
under this Act shall be a charge on the Consolidated Fund.

7. Any contribution, pension, refund or interest on a
refund payable under this Act shall not be assignable or
transferable or liable to be or attached or sequestered or levied
upon, in execution of any decree or order of Court, for or in
respect of any debt or claim whatsoever.

8. (1) The Minister in charge of the subject of Public
Administration may make regulations in respect of all matters
for which regulations are authorised to be made under this
Act. :

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of publication or on such later date as may be specified
in the regulation.


Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme 5
(Armed Forces) Act, No. 60 of 1998

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. |

(4) Any regulation which is not so approved shall be -

deemed to be rescinded as from the date-.of disapproval but
without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(5) The date on which any regulation shall be deemed to
be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

9. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“contributor” means a member of the armed forces who
1s, Or is deemed to have been, a contributor to the pension
scheme ;

“member of the armed forces” means any person —

(a) who, being a female, is an officer or soldier of the
Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Army ; or

(b) who, being a female, is an officer or seaman of the
Regular Naval Force of the Sri Lanka Navy ; or.

(c) who, being a female, is an officer or airman of the
Regular Air Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force.

but does not include —

(i) any such officer or soldier of the Regular
Reserve, Volunteer Force or Volunteer Reserve
as is deemed to be an officer or a soldier of the
Regular Force under subsection (3) of section 3
of the Army Act ; or

(ii) any such officer or seaman of the Regular Naval
Reserve, Volunteer Naval Force or Volunteer
Naval Reserve as is deemed to be an officer or a
seaman of the Regular Naval Force under
subsection (3) of section 3 of the Navy Act ; or

Interpretation.


Retrospective
effect of this Act.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

6 Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme
(Armed Forces) Act, No. 60 of 1998

(iii) any such officer or airman of the Regular Air
Force Reserve, Volunteer Air Force or Volunteer
Air Force Reserve as is deemed to be an officer
or airman of the Regular Air Force under
subsection (3) of section 3 of the Air Force
Act;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulation.

10. The provisions of this Act shall be deemed to have
come into force on August 1, 1983, and accordingly any
regulation made under this Act in respect of such pension
scheme may be declared to be effective from that date or any
subsequent date.

11. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
