PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
- SOCIALIST REPUBLIC. OF
SRI LANKA

_ CEYLON COLD STORES
(POSSESSION AND CONTROL)
- ACT, No. 1 OF 1989

--

[Certified on 10th April, 1989]
Printed on the Orders of Government

oo ee,

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 12, 1989 |

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO*° -*

Price : 6Ocents. Postage : 75 cents


Ceylon Cold Stores (Possession and Control)
Act, No. 1 of 1989

[Certified on, 10th April 1989}

L.D.—O 16/89

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE CONTINUATION OF THE POSSESSION

AND CONTROL, BY ‘THE GOVERNMENT, OF THE UNDER-.

TAKING CARRIED ON BY CEYLON COLD STORES FOR A FURTHER
PERIOD OF ONE YEAR.

WHEREAS the possession and control of the business un-
dertaking carried on by the company known as the Ceylon
Cold Stores Limited, was taken over by the Government
for a period of three months, by regulation made under
_ section 5 of the Public Security Ordinance, dite to the
disruption of the services provided by that undertaking,
and industrial unrest.

WHEREAS for the purpose of ensuring the maintenance

of the services provided by such undertaking, which are

integral to the national economy and essential to the life of
‘the community, and for the purposes of securing the duc
‘recognition of, and respect for, the rights of the employees
of such undertaking it has become necessary for the Govern-
ment to continue to administer and control such business
undertaking for a further period of one year:

Now therefore be it enacted by the Parliament of the De-
mocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Ceylon Cold Stores
(Possession and Control) Act, No, 1 of 1989.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
the Government shall continue to hold and possess, for a
| period of one year calculated from the date of commence-
ment of this Act (hereinafter referred to as the “specified
period ”), the business undertaking specified in the First
Schedule to this Act, the possession and control of which
was taken over by the Government by regulation made
under the Public eecurity Ordinance.

‘

3. (1) There shall be appointed a i a Authority
_ for the purposes of this Act.

Short
title.

Government
to continue
to hold

and

possess
business
undertaking
for a
period of
one year.

Competent
Authority.


Competent
Authority
to take
possession
and
control of
property
in the :
Second
Schedule. -

Competent “
Authority. -°

to use or —

deal with -- «:
property .-°
of business” .
under- . 707

. taking.

"2 Ceylon Cold Stores (Possession and Control)

Act, No. 1 of 1989

(2) The Competent Authority shall, during the specified
period manage and administer the affairs of the business
undertaking specified in the First Schedule to this Act, on
behalf of the company owning that undertaking and may
-give.such directions as may be necessary for that purpose.

(3) The Competent Authority in the discharge of his
functions and the exercise of his powers under this Act,
shall be subject to such general and special directions as

' the Minister may from time to time issue, having regard to ©
’ the need to maintain the services provided by that under-

taking and the need to safeguard the rights of the em-
ployees of that Ende rte e,

(1). The Competent Authority shall during the speci- |
a; period take possession and control of all property
specified in the Second Schedule to'this Act, uscd for the
purposes for the business bndertasing specified in hs First
Schedule ‘to this Act.

(2) “Any person who fails or rebuses to aeiives possession
ta.the Competent Authority of any property specified in the
Second Schedule tothe Act, or prevents or obstructs or
causes any person to prevent or obstruct the Competent
Authority in taking possession. of the property referred to
in subsection (1) or resists or obstructs the Competent

_Authority in the discharge of. his.functions under this. Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and: shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be lia-
ble to imprisonment for‘a term not exceeding ten years or _
to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees, or to both such
imprisonment and fine. :

"Bs “The Competent Authority may during the ‘specified

‘period; use or deal with or authorize the use of, or dealing
with any property specified in the Second Schedule to this
Act, and used for the purposes of the business undertaking

specified in the First Schedule to this Act, for such pur-

poses and in such manner as he thinks expedient for the
maintenance of the services provided by such business
undertaking, and for the purposes of securing the due
recognition and respect of the rights of the employees of
such undertaking. . | =


Ceylon Cold Stores (Possession and. Control) 3
Act, No. 1 of 1989

6. (1) The company owning the undertaking, the
possession and control of which jis taken over by the
Government, for the specified period under this Act, shall
be entitled to reasonable compensation in respect of such
possession and control.

(2) Regulations may be made with respect to the
assessment of the compensation referred to in subsection
(1} and the mode and manner in which such compensation
shall be paid, to the company owing such undertaking.

7. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters in regard to which regulations are required or
authorized to be made, or which are required to be Bre:
scribed, under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be pub-
jished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, he
brought before Parliament for approval. Any regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded
as from the date of disapproval but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed under subsection (3) to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.

8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sin-
hala and Tami! texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

FIRST SCHEDULE (Section 2.)

The ‘business undertaking carried on by the Company known

as Ceylon Cold Stores Jimited, having its registered office at the _

Elephant House, Colombo 02 for the purpose of the manufacture
and sale of food, beverages and milk products. -

SECOND SCHEDULE (Section 4.)

All immovable property including land and buildings which on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act was used
for the purposes of the business undertaking specified in the First
Schedule to this Act, all plant, machinery, equipment and fixtures,
which on that day were used for the purposes of that business
undertaking and all movable property, including vehicles, which on
that day was used for the purpose of that business undertaking.

Compensa-~
tion.

Regulations.

Sinhala

text to
prevail

in case of
inconsistency.
