PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SHAILI EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 40 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th of July, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 26, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

[Certified on 19th of July, 2024]

L.D.O. (Inc) 17 /2021

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SHAILI EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the ShailiEducational Foundation has heretofore been establishedin Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out itsobjects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Foundation according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objects andmatters specified in this Act for which it was established:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has now applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1. This Act may be cited as the Shaili EducationalFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024.

2. (1) From and after the date of commencement ofthis Act, such and so many persons as now are members ofthe Shaili Educational Foundation (hereinafter referredto as the Foundation, and shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the body corporate hereby constituted shallhave perpetual succession under the name and style ofthe Shaili Educational Foundation (hereinafter referredto as the body corporate), and by that name may sueand be sued with full power and authority to have, anduse a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble

Short title

Incorporationof the ShailiEducationalFoundation

2Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be aVoluntary Social Service Organization within the meaningand for the purpose of the Voluntary Social ServiceOrganization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31of 1980 and the provisions of that Act shall apply to and inrelation to the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate.

3. (1) Subject to the provisions of any other writtenlaw, the general objects for which the body corporate isconstituted are hereby declared to be to

(a)assist through commencement and promotionof educational and creative activities the children,elders and differently abled persons in Sri Lankain developing their educational skills andpersonalities making them suitable for self-employment;

(b)identify requirements of children, youth, eldersand differently abled persons in Sri Lanka and toprovide social mobilization programmes andeducational and training programmes for theirphysical and mental well being;

(c)help children, youth and elders of the communityto become balanced persons who are contendedand conversant with their own cultural heritageand identity;

(d)commence and conduct programmes to preservetraditional heritage of Sri Lanka relating toculture, literature and arts; and

(e)provide relief services to differently abledchildren, youth and elders and the helpless in thecommunity.

General objectsof the bodycorporate

3Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(2) In the implementation of the objects specifiedin subsection (1), the body corporate shall ensure thatsuch implementation shall be carried out without anydistinction based on race, religion, language, caste,gender, political opinion, place of birth or such othergrounds.

4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried outsubject to necessary approvals under applicable written lawsand in such manner so as not to create any conflict betweenthe work of the body corporate and any work being carriedout simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rulesmade under section 7, the management and administrationof the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by aManagement Council (hereinafter referred to as theCouncil) consisting of such number of office bearers asmay be specified by the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The members of the Council of the Foundationholding office on the day immediately preceding the dateof commencement of this Act, shall subject to the rulesmade under paragraph (b), function as an Interim Councilof the body corporate until the first Council is appointedor elected within the period specified in paragraph (d)and in the manner provided for by rules made undersection 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3) and(4 ) of section 7, the Interim Council of the body corporateshall have the power to make rules for the interimadministration of the body corporate not inconsistent withthe provisions of this Act or any other written law.

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor ProvincialCouncil

Management ofthe affairs of thebody corporate

4Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(c) Any decision of the Interim Council shall be takenby the majority of its members present at any meeting.

(d) The first Council of the body corporate shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Council appointedunder paragraph (d), including the patrons and advisers,shall be appointed or elected for a period of three yearsand any such office bearer, patron or adviser shall beeligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse ofthe said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Council shall having regard to the rules of thebody corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill suchvacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power todo, perform and execute all such acts and things as arenecessary or desirable for the achievement of the objectsof the body corporate or any one of them, including thepower

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate and to dealwith or dispose of the same as may be determinedby the Council with a view to promoting the objectsof the body corporate;

Powers of thebody corporate

5Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(b)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the body corporate, all suchcontracts or agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of thepowers of the body corporate;

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations from localor foreign sources in cash or kind for the attainmentof the objects of the body corporate:

Provided that, the Council shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department ofExternal Resources in respect of all foreign funds,grants, gifts or donations received by or made tothe body corporate;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse,negotiate, buy, sell and issue bills of exchange,cheques, promissory notes and other negotiableinstruments and to open, operate, maintain andclose accounts in any bank;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate, in suchmanner as the Council may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto those of the body corporate or any real orpersonal property with a view to promoting theobjects of the body corporate;

6Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate theservices of officers and other employees of thebody corporate and exercise disciplinary controlover them and to pay them such salaries,allowances and gratuities as may be determinedby the body corporate in terms of rules made undersection 7 of the Act;

(h)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objects of the bodycorporate;

(i)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects tothose of the body corporate; and

(j)to train officers and other employees in Sri Lankaor abroad for the purposes of the body corporate.

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent withthe provisions of this Act or any other written law, for thefollowing matters: -

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Council orvacation of or removal from office of officebearers and the powers, duties and functions ofthe office bearers;

Rules of thebody corporate

7Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers and otheremployees of the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporateand of the Council, notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Council and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of theproperty of the body corporate;

(g)the procedure and manner of liaising andcoordinating with other local and foreigninstitutions having objects similar to that of thebody corporate; and

(h)generally, the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1), shall bepublished in the Gazette within three months upon makingsuch rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

8Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate within threemonths after its publication in the Gazette, be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any rule which is not so approvedshall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of suchdisapproval, but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any such rule isdeemed to be so rescinded under subsection (4) shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all times besubject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The Council shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants forand on account of the body corporate shall be depositedin one or more banks approved by the Council to the creditof the body corporate subject to the provisions of section 6 (c).

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe body corporate in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

Register ofmembers

Fund of thebody corporate

Accounts andauditing

9Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditor interms of the provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionand be certified by the Auditor-General or such qualifiedauditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section qualified auditormeans -

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issuedby the Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute.

11. (1) The Council shall prepare a report of theactivities of the body corporate for each financial yearand submit such report together with the audited statementof accounts and a list of all assets and liabilities of thebody corporate certified by the Auditor-General or aqualified auditor, to the Secretary of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject of Education and to theRegistrar of Voluntary Social Service Organizationsappointed under the Voluntary Social Service

Annual Report

10Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the yearsucceeding the year to which such report relates.

(2)A separate statement of accounts relating to theforeign and local moneys received by the body corporateand details of all contracts and agreements entered intoby the body corporate and the rules of the body corporatemade under section 7 during the financial year shall beattached to the report referred to in subsection (1).

12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and allsuch property shall be held by the body corporate for thepurpose of this Act and subject to the rules of the bodycorporate made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgagelease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14. The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwisehowsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Application ofmoneys andproperty

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

11Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

15. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Council who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Council as may be decided by theCouncil.

16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the body corporate, butshall be given or transferred to any other institution havingobjects similar to those of the body corporate, and which isby the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

18. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-

bank means a bank licensed under the provisionsof the Banking Act, No.30 of 1988; and

written law shall have the same meaning assignedto such expression in the Constitution.

19. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Interpretation

Seal of the bodycorporate

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Propertyremaining ondissolution

12Shaili Educational Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.