PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

JUDICATURE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 37, OF 1979

[Certified on 5th June, 1979}

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 15, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA °

S emeeeneen te nt

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price: 45 cents — Postage: 25 cents


Judicature (Amentment) Act, No. 37 of 1979
[Certified on 5th June, 1979]

L.D.--O 20/79
AN ACT TO AMEND THE JUDICATURE Act, No. 2 oF 1978.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Judicature (Amendment)
Act, No. 37 of 1979.

2. Section 23 of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978, herein-
after referred to as the “principal enactment”, is hereby
repealed and the following new section substituted
therefor :— ;

“ Appeals. 23. Any party who shall be dissatisfied with
any judgment, decree, or order pronounced
by a District Court may (excepting where
such right is expressly disallowed) appeal to
the Court of Appeal against any such judg-
ment, decree, or order from any error in
law or in fact committed by such court, but
no such appeal shall have the effect of staying
the execution of such judgment, decree, or
order unless the District Judge shall see {it
to make an order to that effect, in which
case the party appellant shall enter into a
bond, with or without sureties as the District
Judge shall consider necessary, to appear
when required and abide the judgment of
the Court of Appeal upon the appeal.”’.

3. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the addition, at the end of that section, of the
fellowing new subsection :—

“ (5) Until a Family Counsellor is attached to a Family
Court under subsection (1), the preceding provisions
of this section shall have no application to any
proceedings instituted in such court:

Provided that where no Family Counsellor has been
attached to such Family Court at the time the inquiry
or trial has commenced, then, notwithstanding the
attachment of the Family Counsellor, the inquiry or
trial may continue and be proceeded with to final
judgment without reference to the Family Counsellor. ”.

A 41419—13,600 (79/05)

Short title.

Replacement
of section

23 of Act,
No, 2 of
1978.

Amendment
of section
26 of the
principal
enactment.


Replacement
of section 29
of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of the
Second
Schedule to
the principal
enactment.

Amendment

' Schedule

to the
principal
enactment.

2 Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 1979

4. Section 29 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following new section substituted

therefor :—

“ Procedure
in Family
Courts.

29. (1) All proceedings in a Family Court
shall be instituted and conducted as expedi-
tiously as possible in accordance with such
regulations as may be prescribed :

Provided that until such regulations have
been so prescribed, the court shall, as far as

practicable, follow the provisions relating to

summary procedure in the Civil Procedure
Code.

(2) The provisions of the Adoption of
Children Ordinance and the Maintenance
Ordinance governing the institution and
conducting of proceedings under the said
Ordinances shall be deemed to apply to such
proceedings that may be instituted in the
Family Courts.

(3) All applications for the care and
custody of minor children shall take prece-
dence over all other matters in every Family
Court and shall, unless exceptional circums-
tances so warrant, be heard from day to day

to ensure the expeditious disposal of the
same. ”.

5. The Second Schedule « to the principal enactment is
hereby amended as follows :—.

(a) by the omission of item 1;

(b) by the renumbering of items 2, 3 and 4 as items 1, 2
and 3 respectively ; and

(c) by the substitution, for the re-numbered item 3, of
the following new item :—

“3. Abetment and conspiracy for the abetment
cr commission of the offences described in item 1
above and conspiracy for the commission of the
offences described in item 2 above. ”.

6. The Third Schedule to the principal enactment is

hereby amended as follows :—

(a) by the insertion immediately after the item “Foreign
Marriages Ordinance (Chapter 116). * of the
- following item ;—- aad


Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 1979 3

“Jaffna Matrimonial Rights and Inheritance
Ordinance (Chapter 58).”, and

(b) by the insertion immediately after the item “ Marriage
Registration Ordinance (Chapter 112).”, of the
following item :—

“Married Women’s Property Ordinance (Chapter
56).”.
