PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

OCEAN UNIVERSITY OF SRI LANKA ACT, No. 31 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 07th September, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 60.00Postage : Rs. 45.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 12, 2014

1Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

2PL 0083902,050 (08/2014)

[Certified on 07th September, 2014]

L.D.O. 31/2011.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT, MAINTENANCE AND

ADMINISTRATION OF THE OCEAN UNIVERSITY OF SRI LANKA; TO

PROVIDE THE NECESSARY LEGAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITATING

COURSES LEADING TO HIGHER EDUCATION AT THE OCEAN UNIVERSITY

OF SRI LANKA; TO REPEAL THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FISHERIES

AND NAUTICAL ENGINEERING ACT, NO. 36 OF 1999; AND FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS there is a requirement to cater to the manpowerneeds in the fisheries, marine and maritime sectors ofSri Lanka:

AND WHEREAS it is necessary to establish a highereducation institution for the purpose of enhancing thescientific, technical and managerial skills of personsengaged in the fields of fisheries, ocean sciences, maritimetechnologies and allied fields:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to ensure that thehigher educational qualification obtained by the personswho pursue studies in the above fields will be a qualificationwhich has recognition within as well as outside Sri Lanka:

AND WHEREAS it has become a matter of nationalimportance to establish a University to impart knowledge inthe above fields in order that the knowledge acquired by thepersons engaged in those fields be utilized for thedevelopment of the country.

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Ocean University of SriLanka Act, No. 31of 2014 and shall come into operation onsuch date as the Minister may appoint by Order published inthe Gazette (hereinafter in this Act referred to as theappointed date).

Preamble.

Short title anddate of operation.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 20142

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OCEAN UNIVERSITY OF SRI LANKA.

2.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in theUniversities Act, No. 16 of 1978, there shall be established aUniversity called the Ocean University of Sri Lanka( hereinafter in this Act referred to as the University).

(2) The University shall be a body corporate withperpetual succession and, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), may sue and be sued.

3.(1) The University shall have the full power andauthority to have and use a common seal which shall be inthe custody of the Registrar of the University and may bealtered in such manner as may be determined by the Boardof Governors of the University.

(2) The seal shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument except in the presence of the Registrar or anyother officer as may be nominated by the Vice Chancellor inthat behalf who shall sign such instrument or document intoken of his presence.

PART II

OBJECTIVES AND POWERS OF THE UNIVERSITY.

4.The objectives of the University shall be to

(a)provide for University education in the fields offisheries, ocean sciences, maritime technology andallied fields;

(b)offer vocational and technical courses of studyrelating to fisheries and allied fields in order tocater to the manpower needs in any areas;

Objectives of theUniversity.

Seal of theUniversity.

Establishment ofthe OceanUniversity of SriLanka.

3Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(c)disseminate knowledge relating to fisheries, marineand maritime sectors among persons who areengaged in fisheries and allied fields;

(d)provide for extension courses for continuousprofessional development in the fields of fisheries,ocean sciences, maritime technology and alliedfields;

(e)provide vocational and technical courses forpersonnel in the fields of fisheries and allied fieldsfor admission to the University;

(f)provide for the progressive development of studentsin the fields of engineering, scientific, technical andvocational education and training systems, basedon their aptitude and ability to acquire a Universityeducation in the fields of fisheries, ocean sciences,maritime technology and allied fields; and

(g)provide courses of study for those who possessNational Vocational Qualifications and assist themto upgrade their competency and acquire academicqualifications in the fields of fisheries, oceansciences, maritime technology and allied fields.

5.(1) The University shall subject to the provisions ofthis Act, have the power to

(a)acquire by way of purchase or otherwise bothmovable and immovable property and to take,accept and hold any such property which maybecome vested in it by virtue of such purchase orotherwise:

Provided that, any immovable property of theUniversity shall not be disposed of without the priorwritten approval of the Minister to whom the subjectof Skills Development is assigned.

powers of theUniversity.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 20144

(b)exercise, perform and discharge such powers,functions and duties as are conferred or imposed onor assigned to the University by this Act;

(c)admit students in keeping with the admission criteriafor different categories of candidates along with anaptitude test as recommended by the Admission,Accreditation and Quality Assurance Council undersection 23, and provide instructions for courses ofstudy designed in keeping with the objectives ofthe University;

(d)recognize examinations and duration of studyprogrammes of any University established ordeemed to be established under the UniversitiesAct, No. 16 of 1978 and any higher educationalinstitution, technical and vocational or professionalinstitution, for the purpose of admitting students tothe University;

(e)conduct programmes of studies and trainingprogrammes relating to fisheries and Oceansciences, maritime technology and allied fields;

(f)hold examinations in the programmes specified inparagraph (e) and assess the performance of suchstudents;

(g)grant and confer degrees and other academicdistinctions in conformity with any Statute enactedfor such purpose;

(h)establish institutions for vocational training inrelated fields including the National institute ofFisheries and Maritime Training. The Institute ofFisheries and Maritime Training shall be establishedprior to the appointed date;

(i)establish centers and campuses of the Universityon a provincial and Regional basis;

5Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(j)charge fees or any other payments for the courses ofstudy and training programmes conducted by theUniversity;

(k)charge fees for any extension services provided tothe public or any institution, as the case may be,and disburse the income so generated for theattainment of the objects of the University in suchmanner as shall be prescribed by Ordinance;

(l)undertake advisory, consultancy and any incomegenerating functions and disburse the proceedsthereof for the development of any scheme approvedby the Board of Governors of the University;

(m)establish any committee or sub-committeeincluding an Audit and Management Committeeas may be necessary to carry out the functions ofthe University;

(n)invest any fund not immediately required for thepurposes of the University in such manner as theBoard of Governors of the University may considerappropriate;

(o)co-operate by way of exchange of teachers, studentsand scholars with other institutions in or outsideSri Lanka having objects or interests similar to thoseof the University;

(p)make arrangements for the conduct of examinationsfor persons in the affiliated institutions and also toenable the persons who do not receive instructionsat the University to obtain degrees, diplomas andcertificates from the University and to determinethe courses of instruction for such examinations;

(q)provide facilities for higher education to personsemployed by the University;

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 20146

(r)make opportunities available to the staff andstudents of the University for research and therebyfor the advancement and dissemination ofknowledge;

(s)confer honorary degrees or other distinctions onpersons approved by the Academic Council andthe Board of Governors of the University, inconformity with any Statute made for the purpose;

(t)award fellowships, scholarships, bursaries, medalsand other prizes in conformity with any Statutesmade for the purpose;

(u)introduce Senior Professorships, Professorships,Associate Professorships, Senior Lectureships,Lectureships, Assistant Lectureships and other non-academic positions, as may be required for thepurposes of this Act;

(v)establish and maintain libraries, laboratories andother buildings for instructional purposes as maybe necessary for the purposes of this Act;

(w)appoint, employ, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control and power of dismissal oversuch officers and servants as may be necessary forthe purpose of achievement of the objects underthis Act;

(x)establish and regulate provident fund schemes orpension schemes for the benefit of the officers andservants of the University and make contributionsto any such scheme;

(y)open, operate and close bank accounts in any bankor banks approved by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;and

7Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(z)do all such other acts or things as may be necessaryfor the attainment of the objects of this Act.

(2) The powers enumerated above shall unless otherwiseexpressly provided for by this Act be exercised by the Boardof Governors of the University.

PART III

POWERS OF THE MINISTER

6.(1) The Minister shall be responsible for theadministration and implementation of the provisions of thisAct.

(2) The Minister, in fulfilling his responsibilities undersubsection (1), shall in consultation with the Vice Chancellorof the University, issue to the Board of Governors of theUniversity, form time to time, written directions as he mayconsider necessary for the smooth functioning of theUniversity.

(3) It shall be the duty of the Board of Governors of theUniversity to comply with all such directions as may beissued by the Minister under this section.

(4) The Minister may, from time to time, for the purposeof effectually fulfilling his responsibilities relating to theadministration and implementation of the provisions of thisAct, order that all or any of the activities pertaining to theadministration of the University be investigated and reportedto him by the Board of Governors of the University.

(5) Upon receipt of a report from the Board of Governorsof the University in compliance with an order undersubsection (4), the Minister upon consideration of the reportshall direct the Board of Governors of the University to takesuch remedial action as he may consider appropriate inrelation to the activity pertaining to the administration of

Responsibilityand powersof theMinister.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 20148

the University of which an investigation has been carriedout under subsection (4).

7.Where the Minister is of the view that any situationprevailing in the University is likely to endanger the nationalsecurity or is detrimental or prejudicial to national policy oris likely to disrupt the smooth functioning of the University,he shall direct the Board of Governors of the University totake all such steps as may be necessary to bring such situationunder control.

8.(1) Where the Minister, in consultation with the ViceChancellor of the University is of the view that due to anystrike, lockout or any such circumstances, the work or theadministration of the University has been seriously disruptedand the relevant authorities of the University have failed torestore normal conditions, he shall take all such measures asmay be necessary to ensure the restoration of normalconditions of the University. The Minster may, at any timeprior to normal condition is restored, by Order published inthe Gazette make such provisions as he may deemappropriate in respect of all or any of the followingmatters:

(a)the closure of the University;

(b)the appointment of any person by name or by officeto be a competent authority for the purpose ofexercising, performing or discharging any power,function or duty under this Act, in lieu of the officer,authority or other body of the University;

(c)any other matter connected with or relating to anyof the matters specified in paragraph (a) or (b).

(2) An Order made by the Minister under subsection (1)shall come into force on such date as may be specified therein,and shall within one month from the date of publication ofthe Gazette be tabled in Parliament. The Order shall unless

Where situationprevails is likelyto endanger thenational security&c.

Measures to betaken by theMinister in theevent of a lockout&c.

9Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

earlier rescinded remain in force for a period not exceedingthree months therefrom.

9.(1) The University shall before the expiry of a periodof six months after the closure of each financial year, submitto the Minister a report containing a full account of itsactivities during that year. The Minister shall cause copiesthereof to be tabled in Parliament.

(2) The University shall cause copies of the report submittedunder subsection (1) to be made available to the public onpayment of a fee as may be determined by the University.

PART IV

CHANCELLOR AND OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY

10.(1) The President shall appoint the Chancellor ofthe University who shall be the Head of the University andwho shall hold office for a period of five years from the dateof such appointment.

(2) The Chancellor shall when present preside at everyConvocation of the University.

(3) The officers of the University shall be as follows:

(a)the Vice Chancellor;

(b)the Deputy Vice Chancellor (if any)

(c)the Rector of each Campus;

(d)the Dean of each Faculty;

(e)the Registrar of the University;

(f)the Director, Media and Information Services;

(g)the Director, Finance;

Annual Report ofthe University.

Chancellorand officersof theUniversity.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201410

(h)the Director, Admission, Accreditation and QualityAssurance Council; and

(i)any person holding a post declared by any Statuteto be that of an officer of the University.

11.(1) The Vice Chancellor of the University shall beappointed by the President in consultation with the Minister,from and out of a Panel of three persons nominated by theBoard of Governors of the University.

(2) The Panel of three persons to be nominated for thepurpose of subsection (1) shall be selected from amongstthose who have academic qualifications, knowledge andexperience in the fields of engineering, fisheries, science,technology, management or any other relevant field.

(3) The Vice Chancellor shall hold office for a period offour years. However a person shall not be appointed as aVice Chancellor for more than two consecutive terms.

(4) The Vice Chancellor shall be a full-time officer of theUniversity and shall be the principal executive officer andthe principal academic officer thereof. He shall be an ex-officio member and Chairman of both the Board of Governorsof the University and of the Academic Council. The ViceChancellor shall be entitled to convene, be present and speakat any meeting of any other Authority of the University orother body as may be prescribed by Ordinance, but shall notbe entitled to vote at any such meeting, unless he is a memberof such other Authority or other body.

(5) It shall be the duty of the Vice Chancellor inaccordance with such directions as may, from time to time,be lawfully issued to him in that behalf by the Board ofGovernors of the University, to ensure that the provisions ofthis Act and of any appropriate Instrument are duly observed,and he shall have and may exercise all such powers as hemay deem necessary for the purpose.

The ViceChancellor.

11Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall be theduty of the Vice Chancellor to give effect to and ensure thateffect is given to the decisions of the Board of Governors ofthe University and of the Academic Council.

(7) The Vice Chancellor shall be the Accounting Officerof the University and shall be responsible for the maintenanceof discipline within the University.

(8) The Vice Chancellor may, unless he vacates officeearlier or is removed from office under subsection (9) of thissection, hold office until he has completed his sixty fifthyear or his term of office expires whichever is earlier.

(9) The President may remove the Vice Chancellor fromoffice for reasons assigned therefor.

(10) Where the Vice Chancellor by reason of leave, illness,absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause is temporarilyunable to perform the duties of his office, the Deputy ViceChancellor, if any, shall perform such duties on behalf of theVice Chancellor. If a Deputy Vice Chancellor is not available,the Minister, on the recommendation of the Board ofGovernors of the University shall within seven days of theoccurrence of such inability, make such arrangements as hemay think fit for carrying on the duties of the office of theVice Chancellor. The Registrar of the University shall untilsuch arrangements are made carry out the routine duties ofthe office of the Vice Chancellor.

(11) Where any vacancy occurs in the office of the ViceChancellor, the President may within seven days of theoccurrence of such vacancy, make such arrangement as hemay think fit, for carrying on the duties of the office until apermanent appointment is made. Until such arrangementsare made, the Registrar of the University shall carry out theroutine duties of the office of the Vice Chancellor.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201412

12.A Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University shallbe appointed by the Board of Governors of the Universityupon the recommendation of a select committee, thecomposition of which shall be prescribed by Ordinance. Onbeing appointed the Deputy Vice Chancellor shall functionas a full time officer of the University under the direction ofthe Vice Chancellor. The Board of Governors of theUniversity shall decide on the duties and functions of theDeputy Vice Chancellor, if any.

13.(1) There shall be a Dean of each Faculty who shallbe the academic and administrative Head of such Faculty.The Dean shall be elected by the Faculty from among theSenior Professors, Professors, Associate Professors and SeniorLecturers who are members of such Faculty.

(2) The Dean shall subject to the provisions of anyappropriate instrument, hold office for a period of three yearsreckoned from the date of his election and shall unlessdisqualified from holding such office, be eligible for re-election. However he shall not in any event hold office formore than two consecutive terms.

(3) The Dean of a Faculty who is disqualified fromcontinuing to function as an officer of the University undersection 59 of this Act shall be removed from such office.

(4) Where owing to leave of absence, illness or other cause,the Dean of a Faculty is temporarily unable to perform theduties of his office for a period exceeding three months, theVice Chancellor shall appoint a Senior Professor, Professor,Associate Professor or a Senior Lecturer of that Faculty, toact in the post of Dean for such period.

(5) Where a Dean of a Faculty is removed, retires, resigns,or is for any other reason unable to perform the duties of hisoffice for a period exceeding three months, the post of Deanof the Faculty shall be deemed to have become vacant, anda new Dean shall be elected in accordance with the provisions

Deputy ViceChancellor of theUniversity.

The Dean of aFaculty.

13Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

of subsection (1). The person so elected shall hold office forthe un-expired term of office of his predecessor.

14.(1) The Registrar of the University shall be appointedby the Board upon the recommendation of a select committeethe composition of which shall be prescribed by Ordinanceand shall function as a full time officer of the University.The Registrar shall also be the Assistant Accounting officerof the University.

(2) The Registrar shall

(a)subject to the direction and control of the Vice Chancellor, be responsible for the generaladministration of the University and thedisciplinary control of its non academic staff;

(b)be responsible for the custody of the records andthe property of the University; and

(c)exercise, discharge and perform such powers, dutiesand functions as may be conferred or imposed on orassigned to him by this Act or by any appropriateinstrument.

15.(1) The Director, Media and Information Servicesof the University shall be appointed by the Board ofGovernors of the University upon the recommendation of aselect committee, the composition of which shall beprescribed by Ordinance, and shall function as a full-timeofficer of the University.

(2) The Director, Media and Information Services shall

(a)subject to the direction and control of the ViceChancellor, be responsible for the generaladministration of the Media and Information Centreor Centres of the University; and

Registrar of theUniversity.

The Director,Media andInformationServices.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201414

(b)exercise, perform and discharge such powers, dutiesand functions as may be conferred or imposed on orassigned to him by this Act or by any appropriateinstrument.

16.(1) The Director, Finance of the University, shall beappointed by the Board of Governors of the University uponthe recommendation of a select committee, the compositionof which shall be prescribed by Ordinance, and shall functionas a full-time officer of the University.

(2) The Director, Finance shall

(a)subject to the direction and control of the ViceChancellor, be responsible for the generaladministration of the finances of the University andshall maintain its accounts in such form and manneras may be prescribed by Ordinance; and

(b)exercise, perform and discharge such powers, dutiesand functions as may be conferred or imposed on orassigned to him by this Act or by any appropriateInstrument.

(3) The Director, Finance shall have the custody of all thefunds of the University.

17.(1) The Director, Admission, Accreditation andQuality Assurance Council of the University, shall beappointed by the Board of Governors of the University uponthe recommendation of a select committee, the compositionof which shall be prescribed by Ordinance. The Director,Admission, Accreditation and Quality Assurance Councilshall function as a full -time officer of the University.

(2) The Director, Admission, Accreditation and QualityAssurance Council shall

(a)subject to the direction and control of the ViceChancellor, be responsible for the admission criteria

The Director,Finance.

The Director,Admission,Accreditation andQuality AssuranceCouncil.

15Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

and for ensuring quality assurance of courses andother supporting services provided by theUniversity; and

(b)exercise, perform and discharge such powers, dutiesand functions as may be conferred or imposed on orassigned to him by this Act or by any appropriateInstrument.

PART V

THE AUTHORITIES OF THE UNIVERSITY

18.The Authorities of the University shall be thefollowing :

(a)the Board of Governors;

(b)the Admission, Accreditation and QualityAssurance Council;

(c)the Academic Council;

(d)the Faculty Boards; and

(e)such other bodies as may be prescribed byOrdinances to be Authorities of the University.

19.(1) The Board of Governors of the University(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the Board) shallconsist of

(a)the following ex-officio members:

(i)the Vice Chancellor;

(ii)the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, if any;

(iii)Dean of each Faculty;

The Authorities ofthe University.

The Board ofGovernors of theUniversity.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201416

(iv)the Director of each institute establishedunder any Ordinance;

(v)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Skills Developmentor his nominee;

(vi)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance or hisnominee;

(vii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Higher Educationor his nominee;

(viii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Shipping or hisnominee;

(ix)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Science andTechnology or his nominee;

(x)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Fisheries andAquatic Resources or his nominee;

(xi)the Rector of each Campus, if any;

(xii)the Chairman of the Vocational TrainingAuthority of Sri Lanka, established by theVocational Training Authority of Sri LankaAct, No. 12 of 1995;

(xiii)the Chairman of the National AquaticResources Research and DevelopmentAgency established by the National AquaticResources Research and DevelopmentAgency Act, No. 54 of 1981;

17Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(xiv)the Chairman of the National Apprentice andIndustrial Training Authority, established bythe Tertiary and Vocational Education Act,No. 20 of 1990; and

(xv)the Director-General of the Tertiary andVocational Education Commissionestablished by the Tertiary and VocationalEducation Act, No. 20 of 1990; and

(b)the following persons appointed by the Minister(in this Act referred to as appointed members)

(i)two members of the Academic Councilnominated by such Council from among itsmembers;

(ii)one member representing each of theprofessional bodies in the areas ofengineering, science and management;

(iii)three members from among persons who haverendered distinguished service in educational,professional and administrative spheres.

(2) The Chairman of the Board shall be the ViceChancellor who shall preside at all meetings of the Board. Ifthe Chairman is unable to preside at any meeting, themembers present shall elect a member from amongthemselves to preside at such meeting. The Registrar of theUniversity shall function as the secretary of the Board.

(3) An appointed member of the Board shall, unless hevacates office earlier, hold office for a term of three yearsreckoned from the date of his appointment, and shall, unlessremoved from office, be eligible for re-appointment:

Provided that, if any appointed member vacates his officeprior to the expiry of his term, his successor shall hold officefor the unexpired period of the term of the member whom hesucceeds.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201418

(4) An appointed member of the Board may resign hisoffice by writing under his hand addressed to the Minister.

(5) An appointed member of the Board who isdisqualified from continuing to be a member of an Authorityof the University under section 59 of this Act shall beremoved from such office.

(6) An appointed member of the Board who for whateverreason absents himself from three consecutive meetings ofthe Board, shall be deemed to have vacated his office as amember and the Minister shall, having regard to theprovisions of paragraph (b) of subsection (1), appoint anotherperson to fill the resulting vacancy.

(7) An appointed member of the Board may be paid suchallowances as the Minister, in consultation with the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance shall determine.

(8) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be onethird of the total number of members.

(9) The Board shall meet whenever necessary providedthat it shall have at least ten meetings in each year.

(10) The Chairman of the Board shall whenever he thinksnecessary or within one week upon the receipt by him of awritten requisition from not less than one third of the totalmembership of the Board convene a special meeting of theBoard.

20.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Boardshall exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions conferred or imposed on or assigned to theUniversity by this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred upon it by subsection (1), the Board shall exercise,

Powers, duties andfunctions of theBoard.

19Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

perform and discharge the following powers, duties andfunctions:

(a)approve courses of study recommended by theAcademic Council;

(b)determine, from time to time, the requirements forthe admission of students to the University havingconsidered the recommendations made by theAdmission, Accreditation and Quality AssuranceCouncil;

(c)hold, control and administer the property and fundsof the University;

(d)select a coat of arms for the University anddetermine its form;

(e)regulate and determine all matters concerning theUniversity in accordance with the provisions of thisAct and of any appropriate instrument;

(f)inquire into or investigate, from time to time, thefinancial needs of the University;

(g)prepare, from time to time, corporate strategic plansand corresponding budgets for the University, forperiods not less than three years at a time;

(h)determine, from time to time, within the overallwage and salary policies of the Government, thequantum of remuneration that should be paid tothe members of the staff of the University and otherbenefits that the staff is entitled to receive;

(i)administer any funds placed at the disposal of theUniversity for specific purposes;

(j)receive and accept by way of bequests, donations,grants or otherwise property made to the University;

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201420

(k)consider the annual report and the annual accountsof the University and submit such report andaccounts, along with any amendments that it mayconsider necessary to the Minister;

(l)prepare the budget estimates and the annualfinancial appropriations of the University andsubmit the same to the Minister;

(m)make Statutes when so required for any matter inrespect of which Statutes are required to be madeunder this Act;

(n)make by-laws in respect of any matter for which by-laws are authorized to be made under this Act;

(o)provide buildings, premises, furniture, equipmentand other materials needed for the carrying on ofthe work of the University;

(p)appraise performance of persons in the staff of theUniversity;

(q)appoint examiners, whether from the staff of theUniversity or from elsewhere, after considering anyrecommendations made by the Academic Council,and determine the fees which may be paid to suchexaminers;

(r)appoint a Board of Welfare which shall include arepresentative of the students, for the promotion ofthe general well being of the students of theUniversity. The composition, powers, duties andfunctions of such Board shall be prescribed byOrdinance;

(s)appoint a Board of Residence and Discipline whichshall include a representative of the students, forthe maintenance of discipline and provision of

21Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

residential facilities for the staff and students of theUniversity and matters connected therewith orincidental thereto. The composition, powers, dutiesand functions of such Board shall be prescribed byOrdinance;

(t)enter into, implement and where necessary cancelcontracts on behalf of the University and investany moneys belonging to the University, includingany unapplied income generated by the University,in the purchase of immovable property in Sri Lanka,or any such investments or place in fixed depositsin any bank approved by the Board, any portion ofsuch moneys not required for immediateexpenditure;

(u)determine after consultation with the AcademicCouncil, the academic dress or insignia or both ofthe Vice Chancellor, the officers, the graduates andstudents of the University;

(v)institute, abolish or suspend Senior Professorships,Professorships, Associate Professorships, SeniorLectureships, Lectureships and AssistantLectureships, in consultation with the Admission,Accreditation and Quality Assurance Council;

(w)institute, abolish or suspend any non-academic postin consultation with the Admission, Accreditationand Quality Assurance Council;

(x)decide on the qualifications required for any postreferred to in paragraphs (xxi) and (xxii) inconsultation with the Admission Accreditation andQuality Assurance Council;

(y)establish collaborations and partnerships withpublic and private sector, for the purpose ofachieving the objects of the University;

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201422

(z)establish such number of Faculties, AcademicDivisions, Departments of Study, Units or Centresas may be recommended by the Academic Council;

(aa)permit officers of the University, permanent staff orany members of the Board to serve on the Board ofManagement of any organization registered underthe Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 and contributetowards consultancy services of such organizationssolely for the undertaking of income generationactivities and commercialization of knowledgeprovided that, the profits of such organizationwould be donated to the University for itsdevelopment and welfare of the staff and students,

For the purposes of this paragraph, UniversityBoard means any university Board, including theBoard of Welfare and the Board of Residence andDiscipline appointed by the Board of Governors.

(bb)determine and assign the duties and functions ofthe Deputy Vice Chancellor, if any;

(cc)award fellowships, scholarships, bursaries, medalsand other prizes, on the recommendations of theAcademic Council; and

(dd)exercise all other powers of the University, theexercise of which is not otherwise provided for inthis Act or in any appropriate Instrument.

(3) No resolution shall be passed by the Board in relationto any academic matter, unless the Academic Council hasfirst been given an opportunity of recording and transmittingto the Board its opinion thereon.

In this section, academic matter means any matter whichis subject to the control and general direction of the AcademicCouncil.

23Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

21.(1) The Board may make Ordinances in respect ofall such matters as it may deem necessary to enable it toeffectively exercise, perform and discharge its powers, dutiesand functions under this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1), the Board may make Ordinancesin respect of all or any of the following matters:

(a)all matters required to be prescribed by Ordinanceor in respect of which Ordinances are authorized tobe made by the Board under any other provision ofthis Act;

(b)the establishment of institutions and maintenanceof standards of such institutions for vocationaltraining in related fields;

(c)the terms and conditions of service of the full timeofficers of the University;

(d)the terms and conditions of service of the staff ofthe University;

(e)the establishment and maintenance of standards ofinstruction in the University for the grant of degrees,diplomas and other academic distinctions;

(f)the recognition of foreign degrees and diplomasand other academic distinctions; and

(g)any other matter connected with or incidental toany of the matters aforementioned.

(3) Every Ordinance made by the Board under this Actshall be published in the Gazette and shall come intooperation on the date specified therein.

Powers of theBoard to makeOrdinances.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201424

22.(1) The Admission, Accreditation and QualityAssurance Council of the University (hereinafter referred toas the Quality Assurance Council, shall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio members:

(i)the Dean of each Faculty of the University;

(ii)the Director-General of the Tertiary andVocational Education Commissionestablished by the Tertiary and VocationalEducation Act, No. 20 of 1990;

(iii)the Director of the Quality AssuranceCouncil;

(iv)the Registrar of the University;

(v)the Head of the body entrusted with theresponsibility of regulating the activities ofColleges of Technology; and

(b)the following persons appointed by the ViceChancellor (in this section referred to as appointedmembers):

(i)one representative each from the professionalbodies in Fisheries and Ocean Sciences,Maritime Technologies and allied fields upto a maximum of three members;

(ii)one University academic each from otherUniversities in Fisheries and Ocean Sciences,Maritime Technologies and allied fields upto a maximum of three members elected fromamongst the Deans of Faculties;

(iii)three representatives from Academic Council,nominated by that Council from among itsmembers; and

The Admission,Accreditation andQuality AssuranceCouncil.

25Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(iv)Director of Quality Assurance Council of theUniversity Grants Commission and twodirectors responsible for the NationalVocational Qualifications and forAccreditation, from the Tertiary andVocational Education Commissionestablished by the Tertiary and VocationalEducation Act, No. 20 of 1990.

(2) The Chairman of the Quality Assurance Council shallbe elected from among the Deans of each faculty who shallpreside at all meetings of such Council. If the Chairman isunable to preside at any meeting, the members present shallelect a member present to preside at such meeting.

(3) The Registrar of the University shall be the Secretaryto the Quality Assurance Council.

(4) The quorum for a meeting of the Quality AssuranceCouncil shall be one half of its total membership and theQuality Assurance Council shall meet whenever necessary,provided that it shall meet at least on one occasion in eachyear.

(5) An appointed member of the Quality AssuranceCouncil shall unless he vacates office earlier, hold office fora term of four years reckoned form the date of hisappointment, and shall, unless removed from office, beeligible for re-appointment:

Provided that, if any appointed member vacates his officeprior to the expiry of his term, his successor shall hold officeonly for the unexpired period of the term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

(6) An appointed member of the Quality AssuranceCouncil may resign his office by writing under his handaddressed to the Vice Chancellor.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201426

(7) An appointed member of the Quality AssuranceCouncil who is disqualified from continuing to be a memberof an Authority of the University under section 59 of thisAct shall be removed from such office.

(8) An appointed member of the Quality AssuranceCouncil who for whatever reason absents himself from threeconsecutive meetings of the Quality Assurance Council,shall be deemed to have vacated his office as a member andthe Vice Chancellor shall, having regard to the provisionsof paragraph (b) of subsection (1), appoint another person tofill the resulting vacancy.

(9) An appointed member of the Quality AssuranceCouncil may be paid such allowance as the Minister shall inconsultation with the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance determine.

23.The Quality Assurance Council shall have the powerto recommend to the Board upon consideration of anyappropriate reports, on matters relating to

(a)the admission criteria for courses of study at theUniversity:

Provided that, any aptitude test for anycategory of candidates for the admission shall beconducted by the Department of Examinations inconsultation with the University;

(b)the number of students to be admitted to each courseof study;

(c)the qualifications from among National VocationalQualifications and any other vocationalqualifications awarded or granted by any public orprivate institution, that are required to be satisfiedin order to gain admission for courses of study atthe University;

Powers of theQuality AssuranceCouncil.

27Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(d)the recruitment and promotion criteria for the staffof the University;

(e)any matter relevant for the maintenance orupgrading of academic standards of courses;

(f)the institution, abolition or suspension of SeniorProfessorships, Professorships, AssociateProfessorships, Senior Lectureships, Lectureshipsand Assistant Lectureships;

(g)the formulation of accreditation requirements ofcourses of studies at the University, in consultationwith the Academic Council and relevantstakeholders;

( h)the qualification requirements of all teachers andnon-academic staff of the University;

(i)collaborations to be established with other nationaland international higher educational institutionsand professional bodies to further the objectives ofthe University;

(j)the appointment of such number of committeesconsisting of its own members and any otherprofessionals outside its membership, as it maydeem necessary to deliberate and report to it onmatters pertaining to its powers, which may bereferred to such committee; and

(k)any other matter that may be referred to it by theBoard for its recommendation.

24.(1) The Academic Council shall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio members:

(i)the Vice Chancellor;

The AcademicCouncil.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201428

(ii)the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, if any;

(iii)the Dean of each Faculty;

(iv)the Rector of each Campus and the Directorof each Institute established under theUniversity;

(v)every Senior Professor and Professor of theUniversity;

(vi)the Registrar of the University;

(vii)the officer designated to be in charge ofexaminations;

(viii)the Director of media and informationservices;

(ix)the Director of the Quality AssuranceCouncil;

(x)the Head of each academic Department ofStudy of the University;

(b)the following elected and appointed members:

(i)such number of Associate Professors andSenior Lecturers not exceeding sevenrepresentatives from each faculty, as may beelected by the permanent teachers of suchFaculty, from among their numbers;

(ii)such number of Lecturers as is equal to thetotal number of Faculties, elected by thefaculty Board to represent each of suchfaculties ; and

(iii)such number of members as is equal to thetotal number of Faculties, appointed by theBoard from among persons who have rendereddistinguished service in educational,professional, commercial, industrial,

29Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

scientific or administrative spheres, asrecommended by the respective FacultyBoards.

(2) Each member elected or appointed under paragraph(b) of subsection (1), shall hold office for a period of twoyears reckoned from the date of his election or appointment,as the case may be.

(3) The quorum for a meeting of the Academic Councilshall be one third of its total membership.

(4) The Academic Council shall meet whenever necessary,provided that, it shall meet not less than ten occasions ineach year.

(5) The Chairman of the Academic Council shall be theVice Chancellor who shall preside at all meetings of theAcademic Council. If the Chairman is unable to preside atany meeting, the Deputy Vice Chancellor, if any shallpreside at such meeting. In the absence of the Deputy ViceChancellor, the members present shall elect a member fromamong those present to preside at such meeting.

25.(1) The Academic Council shall be the academicauthority of the University and subject to the provisions ofthis Act or any appropriate instrument, shall have controland general direction of the standard of instruction,education, research and examinations of the University.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred upon it by subsection (1), the Academic Councilshall exercise, perform and discharge the following powers,duties and functions:

(i)to advise the Board, upon consideration of thereports submitted by any Faculty on the methodsof regulating the courses of study and examinations,and to make recommendations to the Boardregarding such courses of study;

Powers, duties andfunctions of theAcademicCouncil.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201430

(ii)recommend to the Board after considering anyreports submitted by any Faculty or Faculties, thenames of persons suitable to be appointed asexaminers;

(iii)evaluate any request made by a Faculty Board onany proposals relating to the institution, abolitionor suspension of Senior Professorships,Professorships, Associate Professorships, SeniorLecturerships, Lecturerships and AssistantLecturerships in the University, and make itsrecommendations on the same to the QualityAssurance Council;

(iv)recommend to the Board after considering thereports submitted by any Faculty or Faculties

(a)schemes for the re-organization of existingFaculties; and

(b)schemes for the assignment of subjects ofstudy to the respective Faculties;

(v)make recommendations to the Board on mattersrelating to the mode and conditions of competitionto be imposed for the grant of fellowships,scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, medals andother prizes;

(vi)make recommendations to the Board on mattersrelating to the award of fellowships, scholarships,exhibitions, bursaries, medals and other prizes;

(vii)appoint such number of Standing Committees, orad hoc committees or Boards from and out of themembers of the Academic Council as it may deemnecessary, and in particular, the following:

(a)Media and Information Services Committee;

31Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(b)Research and Publication Committee;

(c)Industry-University partnership Committee;

(d)Curriculum Development and EvaluationCommittee;

(e)Leave and Awards Committee; and

(f)Regional Committee;

(viii)specify the terms of reference of the Committeesand Boards appointed under paragraph (vii) and toeither approve the reports submitted by any suchCommittee or Board with or without modification,or to reject such reports;

(ix)refer to the Quality Assurance Council any proposalsmade by a Faculty Board relating to the admissionof students to any courses of study along with itsobservations on the same; and

(x)recommend to the Board, from time to time,regarding the establishment of such Faculties as itmay deem necessary for developing its teaching,research and extension programmes.

26.(1) The Faculty Board of each Faculty of theUniversity shall consist of the following persons:

(a)the Dean of the Faculty;

(b)the Head of each Academic Department of Study;

(c)all Senior Professors, Professors, AssociateProfessors, Senior Lecturers and Lecturers of theFaculty;

The FacultyBoard.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201432

(d)the Director, Quality Assurance Council or hisnominee;

(e)the Director, Media and Information Services or hisnominee;

(f)two members of the permanent staff impartinginstructions in the Faculty, excluding those referredto in paragraph (c), elected by themselves fromamong those in the permanent staff;

(g)two students elected by the students of the Facultyfrom among their numbers:

Provided that, the members elected under thisparagraph shall be excluded from the proceedingsof any meeting of the Faculty Board relating to theelection of the Dean under section 13 of this Actand relating to examinations and connected mattersand any such meeting shall, notwithstanding suchexclusion, be deemed to have been duly held ; and

(h)five persons not being members of the staff of theUniversity, nominated by the Faculty from amongpersons of eminence in areas of study relevant tothe respective Faculty.

(2) The members elected under paragraph (g) ofsubsection (1) shall hold office as a member for a period ofone year and all other elected members shall hold office fora period of three years, reckoned from the date of his election.

(3) The Chairman of the Faculty Board shall be the Deanof the Faculty who shall preside at all meetings of the FacultyBoard. Where the Dean of the Faculty is unable to preside atany such meeting, the members present shall elect a memberpresent other than a member elected under paragraph (g) ofsubsection (1), to preside at such meeting.

33Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(4) The quorum for a meeting of the Faculty Board shallbe one third of its total membership and it shall meetwhenever necessary, provided that it shall meet not less thanten occasions in each year.

27.Subject to the provisions of this Act, a FacultyBoard shall exercise, perform and discharge the followingpowers, duties and functions

(a)to consider and report on any matter referred to itby the Academic Council;

(b)subject to the control of the Academic Council, toregulate matters connected with teaching,examinations and research in the various branchesof oceanography, marine engineering, fisheries andocean science and management, technical andvocational education and training;

(c)to present recommendations and reports to theAcademic Council on all matters connected withthe courses of study and examinations in theFaculty;

(d)to appoint committees which may include personsother than members of the Faculty for the purposeof considering and reporting on any special subjector subjects; and

(e)recommend to the Academic Council names ofpersons suitable to be appointed as examiners.

PART VI

CAMPUSES

28.The Board may by an Order (hereinafter referred toas the Campus Order)

(a)establish a Campus of the University;

Powers duties andfunctions of theFaculty Board.

Establishment ofCampuses.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201434

(b)assign a name and style to such Campus;

(c)specify the location or site of such Campus;

(d)assign a Faculty or Faculties to such Campus; and

(e)specify the Department of Study comprising suchFaculty or Faculties.

29.(1) The Rector of a Campus shall be appointed bythe Vice-Chancellor. He shall unless he vacates office earlierhold office for a period of three years reckoned from the dateof his appointment and shall unless removed from office beeligible for re-appointment for a further period of three yearsimmediately succeeding the aforesaid period.

(2) If the Rector by reason of leave, illness, absence fromSri Lanka or other cause, is temporarily unable to performthe duties of his office, the Vice-Chancellor shall withinseven days of the occurrence of such inability make sucharrangements as he may think fit for carrying on the dutiesof the office. Until such arrangements are made the Registrarshall carry on the routine duties of the office of the Rector.

(3) The Rector shall be a full time officer of the Campusand shall be the academic and administrative Head of theCampus.

(4) The Rector shall be the Chairman of the Campus.

30.(1) A Campus shall have a Board, (hereinafterreferred to as the Campus Board), the composition of whichshall be prescribed by Ordinance.

(2) The Campus Board shall be responsible

(a)for the internal administration of the Campus;

(b)for making arrangements for the general wellbeingof and the provision of amenities for personsattached to the Campus; and

The Rector of aCampus.

The CampusBoard.

35Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(c)for the performance of any other duty as may beprescribed by Statute.

(3) The Campus Board may with the approval of the Boardof Governors of the University make Rules in repect of allmatters relating or incidental to or connected with theinternal administration of the Campus.

PART VII

CONVOCATION OF THE UNIVERSITY

31.(1) The University shall for the purpose of conferringdegrees, hold a convocation once in every year on such dateor dates as may be approved by the Chancellor:

Provided that, the University may hold a SpecialConvocation at any other time, as the Chancellor maydetermine.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), firstdegrees may be conferred without the holding of theconvocation.

(3) The procedure for the holding of a Convocation shallbe prescribed by by-laws.

(4) The President shall when present preside atConvocation. In the absence of the President, the Chancellorshall preside at such Convocation and in the absence ofboth the President and the Chancellor, the Vice Chancellorshall preside at such Conversation.

PART VIII

STAFF OF THE UNIVERSITY

32.Every appointment to the staff of the Universityshall be made by the Board in accordance with such schemesof recruitment and procedures as prescribed by Ordinancefor the same.

Holding of theConvocation ofthe University.

Board to appointstaff of theUniversity.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201436

33.The qualifications of all teachers of the Universityshall be determined by the Board in consultation with theQuality Assurance Council while qualifications of all non-academic staff shall be determined by the Board inconsultation where it considers necessary with the QualityAssurance Council.

34.(1) It shall be the duty of each Faculty Board tomake written proposals to the Academic Council relating tothe institution, abolition and suspension of posts of teachersrequired for such Faculty. The Academic Council shallconsider and evaluate such proposals and thereafter makeits recommendations to the relevant Faculty Board.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Registrar of the Universityto make recommendations to the Board relating to theinstitution, abolition and suspension of all non-academicposts in the University.

(3) The Faculty Board may where it considers itappropriate prior to the institution, abolition or suspensionof any post of a teacher or of any non-academic post in theUniversity obtain the advice of the Quality AssuranceCouncil regarding the same.

35.(1) Every appointment to a post of a teacher shall inthe first instance be for a probationary period of three years,which period may be extended by the Board for a period ofone year at a time, so however the extension shall not in theaggregate exceed a period of three years. At the end of theprobationary period, the appointment may be confirmed inaccordance with the requirements or conditions as toconfirmation provided for in the appropriate schemes ofrecruitments as prescribed by Ordinance.

(2) Every appointment to a non-academic post shall in thefirst instance be for a probationary period of three years andsuch appointment may thereafter be confirmed in accordancewith the confirmation criteria as prescribed by Ordinance.

Institution, abolitionand suspension ofposts in the staff ofthe University.

Determination ofqualifications ofstaff of theUniversity.

Probationaryperiods andconfirmation.

37Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

36.(1) A person holding the post of a teacher shall if hehas been confirmed in his post, hold such post until he hascompleted sixty years. If the sixtieth year ends before theend of the academic year, he may continue till the end ofsuch academic year and shall thereafter be deemed to haveretired from service:

Provided that, the holder of such post may at any timepending an inquiry by the Board be suspended formisconduct, inefficiency or dereliction of duty and may bedismissed or compulsorily retired if found guilty after suchinquiry on a resolution adopted by such Board.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), ateacher who has reached sixty years of age and who in theopinion of the Board is competent to continue to hold suchpost may be recruited on contract basis to serve as a teacherfor a maximum period of five years so however such periodshall not exceed one year at a time. The period of servicehowever may be extended further by one year each at a time,until he completes sixty-five years of age.

(3) Public Adminstration Circulars relating to the age ofretirement of public officers shall be applicable in regard tothe age of retirement of those holding any non-academicpost in the University:

Provided that, the holder of any such post may at anytime pending an inquiry by the Board be suspended formisconduct, inefficiency or dereliction of duty and may bedismissed or compulsorily retired if found guilty after suchinquiry on a resolution adopted by the Board.

(4) Where before completing the probationary periodreferred to in section 35, a person holding

(a)the post of a teacher reaches the age of sixty years;or

Retirement ofteachers andpersons holding anon-academicpost.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201438

(b)a non-academic post reaches the age of retirementspecified in the Public Adminstration Circularreferred to in subsection (3),

such person shall be deemed to have retired from servicefrom the date on which he reached that age.

(5) Every holder of a post in the University who isdismissed or is compulsorily retired from his post or isotherwise punished for misconduct, inefficiency ordereliction of duty may appeal against such dismissal orretirement or other punishment to the University AppealsBoard.

37.(1) At the requset of the Board, an officer in thepublic service may with the consent of that officer, theSecretary to the Ministry by or unedr which that officer isemployed, the Secretary of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration and the Public ServiceCommission, be temporarily appointed to the post of ateacher of the University for such period as may bedetermined by the Board or with like consent be permanentlyappointed as a teacher.

(2) The provisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of theNational Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shallmutatis mutandis apply to and in relation to any officer inthe public service who is temporarily appointed to the postof a teacher of the University and the provisions of subsection(3) of section 14 of that Act shall mutatis mutandis apply toand in relation to any officer in the public service who ispermanently appointed to the post of a teacher of theUniversity.

(3) Where the University employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which hehas agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,any period of service to the University by that person shallbe regarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

Appointment ofpublic officers tothe staff of theUniversity.

39Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

38.At the request of the Board any teacher in theservice of any Higher Educational Institution establishedunder the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, may with theconsent of such teacher, the University Grants Commissionand the governing authority of that institution, betemporarily appointed to the post of a teacher of theUniversity. Such appointment shall be for such period asmay be determined by the Board or with like consent bepermanently appointed to such post on such terms andconditions as may be agreed upon by the Board and suchHigher Educational Institution. Such teacher shall be subjectto the same disicplinary control as any other teacher in thestaff of the University.

PART IX

UNIVERSITY APPEALS BOARD

39.(1) The Minister shall, from time to time, appointfrom among persons who have knowledge and experiencein the fields of oceanography, marine engineering, fisheriesand ocean science, management, academic administration,financial management and legal or other relevent servicesectors, a Panel of Inquiry and Investigation consisting ofnot less than nine persons.

(2) A person appointed as a member of the Panel of Inquiryand Investigation shall hold office for a period of five yearsfrom the date of appointment and unless removed from officeshall be eligible for re-appointment.

(3) A member of the Panel of Inquiry and Investigationmay resign from his office by writing addressed to theMinister.

40.(1) Where

(a)any appeal is made by any member of the staff ofthe University against an appointment, promotion,dismissal, suspension, disciplinary action takenagainst him or in respect of any salary anomaly;or

Appointment ofteachers of HigherEducationalInstitutions to thestaff of theUniversity.

Appointment ofthe Panel ofInquiry andInvestigation.

Constitution of theUniversity AppealsBoard.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201440

(b)any investigaion is required to be made into anymatter pertaining to the functions of the University,

the Board shall constitute a University Appeals Boardconsisting of three members, selected from and out of thepersons appointed to the Panel of Inquiry and Investigationby the Minister under section 39 to inquire into such appealor to conduct such investigation, as the case may be.

(2) The members of the University Appeals Board shallelect from among themselves one of its members to be theChairman of such Board.

(3) There shall be a Secretary to the University AppealsBoard appointed by the Chairman of such Appeals Board.

(4) The procedure for the conduct of the proceedings of aUniversity Appeals Board shall be determined by the Boardby rules made in that behalf.

(5) At the conclusion of an inquiry into an appeal or theconduct of the investigation, as the case may be, it shall bethe duty of the Chairman of the University Appeals Board toconvey to the Board, its decision and the reasons thereforalong with a report on such appeal or investigation. Further,a copy of the decision and the reasons therefor shall also besent through registered post to the person who preferred theappeal, within one week from the date of such decision.

(6) The members of the University Appeals Board shallin respect of each appeal inquired into or investigationconducted by them, be paid such allowance as the Ministershall determine in consultation with the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance.

41.A person aggrieved by the decision of the UniversityAppeals Board in respect of any appeal made underparagraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 40 may appealagainst such decision to the Court of Appeal within fourteendays from the date on which the decision and the reasonstherefor were sent to that person by registered post undersubsection (5) of section 40.

Appeals from thedecision of aUniversity AppealsBoard.

41Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

42.(1) Any expense incurred by the University AppealsBoard in any suit or prosecution brought by or against suchUniversity Appeals Board before any court shall be paid outof the University Fund, and any costs paid to or recoveredby a University Appeals Board in any such suit orprosecution shall be credited to that Fund.

(2) Any expense incurred by a member of a UniversityAppeals Board in any suit or prosecution brought againsthim before any court in respect of any act which is done orpurported to be done by him under this Act or anyappropriate instrument shall, if the court holds that such actwas done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of theUniversity unless such expense is recovered by him in suchsuit or prosecution.

PART X

FINANCE

43.(1) The University shall have its own Fund intowhich shall be credited

(a)all moneys voted for its use by Parliament;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theUniversity by way of donations or grants from anysource whatsoever;

(c)fees paid to the University in accordance with theprovisions of any by-laws; and

(d)any other payments required to be made to theUniversity in accordance with any rule or regulationmade under this Act.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Universityall such sums of money as are required to defray allexpenditure incurred by the University in the exercise of itspowers under this Act.

Expenses incurredin any suit orprosecution to bepaid out of theFund.

The UniversityFund.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201442

44.The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury shall as soonas may be practicable after the commencement of eachfinancial year, pay to the University such sums of money asmay be provided for by Parliament by way of annualappropriation, supplementary vote or otherwise as a grant inaid of the University.

45.The budget estimates and the annual financialappropriations of the University prepared with the assistanceof the Director, Finance under paragraph (d) of section 46,shall be considered by the Board before such date as may beprescribed by by-law. The Board may make such alterationsin such estimates and financial appropriations as it thinksfit, and shall submit them to the Minister together with theaccounts of the University for the completed financial yearand the Minister may where he considers it necessary amendany such estimates and financial appropriations.

46.It shall be the duty of the Director, Finance of theUniversity to

(a)keep the accounts of the University in such formand in such manner as may be prescribed by rules;

(b)receive all moneys paid into the Fund of theUniversity and to credit such moneys to the properheads of accounts;

(c)make all payments in accordance with theapplicable laws, Financial Regulations andCirculars;

(d)assist the Board in the preparation of budgetestimates and the annual financial appropriationsof the University; and

(e)prepare where necessary any supplementaryestimates under section 50.

Grants in aid ofthe University.

Board to considerbudget estimatesand annualfinancialappropriations.

Duties of theDirector, Finance.

43Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

47. The income derived to the University from grantsmade for specific purposes or from endowments for specificobjects shall be separately accounted for in the accounts ofthe University and no payment shall be made from suchincome for the general purposes of the University or for anypurposes or objects other than those for which such grants orendowments were made.

48. The Board shall by resolution adopt the budgetestimates, annual financial appropriations and annualaccounts of the University prior to the transmission of thesame to the Minister under section 53.

49. It shall be lawful for the Board in case of necessity,to transfer funds from one vote to another of the annualestimates subject to the approval in writing of the Treasury.

50. (1) In case of necessity and in order to meet anyunforeseen expenditure, it shall be lawful at any time forDirector, Finance, to prepare supplementary estimates ofexpenditure.

(2) Financial liability of a recurrent nature arising undersubsection (1) shall not be incurred without the prior approvalof the Minister given with the concurrence of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance.

(3) The supplementary estimates prepared undersubsection (1) shall be submitted to the Board for its adoptionand once adopted shall be made available to the Ministertogether with the annual appropriation for the succeedingyear.

51. (1) The financial year of the University shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to and in respect of the audit of accounts of theUniversity.

income fromgrants for specificpurposes to beseparatelyaccounted for.

The Board toadopt budgetestimates andannual financialappropriations.

Transfer of fundsfrom one vote toanother.

Supplementaryestimates.

Financial year andaudit of accounts.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201444

52.The audited accounts of the University for eachfinancial year, shall be published in the Gazette.

53.(1) The University shall within three months of thereceipt of the Auditor-Generals report in respect of eachfinancial year, transmit to the Minister such report with anycomments made thereon by the Board together with thestatement of accounts to which such report relates.

(2) The Minister shall cause copies of all the documentstransmitted to him under subsection (1) to be tabled inParliament before the end of the year next succeeding theyear to which such accounts and report relate. The ViceChancellor of the University shall attend and answer anyquestions arising therefrom before the Public AccountsCommittee of Parliament.

PART XI

STUDENTS ASSEMBLY AND OTHER ASSOCIATIONS

54.(1) The University shall have a Students Assemblyconsisting of student representatives elected from amongpersons who are for the time being students of the University.

(2) Every election to the Students Assembly shall beconducted by secret ballot at the commencement of eachacademic year by such person or persons as may benominated by the Vice Chancellor.

(3) The term of office of the members of the StudentsAssembly shall expire at the end of the academic year inwhich the Students Assembly was elected.

55.(1) The Board may recognize any society or otherassociation of students established for the sole purpose offurthering academic or social objectives and which will carryon such activities or functions as may be specified by theBoard by by-laws made in that behalf.

Publications ofaudited accounts.

Annual accountsand Auditor-Generals reportto be transmittedto Minister.

StudentsAssembly.

Recognition ofcertain Societiesand otherAssociations.

45Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(2) The membership of any society or other associationestablished under subsection (1) shall consist entirely ofstudents of the University.

(3) Subject to the provisions of section 54, the Boardmay specify by by-law, the mode of registration of societiesand other associations recognized under subsection (1), theirfunctions, the mode of conducting elections for theappointment of their office-bearers and the duties andfunctions of such office-bearers.

56. The Board may, from time to time, allocate to theStudents Assembly or to any society or other associationrecognized under section 55, such sums of money as may bedeemed necessary by the Board for approved activities.

57. The Board shall by Ordinance prescribe

(a)the duties and functions of the Students Assembly;

(b)the office bearers of the Students Assembly and thenumber of student representatives constituting theStudents Assembly and their mode of election;

(c)the duties and functions of the office bearers of theStudents Assembly;

(d)the Standing Committee or Committees which aStudents Assembly may appoint and the duties andfunctions of such Committee;

(e)the purpose for which the funds allocated to theStudents Assembly and to any society or otherassociation recognized by the Board under section55 shall be utilized; and

(f)the form and the manner in which the accounts ofthe Students Assembly and any society or otherassociation shall be maintained and audited.

Board to allocatemoney to StudentsAssembly etc, forapproved activity.

Board to prescribeconstitution,duties andfunctions ofStudentsAssembly.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201446

58.Where the Students Assembly or any society or otherassociation conducts itself in a manner which in the opinionof the Vice Chancellor is detrimental or prejudicial to thegood name of the University or acts in contravention of anyprovision of this Act or any appropriate Instrument, the ViceChancellor may suspend or dissolve such Students Assembly,society or other association, as the case may be.

PART XII

GENERAL PROVISIONS

59.A person shall be disqualified from being appointedto or continuing as a member of any Authority of theUniversity or as an officer of the University, if such person

(a)is an un-discharged bankrupt or insolvent;

(b)is convicted of any offence involving moralturpitude;

(c)is found or declared to be of unsound mind underany law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country;

(d)is directly or indirectly by himself or by any personon his behalf or for his use or benefit holds or enjoysany right or benefit under any contract, other thanhis contract of employment, made by or on behalfof the University;

(e)is or becomes, a Member of Parliament, a memberof a Provincial Council or a member of any localauthority;

(f)is removed from the membership of any Authorityor from any office of the University, for misconduct;

(g)is found to be unfit to continue to be a member ofan Authority or continue to hold office of the

Suspension ordissolution ofstudentsAssembly, societyor otherassociation.

Disqualificationfrom beingmembers of anyAuthority of theUniversity.

47Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

University, by reason of ill health or physical ormental infirmity;

(h)is found guilty of misconduct or corruption; or

(i)is found guilty of gross abuse of power of his office.

60.All officers and members of the staff of the Universityshall be deemed to be public servants within the meaningand for the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

61.The University shall be deemed to be a Scheduledinstitution within the meaning and for the purposes of theBribery Act, and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

62.(1) Where the presence of any person within theUniversity, other than of any officer, member of the staff or astudent of the University is, in the opinion of the ViceChancellor not conducive to the welfare of the University orits students, the Vice Chancellor may with the consent ofthe Board after giving such person an opportunity of beingheard, serve on such person by writing under his hand, anotice prohibiting such person from entering or remainingwithin the precincts of the University or within such partthereof as may be specified in such notice. Such prohibitionshall remain in force until revoked by the Board.

(2) A certificate under the hand of the Vice Chancellor tothe effect that any person named in the certificate has beenprohibited in accordance with the provisions of subsection(1) from entering or remaining in the precincts of theUniversity or any part thereof, shall be admissible as evidenceand shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated in suchCertificate.

Prohibition onundesirablepersons fromentering precincts.

Universitydeemed to be aScheduledinstitution withinthe meaning ofthe Bribery Act.

Officers andservants of theUniversitydeemed to bepublic servantsunder the PenalCode.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201448

(3) Any person who is prohibited under the provisions ofsubsection (1) from entering or remaining within theUniversity precincts or part thereof and who withoutreasonable cause, enters or remains within such precincts orpart thereof in contravention of such prohibition, shall beguilty of an offence and shall on conviction after summarytrial by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine of one thousandrupees or to an imprisonment for a period not exceedingthree years in respect of each day or part thereof on which hehas entered or during which he has remained, within suchprecincts or part thereof.

(4) An offence under subsection (3) shall be a congnizableand a bailable offence within the meaning and for the purposeof the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

63.(1) The Board may subject to the provisions of thisAct, make Statutes in respect of all or any of the followingmatters:

(a)where unless otherwise provided for, the manner offilling of vacancies in and the convening of anyAuthority of the University;

(b)the determination of the degrees and other academicdistinctions to be conferred;

(c)the criteria applicable for the conferment ofhonorary degrees or other distinctions;

(d)the institution and award of fellowships,scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, medals andother prizes for which funds or property may in anymanner whatsoever be provided; and

(e)all matters for which under the provisions of thisAct, Statutes are authorized or required to be made.

(2) Every Statute made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into force on thedate of such publication or on such other date as may bespecified therein.

Statutes.

49Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

64.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, by-lawsmay be made by the Board in respect of all or any of thefollowing matters:

(a)the courses of study approved by the Board for thegrant of degrees, diplomas and other academicdistinctions;

(b)the conditions subject to which students shall beadmitted to courses of study and examinationsprescribed for degrees, diplomas and other academicdistinctions;

(c)the fees to be charged for courses of study,examinations and award of degrees and otheracademic distinctions;

(d)all matters connected with the election ofrepresentatives to various authorities and otherbodies of the University;

(e)the conditions and mode of appointment ofexaminers, their duties, the fees to be paid to themand the conduct of and maintenance of standards atexaminations; and

(f)all matters for which under the provisions of thisAct, by-laws are authorized or required to be made.

(2) A by-law in respect of any matter relating to orconnected with teaching and the examinations of theUniversity shall not be made by the Board, until a draft ofsuch by-law has first been prepared and submitted to theBoard by the Academic Council.

(3) Every by-law made by the Board shall come into forceon such date as shall be specified therein.

By-Laws.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201450

65.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, anyAuthority of the University may make rules in respect of allmatters

(a)for which rules are required to be made under theprovisions of this Act; and

(b)required to be provided for in order to enable suchAuthority to carry on its duties and functions underthis Act.

(2) Rules made by an Authority of the University undersubsection (1), shall come into force on such date as shall bespecified therein.

66. The provisions of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978,shall not apply to or in respect of the University establishedby this Act.

PART XIII

INTERPRETATION

67. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Academic Council means the apex academicbody of the University;

appropriate Instrument means any Ordinance,Statute, by-law, regulation or rule made inaccordance with the provisions of this Act;

Authority means any Authority specified insection 18 of this Act;

by-law means a by-law made by the Board undersection 64 of this Act;

degree means both undergraduate andpostgraduate degrees awarded by theUniversity;

Provisions of theUniversities Act,No. 16 of 1978not to apply.

Interpretation.

Rules.

51Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

Governing Body means the overalladministrative body of the University;

Minister means the Minister to whom the subjectof Skills Development is assigned ;

non-academic staff means all the members of thestaff other than the teaching staff of theUniversity;

Ordinance means any Ordinance made by theBoard under section 21 of this Act;

rule means any rule made by any Authority ofthe University under section 65 of this Act;

Statute means any Statute made by the Boardunder section 63 of this Act; and

teaching staff includes a Senior Professor,Professor, Librarian, Associate Professor,Senior Lecturer, Senior Assistant Librarian,Lecturer and an Assistant Librarian;

68.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

69.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrarycontained in any other provisions of this Act, pending theestablishment and organization of the Faculties, theconstitution of the several Authorities and the appointmentof the officers and other staff of the University under thisAct, the President shall in consultation with the Minister towhom the subject of Skills Development is assigned, appointan Interim Committee consisting of

(a)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister towhom the subject of Skills Development isassigned ;

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Special Provisionspending theestablishment ofthe University.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201452

(b)the Chairman of the National Institute of Fisheriesand Nautical Engineering established by theNational Institute of Fisheries and NauticalEngineering Act, No. 36 of 1999 ;

(c)the Director-General of the National Institute ofFisheries and Nautical Engineering established bythe National Institute of Fisheries and NauticalEngineering Act, No. 36 of 1999.

(2) The Interim Committee appointed under subsection(1) shall subject to the provisions of subsection (4), functionfor a period of three months commencing from the appointeddate and shall be responsible for taking all such measuresand making arrangements as may be necessary to enable theUniversity to commence its activities under this Act.

(3) The Interim Committee, in the discharge of itsfunctions under subsection (2), shall have the power to

(a)allocate to the University, the staff, students,equipment, land, buildings and other facilities andto determine the structure and composition of eachFaculty and any other Institution and the disciplinesand subjects that are to be assigned to such Facultiesor Institutions, as the case may be ; and

(b)exercise the powers of the Board and of any otherAuthority of the University, in respect of any matterconcerning the University and the appointment ofany person or persons, inclusive of officers requiredto be appointed under this Act, for the purpose oforganizing, carrying out and directing thefunctioning of the University during such period.

(4) The period of three months referred to in subsection(2) may be extended by the Minister on the recommendationof the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom thesubject of Skills Development is assigned for a period not

53Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

exceeding a further three months, by Notification publishedin the Gazette. The Notification shall be brought before theParliament for its approval within one month of the date ofits publication in the Gazette. A Notification not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof disapproval but without prejudice to the validity ofanything previously done thereunder.

(5) The date on which any Notification shall be deemedto be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

70.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the NationalInstitute of Fisheries and Nautical Engineering Act, No. 36of 1999 the officers and servants of the National Institute ofFisheries and Nautical Engineering established under theNational Institute of Fisheries and Nautical Engineering Act,No. 36 of 1999 (in this section referred to as the Institute)and who are the staff of that Institute as on the appointeddate, shall, prior to the expiry of a period of two months fromthe appointed date, by a written communication addressedto the First Vice Chancellor of the University inform suchVice Chancellor, whether such officer or servant would orwould not accept employment in the University or in theNational Institute of Fisheries and Maritime Trainingestablished under paragraph (h) of section 5, as the case maybe, in the event of being offered employment therein.

(2) All officers and servants of the Institute who are offeredemployment in the University by the First Vice Chancellorand who express a desire to accept such employment, shallbecome members of the staff of the University or the NationalInstitute of Fisheries and Maritime Training establishedunder paragraph (h) of section 5, as the case may be, from thedate specified in the Order made under subsection (1) ofsection 71. Such officers and servants shall be employed onterms not less favourable than their terms of employment inthe Institute and the period of service rendered by them, tothe Institute shall be regarded as a service rendered by themto the University.

Officers andservants of theNational Instituteof Fisheries andNauticalEngineering to beofferedemployment inthe University.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201454

(3) Where any officer or servant of the Institute expressesa desire not to accept employment in the University or theNational Institute of Fisheries and Maritime Trainingestablished under paragraph (h) of section 5, as the case maybe, such officer or servant shall be deemed to have retiredfrom service form the date specified in the Order made undersubsection (1) of section 71, and shall be eligible for theretirement benefits that such officer or servant would havebeen entitled to, if he retired from service in the Instituteafter reaching his age of retirement.

71.(1) The National Institute of Fisheries and NauticalEngineering Act, No. 36 of 1999 shall stand repealed fromsuch date as the Minister shall specify by Order published inthe Gazette, provided the date to be so specified shall be adate after three months but within six months of theappointed date.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforementioned Act,from and after the date specified in the Order made undersubsection (1) of this section-

(a)all movable and immovable property of the NationalInstitute of Fisheries and Nautical Engineeringshall, from the date specified in the Order madeunder subsection (1), vest in the University;

(b)all contracts and agreements entered into by or withthe National Institute of Fisheries and NauticalEngineering and subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the date specified in the Order madeunder subsection (1), shall be deemed to be contractsand agreements entered into, by or with theUniversity;

(c)all sums of money lying to the credit of the Fund ofthe National Institute of Fisheries and NauticalEngineering on the day immediately preceding thedate specified in the Order made under subsection

Repeal of theNational Institute ofFisheries andNauticalEngineering Act,No. 36 of 1999.

55Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 2014

(1), shall stand transferred with effect from that date,to the Fund established by section 43 of this Act;and

(d)all liabilities of the National Institute of Fisheriesand Nautical Engineering existing on the dayimmediately preceding the date specified in theOrder made under subsection (1), shall be deemedto be the liabilities of the University.

Ocean University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 31 of 201456

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.