‘ PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
3rd Session 1958-59
Be,
fo MF
& f
ABIL,
(| 3)
National Housing (Amendment)
Act, No. 42 of 1958
Date of Assent: November 3, 1958
i
Printed on the Orders of Government
Printed at, he Govern eats Gonsas, CoLonne i
‘Annual Subserition  Cneluting BUS) RE, 2 pn oat :
Bowas, Bost Orrice “Box 560, Secretariat, Colombo t ‘
Price: 25 cents, Postage: 10 cents. !


1 National Housing (Amendment) Act, By
No. 42 of 1958
L. D0. 29/87.
AN Acr 10 AMEND TRE NarronaL Housine
Act, No. 37 or 1954.
(Date of Assent: November 3, 1958]
“BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —
‘4. This Act may be cited as the National Housing shor title
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1958. .

2. The following new sections are hereby inserted toserton of
immediately after section 45, and shall have effect as ye setious
sections 45a, 458 and 45c of the National Housing  {g0'ia aa
Act, No. 37 of 1954, hereafter in this Act referred to No. 87 of 1964.
as the principal Act:—

‘Eemnistion of 45a, (1) No property which is security
fqueri for aloan granted from the National
asin ctewme Housing Fund shall, where the construe-
alienation of tion of the building or buildings for the
funy fe, * construction of which the loan was
from fhe granted is not completed, be sold, gifted,
Hiwatt! puna, leased or otherwise alienated except with
the written permission of the Commis-
sioner and in accordance with such
conditions as he may impose.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in any other written law, any
disposition of any Broperty to which sub-
section (1) applies shall, if it is in contra-
vention of that sub-section, be invalid. ,

ae 458. Notwithstanding anything to the!
fearty fora contrary in any other written law, nol
Nuolst? % property which is security for a loan,
Housing granted from the National Housing Fund!
imino tebe shall, where the construction of the,
in eieution building or buildings for the construc!
siaieee tion of which the loan was granted is not
in fakour of completed, be seized or sold in execution|
ke Commis. of a decree of any Court other than a!
i decree in favour of the Commissioner. |
bys Ardy 45c. No property which is security for,
Matonad a loan granted from the National
Hossig Housing Fund shall be sold, gifted,
eo be leased or otherwise alienated to any
“floated to. person who is not a citizen of Ceylon. *.
Sie
| ax anos-s064 88)


» # National Housing (Amendment) Act,
No. 42 of 1958 y
Ammsdossi.of 8, Section 48 of the principal Act, as amended by’
section 48 ofthe Act No. 30 of 1955, is hereby further amended by the)
substitution, for the word ‘ Commissioner. ””, of the:
words ‘ Commissioner, whether the loan or each loan
. was granted before, on or after the date of the
publication of such Order in the Gazette.” 18,
tmdnectot The title of Part VIII of the principal Act is
"Win", hereby amended by the substitution, for the word
Repdaceel "OBJECTS ", of the words ““ OBJECTS AND OF
= CERTAIN PREMISES ”.
Tourn, ot 5. The following new section is hereby inserted
yer ele? immediately after section 49, and shall have effect: as
Princpal Act. section 49a, of the principal Act: — i
“Arguisiionst 49a. (1) The Minister may, by
cen prem* notification published in the Gazette,
‘equusten Act. declare that it is necessary to acquire for
the purposes of this section the premises
referred to in any of the following
cases:—— *
(a) where any premises consist of a
land on which @ building or
only part of a building has
been constructed and’ the
owner of those premises
voluntarily consents in
writing to the acquisition of
those premises by the Crown;
(0) where any premises consist of
land ‘Which belongs. t al
estate and on which there is a
building constructed _ and
occupied by a lessee of thet
land; for the purposes of this
paragraph, “‘ estate ’? means
any land or group of lands
which is wholly or partly
cultivated and which is not
Jess than twenty acres in
extent and form a separate
and distinct property:
(0) where any premises! consist of
land on which there is
building and those premises
have been sold in execution of:
a mortgage decree while the,
mortgagor was residing it
those premises;


Natiohal Housing (Amendment) Act, 5
No. 42 of 1958
where any premises consist of a

@ wetind on which & building or
only part of a building has
been donstructed and which is
mortgaged as seourity for a
Toan granted from | the
National Housing Fund and
the mortgagor "has. not
complied with any condition
or covenant set out in the
mortgage bond;

(e) where any premises consist of a
Tandon which there is a
building for the construction
of which a loan from the
National Housing Fund has
been granted and such loan or
any part thereof has not been
repaid by. the borrower and
such building is mainly used
for a punpose which, ia the
opinion of the Minister, is
pot that for which it was
intended, when the loan was
granted,‘tha, such building
Should be used.

@ Where a notification under sub-
section (1) is published in the Gazette,
the premises to which such notification
relates shall, for the purposes of the Laud
‘Acquisition Act, No, 9 of 1950, be
deemed to be land needed for a
public purpose and may be acquired
Inder that Act.

(8) Where any promises refered to in
paragraph (2) of sub-section (1) are
Poquired as provided in sub-section (2),
the Commissioner shall let those premises,
tothe person refered, to ip that
paragraph as the mortgagor of those
premises on such terms as will enable him
fo become the owner thereof after making
a certain number of monthly payments
as rent

(4) Where any premises other than

| those referred to in sub-section (3) are
acquired as provided in sub-section (2),
the Commissioner may let such premises


6 \ National Housing (Amendment) Act,
° No, 42 of 1958
to any person for rent for the purpose of
residence or for a commercial purpose of.
partly for the purpose of residence and:
partly for a commercial purpose, and the:
jetting may be on such terms as will,
enable the tenant to become the owner of ;
such premises after making a certain’
number of monthly payments as rent.’.’
‘aadmestet G1) Section 62J of the principal Act, inserted:
Sissel by Act No. 30 of 1955, is hereby amended as.’
tool follows: —

(@ by the repeal of sub-section (1) of that
section; §

(b) by the renumbering of sub-section (2) of that
section as section 62J;

(©) by the substitution, for the expression “* Any
such mortgage ‘as is referred to in sub-
section (1), of the expression ‘ Any
mortgage of land executed in favour of;
the appropriate authority as security for}
any loan ”’; and !

(d) by the substitution, for the word “ date. ”,
of the words ‘‘date, or in such other
circumstances as may be prescribed. "". |

(2) The following marginal note is hereby
substituted for the marginal note to section 623 of
the principal Act:—

“Covenant in mortgage for increasing rate of
interest. ””. '

overtin, t 7. The following new section is hereby inserted
Gr fate immediately after section 62P, and shall have efldct
Principal Ae. ag section 62PP, of the principal Act:— i
“Aperoniate GPP. The appropriate authority
Ua for'tod” may, at a sale by public auction of any
petrusteegea land mortgaged to him as security Jor
via sed'foa any loan, bid for and purchase that
by public land.” |
Anrotusat « 8, Section 63 of the principal Act, as amended by
te pansipd Act No. 30 of 1955, is hereby further amended, qt
Aa. sub-section (2) of that section, by the substitution, 2
paragraph @ of that sub-section, for the words “‘ in
respect of which’, of the words ‘ which is used
solely for the purpose of residence and in respect of
which ”” :


4
National Housing (Amendment) Act, 7
No. 42 of 1958

9. Section 65 of the principal Act is hereby amenimest of
amended by the substitution, for all the words and fc'or.JS.ef
figures from “issued” to “shall, if it”, of the Act
words “issued by the Commissioner under any
provision of this Act or of any regulation made under
this Act shall, if it”.

40. The following new section is hereby inserted Iosertn of
immediately after section 66, and shall have effect as fthe'priscat”
section 66A, of the principal Act:— ‘et
“ Recovery of 66A. (1) Any person who is liable to
come lable py sey, sum under this Act to the
Commissioner ‘ommissioner may, by written notice,

'y persons ost inform the Commissioner that he desires
Sion ot meh that such sum shall be recovered out of
persons, his remuneration from employment.

(2) Where the Commissioner receives
a notice from any person under sub-
section (1), he, shall if he is of the
opinion that the method of recovery
referred to in that sub-section is a
satisfactory method of recovery, direct
in writing the employer of that person
to deduct and pay to the Commissioner
out of the remuneration payable by that
employer to that person such amount, in
such manner, and at such intervals, as
may be specified in the direction.

(8) Every employer who receives a
direction under sub-section (2) shall
forthwith comply with that direction.

(4) Where any person in respect of
wholn a direction under sub-section (2)
is ih force is about to leave, or leaves,
the employment. of his employer, the
employer shall forthwith—

|(@ if the remuneration due to such
person exceeds the sum liable
to be paid under such direc-
tion to the Commissioner,
deduct that sum from such
remuneration and pay that
sum to the Commissioner;
and

(®) if such remuneration does not
exceed that sum, pay the
amount of such’ remunera-
tion to the Commissioner.


8 National Housing (Amendment) Act,
No. 42 of 1958

(5) Where for any reason an employer
of any person is unable to comply with’
a direction given under sub-section:(9)},
he shall inform the Commissioner forth!
with in writing of his inability to do sq’
and the reason therefor. side

(6) Every employer who deducts’ ‘an:
amount from the remuneration of any
Person by virtue of the preceding provis
sions of this section shall, on written:
request made by such person, issue to
him a certificate to the effect that such
deduction has been made. %

(7) Every employer who contravenes
any of the preceding provisions of this
section shall be guilty of an offence and:
shall, on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine
not exceeding one thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for:
a period not exceeding one year or to
both such fine and such imprisonment.

(8) Where any offence under the
preceding prouzions of this section is
committed by a body of persons, then—,

(a) if the body of persons is a body
corporate, every director and
officer of that body corporate,
and :

(0) if the body of persons is a firm,
every partner of that firm, ~

shall be deemed to be guilty of such
offence: n

Provided that no such director, officer
or partner shall be deemed to be guilty,
of such offence if he proves that such
ofience was committed without his
knowledge or that he exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of
such offence.

(9) No prosecution for an offence
under this section shall be instituted
except by or with the written sanction
of the Commissioner, :


National Housing (Amendment) Act, 9
No. 42 of 1958
(10) Nothing in the preceding provi-
sions of this section shall affect, or be
deemed or construed to affect, the right .
of the Commissioner to recover, in any
other manner or by any other procedure
applicable in that behalf, any sum which
{8 liable to be paid. to him under this
Act and in respect of which he bas given
a direction under sub-section (2). ”.
44. Section 67A of the principal Act, inserted by Amendment of
Act No. 30 of 1955, is hereby amended as follows:— _{get'o8, S74 of
a8.
(1) in sub-section (1) of that section—
(a) by the substitution, for the words
“before entering”, of the words
“‘ before, on, or after entering”;
and
. () in paragraph (a) of that sub-section,
by the addition, at the end of that
paragraph, of the following :—
“ (iv) by the Minister; or
(v) at a meeting of the Cabinet
by the Prime Minister or any
other Minister presiding at
that meeting; or”; and
(2) by the addition, immediately after sub-
section (2) of that section, of the following
new sub-section :—
“« (8) Byery officer or servant who fails
to sign the declaration, or to observe the
pledge, referred to in sub-section (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on
conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceed-
ing five hundred rupees or to imprison-
ment of either description for a period
not exceeding six months or to both such
fine and such imprisonment. ”


10. National Housing (Amendment) Act,
No. 42 of 1958
Validation of 42. Where, before the commencement of this Aci!
FEL" interest im respect of ay loan granted by the Con?
missioner for National Housing under the principal
Act has been charged at a rate different from such of!
the rates determined by the Minister under regulation:
9 of the National Housing (No. 1) Regulations, 19541"
as is applicable to such loan, the interest so charged’
shall, notwithstanding such difference, be deemed’
have been validly charged. "
