PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 12.25Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2005

[Certified on 30th March, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 6 OF 2005

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20051

Short title.

2 PL 000035 5,650 (02/2005)

[Certified on 30th March, 2005]

L. D. O. 57/2004.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005.

2.Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the words as the casemay be- of the words as the case may be,subject to the provisions of section 2A, at thefollowing rates :;

(b)in subparagraph (ii) of that subsection

(1)by the substitution for the words for anytaxable period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2004 of the words for anytaxable period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2004 and ending on orbefore

(a)November 18, 2004 in respect ofgoods specified in the ThirdSchedule ; and

(b)December 31, 2004 in respect ofgoods for which the Third Scheduledoes not apply..

(2)by the substitution for the words at zeroper centum. of the words at zero percentum;;

Amendment ofsection 2 of Act,No. 14 of 2002.

2Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005

(c)by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph (ii) of that subsection of thefollowing new sub-paragraphs :

(iii)for the period commencing onNovember 19, 2004 and ending on orbefore December 31, 2004 and for anytaxable period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2005 at the rate of five percentum (Basic Rate ) (of which taxfraction is 1/21) on the value of suchgoods supplied or imported as referredto in the Third Schedule other than suchgoods chargeable with tax at zero percentum ;

(iv)for any taxable period commencing onor after January 1, 2005 at the rate ofeighteen per centum (Luxury Rate) (ofwhich Tax Fraction is 9/59, on the valueof such goods or services supplied orgoods imported as referred to in theFourth Schedule other than such goodsor services chargeable with tax at zeroper centum ; and

(v)for any taxable period commencing onor after January1, 2005 at the rate offifteen per centum (Standard Rate) (ofwhich the Tax Fraction is 3/23) on thevalue of such goods or services suppliedor goods imported other than in respectof the following :

(a)goods or services chargeable with taxat zero per centum; and

(b)goods or services specified in the ThirdSchedule or the Fourth Schedule of thisAct.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20053

(2)in subsection (2) of that section

(a)in paragraph (a) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words on any tea suppliedby of the words on any tea supplied prior toJanuary 1, 2005 by;

(b)in paragraph (b) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the word supplies. of thewords supplies ;;

(c)by the addition immediately after paragraph(b) of that subsection of the following newparagraphs :

(c) (i) on the supply with the approval ofthe Textile Quota Board establishedby the Textile Quota Board Act, No.33 of 1996, of any goodsmanufactured in Sri Lanka by suchsupplier to be utilized for the purposeof manufacture of garments for exporteither by manufacturers who areregistered with the Textile QuotaBoard or through Export TradingHouses registered with the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka; or

(ii) on the supply of finished garmentsmanufactured in Sri Lanka by suchsupplier with the approval of theTextile Quota Board established bythe Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33of 1996, to be exported throughExport Trading Houses registeredwith the Board of Investment of SriLanka under section 17 of the Boardof Investment of Sri Lanka Law No.4 of 1978,

4Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005

until such time as the activities of such garmentmanufacturers are monitored by the Textile QuotaBoard and the Textile Quota Board furnishes thereconciliation on the disposal of such goods on aquarterly basis as stipulated by the Commissioner-General to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General, that such finished goods are in fact exportedby the recipient of the supplies.

(d)on the supply with the approval of the ExportDevelopment Board, established by the SriLanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of1979 with the concurrence of the Ministry ofthe Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance of any goods manufactured in SriLanka by such suppliers to be utilized for thepurpose of manufacture of goods other thanthe goods referred to in paragraph (c) of thissubsection by manufactures who are registeredwith the Export Development Board asexporters, until such time as the activities ofsuch manufacturers are monitored by theExport Development Board with the approvalof the Ministry of the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Finance and the ExportDevelopment Board, furnishes thereconciliation on the disposal of such goodson a qurterly basis as stipulated by theCommissioner-General to the satisfaction ofthe Commissioner-General, that suchfurnished goods are in fact exported by therecipient of the supplies.

(3)in subsection (3) of that section

(a)in paragraph (e) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words on or before December 31,2002: of the following words on or beforeDecember 31, 2002;; and

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20055

(b)by the addition immediately after paragraph(e) of that subsection of the following newparagraph :

(f)any fabric or accessories imported byany person for the purpose ofmanufacture of garments for export, whohas registered with the Textile QuotaBoard established under the TextileQuota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996, withthe approval of the Textile Quota Boardand under the supervision of theDirector-General of Customs or theBoard of Investment as the case maybe..

3.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 2 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 2A of that enactment :

2A. (1) The Minister may by Order vary therates specified in section 2 insofar as the samerelates to the increasing or reducing of the ratespreviously specified, and to such extent as itrelates to the imposition of Value Added Taxspecified under the aforesaid section.

(2) The Order made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall be in operationimmediately upon the Minister affixing hissignature thereto.

(3) Every such Order shall as soon asconvenient be published in the Gazette.

(4) Every such Order shall as soon asconvenient thereafter be approved by aResolution of Parliament.

(5) Where any such Order is not approvedby Parliament it shall be deemed to be rescindedwith effect from the date of such Resolution..

Insertion of newsection 2A in theprincipalenactment.

Ministermay vary therates byOrder.

6Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005

4.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (d) of that section by the substitutionfor the words August 1, 2002, of the words August 1, 2002but prior to January 1, 2005,.

5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor :

6. The value of goods imported shall be theaggregate of

(a)the value of the goods determined forthe purpose of custom duty increased byfive per centum ; and

(b)the amount of any custom duty payablein respect of such goods with the additionof any surcharge, cess, any Port andAirport Development Levy payableunder the Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002,and any excise duty payable under theExcise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13of 1989 on such goods..

6.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section bythe addition immediately after sub-paragraph (vi), thefollowing new sub-paragraph :

(vii)the provision of services to overseas buyers bya garment buying office registered with theMinistry of Industries under the supervision ofthe Textile Quota Board established under theTextile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996, wherepayment for such service is received in foreigncurrency, through a Bank in Sri Lanka insofaras such services are identified by theCommissioner-General as being servicesessential for facilitating the export of garmentsto such overseas buyers..

Replacement ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment tosection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

The value ofthe goodsimported.

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20057

7.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (6) of that section as follows :

(1)by the re-numbering of that subsection as paragraph(a) of that subsection ;

(2)in the re-numbered paragraph (a) by the substitutionfor the words under this subsection of the wordsunder this paragraph;;

(3)by the addition, immediately after the re-numberedsubsection (6) (a) of that subsection of the followingnew paragraph :

(b)Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (2), though Value Added Tax is deferred,there shall be issued by every registered person, onsupplies made under paragraphs (a) or (c) ofsubsection (2) of section 2, a tax invoice along withthe Value Added Tax component shown asSuspended Value Added Tax . An invoice issuedunder this paragraph shall not be considered as atax invoice for the purposes of this Act..

8.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words before the expiry of the words not later thanthe twentieth day of the month after the expiry of each taxableperiod.

9.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section by the additionimmediately after the second proviso to that subsection ofthe following :

Provided further, that any person who accountsfor the output tax at the rate of five per centum shallnot be entitled to deduct any input tax in relation tosuch supply other than in the case of a motor vehicleused for purposes of transportation of machinery forproduction :

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

8Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005

Provided further, any input tax paid at the rate ofeighteen per centum by any person which isallowable under this Act shall be restricted to fifteenper centum..

10.Section 25C of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (5) of that section as follows :

(1)in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (g) of thatsubsection, by the substitution for the words andfigures on or after January 1, 2004 of the wordsand figures on or after January 1, 2004 and endingprior to January 1, 2005;

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (g)thereof of the following new paragraph :

(gg)for the taxable period commencing on orafter January 1, 2005, the profits or incomearising to any person from the sale ofcompany shares owned by such person orto any person who is instrumental in thepurchase and sale of such shares by otherpersons, other than such profits and incomearising to any specified institution withinthe meaning of this Chapter or a personnot registered with the Central Bank ofSri Lanka, but providing services similarto such services provided by a financecompany ;.

11. Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words fifteenth day of the month of the wordstwentieth day of the month.

Amendment ofsection 25C ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20059

12.Section 76 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :

(1)in the second proviso to that subsection by thesubstitution for the words wholly and exhaustivelyin making exempt supplies,of the words whollyand exclusively in making exempt supplies,;

(2)by the substitution for the words taxable supplies.of the following :

taxable supplies :

Provided further that where any goods or servicesthat are acquired have been used in making a taxablesupply and any input tax has been claimed andallowed, then any portion of such input tax allowed,which is attributable to an exempt supply at thepoint if any, if such supply subsequently becomesan exempt supply, except in the case of providingleasing facilities for three wheelers, thennotwithstanding the provisions of section 22, bedisallowed within the taxable period in which suchtaxable supply becomes an exempt supply..

13.The First Schedule of the principal enactment ishereby amended in Part II thereof as follows :

(1)in item (i), of Part II (a), by the substitution for thewords fresh coconut, green leaf, of the words freshcoconut, tea including green leaf,;

(2)in item (iv), of Part II (a), by the substitution for thewords aircrafts, helicopters, pearls, diamonds,natural or synthetic, precious or semi precious stones,diamond powder, precious metal, metals clad withprecious metals, gold coins and of the wordsaircrafts, helicopters and;

(3)in item (x), of Part II (a), by the substitution for thewords and figures (effective from 01.07.2004).ofthe words and figures (effective from01.07.2004);;

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 76 of theprincipalenactment.

10Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005

(4)by the addition immediately after item (x) of Part II(a), of the following new item :

(xi)agricultural seeds, agricultural plants, shrimpfeed inclusive of prawn feed and animal feedbut excluding poultry feed;

(5)in item (ii) of Part II (b), by the substitution for thewords and figures prior to January 1, 2004; of thewords and figures prior to January 1, 2004 and theprovision of leasing facilities for three wheelers onany lease rental payable on the leasing facility forthree wheelers on or after January 1, 2005;;

(6)in item (iii) of Part II (b), by the substitution for thewords and figures (Chapter 2005) per month; ofthe words and figures (Chapter 2005) per monthand electricity through alternate energy projectsother than energy through hydro-power or thermalpower;;

(7)by the addition immediately after item (viii) of PartII (c), of the following new items:

(ix)goods to any project approved by theCommissioner-General, as having a capitalinvestment of not less than rupees onehundred million which are considered asproject related capital goods, other than thegoods in the negative list published by theSecretary to the Treasury, during the projectimplementation period which shall notexceed three years from the commencementof the project, provided that such projectmakes taxable supplies upon the completionof the project (effective from 1.1.2005);

(x)samples of garments for business purposesby any garment buying office in Sri Lankaregistered with the Textile Quota Boardestablished under the Textile Quota BoardAct, No. 33 of 1996, so long as such item isnot sold;;

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 200511

(8)by the addition immediately after Part II (d) of thefollowing :

(e)the supply of locally manufactured goods toduty free shops for payment in foreigncurrency..

14.The following new Schedules are hereby insertedimmediately after the Second Schedule of the principalenactment and shall have effect as the Third Schedule andthe Fourth Schedule of that enactment :

THIRD SCHEDULE(Section 2)

BASIC RATE

The supply or import of

(i)sugar;

(ii)dhal;

(iii)potatoes;

(iv)onions;

(v)dried fish;

(vi)milk powder other than infant milk powder;

(vii)chillies.

The import or supply of goods referred to in items (i) and(ii) of this Scheldule shall be deemed for all purposes to havebeen exempt from Value Added Tax from October 1, 2004 toNovember 18, 2004.

Insertion of anew ThirdSchedule andFourth Schedulein the principalenactment.

12Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005

FOURTH SCHEDULE(Section 2)

LUXURY RATE

(a) The supply and import of

(i)air conditioning machines;(ii)refrigerators;(iii)dishwashing machines;(iv)washing machines;(v)vacuum cleaners/floor polishers;(vi)kitchen waste disposers;(vii)food grinders and mixers;(viii)ovens and cookers;(ix)hair dryers/hair dressing equipment;(x)video player (VCD, DVD);(xi)cameras;(xii)radio, casette and Music systems;

(xiii)television;(xiv)motor vehicles, other than motor cycles,bicycles, three wheelers and passenger transportbuses, lorries, trucks and any other vehicle usedfor the transport of goods ;(xv)watches/clocks;(xvi)musical instruments;(xvii)equipment for games;(xviii)jewellery;(xix)aerated water;(xx)liquor;

(b)the supply of services by hotels, guest houses,restaurants or similar institution so far as suchservices are provided for wedding receptions andother receptions, other than professionalconferences, seminars or similar events and alsoincluding the hiring of halls for such receptions.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 200513

15.The amendment made to

(a)section 2(3) (f) of the principal enactment by section2 of this Act shall for all purposes be deemed tohave come into force on January 1, 2005;

(b)section 6 of the principal enactment by section 5 ofthis Act shall be deemed for all purposes to havecome into force on January 1, 2005;

(c)section 21 of the principal enactment by section 8of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to havecome into force on January 1, 2005;

(d)section 22 of the principal enactment

(i)by the first proviso to section 9 of this Actshall for all purposes be deemed to have comeinto force on November 18, 2004;

(ii)by the second proviso to section 9 of this Actshall for all purposes be deemed to have comeinto force on January 1, 2005 ;

(e)section 26 of the principal enactment by section 11of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to havecome into force on January 1, 2005 ;

(f)the third proviso to section 76 of the principalenactment by section 11 of this Act shall be deemedfor all purposes to have come into force on January1, 2005.

16Section 22 of Act, No. 13 of 2004 is hereby amendedin paragraph (v) of item (1) thereof by the substitution for thewords and figures October 17, 2003 of the words and figuresSeptember 17, 2003.

Amendment ofsection 22 ofAct, No. 13 of2004.

Retrospectiveeffect.

14Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005

17. Any person who collects the value added tax asprovided for in this Act, during the period commencingNovember 19, 2004 and ending on December 31, 2004, andfor the peirod commencing on January 1, 2005 and endingon the date of the coming into operation of this Act, shall bedeemed to have acted with due authority and such collectionshall be deemed for all purposes to have been, and to be,validly made and such person is hereby indemnified againstall actions civil or criminal, in respect of such collection.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Indemnity.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 200515

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.