PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 10.75Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 12, 2005

[Certified on 8th August, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

CONVENTION ON THE SUPPRESSION OFTERRORIST FINANCINGACT, No. 25 OF 2005

1Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 2005

[Certified on 8th August, 2005]

L.D.O. 43/2000.

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE CONVENTION ON THE SUPPRESSION OFTERRORIST FINANCING ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS an International Convention on the Suppressionof Terrorist Financing (hereinafter referred to as theConvention) was adopted by the General Assembly of theUnited Nations on the Ninth day of December, NineteenNinety-Nine and opened for signature on the Tenth day ofJanuary Two Thousand :

AND WHEREAS the Government of Sri Lanka became asignatory to the aforesaid Convention on the Tenth day ofJanuary Two Thousand and ratified the same on the Eighthday of September Two Thousand :

AND WHEREAS the aforesaid Convention entered into forcein respect of Sri Lanka on the Tenth day of April TwoThousand and Two :

AND WHEREAS it is necessary for the Government of SriLanka to make legislative provision to give effect to SriLanka's obligations under the aforesaid Convention :

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Convention on theSuppression of Terrorist Financing Act, No. 25 of 2005.

2.The Minister may, from time to time, by Orderpublished in the Gazette certify the States which are partiesto the Convention. A State in respect of which an Order ismade under this section is hereinafter referred to as aConvention State.

Preamble.

Short title.

ConventionStates.

2PL 0003695,650 (06/2005)

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 20052

3.(1) Any person who, by any means, directly orindirectly, unlawfully and wilfully provides or collects funds,with the intention that such funds should be used, or in theknowledge that they are to be used or having reason tobelieve that they are likely to be used, in full or in part, inorder to commit,

(a)an act which constitutes an offence within the scopeof, or within the definition of any one of the Treatiesspecified in Schedule I hereto ;

(b)any other act, intended to cause death or seriousbodily injury, to civilians or to any other personnot taking an active part in the hostilities, in asituation of armed conflict, and the purpose of suchact, by its nature or context is to intimidate apopulation or to compel a government or aninternational organization, to do or to abstain fromdoing any act,

shall be guilty of the offence of financing of terrorists orterrorist organizations :

Provided that, for an act to constitute the offence set outabove, it shall not be necessary to show that the fundscollected were actually used in the commission of an offence.

(2) Any person who

(a)attempts to commit ;

(b)aids or abets the commission of ; or

(c)acting with a common purpose with another personor a group of persons, contributes to the commissionof,

the offence of financing of terrorists or terrorist organizations,shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

In this subsection abet has the same meaning as in sections100 and 101 of the Penal Code.

Offences.

3Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 2005

(3) Where an offence specified in subsection (1) orsubsection (2) of this section is committed by a body ofpersons, then, every member, Director, Manager, Secretary,officer or servant of such body of persons shall be guilty ofsuch offence, unless it can be proved that the offence wascommitted without their knowledge or that they exercisedall due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

(4) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) orsubsetion (2) of this section, shall on conviction after trial onindictment by the High Court, be punished with imprisonmentfor a term not less than fifteen years and not exceeding twentyyears, and also be liabe to a fine.

4.(1) On indictment of any person in the High Court, foran offence under this Act, all funds collected in contraventionof the provisions of section 3, shall, with effect from the dateof filing of such indictment-

(a)if such funds are lying in an account with any Bank,be subject to an order of freezing ; or

(b)if such funds are in the possession or control of anyperson be liable to seizure ;

(2) The freezing or seizure of funds in terms of subsection(1) shall be in force until the conclusion of the trial.

(3) On the filing of indictment, the Attorney-General shallnotify the Central Bank of the freezing or seizure as the casemay be.

(4) The Central Bank shall thereupon take steps to giveadequate publicity to the order of freezing or seizure as thecase may be, as it shall think fit.

5.(1) On the conviction of any person under subsection(4) of section 3, the Court may Order that any funds collectedin pursuance of subsection (1) of section 3 shall be forfeitedto the State.

Freezing andseizure.

Forfeiture.

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 20054

(2) Any funds forfeited to the State under subsection (1),shall vest absolutely in the State. Such vesting shall takeeffect

(a)where no appeal is preferred to the Court of Appealagainst the Order of forfeiture, on the expiration ofthe period within which an appeal may be preferredto the Court of Appeal against such Order offorfeiture ;

(b)where an appeal had been preferred to the Court ofAppeal against such Order of forfeiture, and noappeal is preferred to the Supreme Court againstthe Order of the Court of Appeal affirming orupholding such Order of forfeiture, on theexpiration of the period within which an Appealmay be preferred to the Supreme Court from suchOrder of the Court of Appeal;

(c)where an appeal had been preferred, to the Court ofAppeal against such Order of forfeiture, and anappeal has been preferred to the Supreme Court fromthe determination of the Court of Appeal on thefirst mentioned appeal, upon the determination ofthe Supreme Court affirming or upholding the Orderof forfeiture.

(3) Where the Court is satisfied on the evidence adducedat a trial for an offence under subsection (1) of section 3, thatany funds standing to the credit of any account in any bank,are the proceeds of such offence, it may, by written orderprohibit the Manager of such bank from permitting orallowing the withdrawal of any funds from the account, untilthe conclusion of the trial.

6.(1) The High Court of Sri Lanka holden in Colombo orthe High Court established under Article 154P of theConstitution for the Western Province, holden in Colombo,shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherlaw, have exclusive jurisdiction to try offences under this Act.

High Court to tryoffences underthis Act.

5Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 2005

(2) Where an act constituting an offence under this Act iscommitted outside Sri Lanka, the High Court referred to insubsection (1) shall have jurisdiction to try such offence as ifit were committed within Sri Lanka, if

(a)the person who committed such act is present in SriLanka ;

(b)such act is committed by a citizen of Sri Lanka, orby a national of another State which is a party to theConvention, or by a stateless person who has hishabitual residence in Sri Lanka ;

(c)such act is committed against, or on board, a ship oraircraft registered in Sri Lanka at the time of thecommission of the offence ;

(d)such act is committed against, or on board a ship oraircraft registered under the laws of another Statewhich is a party to the Convention, at the time of thecommission of the offence ;

(e)the person in relation to whom the offence is allegedto have been committed is a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

(f)such act is committed in order to compel theGovernment of Sri Lanka, to do, or abstain fromdoing, any act ;

(g)such act is committed against a State or a governmentfacility of that State situated in another country,including any diplomatic or consular premises ofsuch State ; or

(h)such act is committed against any property owned,leased or used by the Government of Sri Lankaincluding an embassy or other diplomatic orconsular premises of Sri Lanka.

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 20056

Minister to notifyrequesting State,of measurestaken againstpersons forwhoseextraditionrequest is made.

Rights of certainpersons arrestedfor offencesunder this Act.

7.Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka isarrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall beentitled

(a)to communicate without delay, with the nearestappropriate representative of the State of which heis a national or which is otherwise entitled to protecthis rights, or if he is a stateless person, with thenearest appropriate representative of the State inthe territory of which he was habitualy resident ;and

(b)to be visited by a representative of that State ; and

(c)be informed of his rights under paragraphs (a) and(b).

8.Where a request is made to the Government of SriLanka, by or on behalf of the Government of a ConventionState for the extradition of any person accused or convictedof an offence under section 3 or of an offence specified inSchedule II to this Act, the Minister shall on behalf of theGovernment of Sri Lanka, forthwith notify the Governmentof the requesting State of the measures which the Governmentof Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take, for the prosecutionor extradition of that person for that offence.

9. (1) The provisions of the Mutual Assistance inCriminal Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall, wherever it isnecessary for the investigation and prosecution of an offenceunder section 3 or of an offence specified in Schedule II tothis Act, be applicable in respect of the providing of assistanceas between the Government of Sri Lanka and other Stateswho are either Commonwealth countries specified by theMinister by Order under section 2 of the aforesaid Act or non-Commonwealth countries with which the Government of SriLanka has entered into an agreement in terms of the aforesaidAct.

Assistance toConventionStates &c.,

7Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 2005

Existingextraditionarrangementswith ConventionStates deemed toprovide foroffences inSchedule II.

Minister maytreatConvention asan extraditionarrangementbetween SriLanka andcertainConventionStates, inrespect ofoffences inSchedule II.

(2) In the case of a country which is neither aCommonwealth country specified by the Minister by Orderunder section 2 of the aforesaid Act nor a non-Commonwealthcountry with which the Government of Sri Lanka has enteredinto an agreement in terms of the aforesaid Act, then it shallbe the duty of the Government to afford all such assistanceto, and may through the Minister request all such assistancefrom, a Convention state, as may be necessry for theinvestigation and prosecution of an offence under section 3or of an offence specified in Schedule II of this Act to theextent required for the discharge of its obligations under theUnited Nations Convention (including assistance relatingto the taking of evidence and statements, the serving ofprocess and the conduct of searches).

(3) The grant of assistance to a Convention state may bemade subject to such terms and conditions as the Ministerthinks fit.

10.Where there is an extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any Converntion State, inforce on the date on which this Act comes into operation,such arrangement shall be deemed for the purposes for theExtradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include provision forextradition in respect of the offences specified in Schedule IIto this Act.

11.Where there is no extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State, theMinister may by Order published in the Gazette, treat theConvention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8of 1977 as an extradition arrangement, made by theGovernment of Sri Lanka with the Convention Stateproviding for extradition in respect of the offences specifiedin Schedule II to this Act.

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 20058

12.The Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 is herebyamended by the insertion immediately before Part B of theSchedule to that Law, of the following item :

(46)An offence within the scope of the Convention onthe Suppression of Terrorist Financing Act, No. 25of 2005..

13.Notwithstanding anything in the Extradition Law,No. 8 of 1977, an offence specified in the Schedule to thatLaw and in Schedule II to this Act, shall for the purposes ofthat law be deemed not to be an offence of a political characteror an offence connected with a political offence or an offenceinspired by political motives, for the purposes only of theextradition of any person accused or convicted of any suchoffence, as between the Government of Sri Lanka and anyConvention State, or of affording assistance to a ConventionState under section 9.

14.For the furtherance of international co-operation inthe prevention of the offences specified in section 3, theMinister in charge of the subject of Foreign Affairs may, inconsultation with the Minister to whom the subject of moneylaundering is assigned, make such regulations, issue suchdirections or take such action as is provided for by any otherwritten law for the time being in force for the purpose ofpreventing and combating the commission of an offenceunder this Act or the offence of money laundering.

15.The Minister may from time to time issue suchgeneral or special directions as are necessary for theimplementation of the principles and provisions of theConvention to such extent as they are embodied in thisAct.

16.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of giving effect to the principles and provisions ofthis Act or any matter in respect of which regulations arerequired or authorized under this Act to be made.

Regulations.

Offences underthis Act not to bepolitical offences&c., for thepurposes of theExtradition Law.

Amendment tothe ExtraditionLaw, No. 8 of1977.

Minister to issuedirections.

Measures to betaken for theprevention ofany offenceunder this Act orthe offence ofmoneylaundering.

9Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 2005

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingprevoiusly done thereunder.

(4) A Notification of the date of disapproval shall bepublished in the Gazette.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 200510

Schedule I(Section 3)

1.The Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure ofAircraft, done at the Hague on December 16, 1970.

2.The Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts againstthe Safety of Civil Aviation, done at Montreal on September23, 1971.

3.The Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimesagainst Internationally Protected Persons, includingDiplomatic Agents, adopted by the General Assembly of theUnited Nations on December 14, 1973.

4.The International Convention against the Taking of Hostages,adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations onDecember 17, 1979.

5.The Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material,adopted at Vienna on March 3, 1980.

6.The Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts ofViolence at Airports serving International Civil Aviation,Supplementary to the Convention for the Suppression ofUnlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation, done atMontreal on February 24, 1988.

7.Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts againstthe Safety of Maritime Navigation, done at Rome on March10, 1988.

8.The Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts againstthe Safety of Fixed Platforms located on the ContinentalShelf, done at Rome on March 10, 1988.

9.International Convention for the Suppression of TerroristBombings, adopted by the General Assembly of the UnitedNations on December 15, 1997.

11Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 2005

Schedule II

(Sections 8,9,10,11, & 13)

(1)Unlawfully and wilfully providing or collecting funds withthe intention that such funds should be used, or in theknowledge that they are to be used, or having reason tobeleive that they are likely to be used in full or in part, inorder to commit,

(a)an act which constitutes an offence within the scopeof, or within the definition of any one of the treatiesspecified in the Schedule I to this Act ;

(b)any other act, intended to cause death or seriousbodily injury, to a civilian or to any other person nottaking an active part in the hostilities, in a situation ofarmed conflict,

and the purpose of such act, by its nature and context is tointimidate a population or to compel a government or aninternational organization, to do or to abstain from doingany act.

(2)Attempt to commit the offence referred to in paragraph (1).

(3)Aiding and abetting the commission of the offence referredto in paragraph (1).

(4)Acting with a common purpose with another person or agroup of persons and contributing to the commission of theoffence referred to in paragraph (1).

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist FinancingAct, No. 25 of 200512

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNM ENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.