PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 58 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th October, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.50Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 16, 2009

1Parliamentary Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 58 of 2009

2PL 0043034,250 (08/2009)

[Certified on 16th October, 2009]

L.D.O. 3/2009.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONSACT, NO. 1 OF 1981

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Parliamentary Elections(Amendment) Act, No. 58 of 2009.

2.Section 7 of the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1of 1981 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment)is hereby amended by the repeal of subsections (4), (5), (6)and (7) of that section and the substitution therefore of thefollowing:

(4) (a) The Commission shall, before the thirty-firstday of January of each year, publish a Notice callingupon the Secretary of a political party, other than a partywhich is already entitled to be treated as a recognizedpolitical party for the purpose of elections, to make awritten application to the Commission, on behalf ofthat party within such period as may be specified insuch notice, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d)and (e), that such party be treated as a recognizedpolitical party for the purpose of elections. Theapplication shall also specify the approved symbolwhich such party wishes to have allocated to it, out ofthe available approved symbols, in the event such partyis to be so treated.

(b) The Commission shall at the beginning of everycalendar year, cause to be published in the Gazette aNotification containing a list of the names of all politicalparties entitled to be treated as recognized politicalparties for the purpose of elections.

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 7 of Act,No. 1 of 1981.

Parliamentary Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 58 of 20092

(c) The Secretary of a political party shall, at the timean application is made under paragraph (a), furnish tothe Commission a copy of the Constitution of such partyand a list of office bearers, an audited statement ofaccounts and the contemporary policy statement of suchparty.

(d) In order to guarantee better representation ofwomen in political parties and in politics, everyrecognized political party shall ensure the inclusion ofone or more women office bearers in the list of office-bearers of such party.

(e) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this subsectionshall be read or construed as enabling the Commissionto call for applications from political partiesfor recognition for the Secretary of a political party tomake an application under that paragraph at any timeduring any of the following periods, that is to say, theperiod

(i)commencing on the date of a Proclamationdissolving Parliament or of an Order requiringthe holding of an election under this Act andending on the date of poll specified in suchProclamation or Order ; or

(ii)commencing on the date of an Order madeunder section 2 of the Presidential ElectionsAct, No. 15 of 1981 and ending on the date ofpoll fixed by that Order ; or

(iii)commencing on the date of a Notice undersection 10 of the Provincial CouncilsElections Act, No. 2 of 1988, relating to anelection under that Act and ending on thedate of poll specified for that election in anOrder made under section 22 of that Act ; or

(iv)commencing on the date of a Notice undersection 26 of the Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Chapter 262) relating to an

3Parliamentary Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 58 of 2009

election under that Ordinance and ending onthe date of poll specified in a Notice undersection 38 of that Ordinance ; or

(v)commencing on the date of a Proclamationissued under section 2 of the Referendum Act,No. 7 of 1981 and ending on the date of pollappointed by that Proclamation.

(f) If paragraph (d) is in operation during themonth of January of any year Commission shall publishthe Notice as specified in paragraph (a) after theexpiration of a period of thirty days from the date ofpoll, calling for applications for the recognition ofeligible political parties.

(g) Where an application made under paragraph (a)in respect of a political party is disallowed by theCommission, no application shall be made under thatsubsection in respect of that political party until afterthe expiration of a period of one year from the date ofthe Order disallowing the such application.

(5) Upon receipt of an application duly made undersubsection (4) on behalf of any political party, theCommission shall, after such inquiry as it maydeem fit

(a)if in the opinion of the Commission such partyis a political party and is capable of contestingelections under this Act ; and

(b)if the Commission is satisfied that

(i)such party has been engaged in politicalactivities for a continuous period of at leastfour years prior to the date of the makingof such application; or

(ii)(A) out of at least two candidates nominatedby such party at least one was successfulat the last Parliamentary general election

Parliamentary Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 58 of 20094

held immediately preceding the date ofthe application of such party; or

(B) out of at least five candidates nominatedby such party for five different ProvincialCouncils at least three were successful atthe last provincial elections heldimmediately preceding the date ofapplication of such party,

the Commission may make Order

(i)that such party shall be entitled to betreated as a recognized political partyfor the purpose of elections, subjecthowever, to the provisions of this Act ;

(ii)allotting an approved symbol to suchparty, being the approved symbolwhich the political party wishes to haveallocated to it out of the approvedsymbols, determined by theCommission in its absolute discretion,but not being the approved symbol ofany other political party which isentitled to be so treated.

(6) A political party shall not be entitled to be treatedas a recognized political party under paragraph (a) ofsubsection (5) if its name is identical with the name ofany party which is already entitled to be treated as arecognized political party or in the opinion of theCommission so nearly resembles such name as to becalculated to mislead, confuse or deceive.

(7) The Order of the Commission made undersubsection (5) on any application made under subsection(4) shall be final and shall not be called in question inany court.

5Parliamentary Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 58 of 2009

(8) For the purposes of subsection (5) of this section,the words such party shall include a constituent partyof a party which is formed, based on a political alliance..

3.Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefore:

8. (1) It shall be the duty of the Secretary ofevery recognized political party to submit tothe Commission a copy of the Constitution ofsuch party together with a list of the officebearers of such party and a copy of the politicalprogramme of such party

(a)in the case of a recognized politicalparty referred to in subsection (2) ofsection 7, within three months from thedate of coming into operation of thisAct; and

(b)in the case of any other recognizedpolitical party, within three monthsfrom the date on which such party isentitled to be treated as a recognizedpolitical party under paragraph (a) ofsubsection (5) of section 7.

(2) Every recognized political party shallhold a general meeting once a year or asspecified in the Constitution of the party. Theprocedure to be followed at such meeting shallbe specified in such Constitution.

(3) Where a recognized political partyamends its Constitution or changes its officebearers, the Secretary of such party shall, beforethe expiry of a period of thirty days from thedate of such amendment or change, informthe Commission in writing of such amendmentor change.

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.Recognizedpoliticalparties tocomply withcertainrequirements.

Parliamentary Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 58 of 20096

(4) A copy of the annual statement ofaccounts of every recognized political partyaudited by a registered auditor shall besubmitted to the Commission.

(5) Every recognized political party shallbe entitled to State assistance as provided forin the relevant written laws applicable to theconduct of elections.

(6) (a) For the purpose of exercising thepowers conferred on the Commission underthis Act, the Commission may by notice inwriting require the Secretary of any politicalparty to furnish such information specified inthe notice issued, pertaining to such politicalparty or to produce any document as shall bespecified therein, within such period as shallbe specified in the notice.

(b) It shall be the duty of the Secretary ofany political party who is required by noticeto furnish any information under subsection(1), to comply with those requirements withinthe time specified in such notice, unless suchSecretary is precluded from divulging suchinformation under the provisions of any writtenlaw.

(7) Any person shall, on payment of aprescribed fee to the Commission have the rightto call for and refer to the Constitution of apolitical party and on payment of the prescribedfee shall have the right to obtain a certifiedcopy of such Constitution.

(8) Commission may issue from time to timea Code of Conduct to be observed by politicalparties and candidates during elections.

7Parliamentary Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 58 of 2009

(9) The Commission may from time to timeissue such general or special directions to thepolitical parties, a person or body as may benecessary for the effective and efficientimplementation of the provisions of this sectionand section 7..

4. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 8 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 8A of that enactment:

8A. It shall be the duty of the Secretary ofany alliance which is formed between two ormore recognized political parties, to notify theCommission of the names of the constituentparties of such alliance and the office bearersthereof..

5. Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefore:

9. (1) Subject to subsection (2), where anyrecognized political party fails to comply withthe provisions of section 8, such party shallcease to be a recognized political party.

(2) The Commission may, uponapplication made in writing in that behalf bythe Secretary of a recognized political party, inits discretion, extend the period referred to insection 8 for a further period not exceedingsixty days.

(3) A political party which is entitled to betreated as a recognized political party for thepurpose of elections shall cease to be soentitled

(i)if not one single candidate of such partyis nominated for two consecutiveParliamentary general elections;

Replacement ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.Cessation ofrecognitionof a politicalparty.

Commissionto be notifiedof anyalliance ofpoliticalparties.

Insertion of newsection 8A in theprincipalenactment.

Parliamentary Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 58 of 20098

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

(ii)if it does not conform to therequirements of subsections (1), (3), (4)and (7) of section 8.

(4) For the purposes of this section, thewords such party shall include a constituentparty of a party which is formed, based on apolitical alliance..

6.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

9Parliamentary Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 58 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.