PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA TELECOMMUNICATIONS(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 39 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th of July, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 72.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 19, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

[Certified on 17th of July, 2024]

L.D.O. 9/2024

AN ACT TO AMEND THE SRI LANKA TELECOMMUNICATIONSACT, NO. 25 OF 1991

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri LankaTelecommunications (Amendment) Act, No. 39 of 2024.

2. Section 4 of the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act,No. 25 of 1991 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution for the words his powers andhe considers, of the words its powers and itconsiders, respectively;

(2)in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitution for theword operator of the words operator andprovider; and

(3)in paragraph (f) thereof, by the substitution for theword operators of the words operators andproviders.

3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows: -

(1)in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitution for thewords to operate telecommunication systems ofthe words to operators;

(2)in paragraph (d) thereof, by the substitution for thewords an operator of the words an operator anda provider;

Short title

Amendment ofsection 4 of Act,No. 25 of 1991

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment

2Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(3) in paragraphs (g) and (h) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words operator and operators, of thewords operator and provider and operators andproviders, respectively;

(4)in paragraph (k) thereof -

(a)by the substitution for the words todetermine in consultation with the Minister,the tariffs or methods for determining suchtariffs, of the words and figures to approveor determine in consultation with theMinister, under section 6A the tariffs ormethods for approving or determining suchtariffs,; and

(b)by the substitution for the word operatorsof the words operators and providers,wherever that word appear in that paragraph;

(5)in paragraph (m) thereof, by the substitution for thewords operators of telecommunication systemsof the words operators and providers;

(6)in paragraph (r) thereof, by the substitution for thewords operators of the words operators andproviders;

(7)in paragraph (w) thereof, by the substitution for thewords unauthorized radio frequency emissions;and of the words unauthorized radio frequencyemissions;; and

(8)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (w)thereof, of the following new paragraphs:-

3Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(wa) to carry out market analysis in theprovision of telecommunication servicesin order to examine the dynamics of aparticular market to understand the levelof competition in it;

(wb) to intervene to prevent the emergence orabuse of significant market power;

(wc) to take regulatory measures in order topromote fair competition and to eliminateanti competitive practices;

(wd) to take such measures or issue suchdirectives, which the Commissionconsiders as appropriate and necessary forthe achievement of social policyobjectives for the sector, such as universalavailability of specified minimum levelof service; and.

4. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 6 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 6A of that enactment:-

6A. (1) The Commission shall approve ordetermine tariffs based on the followingprinciples:-

(a)tariffs shall be non-discriminatory;and

(b)tariffs shall be oriented towards cost,in general cross subsidies shall beeliminated.

(2) An operator or provider may proposetariffs or adjustments to tariffs subject toparagraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1).

Insertion of newsection 6A in theprincipalenactment

Commissionto approve ordeterminetariff

4Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(3) Where an operator or a provider proposestariffs or adjustment of tariffs, the Commissionmay approve or reject such tariffs or adjustmentof tariffs subject to subsection (1), taking intoconsideration

(a)the government policy and industryrequirements; and

(b)the facilities or services provided bythe operator or provider to theparticular class of users or in aparticular area:

Provided however, the Commission maypartially approve a proposed tariff or anadjustment to tariffs proposed by an operatoror a provider or grant such approval subject tosuch conditions imposed by the Commission.

(4) The Commission may determine toforbear any tariff of any service in whole or apart of such tariff, subject to such conditionsor without conditions.

(5) The Commission may, in consultationwith the Minister, by way of rules makeprovision for a special tariff plan which shallinclude manner of setting, reviewing,publishing and approving adjustments of tariffgenerally or for any particulartelecommunication service provided by anoperator or a provider.

(6) An operator or a provider shall notprovide any telecommunication servicewithout obtaining approval to a tariff plan fromthe Commission under this section.

5Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(7) Every operator or provider whocontravenes the provisions of subsection (6)commits an offence and shall be liable onconviction by a Magistrate to a fine notexceeding ten million rupees or to animprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding one year or to both such fineand imprisonment..

5. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the word operator of the wordsoperator or the provider, as the case may be, wherever thatword appears in that section.

6. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words every operator of thewords every operator and provider.

7. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords an operator, of the words an operator or aprovider,; and

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords such operator of the words such operatoror provider.

8. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 9 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 9A of that enactment:-

9A. (1) The Commission shall, on its ownmotion or on a complaint or request made tothe Commission by any person with respect to-

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment

Insertion of newsection 9A in theprincipalenactment

Resolutionof disputeson anticompetitivepractices, etc.

6Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(a)the existence or the construedexistence of any anti-competitivepractice;

(b)the acquisition, existence orconstrued existence of an abuse of adominant position (significantmarket power) which may affect theconditions in one or more marketsin which an operator or provideroperates a telecommunicationservice;

(c)the creation or construed creation ofa merger situation; or

(d)not having the right of access marketnetwork at fair, cost based and non-discriminatory terms and conditions,

carry out an investigation as in the manner itmay deem necessary.

(2) The Commission shall give any operatoror provider, who is the subject of aninvestigation commenced under subsection(1), an opportunity of being heard and ofproducing any documentary evidence.

(3) Where upon investigation theCommission is satisfied that any one of thesituations specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c), or(d) exists, but such situation does not operateor is not likely to operate against publicinterest, the Commission shall, by order madein that behalf, authorize the existence of such

7Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

situation subject to such terms and conditionsas it may consider necessary or expedient forthe purpose of remedying or preventing theresulting adverse effects, if any, on otheroperators or providers in the market whereinany one of the situations specified in paragraph(a), (b), (c), or (d) exists.

(4) Where upon investigation theCommission finds that any one of the situationsspecified in paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d) existsand such situation operates or is likely tooperate against public interest, the Commissionshall make an appropriate order abating theexistence of any such situation and for thepurpose of remedying or preventing theresulting adverse effects thereof.

(5) Where upon investigation, theCommission finds that any one of the situationsspecified in paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d) exists,the Commission may, where necessary, issuean appropriate order other than the ordersreferred to in subsections (3) and (4) havingregard to the provisions of subsection (2).

(6) Rules may be made in respect of thefollowing:-

(a)to impose specific obligations onoperators and providers withsignificant market power as may bedefined by the Commission, with aview of promoting fair competition,preventing market distortions andsafeguarding consumer interests;and

8Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(b)to facilitate nondiscriminatoryaccess and to ensure equalopportunities to all operators andproviders..

9. Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)thereof, of the following new subsections:-

(1A) The Commission shall have the power to

(a)divide and allocate any part of the radiofrequency spectrum into number of bandsbased on the InternationalTelecommunication Union policies andguidelines or international best practices, inthe best interest of the efficient managementof the frequency spectrum and specify theservice or purpose for which each band maybe used;

(b)specify frequency channel plans; and

(c)assign the radio frequency or any band ofradio frequencies to users of radiocommunication apparatus in the mannerprovided in section 22.

(1B) The Commission may issue to any person whointends to obtain a licence for any purpose specifiedunder section 22, a frequency reservation permit for aperiod specified by the Commission on a payment of afee subject to the right of cancellation and such otherterms and conditions as may be determined by theCommission by rules made in that behalf..

10. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 10 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 10A of that enactment:-

Amendment ofsection 10 ofthe principalenactment

Insertion of newsection 10A inthe principalenactment

9Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

10A. (1) The Commission shall be the soleauthority vested with the power to manage theuse of numbers, names, codes and identifiers.

(2) The Commission shall be responsiblefor promoting the efficient allocation ofnumbers, names, codes and identifiers undersubsection (1).

(3) The Commission shall have the powerto prepare, specify, publish, and administer theplans for the use of numbers, names, codes,and identifiers, including the power-

(a)to assign numbers, a block or blocksof numbers, codes, and names inaccordance with respective plans;

(b) to grant approval to lease or sell theright to use a number, a block orblocks of numbers or codes;

(c)to amend the plans for numbering,names, codes and identifiers soprepared;

(d)to make rules-

(i) for specifying charges for usingnumbers, a block or blocks ofnumbers, codes and names soassigned;

(ii) relating to managing ofnumbers, names, codes, andidentifiers in the respectiveplans; and

Commissionto be the soleauthority onallocation ofand use ofnumbers etc.

10Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(iii) for determining conditionsrelating to the withdrawal ofnumbers, block or blocks ofnumbers, codes, and nameassigned under this section; and

(e)to issue directions to any person to-

(i) submit information on theutilization of numbers, names,codes, and identifiers allocatedunder this section; and

(ii) adhere to the respective plan forthe use of numbers, names,codes and identifiers.

(4) The Commission shall have the powerto implement number portability and issuerules, guidelines and directions to operators forsuch implementation.

(5) The Commission may withdrawnumbers, codes, a block or blocks of numbers,code or codes of numbers allocated under thissection by giving prior notice in writing to theperson to whom such allocation was made afteraffording an opportunity to such person tomake representations..

11. Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords and figures authorized by a licence undersection 17 to operate a telecommunication systemof the words and figures issued with a licence undersection 17 or under section 17B;

Amendment ofsection 11 ofthe principalenactment

11Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(2)in subsections (4) and (5) thereof, by thesubstitution for the word operator of the wordsoperator and provider; and

(3)by the addition, immediately after subsection (5)thereof, of the following new subsections:-

(6) Where a person issued with a licenceunder section 17 or under section 17B, fails tocomply with an order issued under subsection(2), the Commission may by notice require suchperson to pay a penalty of an amount notexceeding one per centum of the annualturnover of the year immediately preceding theyear concerned, accrued from the activityauthorized by such licence.

(7) The Commission shall be responsiblefor the collection of a penalty imposed underthis section and the money so collected shallbe credited to the Fund of the Commissionestablished under section 22F.

(8) If any person who has become liable toa penalty in terms of subsection (6) fails to paysuch penalty, within such period as may bespecified in such notice, the Commission maymake an exparte application to the MagistrateCourt of the competent jurisdiction for an orderrequiring the payment of the penalty recoveredin a like manner as a fine imposed by suchcourt notwithstanding such sum may exceedthe amount of fine which that court may, in theexercise of its ordinary jurisdiction impose.

(9) Where a penalty is imposed under thissection on a body of persons, then

12Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(a)if that body of persons is a bodycorporate, every person who at thetime of non-compliance undersubsection (6) was a director, and anyother officer responsible for themanagement and control of thatbody corporate;

(b)if that body of persons is a firm,every partner of that firm; or

(c)if that body is not a body corporate,every person who at the time of non-compliance of requirements undersubsection (6) was the officerresponsible with management andcontrol of that body,

shall be liable to pay such penalty, unless heproves that he had no knowledge of the failureto comply with the requirement undersubsection (6) or that he exercised all due careand diligence to ensure the compliancetherewith.

(10) A person who is aggrieved by theimposition of a penalty under this section, mayappeal against such order to the High Courtestablished by Article 154P of the Constitution.

(11) Any person who prefers an appeal undersubsection (10) shall deposit in cash as asecurity such sum of money equal to the penaltyimposed under subsection (6) before theregistrar of the High Court..

13Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

12. Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (b) of subsection (6) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words revoked in accordancewith any terms in that behalf contained in thelicence of the words and figures revoked in termsof the provisions of section 17A; and

(2)by the addition immediately after subsection (9)thereof, of the following new subsection:-

(10) The Commission shall have the powerto issue directions to any operator to whom alicence has been issued under this section toshare the use, with another operator specified bythe Commission any infrastructure owned orused by such operator including any radio accessnetwork, subject to such terms and conditionsspecified by regulations made under this Act..

13. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 17 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 17A and 17B of that enactment:-

17A. (1) A licence issued under section 17may be revoked by the Minister assigningreasons therefor, on the breach of terms andconditions of the licence.

(2) The Minister shall by Order publishedin the Gazette specify the date of suchrevocation (not being a date earlier than thirtydays from the date of publication of the Order)

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment

Insertion of newsections 17A and17B in theprincipalenactment

Revocationof a licenceissued undersection 17

14Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

and the reasons for the revocation shall beinformed to the relevant operator through theCommission fifteen days prior to the date ofthe revocation.

(3) The Order referred to in subsection (2)shall also specify the interim arrangement madefor operating the telecommunication systemin respect of which the licence was issued tothe operator thereof has been revoked underthis section.

(4) Where the Minister revokes a licenceunder section 17, the licensee may within aperiod of thirty days from the date of thecommunication to him the decision of theMinister appeal against such revocation to theCourt of Appeal which may confirm or set asidethe decision of the Minister.

17B. (1) A person shall not engage in thefollowing activities except under the authorityof a licence issued by the Commission in thatbehalf:-

(a) providing infrastructure servicesspecified by rules, required foroperating a telecommunicationsystem;

(b)providing telecommunicationservices specified by rules; or

(c) providing cable landing stationfacilities.

Prohibitionto engage incertainactivitieswithout alicence

15Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(2) For the purpose of paragraph (c) ofsubsection (1), the facilities shall includesubmarine cables laid within the territorialwaters of Sri Lanka.

(3) The charges for cable landing stationfacilities including access to the submarinecables shall be approved or determined by theCommission.

(4) A licence issued under subsection (1)shall be-

(a)in such form and on payment of suchfee as may be determined by theCommission; and

(b)required to conform to suchtechnical standards as may bedetermined by the Commission fromtime to time by rules made under thisAct.

(5) Any person who engages in any activityspecified in paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection(1) without obtaining a licence undersubsection (1), commits an offence under thisAct.

(6) The Commission may, at any timerevoke a licence granted under this section onthe failure by the licensee to comply with thetechnical standards he was required to conformto.

16Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(7) Where the Commission refuses anapplication for a licence under subsection (1)or revokes a licence under subsection (6), theapplicant or the licensee, as the case may be,within a period of thirty days from the date ofthe communication to him the decision of theCommission may appeal against such refusalor revocation, as the case may be, to the Courtof Appeal which may confirm or set aside thedecision of the Commission.

(8) Rules shall be made under this Act tospecify-

(a)the manner of making an applicationfor a licence under subsection (1);

(b)requirements to be fulfilled by anapplicant to make an application foreach category of licence undersubsection (1); and

(c)period of validity and the manner ofrenewal of a licence..

14. Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution for the words modification ofany condition of a licence of the wordsmodification of a licence, wherever those wordsappear in that section;

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment

17Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(2)by the addition immediately after subsection (3)thereof, of the following new subsection:-

(4) The Commission may modify any licenceissued under section 17B if such modification isdeemed necessary for the efficientimplementation of the provisions of this Act orany regulation or rule made thereunder.; and

(3)in the marginal note thereof, by the substitution forthe word and figures section 17. of the words andfigures sections 17 and 17B..

15. Section 18A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords without obtaining the prior approval of theCommission. of the words except with a providerlicence issued by the Commission under section17B.;

(2)by the repeal of subsections (2) and (3) thereof andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:-

(2) Where a provider requests the operatorto use the telecommunication system, theoperator shall permit such provider to use suchtelecommunication system including wholesaleservices subject to the provisions of this Act.;and

Amendment ofsection 18A ofthe principalenactment

18Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(3)in subsection (4) thereof, by the substitution for thewords ten thousand rupees of the words onehundred thousand rupees.

16. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 20 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 20A of that enactment:-

20A. (1) The Commission may require anoperator to enter into an agreement with anotheroperator for the interconnection betweentheir telecommunication systems, in thecircumstances where the Commission deemsthat interconnection is necessary for theprovision of efficient telecommunicationservice or for the public interest.

(2) It shall be the duty of the operatorsrequired by the Commission undersubsection (1) to enter into an agreementfor interconnection between theirtelecommunication systems, to provideaccess to the telecommunicationsystems, telecommunication services andtelecommunication apparatus of each other.

(3) The terms and conditions to beincorporated in an interconnection agreementshall be negotiated in accordance with theterms and conditions of the respective licencesissued to the operators to such interconnectionagreement, and shall further provide for thefollowing:-

Insertion of newsection 20A inthe principalenactment

Interconnectionof telecommunicationsystems

19Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(a)conditions of the interconnectionagreement shall conform with theconditions of the respective licencesissued to each operator who is a partyto the interconnection agreement;

(b)consumers connected to thetelecommunication system of oneoperator shall have access to thetelecommunication system of otheroperator who is a party to theinterconnection agreement;

(c)operators who are parties to theinterconnection agreement shallmaintain the same level ofquality in their respectivetelecommunication systems;

(d)interconnection arrangement shallbe efficient and fair and the partiesto an interconnection agreementshall ensure that services are suppliedon non-discriminatory basis withregard to capacity, interfaces andtechnical standards;

(e)the terms and conditions subject towhich interconnected services areprovided shall reflect internationallyaccepted best practices;

(f)interconnection services shallensure effective and sustainablecompetition; and

20Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(g)interconnection rates for servicesshall be cost oriented and be subjectto the methodology determined bythe Commission.

(4) The Commission may stipulate the termsand conditions to be incorporated in aninterconnection agreement if necessary.

(5) If the Commission is satisfied that theparties to an interconnection agreementunder this section have resorted to ananti-competitive practice in contravention ofthe respective licences issued under this Act orreceives a complaint from a third party to thateffect, the Commission shall, after givingreasonable notice to the parties to theinterconnection agreement commence aninvestigation into the same.

(6) The Commission shall give the partiesto the interconnection agreement, who is thesubject of an investigation commenced undersubsection (5), an opportunity of being heardand of producing any documentary evidence.

(7) Where upon investigation, theCommission is satisfied that an anti-competitive practice exists, the Commissionmay issue directions to the parties to theinterconnection agreement to take such stepsas the Commission deems it necessary to avoidsuch anti-competitive practice and makerecommendations to amend theinterconnection agreement to that effect.

21Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(8) Where any operator fails to comply withthe requirement imposed by the Commissionunder subsection (1), any other operator whoseeks access to the telecommunication system,telecommunication services andtelecommunication apparatus of such operatormay inform the Commission in respect of suchfailure and the Commission shall, within thirtyworking days of the receipt of such information,determine , in consultation with both operators,the terms and conditions of the proposedinterconnection agreement including theaccess to interconnection services and chargesto be levied for such service.

(9) The determination made undersubsection (8) by the Commission shall bebinding on the operators proposed to be enteredinto an interconnection agreement under thissection.

(10) Any operator who fails to comply withdetermination made under subsection (8) bythe Commission commits an offence and shallbe liable to a fine not exceeding ten millionrupees and in the event of the offence beingcommitted continuously, to an additional fineof three hundred thousand rupees for each dayon which the offence is so committed afterconviction.

(11) Any operator who is aggrieved by thedetermination under subsection (8), may appealagainst such determination to the Court ofAppeal within thirty days from the date of suchdetermination.

22Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(12) The Commission may make rules for -

(a)stipulating the terms and conditionsto be incorporated in aninterconnection agreement;

(b)determining methodology relatingto interconnection rates for services;and

(c)issuing guidelines and directions tothe parties to the interconnectionagreement to implement theinterconnection agreement..

17. Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe word import, of the words import, export,;and

(2)in subsection (5) thereof, by the substitution for thewords commencing from to a fine not exceedingten thousand rupees to the end of that subsectionof the words to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees or to an imprisonment of either descriptionfor a term not exceeding six months or to both suchfine and imprisonment and in the event of theoffence being committed continuously, to a fine ofone thousand five hundred rupees for each day onwhich the offence is so committed afterconviction..

18. Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment

23Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words use any radio frequency or radiofrequency emitting apparatus of the words useany radio frequency or use or possess any radiofrequency emitting apparatus;

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words as may be determinedby the Commission by rules made in that behalf:of the words as may be prescribed:;

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)thereof, of the following new subsection:-

(2A) A licence issued under subsection (1)shall specify the service or services or purposefor which such radio frequency or radiofrequency emitting apparatus are used and theperiod of the validity of such licence.;

(4)by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

(3) The Commission shall have power torevoke any licence issued under subsection (1)on the breach of any condition or restriction towhich it is subject to or in the event of anydefault in the payment of any considerationpayable thereunder or on the failure of thelicensee to comply with any regulation for thetime being in force under this Act relating tothe same.;

(5)by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)thereof, of the following new subsections:-

24Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(3A) In the overall planning andmanagement of radio frequency spectrum, theCommission shall have power to-

(a)direct any person to whom alicence has been issued undersubsection (1) to comply with andto implement new technologiesfor the efficient use of radiofrequency spectrum in the publicinterest; and

(b)vary any radio frequency aftergiving written notice to therelevant person prior to areasonable period of suchvariation and giving reasonstherefor.

(3B) Any person who is aggrieved by thevariation of the radio frequency referred to inparagraph (b) of subsection (3A) may appeal tothe Commission within three weeks from thereceipt of such notice referred to in thatparagraph.

(3C) The Commission shall, after givingsuch aggrieved person a fair hearing on anyobjection to such variation communicate itsdecision to the person who made an appeal tothe Commission within three weeks from thedate of receipt of such appeal.

(3D) The Commission may considerpayment of any compensation to the relevantperson whose radio frequency has been variedunder paragraph (b) of subsection (3A). ;

25Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(6)by the insertion immediately after subsection (4)thereof, of the following new subsections:-

(4A) Any person who is aggrieved by thedecision referred to in subsection (3C) of thissection may appeal to the Court of Appealwithin one month from the date ofcommunication of the decision of theCommission.

(4B) The Court of Appeal may grant anyinterim relief to such aggrieved person pendingthe final determination of the appeal.;

(7)in subsection (5) thereof, by the substitution for thewords A person uses of the words and figure Saveas provided for in subsection (6), a person whouses; and

(8)by the addition immediately after subsection (5)thereof, of the following new subsections:-

(6) Notwithstanding the precedingprovisions of this section, the Commission may,in the public interest and in order to promotethe common use of any radio frequency exemptby rules made in that behalf, any person orclass of persons from having to obtain a licencefor the use or possession, establishment orinstallation of any radio frequency emittingapparatus either absolutely or subject to suchterms, conditions and restrictions as may beimposed under such rules.

(7) The Commission may adopt thecompetition-based methodology in assigningradio frequencies and such methodology shallbe promulgated by regulations made under thisAct as and when required..

26Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

19. Section 22A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords cabling work in any premises of the wordscabling work in any premises, over or under theland, roads or territorial waters of Sri Lanka,; and

(2)by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

(3) The Commission may, at any timerevoke or suspend any licence granted underthis section-

(a)on the breach of any term orcondition of the licence by thelicensee;

(b)on the failure by the licensee topay the fee determined by theCommission under paragraph (a) ofsubsection (2);

(c)on the failure by the licensee tocomply with the provisions of theAct or any regulation or rule madethereunder; or

(d)where such revocation or suspensionis deemed to be necessary in thepublic interest or in the interest ofnational security..

20. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 22A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as sections 22AA and 22AB of thatenactment:-

Insertion of newsections 22AAand 22AB in theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 22A ofthe principalenactment

27Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

22AA. (1) The Commission shall, with theassistance of the Sri Lanka Navy, theDepartment of Coast Guard and Sri LankaPolice, monitor, manage and protect thesubmarine cables laid within the territorialwaters of Sri Lanka connected with theprovision of any telecommunication serviceunder this Act, subject to the advice of theNational Submarine Cable ProtectionCommittee established under subsection (2)of this section.

(2) There shall be established a committeecalled and known as the National SubmarineCable Protection Committee (in this sectionand section 22AB referred to as theCommittee) consisting of the followingmembers:-

(a)the Director-General of theCommission who shall be theChairman of the Committee;

(b)an officer of the Sri Lanka Navynominated by the Commander ofthe Navy;

(c)a Coast Guard Officer of the CoastGuard Department nominated by theDirector-General of suchDepartment;

(d)a police officer of the police forcenominated by the Inspector Generalof Police;

(e)an officer of the Customs nominatedby the Director-General of Customsappointed under section 2 of theCustoms Ordinance (Chapter 235);

Responsibilityof theCommissionto protectsubmarinecables

28Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(f)an officer not below the rank ofSenior Assistant Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister assigned thesubject of the Fisheries and AquaticResources nominated by theSecretary to such Ministry;

(g)an officer of the Marine EnvironmentProtection Authority established bythe Marine Pollution PreventionAct, No. 35 of 2008 nominated bythe General Manager of suchAuthority;

(h)an officer of the CentralEnvironmental Authorityestablished by the NationalEnvironmental Act, No. 47 of 1980,nominated by the Director-Generalof such Authority;

(i)the providers issued with licencesunder paragraph (C) of subsection (1)of section 17B to operate a cablelanding station; and

(j)an officer nominated by the Director-General of Merchant Shippingappointed under section 3 of theMerchant Shipping Act, No. 52 of1971.

(3) The Committee shall have the followingpowers and functions:-

(a)to advise the Commission inthe monitoring, managementand protection of the submarinecables laid within the territorial

29Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

waters of Sri Lanka connectedwith the provision of anytelecommunication service underthis Act;

(b)to make recommendations to theMinister in formulations of policiesregarding protection and resilienceof submarine cables and submarinecable landing stations; and

(c) to exercise or discharge any otherpowers or functions as may beprescribed.

22AB. (1) The President may, byproclamation published in the Gazette, on therecommendations made by the Minister,declare any zone of the sea adjacent to theterritorial waters including exclusive economiczones, to be the protection zone (hereinafterreferred to as the protection zone) in relationto a submarine cable and submarine cablelanding station.

(2) The Minister shall, prior to makingrecommendations under subsection (1), obtainthe recommendations of the Committee inrespect of such matter.

(3) Where any operator requests the Ministerto declare any zone as a protection zone undersubsection (1), the Minister shall obtain therecommendations of the Committee andsubmit his recommendations to the President.

(4) Where the President refuses to declaresuch zone as a protection zone, the Ministershall cause to be informed of such decision tothe relevant operator.

Protectionzone to bedeclared bythe President

30Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(5) An operator who is aggrieved by thedecision of the President may appeal to theMinister within forty five days from the date ofsuch decision.

(6) The Minister shall, in consultation withthe Committee, make his recommendations onthe appeal to the President, and the Presidentmay make decision on the appeal within fortyfive days from the date of receipt such appeal.The decision of the President made under thissubsection shall be final and conclusive.

(7) A proclamation made under subsection(1), may be revoked or varied by the Presidentin like manner..

21. Section 22F of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (c) thereof, by the substitution for thewords and figures section 22G; and of the wordand figures section 22G;; and

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(c) thereof, of the following paragraph:-

(ca) all such sums of money collected aspenalty imposed by the Commissionunder section 11; and.

22. Section 22G of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words the operator. of the words the operator or the

provider..

Amendment ofsection 22F ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 22G ofthe principalenactment

31Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

23. The following new Part is hereby inserted immediatelyafter section 22J of the principal enactment and shall haveeffect as Part IIC of that enactment:-

PART IIC

IMPOSITION OF SURCHARGE ON LICENCE FEE AND CESS

22K. (1) Where any operator, provider orlicensee, who has been issued with a licenceunder section 17, 17B, 21 or 22 , as the case be,has failed to pay any fee required to be paid interms of those sections on or before the datespecified by the Commission to make suchpayment, or an operator or provider who hasfailed to pay any cess required to be paid byan order made under section 22G, on or beforethe due date specified in the licence issuedunder section 17 or 17B, such operator,provider or licensee, as the case may be, shallbe liable to pay a surcharge on the amount indefault, at the rate of ten per centum of thedefault amount for the first month andadditional two per centum per each subsequentmonth.

(2) The Commission shall issue a notice toeach person in respect of whom the surchargeis to be imposed specifying the followingdetails:-

(a)the reasons for surcharging;

(b)the amount in default and thesurcharge decided thereon;

Insertion of newPart IIC in theprincipalenactment

Commissionto imposesurcharge onthe default ofpayment ofany licencefee or cessunder thisAct

32Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(c)the action contemplated for its

recovery;

(d)the date on or before which the

amount specified under paragraph

(b) is to be paid; and

(e)the details of the manner in which

payment shall be made.

22L. (1) Where any sum to be charged under

section 22K has not been paid within the time

specified in the notice under subsection (2) of

section 22K and where the Commission is

satisfied that immediate action is necessary for

the recovery of such sum, the Commission may

issue a certificate containing particulars of such

sum to be recovered and the name and last

known place of employment or residence of

the person liable to pay such sum, to the

Magistrate Court of the competent jurisdiction.

(2) (a) The Magistrate shall thereupon

summon such person who is liable to pay the

amount in default, to show cause as to why

further proceedings for the recovery of the sum

to be recovered shall not be taken against him.

(b) Where the person who is liable to pay

the amount in default fails to show sufficient

Proceedingsfor recoverybefore aMagistrate

33Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

cause, the sum to be recovered shall be deemed

to be a fine imposed by a sentence of the

Magistrate on such person who is liable to pay

the amount in default for an offence punishable

with fine only and not punishable with

imprisonment.

(3) The certificate issued by the

Commission shall be conclusive proof that the

sum to be recovered has been duly assessed

and is in default in any proceeding before the

Magistrate under subsection (1).

(4) The provisions of Chapter XXIV of the

Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of

1979, shall mutatis mutandis apply in relation

to the default of payment of a fine, and in

addition the Magistrate may make any

direction which, he could have made at the

time of imposing such sentence..

24. Sections 33, 34 and 35 of the principal enactment are

hereby amended by the substitution for the word operator

of the words operator or provider, wherever that word

appears in those sections.

25. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 35 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 35A and 35B of that enactment:-

Amendmentof sections33, 34 and35 of theprincipalenactment

Insertion ofnew section35A and 35Bin theprincipalenactment

34Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

35A. (1) It shall be the duty of the Mayor orChairman of a local authority or the Board ofDirectors or the Management of a publiccorporation or other body, to assist anyoperator or provider, on the request made bysuch operator or provider, subject to theprovisions of this Act, for sharing anyinfrastructure facility or resource owned orpossessed by such local authority, publiccorporation or body and specified by rulesmade under this Act, for the purpose ofproviding a telecommunication service bymeans of a telecommunication system suchoperator is licensed to operate or, providingother service or facilities or resources suchprovider is licensed to provide, under this Act.

(2) Rules shall be made under this Act toregulate the implementation of the provisionsof this section.

35B. (1) The Commission may, in the publicinterest, direct in writing to any operator tocoordinate and corporate with another operatorto share the use of any facility or resourceincluding radio access network owned or usedby such operator.

(2) Prior to issuing the direction undersubsection (1), the Commission shall providereasonable opportunity for both such operatorsto make representations, in order to facilitatethe sharing of such facility or resource in anefficient manner.

Sharing ofinfrastructurefacilities orresources

Sharing offacilities orresources byoperators

35Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(3) The Commission shall make rules to

regulate the implementation of the provisions

of this section..

26. Sections 36 and 37 of the principal enactment are

hereby amended by the substitution for the word operator

of the words operator or provider, wherever that word

appears in those sections.

27. Section 38 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution for the word operator of the

words operator or provider; and

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) thereof, by the

substitution for the word and figures section 36,

of the words and figures section 35A or section

36,.

28. Sections 39 and 40 of the principal enactment are

hereby amended by the substitution for the word operator

of the words operator or provider, wherever that word

appears in those sections.

29. Section 44 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

Amendment ofsections 36 and37 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 38 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsections 39 and40 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 44 of theprincipalenactment

36Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(1) Every person guilty of an offence undersubsection (1) of section 19 and section 22shall be liable on conviction by a Magistrateto a fine not less than fifty thousand rupeesand not exceeding ten million rupees or to animprisonment of either description for a termnot less than six months and not exceedingthree years or to both such fine andimprisonment and in the event of the offencebeing committed continuously, to a fine of twothousand rupees for each day on which theoffence is so committed after conviction.; and

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)thereof, of the following new subsections:-

(1A) In addition to the penalty imposedunder subsection (1), the Magistrate may makean order to confiscate all telecommunicationapparatus used in the commission of the offenceunder subsection (1) of section 19.

(1B) Every person guilty of an offence undersubsection (5) of section 17B shall be liable onconviction by a Magistrate to a fine notexceeding five million rupees or to animprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding three years or to both such fineand imprisonment and in the event of theoffence being committed continuously, to afine of ten thousand rupees for each day onwhich the offence is so committed afterconviction..

37Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

30. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 46 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 46A, 46B and 46C of thatenactment:-

46A. Every person who willfullyinterferes with, disrupts or disturbs anytelecommunication system in respect of whicha licence has been issued under section 17 orany radio frequency emitting apparatus inrespect of which a licence has been issued undersection 22 commits an offence and shall onconviction by a Magistrate be liable to a finenot exceeding five million rupees.

46B. Every person who, with the intentionof misrepresenting, deceiving or misleadingany other person omits, changes or modifiesthe calling party number or introduces anyother calling party number other than his ownnumber commits an offence and shall onconviction by a Magistrate be liable to a finenot exceeding ten million rupees and toimprisonment of either description for a termnot less than one year and not exceeding threeyears or to both such fine and imprisonment.

46 C. Every person who, willfully providesfalse information as to the identity of user toobtain telecommunication service commits anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to afine not less than one hundred thousand rupeesand not exceeding one million rupees and to

Insertion of newsections 46A, 46Band 46C in theprincipalenactment

Deceiving ormisleadingpersons usinga telecommunicationsystem

Providingfalseinformationas to theidentity ofuser to obtaintelecommunicationservice

Interference,etc. to telecommunicationsystem

38Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

imprisonment of either description for a termnot less than one year and not exceeding threeyears or to both such fine and imprisonment..

31. Section 47 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

47. Every person who, with the intention of-

(a)preventing or obstructing thetransmission or delivery of anymessage, telecommunication serviceor data; or

(b)interrupting or acquainting himselfwith the contents of, any message ordata; or

(c)transmitting any message or datawhich he has no authority totransmit; or

(d)committing mischief or any act ofvandalism,

damages, removes or tampers with anysubmarine cable, submarine cable landingstation or telecommunication installation line,post or other thing whatever being part of orused in or about any telecommunication systemor submarine cable in the provision of anyservice within Sri Lanka or outside theexclusive economic zone of Sri Lanka, by

Replacement ofsection 47 of theprincipalenactment

Penalty forintentionallydamaging ortamperingwith telecommunicationinstallation

39Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

means thereof commits an offence and shall beliable on conviction to a fine not exceedingone hundred million rupees or to imprisonmentof either description for a term not exceedingten years or to both such fine and suchimprisonment..

32. Section 59 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

(1) Every person who

(a)persistently makes telephone calls, orsends or transmits messages using atelephone; or

(b)publishes, sends or transmits telephonenumbers of other subscribers,

without reasonable excuse for the purpose ofcausing annoyance, inconvenience or needlessanxiety to any telecommunication officer orany person, commits an offence and shall beliable on conviction to a fine not exceedingone hundred thousand rupees and in default ofpayment of such fine, to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding sixmonths.; and

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords allow such a call to be made. of the wordsallow such call to be made or proceed to disconnectthe telephone connection through which such callwas made..

Amendment ofsection 59 of theprincipalenactment

40Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

33. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 59 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 59A of that enactment:-

59A. Any person who knowingly

(a)gives or causes to be given any falseor misleading information relatingto the commission of any offenceunder this Act; or

(b)gives or causes to be given to theCommission or any other officerappointed to assist the Commissionfalse or misleading information,

commits an offence and shall on convictionafter summary trail before a Magistrate be liableto a fine not exceeding one hundred thousandrupees or in the default of the payment of suchfine to an imprisonment for a term notexceeding six months..

34. Section 65 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the addition immediately after subsection (2)thereof, of the following subsections:-

(3) Where any person is convicted of anoffence under this Act, the Magistrate maymake order that any telecommunicationapparatus used in or in connection with, thecommission of that offence be forfeited to theState.

Insertion of newsections 59A inthe principalenactment

Falseinformation,etc.

Amendment ofsection 65 of theprincipalenactment

41Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

(4) Any telecommunication apparatusforfeited by an order of the Magistrate, shallvest absolutely in the State upon the makingof such order.

(5) Such vesting shall take effect-

(a)if no appeal is preferred after theexpiration of the period within whichan appeal against the order forforfeiture may be preferred to a HighCourt established by Article 154Pof the Constitution or the SupremeCourt; or

(b)where an appeal has been preferredagainst the order of forfeiture,to a High Court established byArticle 154P of the Constitution orto the Supreme Court, upon thedetermination of such appeal, eitherconfirming the order of forfeiture orsetting aside the appeal.; and

(2)by the repeal of the marginal note to that section,and the substitution therefor of the following:-

35. Section 68 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)thereof, of the following subsection:-

(1A) Without prejudice to the generality of thepower conferred under subsection (1), the

Amendment ofsection 68 of theprincipalenactment

Magistrate to grant searchwarrant and seize, and forfeit, thetelecommunication apparatus.

42Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

Commission shall have power to make rules for theformulation of Codes of Practice applicable torespective operators, providers and licensees..

36. Section 73 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the insertion immediately before the definitionof the expression cabling work of the followingdefinitions:-

Army means Army raised and maintainedunder the Army Act (Chapter 357);

cable landing station means a facility whereundersea fiber optic cables carryinginternational telecommunications andinternet traffic are connected to terrestrialnetwork;;

(2)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression cabling work of the followingdefinition:-

Department of Coast Guard means theDepartment of Coast Guard establishedunder section 2 of the Department of CoastGuard Act, No. 41 of 2009;;

(3)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression Director- General of the followingdefinitions:-

Amendment ofsection 73 of theprincipalenactment

43Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

exclusive economic zone means a zonedeclared under section 5 of the MaritimeZones Law, No. 22 of 1976;

infrastructure means a telecommunicationfacility including a line, submarinecable, distribution point, duct, pit,tunnel, manhole, tower, mast, pole,antenna, structure and active networkused for the purpose of providingtelecommunication service;;

(4)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression operator of the followingdefinitions:-

person include a body of persons;

police officer shall have same meaningassigned to it in the Police Ordinance(Chapter 53);;

(5)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression prescribed of the followingdefinition:-

provider means a person authorized bya licence under section 17B to providetelecommunication services orinfrastructure facilities or cable landingstation facilities;;

(6)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression public switched network of thefollowing definition:-

44Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

radio access network means a part of atelecommunication network thatconnects end-user devices to the corenetwork through a radio link;; and

(7)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression radio beam of the followingdefinition:-

radio frequency emitting apparatus meansa radio communication equipmentdesigned or intended to transmit or emitradio waves;

Sri Lanka Air Force means the Sri Lanka AriForce raised and maintained undersection 2 of the Air Force Act (Chapter359);

Sri Lanka Navy means the Sri Lanka Navyraised and maintained under section 2of the Navy Act (Chapter 358);

submarine cable means a cable laid underthe sea, between land-based stations tocarry telecommunication signals;.

37. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

45Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment)Act, No. 39 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.