PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 36.50 Postage : Rs.12.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 02, 2005

[Certified on 30th November, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

TOURISMACT, No. 38 OF 2005

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 20051

[Certified on 30th November, 2005]

L.D.O 18/2005

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA TOURISMDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY; TO VEST THE SAID AUTHORITY WITH SUCH

POWERS AS ARE NECESSARY FOR FACILITATING THE PLANNING AND

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICY RELATING TO THE TOURISM INDUSTRY

AND OTHER RELATED INDUSTRIES; TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION

AND MONITORING OF THE INDUSTRY; TO REPEAL THE CEYLON TOURISTBOARD ACT, NO. 10 OF 1966 AND TO REPEAL CERTAIN PROVISIONS

OF THE TOURIST DEVELOPMENT ACT, NO. 14 OF 1968; AND TO

PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Tourism Act, No. 38 of2005 and shall come into operation on such date as theMinister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette(hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

PART I

CHAPTER I

SRI LANKA TOURISM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

2.(1) There shall be established for the purposes of thisAct, an Authority called the Sri Lanka Tourism DevelopmentAuthority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority).

(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1) be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall be kept in the custodyof the Authority and may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Authority.

Short title anddate of operation.

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaTourismDevelopmentAuthority.

2Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(4) The seal of the Authority shall be affixed to allinstruments signed by or on behalf of the Authority, in thepresence of the Chairman and two members of the Authoritywho shall sign such document in token thereof.

3.The objectives of the Authority shall be

(a)to develop Sri Lanka as a tourist and traveldestination both in Sri Lanka and abroad;

(b)to advise the Minister in charge of the subject ofTourism on matters relating to travel and the tourismindustry, within the policy formulated by theCabinet of Ministers, in relation to this sector;

(c)to provide guidance to the Sri Lanka TourismPromotion Bureau to develop, promote and marketSri Lanka as a tourist and travel destination both inSri Lanka and abroad;

(d)to provide guidance to the Sri Lanka Institute ofTourism and Hotel Management to undertake humanresource training and development activities;

(e)to work towards the enhancement of the tourismand travel sectors in order to secure a contributionfor the expansion and development of Sri Lankaseconomy;

(f)to develop and promote adequate, attractive andefficient tourist services, inclusive of the hospitalityindustry in a sustainable manner;

(g)to license and accredit tourist enterprises in order todevelop, enforce and maintain locally andinternationally accepted standards in relation to thetourism industry and other related industries;

(h)to encourage persons or bodies of persons in theprivate sector to participate in the promotion of thetourism industry and the promotional and trainingactivities connected with such industry;

Objectives of theAuthority.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 20053

(i)to do all such other acts as may be necessary orconducive to the attainment of all or any of theabove objectives.

4.The Authority shall consist of the following personsappointed by the Minister:

(a)the Chairman of the Authority;

(b)the Director-General of the Authority appointedunder section 10, (hereinafter referred to as theDirector-General);

(c)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject to Tourism or hisrepresentative;

(d)the Secretary to the Treasury or his representative;

(e)one member nominated by the Tourist HotelsAssociation of Sri Lanka;

(f)one member nominated by the Sri Lanka Associationof Inbound Tour Operators;

(g)one member nominated by the Travel AgentsAssociation of Sri Lanka;

(h)one member appointed by the Minister from amongpersons possessing experience and knowledge inthe fields of travel and tourism; and

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Provincial Councils or hisrepresentative.

5.(1) A person shall be disqualified from beingappointed or from continuing, as a member of the Authority,if he is, or becomes,

(a)the owner, partner, director, majority shareholder oran employee of, or in, any business which operatesor provides tourist services of any class or description.

Composition ofthe Authority.

Disqualificationfrom membershipof the Authority&c,.

4Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(b)a member of Parliament or a member of a ProvincialCouncil or of a local authority;

(c)convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude;

(d)of unsound mind or physically incapacitated ;

(e)an undischarged bankrupt or an insolvent; or

(f)absent without prior notice from three consecutivemeetings of the Authority:

Provided however that the provisions of paragraph (a)shall not apply in respect of a member appointed in terms ofparagraphs (e), (f), (g) and (h) of section 4.

(2) Every appointed member of the Authority shall unlesshe earlier vacates office by death or resignation, hold officefor a period of three years from the date of his appointment tosuch office and shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(3) A member of the Authority may resign from office, atany time by letter addressed in that behalf to the Minister.

(4) A member of the Authority, who is in any way, directlyor indirectly interested in any contract entered into, orproposed to be entered into by the Authority, shall disclosethe nature of his interest at any meeting of the Authority andsuch disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of theAuthority. Such member shall not participate in anydeliberation or decision of the Authority in respect of anymatter connected with such interest.

(5) No act or proceeding of the Authority shall be deemedto be invalid only by reason of the existence of a vacancy inits membership or any defect in the appointment of a memberthereof.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 20055

(6) The Minister may, if it is expedent to do so, removefrom office any member of the Authority other than theDirector-General, for reasons assigned.

(7) The Chairman, Director-General or an appointedmember may resign from his office, by letter addressed to theMinister. Such resignation shall be effective from the date ofits acceptance by the Minister.

(8) In the event of the death, resignation or removal ofthe Chairman or any appointed member, the Minster mayappoint another person to succeed such Chairman or memberas the case may be. The person so appointed shall hold officefor the unexpired portion of the term of office of the memberwhom he succeeds.

(9) Where the Chairman or any appointed member istemporarily unable to perform the duties, of his office onaccount of ill-health, absence from Sri Lanka or for any othercause, the Minster may appoint any person to act in the placeof the Chairman or such member.

6.(1) The Authority shall formulate and present to theMinister

(a)the proposed long term goals for tourist developmentis Sri Lanka;

(b)the proposed four year plan for the development oftourism within Sri Lanka.

(2) The Minster shall on receipt of the long term goals andthe four year plan under subsection (1), submit the same tothe Cabinet of Ministers for approval. The Cabinet ofMinisters may approve the long term goals and the four yearplan with or without amendments :

Provided that the aforesaid four year plan shall be revisedannually in order to include changes in policy or includeother new long term goals. Every such revision shall besubmitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for approval.

Preparation andapproval of thelong term goalsand the four-yearplan.

6Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

7.(1) The Chairman of the Authority shall preside at allmeetings of the Authority. In the absence of the Chairmanfrom any such meeting any member elected by the memberspresent shall preside at such meeting.

(2) The Chairman or the person presiding at any meeting,shall in addition to his vote, have a casting vote.

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Authority shall befive members, unless otherwise agreed upon by the Authority.

(4) The Authority may make rules for the regulation ofthe procedure to be followed at the meetings of the Authorityand for the transaction of business at such meetings.

8.The principal office of the Authority shall be situatedin Colombo, in Sri Lanka. The Authority may howeverestablish and maintain branch offices within or outside SriLanka.

9.(1) The Authority may delegate all or any of thepowers, duties or functions conferred on it or assigned to it,by this Act or any other written law, to the Chairman.Notwithstanding such delegation, the Authority may continueto exercise, perform and discharge any power, duty or function,so delegated.

(2) In the exercise, performance and discharge of thepowers, duties and functions conferred on or assigned to himin terms of subsection (1), the Chairman shall be subject tothe general or special directions of the Authority.

10. (1) There shall be appointed by the Minister on theadvice of the Authority a person to be the Director-General,who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority.The criteria applicable and the procedure to be followed inthe appointment of the Director-General shall be asprescribed.

Meetings of theAuthority &c,.

Head office of theAuthority.

Delegation ofpowers of theAuthority.

The Director-General to be theChief ExecutiveOfficer.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 20057

(2) The Minister may, on a request made in writing by theAuthority for reasons stated, and after such inquiry as isnecessary, remove the Director-General from office for reasonsassigned. The Director-General shall thereupon be deemedto have vacated office.

(3) The Authority may on a proposal of the Chairmandelegate to the Director-General such power or function as isdeemed necessary. The Director-General shall act inaccordance with rules of the Authority as may be made inthat behalf.

(4) The Director-General shall hold office for a period offive years from the date of his appointment as Director-General.

11.(1) The Chairman shall be responsible for ensuringco-ordination of the activities within the TourismDevelopment Areas declared under section 26.

(2) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of theAuthority and in his absence any member elected by themembers present shall preside at such meeting.

12.The Authority may exercise, perform and dischargeall or any of the following powers, duties and functions :

(a)to act with the concurrence of the Minister, as anagent of the government for the transaction ofbusiness connected with the tourism or travelindustry;

(b)to engage in, assist in or promote the improvementof facilities being provided for tourists to Sri Lankaand to develop Sri Lanka as a tourist destination;

(c)to establish, maintain and operate servicesconnected with the tourism industry and to co-ordinate the activities of the persons providing suchservices for tourists;

Powers &c,. of theChairman.

Powers andfunctions of theAuthority.

8Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(d)to prescribe, regulate, maintain and enforce thestandards to be maintained by the differententerprises of the tourism and travel industry;

(e)to license the different enterprises, on criteria to bedetermined by the Authority and to prescribe theterms and conditions applicable to the same;

(f)to acquire, hold, take on lease, hire, pledge orotherwise dispose of any movable or immovableproperty: provided however, immovable propertymay be disposed of only with the prior writtenconsent of the Minister;

(g)to engage consultants both local and foreign,whenever the need to do so arises for the efficientdischarge of its functions;

(h)to liase with the Provincial authorities wheneverthe need to do so arises on any matter relating to thetourism industry;

(i)to promote and assist in the development of supportindustries and services;

(j)to establish companies or other bodies in order tofacilitate the achievement of the objectives of theAct;

(k)to make rules in respect of matters specified in theAct;

(l)to carry on the business of providing transportfacilities to persons visiting tourist attractions inSri Lanka;

(m)with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers

(i)to formulate and prepare a four year plan, andother relevant plans and programmes for thedevelopment of tourism within and outsideSri Lanka in keeping with its objectives;

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 20059

(ii)to invest the money of the Authority in anybusiness within or outside Sri Lanka, whichwill promote or be conducive to the promotionof, the tourism industry in Sri Lanka;

(iii)to enter into any joint venture with any personor form a company, whether in Sri Lanka oroutside, in order to discharge all or any of thefunctions of the Authority;

(n)with the approval of the Minister

(i)to manage, control or supervise tourismenterprises, within or outside Sri Lanka, byappointing Directors or advisors, or byentering into collaboration with other persons;

(ii)to borrow money, whether by way of overdraft,loan or otherwise for the purposes of theAuthority;

(iii)to provide financial assistance by way of grant,loan or otherwise, subject to such terms andconditions as may be determined by theAuthority, to persons intending to engage intourist or travel services;

(o)to levy fees or other charges for services, facilitiesor equipment provided by the Authority;

(p)to exercise, perform and discharge all such powers,duties and functions as are by or under this Act vestedin or assigned or delegated to the Authority; and

(q)to do all such other acts and things as may benecessary or conducive to the exercise, performanceand discharge of its powers, duties and functionsunder this Act.

10Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

13.It shall be the duty of the Authority

(a)to advise the Minister on all matters relating to thetourism and travel industry on a request of theMinister or on its own motion;

(b)to advise the tourism and travel industry and otherrelated enterprises with regard to the developmentsin the field;

(c)to prepare and submit to the Minister schemes inrespect of the establishment, regulation andsupervision, development and control of touristresorts and tourist services and the persons employedin or about the same; and

(d)to formulate proposals in respect of the above forthe guidance of the Minister.

14.The members of the Authority shall be remuneratedat such rates and in such manner and be subject to such termsand conditions of service, as may from time to time, bedetermined by the Minster in consultation with the Ministerincharge of the subject of Finance.

15.(1) There may be appointed to the staff of theAuthority such officers and servants as the Authority maydeem necessary for the efficient discharge of the powers,function and duties assigned to or conferred on, the Authorityunder the Act.

(2) The Authority may, subject to the general directionsof the Minister as to policy

(a)appoint, dismiss and exercise disciplinary controlover the staff of the Authority;

(b)determine the salary, wages or other remunerationof such staff; and

(c)determine the terms and conditions of service ofsuch staff.

Special duties ofthe Authority.

Remuneration andterms andconditions ofservice ofmembers.

Staff of theAuthority.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200511

(3) (a) At the request of the Authority any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and theMinister in charge of the subject of Public Administration,be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority forsuch period as may be determined by the Authority with likeconsent or with like consent be permanently appointed tosuch staff.

(b) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappionted to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

(c) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, mutatis mutandis, apply toand in relation to him.

(d) Where the Authority employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which he hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service to the Authority by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations under such contract.

16.(1) The Authority may establish and maintain suchdepartments as it may consider necessary for the proper andefficient conduct of the affairs of the Authority.

(2) The Authority shall determine the duties and functionsto be assigned to each of the departments established undersubsection (1).

(3) The Authority may with the concurrence of the Ministerappoint such number of Committees comprising of itsmembers or any other persons possessing appropriateexpertise to assist the Authority in the discharge of itsfunctions. Such Committees shall at all times be headed by amember of the Authority.

Departments andCommittees of theAuthority.

12Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(4) The Authority may make rules setting out the functionsof such Committees.

17.(1) The Authority may make rules relating to theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers, dutiesand functions vested in, or assigned to, the Authority, inrespect of any matter for which rules are authorized to bemade.

(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall come intooperation upon being approved by the Minister. Every suchrule shall be published in the Gazette.

18.(1) The Minister may, in consultation with theAuthority, issue general policy directions to the Authority,not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, in relation tothe exercise, performance and discharge by the Authority ofits powers, duties and functions.

(2) The Authority shall give effect to any such directionsissued by the Minister.

(3) The Authority shall also furnish to the Minister suchinformation as the Minister may from time to time require inrelation to the activities and property of the Authority.

CHAPTER II

FINANCE AND ACCOUNTS

19.(1) There shall be a Fund established for the generalfinancial purposes of the Authority. There shall be paid intothe Fund :

(a)all such money as may be voted by Parliament forthe management and administration of the affairs ofthe Authority ;

(b)all rates, duties, fees and charges levied by theAuthority under the regulations or rules made ordeemed to be made under the provisions of this Act

Power ofAuthority to makerules.

Authority tocomply withdirections issuedby the Minister.

Fund of theAuthority.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200513

or in the exercise of any powers conferred on theAuthority by or under this Act ;

(c)all revenue derived by the Authority from anyproperty vested in or administered by the Authority ;

(d)all revenue derived by the Authority from servicesprovided by the Authority ;

(e)all money received by way of charges for servicesprovided by the Authority or on behalf of theAuthority by an authorized agent, and for anycertificate, license or approval granted by it for thepurposes stated in the Act ; and

(f)all other sums otherwise accruing to the credit ofthe Authority.

(2) The Authority shall make rules, with the concurrenceof the Minister, for the withdrawal of any moneys from theFund and no sum shall be withdrawn from the Fund except inaccordance with such rules.

20.(1) The Authority shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its assets and liabilities, income and expenditure andall other transactions of the Authority.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shallapply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.

(3) (a) The Authority shall on receipt of the Auditor-Generals report in respect of any year, cause the report of theDirector-General on the administration of the affairs of theAuthority which shall contain a detailed report of the stepstaken for the furtherance of the objectives of the Act, to betransmitted to the Minister along with the followingdocuments :

(i)the Auditor-Generals report for the relevant year;

Audit of accounts.

14Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(ii)the Balance Sheet for the relevant year ; and

(iii)the Profit and Loss Account for the relevant year.

(b) The Minister shall cause copies of the report anddocuments transmitted to him under paragraph (a) to be laidbefore Parliament.

(4) The financial year of the Authority shall be thecalender year.

(5) The Authority shall have the power, where the AuditorGeneral considers it to be necessary, to engage the services ofqualified auditors to assist in the preparation of the reportsand accounts required by this section, who shall act underthe direction and control of the Auditor-General.

For the purposes of this section qualified auditor shallhave the same meaning as in paragraph (8) of Article 154 ofthe Constitution.

21.Every member, officer or servant of the Authorityshall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning,and for the purposes, of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

22.The Authority shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter26) and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

Members, officersand servants of theAuthority deemedto be publicservants.

Authority deemedto be a ScheduledInstitution withinthe meaning of theBribery Act.(Chapter 26)

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200515

CHAPTER III

TOURISM DEVELOPMENT FUND

23. (1) There shall be established for the purposes of thisAct a Fund to be called the Tourism Development Fund(hereinafter referred to as the Fund) which shall be utilizedfor the development and promotion of tourism in accordancewith the provisions hereinafter set out and any regulationswhich may be made in that behalf. The Fund shall bemanaged and administerd by the Authority.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund established bysubsection (1)

(a)one-third of the sum collected by way ofEmbarkation Levy in terms of section 2 of theFinance Act, No. 25 of 2003 ; and

(b)all such sums of money as are required to be paidinto such fund by or under this Act.

(3) Thers shall be paid out of the Fund

(a)all sums of money required to defray anyexpenditure incurred by any organization or anyperson in the promotion or development of tourism,in accordance with regulations which may be madein that behalf ; and

(b)all sums of money as are required to be paid out ofsuch Fund.

(4) The accounts of the Fund shall be audited inaccordance with paragraph (8) of Article 154 of theConstitution.

(5) The report of the Auditor-General on the accounts ofthe Fund shall be placed before Parliament by the Minister.

Establishment ofthe TourismDevelopmentFund.

16Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

24. (1) There shall be charged, levied and collected bythe Director-General, in terms of section 12 of the FinanceAct, No. 25 of 2003, a Tourism Development Levy, on theturnover of every institution, licensed under the TouristDevelopment Act, No. 14 of 1968

(2) The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 25 of2003 shall apply in relation to the imposition of the levy, themethod of payment of the levy and the manner of furnishingreturns relating to the collection of such levy to the DeputySecretary to the Treasury.

(3) Rules may be made by the Authority for themanagement and administration of the levy.

(4) The levy charged and levied in terms of the aforesaidprovisions shall be entered into a register by the providers ofthe respective servics and shall be properly accounted forand separate accounts maintained by the provider of suchservices, of the monies paid as levy.

(5) A monthly statement, containing in the prescribedmanner all the details of the amounts collected as levy shallbe forwarded to the Authority by each service provider on orbefore the fifteenth day of the succeeding month.

(6) All monies collected on account of the levy chargedby the Authority shall be paid to the Authority within fifteendays of the submission of the monthly satatement as providedfor in subsection (5).

(7) Every person who contravenes or fails to comply withthe provisions of subsection (5) and (6) of this section shallbe guilty of an offence under this Act.

(8) The moneys collected by way of the levy by theDirector-General, shall be paid into the Tourist DevelopmentFund established under subsection (1) of section 23 and all

Levy of theTourismDevelopmentLevy.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200517

monies lying to the credit of the Fund shall be disbursed inthe following manner :

(a)a sum amounting to seventy percentum (70%) to bepaid to the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureauestablished under section 40 ;

(b)a sum amounting to twelve percentum (12%) to bepaid to the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and HotelManagement established under section 33 ;

(c)a sum amounting to fourteen percentum (14%) tobe paid to the Authority ; and

(d)a sum amounting to four percentum (4%) to be paidto the Sri Lanka Convention Bureau establishedunder section 42.

(9) The moneys collected by way of the levy and disbursedin the manner set out in subsection (8) ahall be used solelyfor the purposes of making payments in connection with thepromotion and marketing of Sri Lanka as a tourist and traveldestination.

PART II

CHAPTER IV

TOURIST DEVELOPMENT AREAS

25.The Authority shall have jurisdiction in and over anyTourist Development Area declared in terms of section 26.

26.(1) The Minister may on the recommendation ofthe Authority from time to time, declare by Order publishedin the Gazette, any area to be a Tourist Development Area(hereinafter referred to as an Area).

Authority to havejurisdiction over adeclared area.

Declaration ofTouristDevelopmentAreas.

18Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(2) The Authority may prior to making anyrecommendation under subsection (1), conduct such publichearing after due notice to the inhabitants of that area or anyother stakeholders, in such manner as shall be prescribed.

(3) Regulations may be made prescribing the touristservices and commercial and other activities which may becarried out within an Area declared in terms of subsection(1). Such regulations may also include lists of facilities andplaces of historical or environmental interest which amountto tourist attractions, within such Area.

27.(1) Every Order published in terms of section 26shall specify the boundaries of the area or areas so declared.An Area may include any National Holiday Resort or anyother area administered by the Authority under any writtenlaw.

(2) Every Order in terms of section 26 shall be valid for aperiod of ten years.

(3) Upon the declaration of any area in terms of section26, the Authority may exercise, perform and discharge inrelation to any such Area declared in terms of section 26 thepowers, duties or functions conferred or imposed on orassigned to, any person, body or authority by any relevantwritten law, in so far as the same is necessary, in consultationwith the relevant authorites specified in the aforesaid writtenlaws and to the extent agreed.

(4) The Authority may by regulation specify

(a)the conditions applicable to access to any area whichfalls within an Area declared in terms of section 26.Such regulations shall not however apply in respectof public roads, public monuments, places ofworship, public parks, public offices, schools,dispensaries and other public places and facilitiesprovided by either the government, a ProvincialCouncil or a local authority, which were in existenceat the time of the promulgation of such regulation ;

Orders relating toTouristDevelopmentAreas.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200519

(b)the categories of commercial actvities which in theopinion of the Minister would affect the Tourismindustry and which may therefore requireprohibition within any such Area or Resort, takinginto consideration the necessity for providingsecurity and safety to the persons entering suchareas and for taking measures for the prevention ormitigation of health hazards within such areas ; and

(c)the facilities and sites available within an Area foruse by tourists, including sites of interest and placesof recreation.

28.(1) Any person who within an Area declared in termsof section 26, prevents or acts in such a manner as to preventany other person from enjoying the facilities available withinsuch Area or does any act which interferes with the privacyof any other person, or contravenes any regulation made underparagraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (3) of section 27 shall beguilty of an offence and shall on conviction after trial beliable to a fine not less than rupees twenty five thousand andnot exceeding one hundred thousand.

(2) For the purposes of this Part privacy shall includethe right of any person to be left alone in his enjoyment ofthe environment, and the facilities and services availablewithin any area declared as a Tourist Development Area interms of section 26, without any intrusion into his privatelife, which intrusion could be considered offensive to areasonable person.

29.(1) Upon the declaration of an Area in terms ofsection 26, the Authority shall for a period of ten years, bevested with all the powers necessary for the environmentalplanning and preservation of archaeology under the NationalEnvironmental Act, No. 47 of 1980 and the AntiquitiesOrdinance (Chapter 188), to such extent on the same isnecessary for the implementation of the development planwithin the declared area.

Protection ofprivacy within anyarea declaredunder section 26.

Authority to bevested with powersunder the NationalEnvironmental Actand the AntiquitiesOrdinance.

20Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(2) The Central Environmental Authority shall, in respectof any matter where the Authority is vested with the power interms of subsection (1), be required to submit itsrecommendation to the Authority within the prescribedperiod.

(3) (a) Upon the declaration of any Area in terms ofsection 26, it shall be lawful for the Minister, notwithstandinganything to the contrary in the National Environmental Act,No. 47 of 1980 to make regulations in consultation with theMinister in charge of the subject of Environment to prescribethe criteria to be followed in respect of environmentalplanning within such area. The procedure to be followed bythe Central Environmental Authority in this respect and thetime within which such recommendations have to be madeshall be as prescribed.

(b) Where the Authority is not in agreement with arecommendation of the Central Environmental Authority, itshall refer to matter to the Minister in charge of the subject ofEnvironment, whose decision thereon shall be final. A memberof the respective Committee shall be required to be present atall times when any such matter is being considered.

(c) The Minister, with the concurrence of the Minister incharge of the subject of Environment, shall make suchregulations as may be necessary prescribing the procedure tobe followed in the making of recommendations and the timewithin which any such recommendation should be made.

(d) The Minister in charge of the subject of Environmentshall make regulations prescribing the criteria to be followedin environmental planning within an Area as is declared undersection 26.

(4) (a) Upon the declaration of any area in terms of section26, it shall be lawful for the Authority to exercise powers inrespect of making available facilities to visitors at the sites of

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200521

such antiquites, in terms of the Antiquities Ordinance(Chapter 188) within such area. In the exercise of these powersthe Authority shall obtain the consent of the Commissionerof Archaeology. The procedure to be followed in obtainingsuch consent shall be as prescribed.

(b) The Minister shall, with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Antiquities, make suchregulations as may be necessary prescribing the procedure tobe followed in the preservation of antiquities within anysuch Area as is declared under section 26.

(5) Regulations may be made specifying the extent towhich and the manner in which and the persons by whom theprovisions of any other written law shall be applied in relationthere to. Any such regulation shall be made in consultationwith the Minister in charge of the relevant subject.

(6) In this section Central Environmental Authoritymeans the Central Environmental Authority established underthe National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.

30.Trekking areas and nature trails shall be declaredand identified for such use. within any Area declared in termsof section 26. Fees as prescribed by regulation shall be chargedfrom persons using the trekking areas or nature trails. Themanner in which such areas should be used shall also beprescribed. The Minister shall make regulations inconcurrence with the Minister in charge of the relevantsubject.

31.(1) The Authority shall, mutatis mutandis, exerciseall powers under the Tourist Development Act, No. 14 of1968 in respect of any Area declared under section 26 .

Declaration oftrekking areas andnature trails.

Authority toexercise powers&c,.

22Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

PART III

CHAPTER V

TOURISM ADVISORY COMMITTEE

32. (1) There shall be established a body to be called theTourism Advisory Committee (hereinafter referred to as theAdvisory Committee) for the purpose fo advising theMinister and the Authority on any matters in relation to thetravel and tourism industry.

(2) The Advisory Committee shall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio members :

(i)the Chairman of the Authority ;

(ii)the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Institute ofTourism and Hotel Management establishedin terms of section 33;

(iii)the Chairman of the Sri Lanka TourismPromotion Bureau established in terms ofsection 41 ;

(iv)the Chief executive Officer of the nationalcarrier of Sri Lanka ; and

(b)not less than five and not more than eleven personswho possess wide experience and qualifications inrelation to global travel, tourism and relatedindustries, who shall be appointed by the Minister.

(3) One of such persons shall be appointed as theChairman of the Advisory Committee.

(4) the Minister may for reasons assigned remove anymember of the Advisory Committee.

Establishment ofthe TourismAdvisoryCommittee.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200523

(5) It shall be the duty of the Advisory Committee totender advise on the future direction and strategy of the touristand travel industry and make its recommendations thereon.

(6) The Minister may give special or general directionsin writing as to the performance of the duties and the exerciseof the powers of the Advisory Committee, and the AdvisoryCommittee shall give effect to such directions.

(7) The Authority may forward any matter to the AdvisoryCommittee for its advise and the Advisory Committee shallforward its advise within the shortest possible period.

(8) The term of office of the members of the AdvisoryCommittee shall be three years: Provided that a memberappionted in place of a member who resigns or otherwisevactes office, shall hold office for the unexpired part of theterm of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(9) Any member who vacates office by effluxion of timeshall be eligible for re-appointment.

(10) (a) Any member of the Advisory Committee mayresign from office by letter addressed to the Minister.

(b) Where a member is temporarily unable to dischargethe duties of his office on account of ill health, absence fromSri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint someother person to act as a member in his place for the period ofhis absence.

(11) The Advisory Committee may with the approval ofthe Minister, appoint such officers or servants to assist theAdvisory Committee in carrying out its duties under thisPart.

(12) Where necessary, the members of the AdvisoryCommittee and other officers and servants may be paid suchremuneration out of the fund as may be determined by theAuthority.

24Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

CHAPTER VI

SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF TOURISM AND HOTEL MANAGEMENT

33.There shall be established a body called and knownas the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management,(hereinafter referred to as the Institute) which shall be abody corporate with perpetual succession and a commonseal and which may sue and be sued in such name.

34. The objectives of the Institute shall be :

(a)the identification of areas connected to the tourismindustry where training of personnel is needed andobtaining the services of the best academic andprofessional trainers is essential;

(b)the development of curricula in identified areas ofstudy,

(c)to provide tertiary education and vocational trainingin subjects related to tourism, to such extent as thesame is required for the development of tourism;

(d)to co-operate with persons or bodies training personsboth local or foreign to engage in work wholly orpartly connected with tourism;

(e)to award certificates of participation to eachindividual indicating the nature of the qualificationobtained from the Institute;

(f)to own, manage and participate in the ownershipand management of schools and training centreswholly or partly connected with tourism; and

(g)to exercise, perform and discharge the powers, dutiesand functions conferred or imposed on the Instituteby or under this Act or any other law in force for thetime being for the purpose of the attainment of itsobjectives.

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaInstitute ofTourism and HotelManagement.

Objectives of theInstitute.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200525

35.(1) There shall be a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as the Board) of the Institute,appointed by the Minister who shall be charged with themanagement and administration of the Institute.

(2) The Board shall comprise

(a)the person appointed as Chairman of the Board ofGovernors of the Institute;

(b)the Director-General of the Institute appointed undersection 36;

(c)the Director-General of the Authority appointedunder section 10;

(d)two persons appointed by the Minister who shall bepersons possessing knowledge in the fields oftourism, travel and training in hotel management;

(e)the Managing - Director of the Sri Lanka TourismPromotion Bureau established under section 40;

(f)six persons appointed by the Minister inconsultation with the Tourist Hotels Association ofSri Lanka, the Travel Agents Association ofSri Lanka, the Sri Lanka Association of Inbound TourOperators and the Hotel School GraduatesAssociation and selected in the following manner:

(i)two representatives from the Tourist HotelsAssociation of Sri Lanka;

(ii)one person nominated by the Travel AgentsAssociation of Sri Lanka;

(iii)one person nominated by the Sri LankaAssociation of Inbound Tour Operators; and

(iv)two nominees from the Hotel School GraduatesAssociation; and

Board ofManagementof theInstitute.

26Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(g)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Tourism or his representative.

36.(1) The staff of the Institute shall consist of thefollowing:

(a)the Director-General of the Institute appointed bythe Minister on the recommendation of the Boardof the Institute;

(b)such academic staff as are necessary for the conductof educational programs, who shall be appointedby the Institute with the approval of the Board;

(c)such other officers and servants as the Board shalldeem necessary for effectively carrying out thefunctions of the Institute.

(2) The procedure to be followed for the making of therecommendation under paragraph (a) above shall be asprescribed.

(3) The Director -General of the Institute shall be the ChiefExecutive Officer of the Institute and the staff of the Instituteshall be responsible for the administration and conduct ofthe business of the Institute, and shall carry out such dutiesas are entrusted to them by the Director-General and in suchmanner as is specified by the Director-General on therecommendation of the Board.

(4) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Boardmay

(a)appoint, dismiss and exercise disciplinary controlover the staff of the Institute;

(b)fix wages and salaries or other remuneration of suchstaff giving due consideration to current marketrates; and

Staff of theInstitute.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200527

(c)determine the terms and conditions of service ofsuch staff.

37.(1) The term of office of the members of the Boardshall be three years : Provided that a member appointed inplace of a member who resigns or otherwise vacates office,shall hold office for the unexpired part of the term of office ofthe member whom he succeeds.

(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed orfrom continuing as Chairman of the Institute if he is, orbecomes, the owner, a partner, a director, a majority shareholderor an employee of, or in, any business, which provides trainingin tourist services of any class or description and in hotelmanagement.

(3) Any member who vacates office by effluxion of timeshall be eligible for re-appointment.

(4) The Minister may remove any member of the Boardfrom office, for reasons assigned.

(5) (a) Any member of the Board may resign from officeby letter addressed to the Minister.

(b) Where a member is temporarily unable to dischargethe duties of his office on account of ill health, absence fromSri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint someother person to act as a member in his place for the period ofhis absence.

(6 ) The Board may with the approval of the Minister,appoint such officers or servants to assist the Board in carryingout its duties under this Part.

(7) Where necessary, the Members of the Board and otherofficers and servants may be paid such remuneration out ofthe fund as may be determined by the Authority.

Term of office&c,. of membersof the Board.

28Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

38.(1) The Hotel School established under theprovisions of the Ceylon Tourist Board Act, No. 10 of 1966shall vest in the Institute from the date of the coming intooperation of this Act.

(2) All property movable and immovable belonging tothe Institute on the date of vesting shall stand transferred tothe Institute.

(3) All members of the staff of the Hotel School shall onthe date of the coming into operation of this Act, be deemedto be the staff of the Institute, with effect from the said date.

(4) All moneys lying to the credit of the Hotel Schoolshall be transferred to the Fund established under section 19.

39.(1) The Institute shall in consultation with theMinister appoint an Academic Affairs Board, which shallconsist of a Director who shall be the Chairman, and fourother members.

(2) The Academic Affairs Board shall be responsible forthe implementation and management of the academicactivities of the Institute. The Academic Affairs Board shallbe charged with the administration of any school conductedor operated by the Institute.

(3)Regulations may be made prescribing

(a)the manner of appointing the members and to theAcademic Affairs Board and the manner in whichthe schools under the Institute should beadministered;

(b)the criteria required of persons seeking to establish,manage or operate privately owned Hotel Schoolsfor training in Tourism and Hotel Management andthe manner in which such Schools should beadministered.

Hotel School tovest in theInstitute.

Appointment ofAcademic AffairsBoard of theInstitute.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200529

CHAPTER VII

SRI LANKA TOURISM PROMOTION BUREAU

40.(1) There shall be established a body, which shallbe called and known as the Sri Lanka Tourism PromotionBureau (hereinafter referred to as the Bureau) which shallbe a body corporate with perpetual succession and a commonseal and which may sue or be sued in such name.

(2) The Bureau shall comprise

(a)the person appointed by the Minister to be theChairman of the Bureau;

(b)the Director-General of the Authority appointedunder section 10;

(c)the Managing Director of the Bureau;

(d)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance or his representative;and

(e)not more than six persons who shall be nominees ofthe Joint Council of the Sri Lanka Association ofInbound Tour Operators and the Tourist HotelsAssociation of Sri Lanka; and

(f)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Tourism or his representative.

(3) The person appointed as Chairman shall be a personhaving knowledge and experience in marketing andadvertising insofar as they relate to the tourism industry.

(4) The Bureau shall have the following objectives:

(a)Marketing and promoting of Sri Lanka directly orindirectly, as a tourist and travel destination of

Sri Lanka TourismPromotion Bureau.

30Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

quality, in accordance with the Tourist DevelopmentPlan in consultation with the Authority;

(b)promoting Sri Lanka as a gateway to the South AsianRegion; and

(c)making Sri Lanka known as a centre of excellencein tourism management and development in theregion.

(5) The Bureau shall be entrusted with such powers, dutiesand functions as may be assigned to it by the Minister fromtime to time and with such other duties and functions as mayfrom time to time, taking into consideration the needs of thetourist industry, be assigned.

(6) The Authority shall make an annual allocation to theBureau for the implementation of the powers, duties andfunctions assigned to it and it shall be the responsibility ofthe Bureau to make optimum use of the funds allocated.

(7) The administration of the affairs of the Bureau shallbe entrusted to a Managing - Director who shall be appointedby the Minister for such purpose. The qualifications and othercriteria that shall be required of the person to be appointed tothe position of Managing - Director shall be as prescribed.

(8) For the purpose of carrying out efficiently its dutiesconnected with the promotion and marketing of Sri Lankaboth within Sri Lanka and abroad, the Bureau shall maintainoffices both within Sri Lanka and abroad.

(9) The Bureau shall submit to the Minister, before theexpiry of a period of three months from the end of eachcalendar year

(a)a report of its work during that year;

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200531

(b)a copy of its audited annual accounts for theprevious calendar year within three months of thecurrent year, and half year accounts before the endof the seventh month of the calendar year ;

(c)a statement containing such particulars as specifiedby the Ministry, amounting to an estimate of itsincome and expenditure for the succeeding calendaryear;

(d)a plan for a period of three years, projecting thework to be achieved by the Bureau;

(e)a statement containing achievements andperformance relating to the plan presented for theprevious year.

41.(1) The term of office of the members of the Bureaushall be three years. Provided that a member appointed inplace of a member who resigns or otherwise vacates office,shall hold office for the unexpired part of the term of office ofthe member whom he succeeds.

(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor from continuing as Chairman of the Bureau if he is, orbecomes, the owner, a partner, a working director, a majorityshareholder or an employee of, or in, any business whichoperates or provides tourist services of any class or description.

(3) Any member who vacates office by effluxion of timeshall be eligible for re-appointment.

(4) (a) Any member of the Bureau may resign from officeby letter addressed to the Minister.

(b) Where a member of the Bureau is temporarily unableto discharge his duties of his office on account of ill health,absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister mayappoint some other person to act as a member in his place forthe period of his absence.

Term of office &c,of members of theBureau.

32Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(5) The Bureau may with the approval of the Minister,appoint such officers or servants to assist the Bureau incarrying out its duties under this Part.

(6) Where necessary, the members of the Bureau and otherofficerrs and servants may be paid such remuneration out ofthe fund as may be determined by the Authority.

CHAPTER VIII

SRI LANKA CONVENTION BUREAU

42.(1) There shall be established a body which shallbe called and known as the Sri Lanka Convention Bureau(hereinafter referred to as the Convention Bureau) whichshall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and acommon seal and which may sue or be sued in such name.

(2) The objectives of the Convention Bureau shall be :

(a)to promote Sri Lanka as a venue for international,regional and domestic conventions, meetings andexhibitions, and as an incentive travel destination;

(b)to provide a common policy designed to ensure theco-ordinated and co-operative development andmarketing of Sri Lanka as a venue for international,regional and domestic conventions, meetings andexhibitions and as an incentive travel destination;

(c)to co-ordinate and assist the promotion,development and servicing by the public and privatesector of international, regional and domesticconventions, meetings exhibitions and incentivetravel;

(d)to co-ordinate and co-operate with convention,exhibition and incentive travel organizers inSri Lanka and overseas to ensure the successfulstaging of conventions, meetings, and exhibitionsand the implementation of incentive travelprogrammes.

Sri LankaConventionBureau.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200533

(e)to prescribe and enforce the maintenance ofprofessional standards by persons or organizationsinvolved in handling various aspects of conventions,meetings, exhibitions and incentive travel;

(f)to encourage and promote the development ofprofessional skills among the different categoriesof persons or organizations involved in handlingconvention, meetings, exhibitions and incentivetravel ;

(g)to affiliate with, obtain membership of, or enter intoany agreement with any association or organizationengaged in developing or promoting conventions,meetings, exhibitions and incentive travel;

(h)to provide guidance to the Bureau to develop,promote and market Sri Lanka as a tourist and traveldestination both in Sri Lanka and abroad;

(i)to develop and promote adequate, attractive andefficient tourist services, inclusive of the hospitalityindustry, in a sustainable manner; and

(j)to do in Sri Lanka or elsewhere all such acts andthings incidental or conductive to the attainment ofthe objects of the Bureau.

43.(1) There shall be a Board of Management of theConvention Bureau comprising not less than five and notmore than thirteen members.

(2) The following shall be the nominated members of theBoard of Management:

(i)the Director-General of the Bandaranaike MemorialInternational Conference Hall and the exhibitionCentre or his representative;

(ii)the President of the Tourist Hotels Association ofSri Lanka or his representative;

Board ofManagement ofthe ConventionBureau.

34Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(iii)the President of the Sri Lanka Association of InboundTour Operators or the Vice President of suchAssociation;

(iv)the President of the Colombo City Tourist HotelsAssociation or his representative;

(v)the General President of the Sri Lanka Associationfor the Advancement of Science or the Vice Presidentof such Association;

(vi)the President of the Organisation of ProfessionalAssociations of Sri Lanka or the Vice President ofsuch Association;

(vii)the President of the Federation of Chambers ofCommerce and Industry of Sri Lanka;

(viii)the person representing the Ministry of Finance onthe Board of the Tourism Development Authority;

(ix)the Director-General of the Tourism DevelopmentAuthority appointed under section 10;

(x)an executive of Sri Lankan Airlines Limited,nominated by the management of Sri LankanAirlines Limited or an officer not below the rank ofSenior Executive; and

(xi)two nominees of the Minister in charge of the subjectof Tourism, one of whom shall be an officer of thatMinistry.

(2) The Chairman of the Convention Bureau shall benominated by the Minister in charge of the subject of Tourismfrom among the persons who are members of the Boardappointed under subsection (1). The Chairman shall holdoffice for a period of three years.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200535

(3) The Board of Management of the Convention Bureauis authorised to remove any member of the Board if themember is absent from three consecutive board meetings andis not represented by an alternate Member.

(4) The Minister in charge of the subject of Tourism mayin his discretion appoint a person who is the Chairman orPresident of an Association representing an under-representedsector of the industry as a member of the Board. Such membershall however not have the right to vote.

(5) Any remuneration to the members of the Board ofManagement of the Convention Bureau shall be determinedby in consultation with the Minister of Finance.

(6) A member of the Board of Management of theConvention Bureau shall not vote in respect of any contract inwhich he is directly interested, or on any matter arising throughsuch contract, and, if he does so, his vote shall not be counted.

44.The office of a member of the Board of Managementof the Convention Bureau shall be vacated if that member,

(a)becomes bankrupt, or insolvent, or makes anyarrangement, or composition, with his creditorsgenerally; or

(b)is prohibited from being a member of the Board ofManagement by reason of any order made under theprovisions of this Act; or

(c)becomes of unsound mind; or

(d)resigns his office by notice in writing to theConvention Bureau; or

(e)ceases to be a member of the Board of Managementof the Convention Bureau in terms of the Act.

Disqualifications.

36Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

45.The Convention Bureau shall employ a person to bethe General-Manager of the Convention Bureau. The General-Manager shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Bureauand the terms and conditions of employment of the General-Manager shall be specified by the Board of Management ofthe Convention Bureau.

46.(1) A person appointed to the Board of Managementof the Convention Bureau in place of a member of the Boardof Management shall be called an alternate member.

(2) A person appointed to be an alternate member shallnot receive in respect of such appointment, any remunerationfrom the Convention Bureau. The Board of Management ofthe Convention Bureau may however reimburse the alternatemember such reasonable expenses as he may incur in attendingand returning from meetings of the Board of Management ofthe Convention Bureau which he is entitled to attend, orwhich such member may otherwise properly incur in, or about,the business of the Convention Bureau, or may pay suchallowances as it may think proper in respect of these expenses.

(3) An alternate member to be nominated by the relevantBoard member in terms of subsection (2) of section 44 shallbe entitled to receive notices of all meetings of the Board ofManagement of the Convention Bureau, and to attend andvote as a member of the Board of Management at any suchmeeting at which his appointer is not present, and generallyto perform all the functions of his appointer in the absence ofsuch appointer.

(4) An alternate member may be appointed for a specifiedperiod, or consequent to or until a specified event.

(5) An alternate member ceases to be a member of theBoard of Management of the Convention Bureau if

(a)his appointer ceases to be a member of the Board ofManagement of the Convention Bureau; or

General-Managerof the ConventionBureau.

Alternate membersof the Board ofManagement ofthe ConventionBureau.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200537

(b)the alternate member compounds with his creditors,or is adjudged an insolvent ; or

(c)the alternate member resigns his office by notice inwriting ; or

(d)the alternate member of the Board of Managementof the Convention Bureau becomes a lunatic or aperson of unsound mind ; or

(e)the appointment of the alternate members of theBoard of Management of the Convention Bureau isrevoked by notice in writing by his appointer.

47.The Convention Bureau shall receive four percentum(4%) of the total sum collected as Tourist Development Levyand any other money allocated to it by the Government, forthe efficient functioning of the Convention Bureau.

PART IV

CHAPTER IX

REGISTRATION OF TOURIST ENTERPRISES AND TOURIST SERVICES ANDREGULATION OF PRICES, FEES, RATES AND CHARGES IN RESPECT OFTOURIST SERVICES

48.(1) The Minister may, on the recommendation ofthe Authority by Order published in the Gazette classifycertain businesses and services being operated within thetourist and travel industry, as Tourist Enterprises and TouristServices, respectively.

(2) Every Order made under this section shall be placedbefore Parliament.

(3) Every Tourist Enterprise and Tourist Service fallingwithin the classification made in terms of subsection (1) shallbe registered with the Authority and a license issued in thename of such Enterprise or Service by the Authority, accordingto the different classifications. A Register of Licensed Tourist

Monies of theBureau.

Declaration andregistration ofTourist Enterprisesand TouristServices.

38Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

Enterprises and Tourist Services should be maintained bythe Authority. The procedures to be followed and the mannerof issuing licenses shall be as prescribed.

(4) No Tourist Enterprise or Tourist Service shall carry onbusiness unless they are registered with the Authority in termsof this section. Any Tourist Enterprise or Tourist Servicecarrying on business without being registered or who havenot been issued with a license, shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act and shall be liable to have such registrationand license cancelled.

(5) Fees payable for such licensing and registration shallfrom time to time be specified by Order published in the Gazette.

(6) A license issued in terms of subsection (2) shall bevalid for such period as prescribed by regulations and shallbe issued in accordance with the procedure prescribed for therenewal of licenses.

(7) A license issued under this section shall be subject torequirement to maintain the minimum standards of theservices being provided by any Licensed Tourist Enterpriseor Tourist Service.

(8) The Authority shall make rules relating to-

(a)the presentation of a detailed Report to the Authorityprior to the issue of a License by the TouristEnterprise or Tourist Service setting out its capacityand ability to provide the service for which thelicence is being sought ; and

(b)the manner of carrying out inspections of the servicebeing provided by the licensed Tourist Enterpriseor Tourist Service under the license issued to it andthe monitoring of the same.

(9) Every Tourist Enterprise and Tourist Service licensedin terms of this section, shall in every advertisement,communication or other notification relating to the services

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200539

being provided by it, include a statement to the effect that itis a registered Tourist Enterprise or Tourist Service to whicha license has been issued in terms of this section.

(10) It shall be an offence for any Tourist Enterprise andTourist Service, which has not been registered to hold outthat it is a registered Tourist Enterprise and Tourist Service.

49.(1) The Minister on the advice of the Authority shallmake regulations prescribing Codes of Couduct which shallbe applicable in respect of all or any of the following TouristEnterprises and Tourist Services :-

(a)Tourist Hotels ;

(b)Travel Agents ;

(c)Tourist Guide Lecturers ;

(d)Specified Tourist Services (being a tourist serviceconsisting of services not falling within any of theabove) as may be identified by the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette in consultation with theAuthority.

(2) Any person who fails to comply with any matter set outin any Code of Conduct framed in terms of this section shallbe guilty of an offence and be liable to a fine of rupees onehundred thousand.

50.(1) The Minister on the advice of the Authority, maycategorize classes of Tourist Enterprises and Tourist Servicesand from time to time prescribe the standards to be maintainedby any such enterprise or service.

(2) Where the Minister has categorized the classes ofTourist Enterprises and Tourist Services, the Authority mayissue a Certificate of Standards to any class of TouristEnterprises or Tourist Services categorised undersubsection (1).

Powers of Ministerto prescribe Codesof Conduct.

Tourist Servicesand TouristEnterprises to becategorized fromtime to time.

40Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(3) Where any service being provided by any TouristEnterprise or Tourist Service is found to be below the standardspecified in the Certificate of Standards issued to it, theAuthority may identify steps which the enterprise or serviceis required to take to improve its standards and achieve thestandard specified in the Certificate. Where any enterprise orservice fails to comply with such steps as are identified bythe Authority, the Authority shall forthwith cancel theCertificate issued to such enterprise or service.

51.Any person to whom the grant of a license in termsof subsection (2) of section 43 is refused or whose Certificatehas been cancelled in terms of section 45, may appeal to anappeals tribunal appointed by the Minister for this purpose.The composition of the Tribunal and the procedure to befollowed by the Tribunal shall be prescribed.

52.(1) The minister shall prescribe a symbol to be thesymbol of the Authority. All duly registered travel and touristenterprises would be authorized to use or display the symbolin the manner prescribed.

(2) No person shall without the sanction of the Authorityuse or display the symbol of the Authority.

(3) Any person who without the permission of theAuthority uses or displays the symbol of the Authority or asymbol or representation so nearly representing the symbolof the Authority in such a manner as to mislead or confuse athird party, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

53. (1) The Chairman of the Authority on therecommendation of the members of the Authority may, whereit appears to him to be expedient so to do, after suchconsultation as may appear to be necessary, by Order regulatethe prices, rates, fees or charges that may be imposed, levied,demanded or recovered for the provision of any touristservice. Such order is in this Act referred to as a PriceRegulation Order.

Appeals.

Symbol of theAuthority.

Price RegulationOrder.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200541

(2) Any Price Regulation Order

(a)may be made operative to all tourist servicesthroughout Sri Lanka, or may be limited in itsoperation to tourist services in any such place orarea in Sri Lanka as may be specified in the order ;

(b)may be limited in its application to any suchdescription of tourist services as may be so specified ;

(c)may regulate prices, rates, fees or charges in respectof tourist services of different descriptions ordifferent classes of tourist services of the samedescription ; and

(d)may prescribe the conditions subject to which suchprices, rates, fees or charges may be imposed, levied,demanded or recovered by any such services,including conditions as to quality and standards ofthe amenities or facilities afforded by any suchservices.

(3) (a) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by the preceding provisions of this section, theDirector-General of the Authority shall, in making any PriceRegulation Order have regard primarily, to the necessity ofensuring that any description of tourist services of any oneclass shall be entitled to impose, levy, demand or recoverhigher maximum prices, rates, fees or charges than any otherclass of tourist services of the same description.

(b) For the purposes of this Chapter, the term class, inrelation to any travel or tourist service of any description,means the classification allotted or given to that service inthe register maintained for such purpose as required by law.

(4) Every Price Regulation Order shall come intooperation when such Order is made and signed by theChairman of the Authority

42Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(5) After any Price Regulation Order has been signed bythe Chairman of the Authority, public notice thereof shallforthwith be given

(a)by the publication of such Order in the Gazette ; and

(b)in any other manner as may be prescribed byregulations made for the purpose under this Act.

(6) Every Price Regulation Order shall, within two weeksof the date on which it comes into operation, be placed beforethe Minister for his consideration, and the Minister maythereupon approve or rescind the Order.

(7) Where any Price Regulation Order is rescinded by theMinister under subsection (6), notice of such rescission shallbe published in the Gazette, and the Order shall be deemed tobe rescinded with effect from the date of such publication,but without prejudice to anything done or suffered thereunderor any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued orincurred thereunder.

(8) Where any Price Regulation Order has been approvedby the Minister, notification of such approval shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(9) Any Price Regulation Order made in terms of the aboveprovisions may from time to time in the best interests of thetravel and tourist trade, be amended or varied.

(10) Every Price Regulation Order made under this sectionand approved by the Minister shall be placed beforeParliament.

54.Where any Price Regulation Order is for the timebeing in operation, the proprietor or manager of every touristservice to which that Order relates shall

(a)maintain, or cause to be maintained, a register ofprices, rates, fees or charges levied in respect of each

Obligations uponthe making of aPrice RegulationOrder.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200543

of the services provided by such proprietor ormanager and referred to in the Order ;

(b)make, or cause to be made, such register availablefor inspection by the Director-General of theAuthority or any person authorized in writing inthat behalf by the Director-General ; and

(c)exhibit, in a conspicuous place and in such manneras may be directed by the Director-General, a list ofthe prices, rates, fees or charges referred to in thatOrder.

PART V

CHAPTER X

GENERAL

55.Any expense lawfully incurred by the Authority inany suit or prosecution brought by or against the Authoritybefore any Court shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority,and any cost paid to, or recovered by, the Authority in anysuch suit or prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of theAuthority.

56. No writ against person or property shall issue againsta member of the Authority in any action brought against theAuthority.

57.Every instrument purporting to be an instrumentissued by the Authority and to be sealed as required by thisAct, or to be signed by or on behalf of the Authority shall beadmissible in evidence and be deemed to be prima facieevidence thereof.

58.The Authority or any person authorized in that behalfby the Authority may by notice require any person to furnishto the Authority or the person so authorized, within suchperiod as shall be specified in the notice, all such returns orinformation relating to such matters as may be required in

Payment ofexpenses incurredin suit orprosecution.

No writ to lieagainst anymember of theAuthority.

Instruments to beprima facieevidence.

Authority to callfor information.

44Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

order to facilitate the preparation by the Authority of touristor other schemes necessary for the implementation of theprovisions of this Act, as are within the knowledge of thatperson.

59.The Authority or any person authorized in thatbehalf by the Authority may, on application made in thatbehalf to the Magistrate, for the purpose of the exercise orperformance of the powers or duties conferred or imposed onthe Authority under this Act, enter upon or into any land orstructure situated in the area and may make such inspetions,surveys, examinations or inquiries as may be necessary forany such purpose.

60.(1) Any notice, order, instrument or other documentrequired under this or any Order made thereunder to be servedon any person, may be served-

(a)by delivering it that person ; or

(b)by leaving it at the usual or last known place ofabode of that person, or in the case of a bodycorporate, at the registered office of that body.

(2) Any document which is served in accordance withthe provisions of subsection (1) shall be deemed to havebeen duly served on the person to whom it is addressed.

61.(1) Any person who wishes to be employed in anytravel or tourist service shall register themselves with theAuthority in accordance with regulations which may be madein that behalf, as fit and suitable persons therefor.

(2) Any person who engages in employment in the travelor tourist services without registering with the Authority shallbe guilty of an offence.

62.(1) The Authority may make rules in respect of allor any matter for which Rules are authorized or required bythis Act to be made.

Authority mayenter upon land&c,.

Manner of serviceof notice &c,.

Power ofAuthority to makerules.

Persons willing tobe employed intravel or touristservices to beregistered with theAuthority.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200545

(2) No rule made by the Authority under this Act shallhave effect until it has been approved by the Minister. Everysuch rule shall be published in the Gazette.

63.(1) Every person who

(a)knowingly makes any false or incorrect statementin any application, return or other document madeor furnished under or for the purposes of this Act orany Order made thereunder ;

(b)false or refuses to furnish any information or returnrequired by the Act ; or

(c)resists or obstructs any person in the exercise,discharge or performance of any power, function orduty conferred or imposed upon that person by orunder this Act or any Order made thereunder,

shall be guilty of an offence.

(2) Every person who commits an offence, under thisAct shall, on conviction after summery trial before aMagistrate be liable to imprisonment not exceeding two yearsor a fine of not exceeding two hundred thousand rupees orboth such fine and imprisonment.

64.No prosecution for an offence under this Act shallbe instituted in any Court except with the written sanctionof the Authority.

65.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then,-

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector and officer of that body corporate ; or

Offences.

Sanction ofAuthority to beobtained forprosecutions.

Offences by bodyof persons.

46Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

(b)if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of thatfirm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence :

Provided however, that a director or an officer of suchbody corporate, or a partner of such firm, shall not be deemedto be guilty of such offence if he proves that such offence ascommitted without his knowledge or that he exercised, duediligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

66.(1) Any offence under this Act may, if no prosecutionfor such offence is pending be compounded by the Director-General of the Authority on the payment by the accused ofsuch sum of money as may be determined by the Director-General of the Authority or if a prosecution for such offenceis actually pending, be so compounded by the Director-General of the Authority with the concurrence of theMagistrate, upon the Magistrate recording reasons for socompounding.

(2) Compounding of an offence under this section shallhave the effect of an acquittal.

(3) Monies paid by the accused person for the purpose ofcompounding an offence shall be credited to the Fund of theAuthority.

67. (1) The Ceylon Tourist Board Act, No. 10 of 1966 ishereby repealed. The Minister shall by Order published inthe Gazette appoint the date on which such repeal shall takeeffect.

(2) From and after the repeal of the Ceylon Tourist BoardAct, No. 10 of 1966,

(a)all movable and immovable property vested in theCeylon Tourist Board on the day preceding the dateof repeal, shall with effect from the date appointedfor the repeal, vest in the Authority ;

Compounding ofoffences.

Repeal of theCeylonTouristBoard Act,No. 10 of1966.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200547

(b)all contracts, and agreements entered into by or withthe Ceylon Tourist Board and subsisting on the daypreceding the date of repeal, shall, with effect fromthe date appointed for the repeal, be deemed to becontracts and agreements entered into by or withthe Authority ;

(c)all actions and proceedings instituted by or againstthe Ceylon Tourist Board and pending on the daypreceding the date of repeal, shall, with effect fromthe date appointed for the repeal, be deemed to beactions and proceedings instituted by or against theAuthority as the case may be, and may be continuedand completed accordingly ;

(d)all persons who were members, officers and servantsof the Ceylon Tourist Board on the day precedingthe date of repeal, shall, with effect from the dateappointed for the repeal, be deemed to be members,officers and servants of the Authority ; and

(e)all judgments and orders made in favour or againstthe Ceylon Tourist Board and remaining unsatisfiedon the date preceding the date of repeal, shall, witheffect from date appointed for the repeal, be deemedto be judgments and orders made in favour of, oragainst, the Authority, as the case may be, and maybe enforced accordingly ;

(f)all training schools and institutes being controlledand managed by the Ceylon Tourist Board on thedate preceding the date of repeal, shall, with effectfrom date appointed for the repeal, be deemed tovest in the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and HotelManagement established by section 33.

(3) All permits and license issued in terms of the provisionsto the Ceylon Tourist Board Act, No. 10 of 1966 prior to therepeal of the aforesaid Act, shall continue to be valid andeffectual as if issued under the provisions of this Act unlessand until permits and license are issued in terms of this Act.

48Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

68.The Tourist Development Act, No. 14 of 1968 ishereby amended as follows :-

(1)by the insertion immediately after section 1 of thatAct of the following new section which shall haveeffect as section 1A of that Act :-

1A. Wherever the expressions principalAct and Board appear in this Act, suchexpressions shall be read and construed asbeing a reference to the Tourism Act, No.38 of 2005 and the Sri Lanka TourismDevelopment Authority established bysection 2 of the Tourism Act, No. 38 of2005, respectively.;

(2)by the repeal of sections 77, 78, 79, 80, 81 and 82 ofChapter I of Part IV of that Act;

(3)in section 103 of that Act

(a)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionBoard ;

(b)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionCompetent Authority; and(c)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionprincipal Act; and

(4) by the repeal of the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and SeventhSchedules to that Act.

69.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof matters for which regulations are authorized or required tobe made or to be prescribed by this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified, in the regulation.

Amendment ofTouristDevelopment Act,No. 14 of 1968.

Tourism Act,No. 38 of 2005and Sri LankaTourismDevelopmentAuthority to besubstituted forthe expressionsprincipal Actand Board,respectively.

Regulations.

Tourism Act, No. 38 of 200549

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient, after the date of its publication, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the date ofsuch disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

70.Where any land or any interest in any land is requiredby the Authority for any of its purposes, that land or interesttherein may be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act(Chapter 460) by the Government for the Authority and theprovisions of that Act shall apply for the purposes of theacquisition of that land, or interest therein. Such land or suchinterest therein shall, for the purposes of the Land AcquisitionAct (Chapter 460), be deemed to be required for a publicpurpose.

71.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Compulsoryacquisition ofland.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

50Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.