PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FINANCE ACT, No. 12 OF 2013

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd April, 2013]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 10.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 26, 2013

Finance Act, No. 12 of 20131

2PL 0070894,090 (03/2013)

[Certified on 23rd April, 2013]

L.D.O. 5/ 2013.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 16 OF 1995, THE FINANCEACT, NO. 25 OF 2003 AND THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 12 OF 2012;

TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF A CROP INSURANCE LEVY; AND

TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No.12 of2013.

PART I

AMENDMENT OF PART II OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 16 OF 1995

2. The Finance Act, No. 16 of 1995 (hereinafter in thisPart referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended, in section 5 thereof by the insertion immediatelyafter subsection (1) thereof of the following subsection:-

(1A) Notwithstanding the preceding provisionsof this section such semi- luxury dual purpose motorvehicle levy shall not be charged, with effect fromJanuary 1, 2013, in respect of a light truck registeredas a dual purpose vehicle under the Motor TrafficAct (Chapter 203) ..

3. Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, as follows :

(1)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expressiondiesel motor vehicle of thefollowing definition :-

dual purpose vehicle shall have the samemeaning assigned to it under the MotorTraffic Act (Chapter 203);;

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 5 of Act,No.16 of 1995.

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipal enactment.

2Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013

(2)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression luxury motor vehicle of thefollowing definition :-

light truck means a dual purpose vehicle witha drivers compartment having a single rowaccommodation along the same transverseaxis for the driver and passenger, adapted orconstructed wholly or mainly for the purposeof carriage of goods;;

(3)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionsemi- luxury dual purpose motor vehicleand substitution therefor of the followingdefinition:-

semi- luxury dual purpose motor vehicle meansa luxury motor vehicle or semi- luxury motorvehicle which is registered as a dualpurpose vehicle under the Motor Traffic Act(Chapter 203); .

4.Any person or body of persons who charged orcollected the semi-luxury dual purpose motor vehicle levy,in respect of a light truck, as provided for in the principalenactment during the period commencing from January 1,2013 and ending on the date on which the certificate of theSpeaker is endorsed in respect of this Act, shall be deemedto have acted with due authority and such charge orcollection shall be deemed to have been validly made:

Provided that the aforesaid provisions shall not affectany decision or Order made by any court or any proceedingspending in any court in respect of such levy charged orcollected during such period.

Validation.

Finance Act, No. 12 of 20133

PART II

AMENDMENT OF PART II OF THE FINANCEACT, NO. 25 OF 2003

5.Part II (Tourism Development Levy) of the FinanceAct, No. 25 of 2003 is hereby amended in section 11, by thesubstitution for the words Sales Agents licensed underTourism Development Act, No. 14 of 1968. of the followingwords:-

Sales Agents licensed under Tourism DevelopmentAct, No. 14 of 1968:

Provided further , such levy shall not be chargedon any institution having an annual turnover notexceeding rupees twelve million or a quarterlyturnover not exceeding rupees three million..

PART III

AMENDMENT OF PART IV OF THE FINANCEACT, NO. 12 OF 2012

6. The heading of Part IV of the Finance Act, No. 12 of2012 (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby repealed and the following headingsubstituted therefor:-

EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN ENTERPRISES FROM THEAPPLICATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF CERTAINACTS.

7. Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2), by the repeal of paragraph (a)thereof, and the substitution therefor of the followingparagraph:-

(a)shall carry out such activities either in a Free Portor a Bonded Area declared by regulations underthis Act ; .

Amendment ofsection11 ofPart II of Act,No. 25 of 2003.

Amendment ofthe Heading ofPart IV of ActNo.12 of 2012.

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

4Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013

8. Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2), by the repeal of paragraph (a)thereof, and the substitution therefor of the followingparagraph:-

(a)shall carry out such activities either in a FreePort or a Bonded Area declared by regulationsunder this Act ; .

9. Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2), by the repeal of paragraph (a)thereof, and the substitution therefor of the followingparagraph:-

(a)shall carry out such activities either in a FreePort or a Bonded Area declared by regulationsunder this Act ; .

10. The following sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 18 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 18A, 18B and 18C thereof:-

18A. (1) Subject to the provisions ofsubsections (2) and (3), there shall be exempted,from the application of the provisions of theActs referred to in the Schedule hereto, anyenterprise engaged in any one or more of thefollowing businesses, within the meaning ofan agreement entered into with the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka, under the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978-

(a) entrepot trade involving import, minorprocessing and re- export;

(b) off-shore business where goods can beprocured from one country ormanufactured in one country andshipped to another country withoutbringing the same into Sri Lanka;

(c) providing front end services to clientsabroad;

Insertion ofsections 18A, 18Band 18C in theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

Grantingexemption tocertainenterprisesfrom theapplicationof theprovisions ofcertain Acts.

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Finance Act, No. 12 of 20135

(d) headquarters operations of leadingbuyers for management of financesupply chain and billing operations;

(e) logistic services such as bondedwarehouse or multi- countryconsolidation in Sri Lanka.

(2) Any enterprise referred to in subsection(1) which is engaged in the physicalimportation of goods, wares or merchandisefor re- export shall,

(a) carry out such activities either in a FreePort or a Bonded Area declared byregulations under this Act ;

(b) notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1), be subject to theprovisions of the Customs Ordinance,in any movement of goods to and fromsuch Free Port or the Bonded Area , toand from the Sri Lankan territory as ifsuch goods had been imported into SriLanka or exported from Sri Lanka, asthe case may be .

(3) Any enterprise referred to in subsection(1), which is not engaged in physical movementof goods, wares or merchandise, may carry outsuch operations outside a Free Port or a BondedArea as referred to above.

18B. (1) Any new enterprise established onor after the date of the coming into operationof this Act, which is engaged in any one ormore of the following businesses, within themeaning of an agreement entered into with theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka, under theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of1978, shall be eligible, subject to the provisionsof subsections (2) and (3), for the exemptions

Extendingtheapplication oftheprovisions ofthe InlandRevenue Act,No. 10 of2006 tocertainenterprises.

6Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013

granted under the relevant sections of theInland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, if suchenterprise satisfies the requirements specifiedin the relevant section by which the exemptionapplicable is granted

(a) entrepot trade involving import, minorprocessing and re- export;

(b) off-shore business where goods can beprocured from one country ormanufactured in one country andshipped to another country withoutbringing the same into Sri Lanka;

(c) providing front end services to clientsabroad;

(d) headquarters operations of leadingbuyers for management of financesupply chain and billing operations;

(e) logistic services such as bondedwarehouse or multi- countryconsolidation in Sri Lanka.

(2) Any new enterprise referred to insubsection (1) which is engaged in the physicalimportation of goods, wares or merchandisefor re- export shall,

(a) carry out such activities either in a FreePort or a Bonded Area declared byregulations under this Act;

(b) notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1), be subject to theprovisions of the Customs Ordinance,in any movement of goods to and fromsuch Free Port or the Bonded Area , to

Finance Act, No. 12 of 20137

and from the Sri Lankan territory asif such goods had been imported intoSri Lanka or exported from Sri Lanka,as the case may be.

(3) Any new enterprise referred to insubsection (1), which is not engaged in physicalmovement of goods, wares or merchandise, maycarry out such operations outside a Free Port ora Bonded Area as referred to above.

18C. (1) Any new enterprise established onor after the date of coming into operation ofthis Act, and identified as a StrategicDevelopment Project in terms of the provisionsof section 3 of the Strategic DevelopmentProjects Act, No. 14 of 2008, which is engagedin any one or more of the following businesses,within the meaning of an agreement enteredinto with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka,under the Board of Investment of Sri LankaLaw, No. 4 of 1978, shall be eligible, subjectto the provisions of subsections (2) and (3), forthe exemptions granted under the StrategicDevelopment Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008

(a) entrepot trade involving import, minorprocessing and re- export;

(b) off-shore business where goods can beprocured from one country ormanufactured in one country andshipped to another country withoutbringing the same into Sri Lanka;

(c) providing front end services to clientsabroad;

Extendingtheapplicationof provisionsof theStrategicDevelopmentProjects Act,No. 14 of2008 tocertainenterprises.

8Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013

(d) headquarters operations of leadingbuyers for management of financesupply chain and billing operations;

(e) logistic services such as bondedwarehouse or multi - countryconsolidation in Sri Lanka.

(2) Any new enterprise referred to insubsection (1), which is engaged in the physicalimportation of goods, wares or merchandisefor re- export shall

(a) carry out such activities either in a FreePort or a Bonded Area declared byregulations under this Act;

(b) notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1), be subject to theprovisions of the Customs Ordinance,in any movement of goods to and fromsuch Free Port or the Bonded Area, toand from the Sri Lankan territory, as ifsuch goods had been imported into SriLanka or exported from Sri Lanka, asthe case may be.

(3) Any new enterprise referred to insubsection (1) which is not engaged in physicalmovement of goods, wares or merchandise, maycarry out such operations outside a Free Port ora Bonded Area as referred to above..

11.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figuressections 16, 17 and 18 of the words and figures sections16, 17, 18, 18A, 18B and 18C.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

Finance Act, No. 12 of 20139

12.The following sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 19 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 19A and 19B thereof:-

19A. (1) The Minister may make regulationsin respect of all matters which are required tobe prescribed or for which regulations areauthorized to be made under this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality ofsubsection (1), the Minister may, byregulations

(a)declare Free Ports and Bonded Areasfor the purposes of this Part of thisAct;

(b)specify the investment limits andother criteria required for theenterprises referred to under this Partof this Act;

(c)specify the conditions andexemptions in relation to local sales;

(d)specify the procedure to be followedin granting exemptions under thisPart of this Act; and

(e)specify monitoring authority and themechanism for monitoring.

(3) Every regulation made by the Ministerunder subsection (1) shall be published in theGazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication or on such later dateas may be specified therein.

(4) Every regulation made by the Ministershall as soon as convenient after its publicationin the Gazette be brought before Parliamentfor approval. Every regulation which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded fromthe date of disapproval but without prejudiceto anything previously done thereunder.

Insertion ofsections 19A and19B in theprincipalenactment.Regulations.

10Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013

(5) Notification of the date on which anyregulation is deemed to be rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette.

19B. In this Part of this Act, unless thecontext otherwise requires-

Board of Investment of Sri Lanka means theBoard of Investment of Sri Lankaestablished under the Board of Investmentof Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978;

Bonded Area means an area supervised bythe Board of Investment of Sri Lanka orthe Director-General of Customs or anyother Authority and declared byregulations under this Act;

Controller of Exchange means the Head ofthe Department of Exchange Controlestablished under the Exchange ControlAct (Chapter 423) ;

Controller of Imports and Exports meansthe Controller of Imports and Exportsappointed under section 2 of theImports and Exports (Control) Act(Chapter 236) ;

Customs Ordinance means the CustomsOrdinance (Chapter 235) ;

Director-General of Customs means theDirector-General of Customs appointedunder section 2 of the CustomsOrdinance;

entrepot trade includes any manufacturingactivity approved under this Part andcarried out by a new enterprise for re-export with a domestic value additionat a minimum rate of ten per centum,within a Free Port declared byregulations under this Part of this Act;

Interpretation.

Finance Act, No. 12 of 201311

Free Port means an area within a sea port oran inland dry port operated under thesupervision of the Sri Lanka PortsAuthority and declared by regulationsunder this Act;

logistic service includes inter alia-

(i) transshipment activities;

(ii) warehousing for temporarystorage of input or finish goodsfor local exporters; and

(iii) freight forwarding for clientsabroad;

Sri Lanka Ports Authority means theSri Lanka Ports Authority establishedunder the Sri Lanka Ports AuthorityAct, No. 51 of 1979;

Sri Lankan territory means the territory ofthe Republic of Sri Lanka and does notinclude any Free Port or a Bonded Areadeclared under this Part of this Act..

13.The following Schedule is hereby addedimmediately after section 20 of the principal enactment:-

Schedule(section 18A)

1. Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002;

2. Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009 ;

3. Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979 ;

4. Special Commodity Levy Act, No. 48 of 2007;

5. Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No.18 of2011;

6. Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989..

Addition of aSchedule in theprincipalenactment.

12Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013

PART IV

IMPOSTION OF CROP INSURANCE LEVY

14.(1) With a view of covering the damages sufferedby the farmers of Sri Lanka due to natural disasters , thereshall be charged and levied from every institution comingunder the purview of the Acts specified in the Schedulehereto, a levy of one per centum to be called the CropInsurance Levy (hereinafter in this Part referred to as thelevy ) on the after tax profits of such institutions.

(2) The levy imposed under this Part shall be remitted toa separate account maintained and administered by theNational Insurance Trust Fund Board established by theNational Insurance Trust Fund Act, No. 28 of 2006 .

(3) The provisions which may be necessary in theimplementation of the provisions of this Part shall beprescribed by regulations under this Act.

15.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are required to be prescribed or for whichregulations are authorized to be made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of such publication or onsuch later date as may be specified therein.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Every regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from thedate of disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

Imposition ofCrop InsuranceLevy.

Regulations.

Finance Act, No. 12 of 201313

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala Text Shallprevail.

Schedule(section 14)

1. Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

2. Finance Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988;

3. Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of2000.

14Finance Act, No. 12 of 2013

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.