PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
3rd Session 1958-59

IW 1A =

Income Tax (Amendment) Act,

No. 44 of 1958

Date of Assent : December 5, 1958

Printed on the orders of Government

Printed at the GovERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. Tu be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, Cotoupo
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable irs
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUuBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colomb, 1


Income Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 44 of 1958.

_ L. D—O. 54/57.
‘AN ACT TO AMEND THE INCOME Tax ORDINANCE.

[Date of Assent : December 5, 1958]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
and the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Income Tax
(Amendment) Act, No. 44 of 1958, and shall come
into operation on April 1, 1959.

°2. Section 2 of the Income Tax Ordinance
(hereinafter referred to as the “ principal enactment ”’)
is hereby amended as follows :—

(1) by the insertion, immediately after the
definition of ‘‘ business”, of the following
definition :—

‘“ charitable institution” means the
trustee or trustees of a trust, or a
corporation or an unincorporate
body of _ persons, established
for a charitable purpose only or
engaged solely in carrying out a
charitable purpose; ; and

(2) by the substitution, for the definition of
“charitable purpose’, of the following
definition :—

‘“ charitable purpose” means a purpose
for the benefit of the public or any
section of the public in or outside
Ceylon of any of the \following
categories :—

(a) the relief of poverty ;)

(b) the advancement of education
or knowledge ;

(c) the advancement of r ligion or
the maintenance of religious
rites and practices or the
administration of a place of
public worship ;

(d) any other purpose beneficial or
of interest to mankind not

' . falling within any of the
preceding categories ; ’..

‘ J.N. B 24938-4,054 (7/58)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Amendment of
section 2 of
Chapter 188.


4 Income Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 44 af 1958,

f" Tym
Amendment of 3. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby
srincipal ores amended by the insertion, immediately after sub:
enactment. section (1) of that section, of the following — ney

sub-sections :—

*“(1a) Any offertory, subscription or otheg:
donation to a charitable institution shall pbé:
deemed to be such income as is referred to‘ jny.
paragraph (h) of sub-section (1). mo,

(1B) Where no period of exemption from the.
tax is allowed to the charitable institution:
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 7c by:
the Commissioner to follow immediately the.
period of exemption from the tax consisting of?
the three years of assessment specified in para::
graph (a) of that sub-section, any such part of.
the donated sum or sums mentioned in that,
sub-section as remains, at the expiry of those
three years of assessment, unspent on the chari-’
table purpose referred to in that sub-section shall.
be deemed, for the purposes of this Ordinance,
to be income of that institution for the third of
those three years of assessment. a

(1c) Where no period of exemption from the
the tax is allowed to the charitable institution
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 7C by.
the Commissioner to follow immediately a period
of exemption from the tax already allowed by the
Commissioner to that institution, any such part.
of the donated sum or sums mentioned in that
sub-section as remains, at the expiry of the
period of exemption; already allowed, unspent
on the charitable purpose referred to in that
sub-section shall be deemed, for the purposes of.

_ this Ordinance, to be income of that institution
for the year of assessment constituting the.
period of exemption already allowed or the:
last of the years of pssessment included in the-
period of exemption 'already allowed. ”’.

|

sanendment ob 4. Section 7 of the! principal enactment, 45”
principal | amended by Act No. 30 of 1950, is hereby further:

snactment, amended, in sub-section (1) of that section, by:

the omission of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of that:
sub-section: - —


Income Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 44 of 1958. 5

. 5. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 7p, and shall have effect
as section 7c, of the principal enactment :—

heoinein, 7c. (1) Any sum of money which
chaniabign consists of—

institutions,

(i) any offertory, subscription or
other donation to a chari-
table institution, or

(ii) the proceeds of the sale of any
movable property donated to
a charitable institution for
conversion into money by the
sale thereof,

shall, if such sum is spent on a charitable
purpose of that institution, be exempt
from the tax.

(2) Where in any year any sum of not
Jess than one thousand rupees is donated,
or any sums the aggregate of which is not
less than ten thousand rupees are
donated, to a charitable institution in
order that such sum or sums may be
spent on such charitable purpose of that
institution as is within the meaning of
this Ordinance and is specified by the
donor or donors, then—

(a) the donated sum or sums shall
be exempt from the tax in the
year of assessment in which
the donation or donations is
or are made and in the next
two succeeding years of assess-
ment ; |

(5) if the whole or a parti of the
donated sum or sums is in-
vested in any securities of the
Government of Ceylon within
the three aforesaid years of
assessment (the amount so
invested being hereafter in
this sub-section referred to
as the “originally invested
amount’) and if, before the
expiry of those three years of
assessment, the aforesaid

Insertion of new
section 7c in the
Principal
enactment.


4ncome Lax (Amendment) Act, NO. 44 of 1958.

charitable nstenion applies:
in writing to the Commis..:
sioner for a period of exemp:..
tion from the tax in respect of
a sum which represents the

whole ora part of the originally
Invested amount on the.
ground that due to circum-

stances beyond the control of

that institution such sum will

not be spent on the aforesaid

charitable purpose before the

expiry of those three years

of assessment and if the Com-

missioner allows in respect

of such sum a period of

exemption from the tax, such

sum shall be exempt from

the tax in such period ;

(c) if thereafter from time to time,
before the expiry of any period
of exemption from the tax
already allowed by the Com-
missioner to the aforesaid
charitable institution, that
institution applies in writing
to the Commissioner for a
period of exemption from the
tax in respect of a sum which.
represents the whole or a
part of the originally invested
amount on the ground that
due to circumstances beyond
the control of that institution
such sum will not be spent
on the aforesaid charitable
purpose before the end of the
period of exemption from the
tax already jallowed by the
Commissioner and if the
Commissioner allows in
respect of ‘such sum 4a
period of exemption from the
tax, such sum shall be exempt
from the tax in the period
allowed by the Commissioner
in respect of such sum.


Income Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 44 of 1958. 7

(3) If the profits of a business carried
on by a chari.able insti.ution are applied
solely to a charitable purpose of that
institution and either the business is
carried on in the course of the actual
carrying out of a primary purpose of
that institution or the work in connection
with the business is mainly performed
by beneficiaries of that institution, such
profits shall be exempt from the tax.

(4) The net annual value of any place
of public worship and its premises
administered by a charitable institution
shall be exempt from the tax.

(5) The net annual value of any place
or premises owned and occupied by a
charitable institution solely for any of the
purposes of that institution shall be
exempt from the tax.

(6) The profits and income from any
property donated by royal or other grant
before March 2, 1815, to any place of
public worship administered by a charit-
able institution shall, in so far as such
profits and income are applied to the
purposes for which such grant was made,
be exempt from the tax.

(7) Any sum of money spent on the
repairs of a building used solely for a
charitable purpose of a_ charitable
institution shall be exempt from the tax.

(8) Where any such sum of money as

- is referred to in sub-section (1) is applied
by a charitable institution to the settle-
ment of the whole or any part of a debt
which has been or is incurred by, that
institution for carrying out a charitable
purpose of that institution, the sum so
applied shall be deemed to be spent, on a
charitable purpose of that institution. ”’.
