PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
4th Session 1968-69
EY Se
ning S ter a
fo >» 1GhB= Dae
SON Qaet 2
is A yy,
BMrals fi
ees) we a
S$ QLmI/.s Be
Finance (Amendment)
Act, No. 36 of 1968
i Date of Assent: August 21, 1968
pita on the Ordre of Goward 7
:” eg a, ti, ems, Tam, Gaal, te
Pes ci errs ee eB be
anon Gubeciptin Caching Bil) Bs, 99 (aed), a 40
ral pobre ean BM) Roe ce) ae @
a a ge lcd
Ferien, comets Tater ak, Couns. as
ELDEST Mae er tg ee clans ta
oe a Baten eas oa
Price : 20 cents, Postage: 10 cents


Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 36 of 1968
L. D—0. 41/67.
An AcT To AMEND THE Finance Act,
No. 65 oF 1961.
(Date of Assent: August 21, 1968)

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
y and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Finance (Amend- short title
ment) Act, No. 36 of 1968.

2, Section 22 of the Finance Act, No. 65 of 1961, amendmen: ot
in this Act referred to as the “ principal Act”, is #2 2
hereby amended by the insertion, immediately after 198.
sub-section (1) of that section, of the following new
sub-section: —

“(1a) The opening of an account in any
approved bank in the name of any person, body
corporate, firm or other body of persons referred
to in sub-section a shall be deemed not to be a
contravention of the provisions of sub-section
().”.

3. The following new section is hereby inserted Insertion ot
immediately after section 22, and shall have effect as pe" stor
section 224, of the principal Act:— Sehacipal en

Special pro. «22a. (1) The Minister, acting on the
sion to enable recommendation of the Monetary Board,

Gpeoed ia banks, may, from time to time, by Order pub-

sitcr ton shove Jished in the Gazette, declare that any

‘ection 22). bank, other than any bank mentioned in

sub-section (1) of section 22, whose name

is specified in the Order shall, from such

date as shall be specified therein, be an

: approved bank for the purposes of this
section.

(2) The Minister, acting on the recom-
mendation of the Monetary Board, may,
by Order published in the Gazette,
amend or revoke any Order published
by him under sub-section (1).

ate —4.000 (780)


2 Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 36 of 1968

(3) The Monetary Board may, from
time to time, determine the terms and
conditions which shall be complied with
by any approved bank. The Monetary
Board shall communicate in writing
every such determination to such bank.

(4) Every Order made by the Minister
in pursuance of the provisions of this
section shall, as soon as may be after its
publication in the Gazette, be tabled in
the House of Representatives. The House
of Representatives may by resolution
revoke any Order made by the Minister
under this section within sixty days of
the publication of such Order in the
Gazette, and in the computation of such
period of sixty days no account shall be
taken of any period during which Parlia-
ment stands prorogued or dissolved. Such
poser 5 any Order shall be without
prejudice to the validity of anything
previously done thereunder.

(5) Any approved bank may open any
account whatsoever in that bank in the
name of any person, body corporate, firm
or other body of persons referred to in
section 22 (1).

(6) In section 22 and this section, the
expression—

. (@) “approved bank ’’ means any
gi bank in respect of which an
= Order published by the Minister

under sub-section (1) is for the

. : time being in force;

(b) “* Monetary Board’ means the

° Monetary Board of the Central
Bank established under the
Monetary Law Act.’.
