3rd Session 1958-59//,- : pps

z( 12 FERI959)-,

Employees’ Holidays Act, No. 6
of 1959 |

Date of Assent: February 9, 1959

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveERNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price; 25 cents. Postage: 10 cents,


Employees’ Holidays Act, No. 6 of 1959 3
_ L. D.—O. 22/57.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE GRANT OF SOME OF THE
PUBLIC HOLIDAYS TO CERTAIN CLASSES OF EMPLOYEES

AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO. .

[Date of Assent: February 9, 1959. }

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: — :

1. This Act may be cited as the Employees’ Holi-
days Act, No. 6 of 1959, and shall come into opera-
tion on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette.

2. (1) The Minister may, by Order published in
the Gazette, declare that such of the public holidays
as may be specified in the Order shall be holidays for
all employees or for any specified class or description
-of employees. }

(2) An Order under sub-section (1) is hereafter in
this Act referred to as a Holidays Order.

(83) A Holidays Order shall not apply to any
employee who—

(a2) is, within the meaning of the Shop and Office
Employees (Regulation of Employment and
Remuneration) Act, No. 19 of 1954, a
person employed in or about the business
of any shop or office, or

(b) is a worker in any trade for which a Wages
: Board has been established under the
Wages Boards Ordinance, No. 27 of 1941.

8. Where a Holidays Order is in force—

(a) every employee to whom such Order applies
shall, subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed under paragraph (6) of this

* section and to the provisions of section 4,
be entitled to take and shall take a holiday
on each day declared to be a holiday by
such Order, and

i———J, N. R 26572—8,054 (10/58)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Determination
of such of the
public holidays
as are to be
holidays for
certain
employees.

Liability of
employer to
allow holidays
under &
Holidays
Order and pay
remuneration
in respect of
such holidays.


Provision in
respect of
employees
who work on
holidays.

4 Employees’ Holidays Act, No. 6 of 1959

(5) the employer of every such employee shall,
subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed and to the provisions of section
4, allow such employee a holiday on each
such declared day and be liable to pay,
in respect of such holiday, remuneration
computed in the prescribed manner.

4. (1) Any employee to whom a Holidays Order
applies may, with the prior permission of the Com-
missioner, be employed on any day declared to be a
holiday by such Order. Where such employee is
employed on such day, his employer shall allow him a
holiday, with remuneration computed in the prescribed
manner, within such period as may be specified by the
Commissioner, or shall pay him in respect of such
day remuneration determined at a rate which shall
be double the rate at which he would ordinarily have
been remunerated in respect of such day if such day
had not been declared to be a holiday.

(2) The permission referred to in sub-section (1)
shall, in regard to any holiday, be granted by the
Commissioner in respect of any employee, or any class
or description of employees, or employees employed by.
any class or description of employers, if the Com-
missioner is satisfied—

(a) that such employee or each such employee
cannot be allowed such holiday without
substantial prejudice to the trade, business,
occupation, establishment or institution in
which he is employed, or

(5) that the trade, industry, business, occupation,
establishment or institution in which such
employee or each such employee is em-
ployed, or the nature of his work therein,
is such that the grant.of such holiday is
likely to cause considerable inconvenience

_to the public, or

(c) that the trade, industry, business, occupation,
_ establishment or institution in which such
_ employee or each such employee is employed
is essential to the life of the community.
and he is an essential worker therein.

(3) The permission referred to in sub-section (1)
may be granted by the Commissioner either specially
by means of permits or generally by means of a
notification published in the Gazette.


Employees’ Holidays Act, No. 6 of 1959 D-

5, Every employer of employees to whom a Holi-
days Order applies shall—

(2) keep conspicuously exhibited in the place
where such employees are employed a notice
containing such particulars as may be

_ prescribed, and

(b) maintain in that place such records as may be
prescribed.

6. (1) Where any employer is, by virtue of- any
other written law, required to maintain any register
or record relating to remuneration and hours of work
of his employees, he shall, if so required by any regula-
tion made under this Act, include in that register or
record such particulars as may be prescribed in respect
of any prescribed class or description of such
employees.

(2) Where by any regulation made under this Act
any prescribed particulars are required to be included
in any such register or record as is referred to in sub-
section (1), that register or record shall, for the pur-
poses of this Act, be deemed to be a register or record

maintained under this Act.

7. Subject to such conditions and restrictions as
may be prescribed, the Commissioner of Labour, any
Deputy Commissioner of Labour, any Assistant Com-
missioner of Labour or any prescribed officer shall have
power—

(a) to enter and inspect at all reasonable hours of
the. day or night any place in which
employees are employed, for the purpose of
examining any register or record of wages,
any register or record maintained or
deemed to be maintained under this Act,
or any notice required by this Act to be
exhibited, or of ascertaining whether the
provisions of this Act are being complied
with; or g

(b) where any such record or register is not avail-
able for examination when he is inspecting
_ such place, to require the production of
such register or record on a specified later
date for examination at such place or at

his office; or = des

(c) to’ take copies of the whole or any part of any
such register, record or notice; or ~

ag J. N. R 26572 (10/58)

Employer to -
exhibit
notices and :
maintain
records.

Inclusion of
prescribed
particulars
in register
or record
kept under
any other
written law,

Power of
entry and
inspection,


Power of the
Commissioner
to call for
returns.

6 Employees’ Holidays Act, No. 6 of 1959

(2) to interrogate any person whom he finds in
such place and whom he has reasonable
cause to believe is an employer or an em-
ployee engaged or employed in the trade,
industry, business or occupation carried on
in such place or is an employer or employee
in the establishment or institution in such
place.

8. (1) The Commissioner of Labour may direct an
employer to furnish to him before a specified date—

(a) a return relating to all his employees or any
specified class or description of such em-
ployees and containing such particulars as
the Commissioner may require’ for the
purposes of this Act; or

(5) such information or explanation as the Com-
Missioner may require in respect of any
particulars stated in any return furnished
by such employer; or

(c) a true copy of the whole or any part of anv
register or record maintained or deemed to
be maintained under this Act by such
employer.

(2) A direction under sub-section (1) may be given
by notice published in the Gazette and in two or more
newspapers circulating in Ceylon.

(3) Any employer furnishing any return or informa-
tion under sub-section (1) may transmit at the same
time a written request that such return or information
should be treated as confidential and, where such a
request is made, the return or information to which
the request relates shall not be disclosed without the
consent previously obtained of the employer who made
the request.

(4) No information (whether contained in a return
or not) furnished under sub-section (1) shall be so
arranged, in any report made or publication issued by
or with the authority of the Commissioner of Labour,
as to facilitate the identification of the information
as being information relating to any individual
employer or person.

(5) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this
section shall be deemed to require or permit any person
to disclose any information or to produce any document
in any case where the disclosure or production by him
of the information or document is prohibited by or
under the provisions of any other written law.


Employees’ Holidays Act, No. 6 of 1959 7

9. (1) Every person who—

(a) being an employer, fails to allow an employee
any holiday required by this Act to be
allowed to that employee or fails to pay
remuneration as required by this Act to
any employee in respect of such holiday;
or

(b) fails to furnish such means required by any
officer specified in section 7 as is necessary
for any entry or inspection or the exercise
of his powers under such section; or

(c) hinders or molests any such officer in the
exercise of his powers under such section;

(d) refuses or fails without reasonable cause to
produce any register or record or give any
information which any such officer requires
him to give under the powers conferred by
such section; or

(¢) prevents or attempts to prevent any other
person from answering any question put
by any such officer to such other person
during an interrogation of such other
person under such section; or -

(f) makes or causes to-be made any register,
record or notice which is false in any

material particular, or produces or causes .

or knowingly allows to be produced any
such register or record to any officer acting
under the powers conferred by such section,
knowing such record or register to be false;
or

(g) furnishes any information to any officer acting
under the powers conferred by such section,
knowing such information to be false; or

(2) fails to comply with any direction given by
the Commissioner of Labour under section
8, or who, when called upon to furnish any
return, information or copy under that
section, knowingly furnishes or causes to be
furnished any return, information or copy
containing any statement which is false

In any material particular; or :

(2) commits a breach of any provision of this Act

or of any regulation made thereunder,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to a fine
not exceeding five hundred rupees or to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding six
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Offences.


Recovery of
arrears of
remuneration
in certain
cases,

Cap. 16

Burden of
proof,

§ Employees’ Holidays Act, No. 6 of 1959

- (2) On the conviction of an employer under sub-
section (1) of the offence of failing to allow an employee
any holiday required by this Act to be allowed to that
employee or of failing to pay remuneration as required
by this Act to such employee in respect of such holiday,
the court may, in addition to any other sentence, order
the employer to pay such sum as may be found by the
court to be due from him to such employee in respect
of such holiday; any sum ordered to be paid under this
aul) section may be recovered in the same manner as a
e.

(3) The power of the court to make any order under
sub-section (2) for the payment of any sum to any
employee shall not be in derogation of any right of that
employee to recover such sum by any other proceedings.

40. (1) Where an employer has been convicted for
failing to pay remuneration as required by this Act to
any employee in respect of any holiday, then, if a notice
in the prescribed form of the intention so to do has
been served on the employer at any time before the date
of commencement of the trial, evidence may be given
of any failure on the part of the employer to pay
remuneration as required by this Act to that employee
or to any other employee or employees in respect of any
other holiday or holidays during the two years next
preceding the date on which complaint under section
148 of the Criminal Procedure Code was made to court
of the offence of which the employer has been so
convicted, and, on proof of the failure, the court may
order the employer to pay such sum as may be found
by the court to be due from him to such employee or
employees in respect of such holiday or holidays. Any
sum ordered to be paid under this sub-section may be
recovered in the same manner as a fine.

(2) The power of the court to make an order under
sub-section (1) shall not be in derogation of any right
of the employee or employees to recover remuneration
due to him or them by any other proceedings.

41. Where—

(a) any employer is prosecuted for the failure to
pay any remuneration to any employee in
respect of any holiday, or ,

- (6) in any case in which any employer is convicted.
for failing to pay any remuneration to any
employee in respect of any holiday,
evidence is given, under section 10, of any


Employees’ Holidays Act, No. 6 of 1959 9

other failure of that employer to pay any
remuneration to that employee or to any
other employees in respect of any other
holiday or holidays, :

- the burden of proving that such remuneration was paid
shall lie on such employer. | 7

12. Any contract or agreement, whether made
before or after the date on which this Act comes into
operation, whereby any right conferred on any
employee by or under this Act is in any way affected
or modified to his detriment or whereby any liability
imposed on any employer by or under this Act is in any
way removed or reduced, shall be null and void in so far
as it purports to affect or modify any such right or to
remove or reduce any such liability.

13. No prosecution for any offence under this Act
shall be instituted in any court except—

(a) with the written sanction of the Commissioner
of Labour, and

(b) within two years of the commission of the
offence.

14. All offences under this Act shall be triable
summarily by a Magistrate. tbe Bleon *

15. (1) The Commissioner of Labour shall be the
officer in charge of the general administration of this
Act.

(2) Subject to any general or special directions of
the Commissioner of Labour, any Deputy or Assistant
Commissioner of Labour may exercise, perform or
discharge any power, duty, or function of the
Commissioner of Labour under this Act or under any
regulation made thereunder.

16. Regulations may be made exempting from the
application of this Act, subject to such conditions as
may be prescribed, any class of employees or the
employees in any class of trade, industry, business,
occupation, establishment or institution.

17. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of giving effect to the principles and provisions
of this Act, and in particular for matters for which
regulations are required by this Act to be made and
for matters required by this Act to be prescribed.

Contracting out
of rights

and privileges
noder this
Act.

Prosecutions. -. °

Offences
under the Act
to be triable
summarily.

Administration
of the Act.

Exemptions
from the _
application

of this Act.

Regulations.


Interpretation.

10 Employees’ Holidays Act, No. 6 of 1959

(2) No regulation made by the Minister shall have
effect until it is approved by the Senate and the House
of Representatives and notification of such approval
is published in the Gazette.

18. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires ,—

>

“employee ’’ means a person employed by any
employer under a contract, whether oral,
written, express or implied, to perform any
work in any trade, industry, business or
occupation or in any prescribed establish-
ment or institution, whether or not such
establishment or institution carries on any
trade, industry, business or occupation,
but does not include a domestic servant or
an employer’s personal chauffeur ;

?

‘““ employer ’? means any person who on his own
behalf employs, or on whose behalf any
other person employs, any employee, and
includes any person who on behalf of any
other person employs any employee;

‘* prescribed *’ means prescribed by regulation
made under this Act; and

>

““ public holidays ’’ means days appointed to he
public holidays by or under the Holidays
Ordinance.
