PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PREVENTION OF HOSTAGE TAKING
ACT, No. 41 OF 2000

[Certified on 9th August , 2000]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 11, 2000

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 4.50 Postage : Rs, 3.50


Prevention of Hostage Taking Act, No. 41 of 2000

[Certified on 9th August, 2000]
L.D.—O. 19/99.

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE CONVENTION AGAINST THE
TAKING OF HOSTAGES ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO,

WHEREAS the International Convention against the taking
of hostages was adopted by the General Assembly of the
United Nations on the Seventeenth day of December One
Thousand Nine Hundred and Seventy Nine :

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka intends to accede to the aforesaid
Convention :

AND WHEREAS it is necessary to make legal provision to
give effect to Sri Lanka’s obligations under the aforesaid
Convention :

NOW THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Prevention of Hostage
Taking Act, No. 41 of 2000 and shall come into operation on
such date as the Minister, by Order published in the Gazette,
certifies as the date on which the International Convention
against the Taking of Hostages (hereinafter referred to as “the
Convention’) adopted by the General Assembly of the United
Nations on the Seventeenth day of December One Thousand
Nine Hundred and Seventy Nine, enters into force in respect
of Sri Lanka.

2. The Minister may, from time to time, by Order
published in the Gazette, certify the States which are parties
to the Convention. A State in respect of which an Order is
made under this section is hereinafter referred to as
“a Convention State”.

3. (1) Any person who—
(a) seizes or detains ; and
(b) threatens to kill, or to injure, or to continue to detain,

2—H 00661 2-5.550 (00/02)

Preamble.

Short title and
date of operation.

Convention States.

Offence of
hostage taking
&e.


High Court to try
offences under
this Act.

2 Prevention of Hostage Taking Act, No. 41 of 2000

another person (hereinafter referred to as “the hostage’’) in
order to compel a third party, that is to say, any State, an
International Intergovernmental Organization, any person or
group of persons, to do, or to abstain from doing, any act as
an express or implied condition for the release of the hostage,
shall be guilty of the offence of hostage taking.

(2) Any person who—
(a) attempts to commit ;
(b) aids or abets the commission of,

the offence of hostage taking shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.

In this subsection, “abet” has the same meaning as in
section 100 and 101 of the Penal Code.

(3) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or
subsection (2) of this section shall on conviction, after trial
on indictment, by the High Court be punished with
imprisonment for life.

4. (1) The High Court of Sri Lanka holden in Colombo
or the High Court established by Article 154p of the
Constitution for the Western Province shall, notwithstanding
anything in any other law, have exclusive jurisdiction to try
offences under this Act.

(2) Where an act constituting an offence under this Act is
committed outside Sri Lanka, the High Court referred to in
subsection (1) shall have jurisdiction to try such offence as if
it were committed in Sri Lanka, if—

(a) the person who committed such act is present in Sri
Lanka ;


Prevention of Hostage Taking Act, No. 41 of 2000 3

(b) if such act is committed by a citizen of Sri Lanka or
by a stateless person who has his habitual residence
in Sri Lanka ;

(c) if such act is committed in order to compel the
Government of Sri Lanka, to do, or to abstain from
doing, any act ; or

(d) if such act is committed in respect of a hostage who
is a citizen of Sri Lanka.

5. Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka is
arrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall be
entitled—

(a) to communicate without delay, with the nearest
appropriate representative of the State of which he
is a national or which is otherwise entitled to protect
his rights, or if he is a stateless person, with the
nearest appropriate representative of the State in the
territory of which he was habitually resident ; and

(b) to be visited by a representative of that State.

6. (1) The Extradition Law No. 8 of 1977 is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately before Part B of the
Schedule to that Law, of the following item :—

“(44) Hostage taking.”.

(2) Where a request is made under the Extradition Law,
No. 8 of 1977, by or on behalf of a Convention State, for the
extradition of a person accused or convicted of an offence
falling within the description set out in the Schedule to this
Act, the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 shall, in its application
to such request, have effect as if for the words “race, religion,
nationality or political opinions” appearing in paragraphs (5)
and (c) of subsection (1) of section 7 of that Law, there were
substituted the words “race, religion, nationality, ethnic
origins or political opinions”. ,

Rights of certain
persons arrested
for offences under
this Act.

Amendment to
Extradition Law,


Existing
extradition _
arrangements
with Convention
States deemed to
provide for
offences in the
Schedule.

Minister may treat
Convention as an
extradition
arrangement
between Sn
Lanka and certain
Convention States,
in respect of
offences in the
Schedule.

Assistance to
Convention States.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency,

4 Prevention of Hostage Taking Act, No. 41 of 2000

7. Where there is an extradition aitrangement made by
the Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State in
force on the date on which this Act comes into operation,
such arrangment shall be deemed, for the purposes of the
Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include provision for
extradition in respect of the offences specified in the Schedule
to this Act.

8. Where there is no extradition arrangement made by
the Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State, the
Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette, treat the
Convention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of
1977, as an extradition arrangement made, by the Government
of Sri Lanka with that Convention State providing for
extradition in respect of the offences specified in the Schedule
to this Act.

9. The Government of Sri Lanka shall afford all such
assistance to, and may through the Minister request all such
assistance from, a Convention State as may be necessary for
the investigation and prosecution of an offence under section
3 or of an offence specified in the Schedule to this Act,
including, assistance relating to the taking of evidence and
Statements and the serving of process.

10. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

SCHEDULE [Section 7, 8]

(1) The seizure and detention by one person of a another person and
the threat by such person to kill, injure or continue to detain,
such other person (in this Schedule referred to as “the hostage’’)
in order to compel any State, international inter-governmental
organization, person or group of persons to do, or abstain from
doing, any act as an express or implied condition for the release
of the hostage.

(2) Attempt to commit the offence referred to in paragraph (1).

(3) Aiding and abeting the commission of the offence referred to in
paragraph (1).


eS

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs, 885 (Local), Rs. |. 180(Foreign),

payable to the SupERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKS House,
Lotus Roap, Cotomso 0! before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
