PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of August 11 , 2000

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SUPPRESSION OF UNLAWFUL ACTS AGAINSTTHE SAFETY OF MARITIME NAVIGATIONACT, No. 42 OF 2000

[Certified on 9th August , 2000]

Printed on the Order of Government

1Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety ofMaritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000

2H 6609 5,550 (02/2000)

[Certified on 9th August, 2000]

L.D.O. 13/99.

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE CONVENTION FOR THE SUPPRESSION

OF UNLAWFUL ACTS AGAINST THE SAFETY OF MARITIMENAVIGATION; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Convention for the Suppression of UnlawfulActs against the Safety of Maritime Navigation was adoptedin Rome on the Tenth day of March One Thousand NineHundred and Eighty Eight :

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka intends to accede to the aforesaidConvention :

AND WHEREAS it is necessary to make legal provision togive effect to Sri Lankas obligations under the aforesaidConvention :

NOW THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Suppression of UnlawfulActs against the Safety of Maritime Navigation Act, No. 42of 2000 and shall come into operation on such date as theMinister, by Order published in the Gazette, certifies as thedate on which the Convention for the Suppression of UnlawfulActs against the Safety of Maritime Navigation adopted inRome on March 10, 1988, (hereinafter referred to as theConvention) enters into force in respect of Sri Lanka.

2.The Minster may, from time to time, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, certify the States which are partiesto the Convention. A State in respect of which an Order ismade under this section is hereinafter referred to asa Convention State.

3.(1) Any person who, unlawfully and intentionally

(a) seizes, or exercises control over, a ship, by force orthreat of force or by any other form of intimidation ;

Offences.

ConventionStates.

Short title anddate of operation.

Preamble.

2Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety ofMaritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000

(b) commits an act of violence against a person on boarda ship, which act is likely to endanger the safenavigation of such ship ;

(c) destroys, or causes damage to, a ship or its cargo soas to endanger, or to be likely to endanger, the safenavigation of such ship ;

(d) places or causes to be placed, in any mannerwhatsoever, a device or substance which is likely todestroy or cause damage to a ship or its cargo and soas to endanger, or to be likely to endanger, the safenavigation of such ship ;

(e) destroys, or seriously damages, maritimenavigational facilities or seriously interferes withtheir operation, so as to endanger, or to be likely toendanger, the safe navigation of a ship ;

(f) communicates information which he knows to befalse, thereby endangering the safe navigation of aship ; or

(g) injures or kills any person, in connection with thecommission or the attempted commission of any ofthe offences set out in paragraphs (a) to (f) of thissubsection,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Any person who

(a)attempts to commit ;

(b)aids or abets the commission of ;

(c)threatens to commit,

an offence under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act.

3Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety ofMaritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000

In this subsection, abet has the same meaning as insections 100 and 101 of the Penal Code.

(3) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) orsubsection (2) of this section, shall on conviction after trialon indictment, by the High Court be punished withimprisonment for a term not exceeding twenty years.

(4) (a) Where the master of a ship, whether registered inSri Lanka or not, has reasonable grounds to suspect that anyperson on board that ship has committed an offence undersubsection (1) or subsection (2), he may deliver such personto an appropriate officer in Sri Lanka or in a Convention State.

(b) Where the master of a ship intends to deliver any personin Sri Lanka or any other Convention State in accordancewith the provisions of paragraph (a), he shall give noticethereof to an appropriate officer in Sri Lanka or the ConventionState, as the case may be

(i) of his intention to deliver that person to anappropriate officer in Sri Lanka or the ConventionState, as the case may be ; and

(ii) of his reasons for doing so.

(c) Any notice under paragraph (b) by a master of a shipshall be given, wherever practicable, before that ship hasentered the territorial sea of Sri Lanka or that ConventionState, as the case may be.

(d) Where the master of a ship delivers any person to anappropriate officer in Sri Lanka or a Convention State, as thecase may be, he shall

(i) make to an appropriate officer in Sri Lanka or theConvention State, as the case may be, such oral orwritten statements relating to the alleged offence asthat officer may reasonably require ; and

4Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety ofMaritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000

(ii) deliver to that appropriate officer, such otherevidence relating to the alleged offence as is in themasters possession.

(e) The master of a ship who fails, without reasonablecause, to comply with the provisions of paragraph (b) orparagraph (d) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, andshall on conviction be punished with a fine not exceedingfifty thousand rupees.

(f) In this subsection

appropriate officer means

(i) in relation to Sri Lanka, a police officer or anofficer of the Immigration and EmigrationDepartment; and

(ii) in relation to any other Convention State, anofficer discharging functions corresponding to thefunctions discharged by the officers referred toin subparagraph (i);

Master in relation to a ship, has the same meaning as inthe Merchant Shipping Act, No. 52 of 1971.

4.(1) The High Court of Sri Lanka holden in Colomboor the High Court established by Article 154P of theConstitution for the Western Province shall, notwithstandinganything in any other law, have exclusive jurisdiction to tryoffences under this Act.

(2) Where an act constituting an offence under this Act iscommitted outside Sri Lanka, the High Court referred to insubsection (1) shall have jurisdiction to try such offence as ifit were committed within Sri Lanka if

(a) the offence is committed against, or on board, a shipregistered in Sri Lanka at the time the offence iscommitted ;

High Court to tryoffences under thisAct.

5Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety ofMaritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000

(b) the person who committed the act is present inSri Lanka ;

(c) such act is committed by a citizen of Sri Lanka or bystateless person who has his habitual residence inSri Lanka ;

(d) during the commission of such act, a citizen ofSri Lanka is seized, threatened, injured or killed ;

(e) such act is committed in order to compel theGovernment of Sri Lanka to do, or abstain from doing,any act.

5.Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka isarrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall beentitled

(a) to communicate without delay, with the nearestappropriate representative of the State of which he isa national or which is otherwise entitled to protect hisrights, or if he is a stateless person, with the nearestappropriate representative of the State in the territoryof which he was habitually resident; and

(b) to be visited by a representative of that State.

6.The Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 is hereby amendedby the addition, immediately before Part B of the Schedule tothat Law, of the following item :

(45) An offence covered by the Convention for theSuppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety ofMaritime Navigation, signed at Rome on March 10,1988..

7.Where there is an extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State inforce on the date on which this Act comes into operation,such arrangement shall be deemed, for the purposes of theExtradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include provision forextradition in respect of the offences specified in the Scheduleto this Act.

Rights of certainpersons arrestedfor offences underthis Act.

Amendment to theExtradition Law,No. 8 of 1977.

Existingextraditionarrangements withconvention Statesdeemed to providefor offences in theSchedule.

6Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety ofMaritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000

8.Where there is no extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State, theMinister may, by Order published in the Gazette, treat theConvention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of1977, as an extradition arrangement made, by the Governmentof Sri Lanka with that Convention State providing forextradition in respect of the offences specified in the Scheduleto this Act.

9.The Government of Sri Lanka shall afford all suchassistance to, and may through the Minister request all suchassistance from, a convention State as may be necessary forthe investigation and prosecution of an offence under section3 or of an offence specified in the Schedule to this Actincluding, assistance relating to the taking of evidence andstatements and the serving of process.

10.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

11.In this Act, ship means a vessel of any typewhatsoever not permanently attached to the seabed andincludes dynamically supported craft, submersibles and otherfloating craft but does not include a warship, a ship owned oroperated by a State or used as a naval auxiliary or for customsor police purposes or a vessel which has been withdrawn fromnavigation or is laid up.

Minister may treatconvention as anextraditionarrangementbetween SriLanka and certainconvention States,in respect ofoffences in theSchedule.

Assistance toconvention States.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

7Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety ofMaritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000

SCHEDULE[Sections 7, 8, 9]

(a) Unlawful and intentional seizure or exercise of control over,a ship by force or threat of force or by any other form ofintimidation;

(b) Unlawful and intentional commission of an act of violenceagainst a person on board a ship, which act is likely toendanger the safe navigation of such ship;

(c) Unlawful and intentional destruction of, or causing ofdamage to, a ship or its cargo so as to endanger, or to belikely to endanger, the safe navigation of such ship;

(d) Unlawful and intentional placing, or causing the placing of,in any manner whatsoever, of a device or substance whichis likely to destroy or cause damage to a ship or its cargo soas to endanger, or to be likely to endanger, the safe navigationof such ship;

(e) Unlawful and intentional destruction of, or the causing ofserious damage to, maritime navigational facilities or seriousinterference with their operation, so as to endanger, or to belikely to endanger, the safe navigation of a ship;

(f) Unlawful and intentional communication of informationknown to be false, thereby endangering the safe navigationof a ship; or

(g) Unlawful and intentional injuring or killing of any person,in connection with the commission or the attemptedcommission of any of the offences set out in paragraphs (a)to (f);

(h) attempt to commit any of the offences set out in paragraphs(a) to (g);

(i) aiding or abetting the commission of, any of the offencesset out in paragraphs (a) to (g).

8Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety ofMaritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.