PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ath Session 1968-69

Co-operative Societies Loans
(Special Provisions) Act,
No. 14 of 1969

Date of Assent: June 1, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government

and published as a Supplement to
Ceylon Government Gazette,

Part II of June 13, 1969

Printed at the DepARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, CEYLON, To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU,

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs.
(Foreign), payable to the

CoLoMBO.

30 (Local), Rs. 40
SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS BurEAU, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.


Co-operative Societies Loans (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 14 of 1969

L. D.—O. 34/68.

An AcT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REMOVAL OF DOUBTS AS

TO TIE VALIDITY OF LOANS GRANTED BY Co-

h\. OPERATIVE SOCIETIES FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES

10 THEIL, MEMBERS ON THE SECURITY OF CERTAIN

BONDS, AND AS TO THE VALIDITY OF SUCH BONDS,

AND FOR PURPOSES CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: June 1, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows:—

4. This Act may be cited as the Co-operative
Societies Loans (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of
1969, and shall be deemed, for all purposes, to have
come into force on September 2, 1967.

2, (1) A Co-operative Society shall have power to
grant a loan for agricultural purposes to any person
who is a member of that Society on the security of a
bond which stipulates, inter alia, that in the event

ofdefault in the repayment of such loan, such person
shall surrender on demand his rice ration book and
those of the members of the family of such person,
and accordingly— .

(a) the grant of such loan shall be deemed, for all
purposes, to be an object or purpose for which
that Society may utilize its funds, notwith-
standing anything in any relevant written
law applicable to that Society;

(b) that Society, or any of its officers on behalf of
that Society, shall have authority to do all
such acts or things as may be necessary to
give full force and effect to the preceding
provisions of this sub-section;

(c) such person shall have power to enter into such
bond, and to sign such bond on behalf of the
minor members of his family, and is hereby
authorized and required to do all such acts
or things as may be necessary to comply with
the terms of such bond and the provisions
of this Act which are applicable in the event
of default in the repayment of such loan;

B 69848—5,728 (6/60)

Short title
and date of
coming into
force.

Special
provisions
applicable in
the case of
loans granted
by Co-operative
Societies for
agricultural
purposes on
the security
of certain
bonds.


Special
provisions
applicable

in the event
of default

in the
repayment of
a loan.

2 Co-operative Societies Loans (Special Provisions)

Act, No. 14 of 1969

(d) each adult member of the family of such person

shall have power to sign such bond, and is
hereby authorized and required to do all

such acts or things as may be necessary ty

enable such person to comply with the terms
of such bond and the provisions of this Act
referred to in paragraph (c) of this
sub-section ;

(e) such loan shall be deemed, for all purposes, to

be validly given, notwithstanding that it
was so given on the security of such bond;
and

(f) such bond shall be deemed, for all purposes, to

be valid, notwithstanding that it contains
the stipulation referred to in the preceding
provisions of this sub-section.

(2) The form of the bond referred to in sub-setion
(1) shall be as determined, from time to time, by the
Co-operative Society by which the loan to which the
bond relates is granted.

3. (1) Where any Co-operative Society has granted
a loan for agricultural purposes to any person whois}
a member of that Society on the security of a bond
which stipulates, inter alia, that in the event of
default in the repayment of the loan, such person
shall surrender on demand his rice ration book and
those of the members of the family of such person,
then, the following provisions shall apply in the event
of default in the repayment of such loan :—

(a) that Society shall have the right to demand from

(0) in

such person by notice in writing the sur-
render of all or any of such rice ration books
within such time as may be specified in the
notice, and, upon the expiration of that time,
such person shall cease to have the right to
retain possession of all or any such books;

the event of the rice ration books being so
surrendered, that Society shall have the right
to retain possession of them and to dispose;
of them in accordance with such directions
as may be issued from time to time by the
Food Controller;

\


Co-operative Societies Loans (Special Provisions) 3
Act, No. 14 of 1969

(c) upon failure to surrender the rice ration books
in compliance with such a notice, no rice
rations shall be issued to the holders of the
rice ration books referred to in such notice
until the loan is settled in full, whether by
the surrender of rice ration books or
otherwise;

(d) if the rice ration books are surrendered in com-
pliance with such a notice but the value of
the rice rations to which the coupons in such
books relate is not sufficient to settle the loan
in full, no rice rations shall be issued to the
holders of the rice ration books referred to
in such notice until such loan is settled in
full, whether by the surrender of rice ration
books or otherwise;

(e) every case of failure to so surrender the rice
ration books shall forthwith be reported to
the Food Controller by that Society, and the
Food Controller shall forthwith issue written
directions to the authorized distributor from
whom rations are drawn on such rice ration
books, to stop the issue of rations on such
ration books, and it shall be the duty of such
authorized distributor to comply with such
directions;

(f) the settlement of the loan by means of the with-
holding of rice rations, whether by the sur-
render of the rice ration books to which such
rice rations relate or otherwise, shall, after
the assignment of a value to such rice rations
as hereinafter provided, be effected in such
mode and manner as may be determined by
the Food Controller from time to time by
directions which he is hereby authorized to
issue in that behalf.

(2) For the purpose of enabling the repayment of
any loan referred to in sub-section (1) by means of
the surrender of rice ration books, the Food Controller
may, from time to time, by notice published in the
Gazette assign a value to a weekly rice ration.
Different values may be so assigned in respect of the
rice rations for different weeks.


Special
provisions
relating to
bonds entered
into during

a certain
period.

Power of
Minister
to make
Orders.

This Act to
prevail over
other written
law,

Interpretation.

4 Co-operative Societies Loans (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 14 of 1969

4. No bond of the description referred to in section
2 (1) which was entered into by a member of any Co-
operative Society at any time during the period com-

mencing on September 2, 1967, and ending on the“

day immediately prior to the date on which this Act
becomes an Act of Parliament shall be deemed or
construed to be invalid by reason only of the fact that
it contains on the face of it a reference to any provi-
sion of any regulation or regulations made, or pur-
porting to have been made, under the Food Control
Act; and such bond shall be read and construed, for
all purposes, as though for that reference there had
been substituted a reference to the provisions, or the
corresponding provisions, of this Act.

5. All matters connected with or relating to loans
granted by Co-operative Societies for agricultural pur-
poses to their members and defaults in the repayment
of such loans for which no provision or no effective
provision is made by this Act or in respect of which
the provisions of this Act require to be supplemented
or modified to meet special or unforeseen

circumstances, may be provided for by Order of the _
Minister published in the Gazette; and every such °

Order shall, upon such publication, be as valid and
effectual as if it were herein enacted.

6. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency
between the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, such provisions shall, to the extent of
such conflict or inconsistency, prevail over such other
written law.

7. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—

?

‘‘ authorized distributor ’? means a person autho-
rized to be an authorized distributor under
any regulations made under the Food
Control Act;

‘“ Co-operative Society’? means a Co-operative |

Society registered under the Co-operative
Societies Ordinance;


Co-operative Societies Loans (Special Provisions) 5
Act, No. 14 of 1969

‘* Food Controller ’’ includes a Deputy Food Con-
troller and any Assistant Food Controller ;

‘* members of the family ’’, in relation to any per-
son, means his spouse, his children who are
minors, and his other children, being adults,
who have signified their written consent in
the bond referred to in section 2 (1) to sur-
render rice ration books, and the expression
‘“minor members of the family’’ and
‘© adult members of the family ’’ shall be
construed accordingly;

‘relevant written law’’, in relation to a Co-
operative Society, means the Co-operative
Societies Ordinance, any rules made there-
under, and the by-laws of that Society.
