PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA -

TEA CONTROL (AMENDMENT)
AGI, No. 3 OF 1993.

[Certified on 12th February, 1993]
(Printed on the Ordevs of Government)

Published as a Supplement to Part If of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 1993

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

“{O BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO ..... ,;
. By ME . ae, |
Price 60 cents. Pastage : Re, 1.00


i; Tea Control (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 1993

?

[Certified on 12th February, 1993] . !

L.D.—O. 4/90
AN AcT TO AMEND THE TEA CONTROL Act, No. 51 or 1957

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

t

1. This Act may be cited as the Tea Control (Amend-

ment) Act, No. 3 of 1993.

2. Section 8 of the Tea Control Act, No. 15 of 1957 (here-
inafter referred to as the “principal enactment ”) is hereby
amended, by the repeal of subsection. (2) of that section
and substitution, therefor of the following subsection :—

“ (2) Where the Controller is satisfied, after such inquiry
as he may deem necessary: —

(a) that the building, or equipment, or manner of
operation, of any tea factory is not of 4
standard conducive to the manufacture of

made tea of good quality ; or

(b) that the owner of a tea factory has paid for
green tea leaf bought by him for manufac-
ture at such factory a price lower than the
reasonable price payable as determined by
the Controller having regard to the price
fetched for made tea manufactured at that

' factory ; or
(c) that the owner of a tea factory has delayed
payment of the reasonable price, referred to
in paragraph (b) for green tea leaf bought
by him for manufacture at that factory,

the Controller may suspend or cancel where neces--

sary, the registration of such tea factory or—

(i) in any case referred to in paragraph (0);
direct any broker to whom the owner of such
tea factory has sold any made tea manutfat-
tured at that factory, to deduct from the
proceeds of such sale, an amount equivalent
to the difference between the reasonable
price for green tea leaf as determined by the
Controller and the actual price paid by such
owner for the green tea leaf bought by him-

Short title.


Amendment -

of section
19 of the
principal
enactment.

Tea Control: (Amendment) -Act, No. 3 of 1993

(ii) in ‘:any.: case. -referred im paragraph (c),
direct any broker to whom the owner of such
tea factory has sold any made tea manufac-  -
tured at that factory, to deduct from the
proceeds of such sale, an amount equivalent
to the reasonable price determined by the
Controller for such green tea leaf, .

and to remit the sum so deducted to hilt, for pay-

ment by him, to the person supplying such green
, leaf to such taCtORE 2

3. Section - 19vof :the principal enactment “is hereby
amended as follows :—

mee) by the cena t of subsections (1) and (2) thereof

and the substitution therefor of the following sub -
sections: —

~“(1) No licensed dealer shall take delivery, or
cause or permit delivery to be taken, of any made
tea or green tea leaf which is not the produce of
any estate or small holding of which he is the
registered proprietor, unless—

(a) there is furnished to him by the person deliver-

. ing such tea or leaf a valid declaration in
respect, ‘of such tea « or leaf; and

(b) he farnisten' to ave person delivering such
tea or leaf a valid declaration to the effect
that he has accepted such tea or leaf.

(2) No manufacturer shall fare delivery, OF
cause or permit delivery to be taken, of any green
tea ieaf which is not the produce of any estate or
smali holding of which he is the registered
proprietor, unless— ° an

(a) there is furnished to him by the person deliver-
‘ring such tea leaf a valid decaxgtion in res-
pect of such tea leaf; and ‘

(b) he Suivstgheds to the person © delivering sich
leaf a valid declaration to the effect that he
Leet) - has accepted such leaf.” ; and


Tea Control (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 1993 3

(2) in paragraph (b) of subsection (3) thereof, by the
substitution for the words “sell or deliver the
articles”, o the words “sell or deliver or accept
the articles”

4. Section 37 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :—
(1) by the substitution for paragraph (e) of the following
paragraph :-—

“(e) by the decision of the Commissioner under
subsection (2) of section 8, of the suspension

or cancellation of the registration of any

registered tea factory,”; and |

(2) by the substitution for all the words, from “may
within twenty-eight days” to the end of that sub-
section, of the following :—

“may, within twenty-eight days after the
communication to such person of the decision, or
cancelation or suspension, appeal, in writing, from
such decision, cancellation or suspension to the
Minister. ”.

5. Secion 63 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in. subsection (1) thereof, by the omission there-
from of the definition of the expression “Controller ”.

6. Wherever, in any provision of the principal enact-
ment, the werd “ Controller is occurs, there shall be substi-
tuted the word “ Commissioner ”.

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail. .

Amendment
of section
37 of the
principal .
enactment,

Amendment
of section
63 of the
principal
enactment.

General
amendment
of the
provisions
of the
principal
enactment,

Sinhala text
to prevail
in case of
inconsistency.
