PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTIONACT, NO. 58 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th November, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 23, 2007

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 20071

2PL 0023254,450 (2007/08)

Preamble.

[ Certified on 20th November, 2007]

L.D O. 66/2003

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONVENTION ON

THE PROHIBITION OF THE DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTION, STOCKPILING

AND USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND THEIR DESTRUCTION AND TO

PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Convention on the Prohibition of theDevelopment, Production, Stockpiling and Use of ChemicalWeapons and their Destruction (hereinafter referred to astheConvention) was signed on behalf of the Governmentof Sri Lanka on January Fourteenth One Thousand NineHundred and Ninety Three :

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka, has ratified the said Convention,and whereas it has become necessary for the Government ofSri Lanka to make legislative provisions to give effect toSri Lankas obligation under the aforesaid Convention :

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

PART I

PRELIMINARY

1.This Act may be cited as the Chemical WeaponsConvention Act, No.58 of 2007 and shall come into operationon such date as the Minister may by Order published in theGazette appoint.

2.(1) The Provisions of the Act shall apply to actsdone or omitted to be done by

(a)any person within Sri Lanka and on board any shipor aircraft registered in Sri Lanka ; or

(b)any citizen of Sri Lanka, outside Sri Lanka.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Application ofthe Act.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 20072

(2) Notwithstanding anything in any other written law,proceedings in respect of any offence under this Actcommitted anywhere outside Sri Lanka shall not, by virtueonly of the provision of this Act, be instituted in any Courtexcept upon the advice of the Attorney-General.

3.This Act binds the State in all its capacities : Providedhowever, nothing in this Act shall render the State liable tobe prosecuted for an offence.

4.(1) The Minister may with the concurrence of theCabinet of Ministers by Order published in the Gazette,declare that the provisions of this Act shall cease to be inforce in the event of the Government of Sri Lankawithdrawing from the Convention in terms of the provisionsof Article XVI of such Convention.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act ceasing tobe in force by virtue of an Order made under subsection (1),the validity of

(a)the operation of anything duly done or suffered interms of this Act or any regulation, rule or Ordermade thereunder prior to the making of such Order,shall not be affected;

(b)any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired,accrued or incurred under the provisions of this Act,prior to the making of such Order, shall not beaffected;

(c)any penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed inrespect of any offence under this Act, prior to themaking of such Order, shall not be affected and mayvalidly be imposed; and

(d)any investigation, legal proceedings or remedy, inrespect of any such right, privilege, obligation orliability incurred prior to this making of suchorder shall not be affected and any investigation

Act binds theState.

Power to declarethat Act shallcease to be inforce.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 20073

The NationalChemicalWeaponsAuthority.

Chairman of theAuthority.

The Seal of theAuthority.

or legal proceedings may be instituted or continuedand any remedy, privilege, obligation or liabilitymay be enforced as if such Order had not been made.

PART II

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY FOR THE

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION

5.(1) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister shallestablish an Authority to be known as the National Authorityfor Implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention(hereinafter referred to as the Authority).

(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have perptualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

6.(1) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Industries shall be the Chairman ofthe Authority and shall be charged with the implementationof the Act.

(2) There shall be a Secretariat to assist the Authorityheaded by the Director appointed under section 8. TheSecretary shall appoint to such Secretariat such number ofofficers of the Ministry as may be necessary to assist theDirector of the Authority in the exercise, performance anddischarge of the powers, duties and functions assigned to orconferred on the Director under the Act.

7.(1) The Seal of the Authority shall be in the custodyof the Chairman of the Authority and may be altered in suchmanner as may be determined by the Authority.

(2) The application of the Seal of the Authority shall beauthenticated by the signature of the Chairman of theAuthority, and any other officer of the Authority authorizedto authenticate the application of the Seal.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 20074

(3) The Seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except in the presence of the Chairmanof the Authority, and one other member, both of whom shallsign the instrument or document in token of their presence :

Provided that where the Chairman is unable to be presentat the time when the Seal of the Authority is affixed to anyinstrument or document, any other member authorized inwriting by the Chairman in that behalf, shall be competent tosign such instrument or document in accordance with thepreceding provisions of this subsection.

(4) The Authority shall maintain a register of the instrumentsor documents to which the Seal of the Authority is affixed.

8.(1) The Minister may appoint a person qualified andexperienced in work related to the Authority or with similarwork experience as the Director of the National Authority forImplementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention(hereinafter referred to as the Director) to whom theAuthority may delegate all or any of its powers and functions.

(2) The Director appointed under subsection (1) shall beremunerated in such manner and at such rates as may bedetermined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister in charage of the subject of Finance and shall besubject to such terms and conditions of service as may bespecified by the Minister on the recommendation of theAuthority.

(3) The Director shall be responsible for the performanceof the administrative functions of the Secretariat and theimplementation of the decisions of the Authority.

9.(1) The Authority may establish a Steering Committee(hereinafter referred to as the Committee) to advise theAuthority on the discharge of its functions.

Appointment ofDirector of theNationalChemicalWeaponsAuthority.

Appointment ofSteeringCommittee.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 20075

(2) The Committee shall consist of the followingmembers appointed by the Authority:

(a)the Director-General of the Multilateral AffairsDivision of the Ministry of the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Foreign Affairs or a representativenominated by the Secretary, to such Ministry ;

(b)the Director-General of Customs or a representativenominated by him from the Customs Department ;

(c)the Controller of Imports and Exports (Control) or arepresentative nominated by him from theDepartment of Imports and Exports (Control) ;

(d)the Government Analyst or a representativenominated by him from the Government AnalystsDepartment ;

(e)Registrar of Pesticides, Department of Agriculture ;

(f)Director-General of the Central EnvironmentAuthority or a representative nominated by him fromthe Central Environment Authority ;

(g)Director, Chemical and Environmental TechnologyDivision of the Industrial Technology Instititute ;

(h)A Senior member of the University staff who hasacquired proven knowledge in chemicals specifiedin the Schedules to this Act ; and

(i)A person who is in chemical industry engaged inthe production, processing and consumption of anyof the chemicals specified in the Schedules to thisAct.

(3) The members of the Committee may receive suchremuneration or allowances for each sitting, as may bedetermined by the Minister.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 20076

10.(1) The meetings of the Committee shall be heldonce at least in every two months.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Committee shall beas determined by the Committee by rules made in that behalf.

(3) The Secretary, or in his absence an officer chosen bythe members present, shall preside at every meeting of theCommittee.

11.The functions of the Authority shall be

(a)to implement a regulatory regime within the scopeof the Convention in respect of the toxic chemicalsspecified in Schedules I, II and III to this Act ;

(b)to seek advice or services of specialists and expertsfrom within outside Sri Lanka ;

(c)to fulfill on behalf of the Government of Sri Lankathe obligations under the Convention ; and

(d)to serve as the national focal point for effectiveliaison with the Organization for the Prohibition ofChemical Weapons (hereinafter referred to as theOPCW) and other States Parties pursuant to ArticleVII of the Convention.

12.(1) The powers of the Authority shall be

(a)to co-ordinate with other relevant governmentdepartments and institutions with a view to

(i)administering the licensing and permit schemefor the regulation of toxic chemicals or theirprecursors specified in Schedules I, II and IIIto this Act, and unscheduled discrete organicchemicals or the facilities used to producethem ; and

Meeting of theCommittee.

Functions of theAuthority.

Powers of theAuthority.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 20077

(ii)assisting the relevant authorities indeveloping a national protection programmeand appraising the OPCW periodically of itsprogress ;

(b)to monitor the implementation of the provisions ofthis Act and the regulations made thereunder ;

(c)to facilitate routine industry inspections ;

(d)to interact with other relevant Government entitiesand carry out such functions and duties as areassigned to the Authority under this Act or anyregulation made thereunder ;

(e)to advise the Minister on matters relevant to themaking of regulations under this Act ;

(f)to perform any other tasks assigned to it by theMinister ; and

(g)to do anything incidental or conducive to theperformance of any of the functions referred to inparagraphs (a) to (d).

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), theAuthority shall

(a)monitor compliance with the provisions of theConvention ;

(b)regulate and monitor the development, production,processing, consumption, transfer, import, export oruse of chemicals and their precursors specified inSchedules I, II and III to this Act ;

(c)make a request to, or grant a request of, a State Partyfor assistance and protection under Article X, againstthe use or threat of use of chemical weapons ;

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 20078

(d)make periodic inspections or challenge inspectionsor investigate, into the use of chemical weapons orriot control agents as a method of warfare ;

(e)conduct inspections for the purposes of this Act ;

(f)interact with the OPCW with a view to ensuring theacceptance of Sri Lankas request for challengeinspections or to counter any frivolous or defamatoryrequest made by any State Party against Sri Lankato the OPCW ;

(g)scrutinize and if satisfied, accept the list of OPCWinspectors and verify the approved equipmentbrought by an inspection team on to the inspectionsite ;

(h)ensure confidentiality and maintain secrecy ofconfidential information and technology collectedor receivied by the Authority under the Act;

(i)call for such information from any person where theAuthority has reasonable cause to believe that suchinformation may be required for complying withthe provisions of the Convention;

(j)provide training to inspectors appointed undersection 17 ;

(k)co-ordinate the exchange of scientific andtechnological information among laboratorieshandling toxic chemicals or precursors ;

(i)facilitate international exchange of scientific andtechnical information, chemicals and equipment forthe production, processing or use of chemicals forpurposes not prohibited under the Convention ;

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 20079

(m)determine, from time to time, the quantum of anychemical or precursor listed in Schedules I, II and IIIto this Act that a person at any time may produce,acquire, retain, transfer or use for purposes notprohibited under the Convention ; and

(n)carry out such other functions as may be prescribed.

(3) In the exercise of its powers and performance of itsfunctions under this Act, the Authority shall be subject to thegeneral direction of the Minister.

13.The Authority shall prepare such initial, annual andother periodic declarations regarding toxic chemicals orprecursors listed in Schedules I, II and III to this Act or anyorher declaration required to be made under the Conventionand shall submit such declarations to the OPCW at such timeor times as may be specified under the Convention.

14.The Minister may, from time to time, give directionsto the Authority in regard to the general policy on toxicchemicals specified in Schedules I, II and III to this Act andsuch other matters as he may deem appropriate and it shall bethe duty of the Authority to comply with such directions :

Provided that the Minister shall, in issueing directionsunder this section with regard to any matter affecting thesubjects or functions assigned to any other Minister, act inconsultation with that Minister.

15.The Authority shall give to the Minister anyinformation that the Minister may require regarding itsoperations.

16.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any otherlaw for the time being in force, the Authority may, by generalor special order, call upon any importer, exporter, supplier,Government or private institution or organization or person,to furnish periodically or as and when required, anyinformation, declaration or return concerning chemicals or

Authority to giveinformation toMinister.

Authority tosubmitdeclarations toOPCW.

Direction by theMinister.

Power ofAuthority to callfor information,etc.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200710

precursors listed in Schedules I, II and III to this Act andany unscheduled discrete organic chemical, chemicalweapon, chemical weapons production facility and riotcontrol agent with such other particulars as may beprescribed by the Authority.

(2) No person, institution or organization shall, whencomplying with any requirement made under subsection (1),give any information or furnish any declaration, return orstatement which such person, institution or organisationknows, or has reasonable cause to believe to be false orincorrect in any material particular.

17.(1) The Authority may appoint any officer or servantof the Authority by name or by office, to be an inspector forthe purposes of this Act.

(2) The Authority may, from time to time appoint in writingany other Government officer to function as an inspector.

(3) The Authority shall furnish every inspector appointedunder subsections (1) or (2) with a Certificate of Appointmentas an inspector. Such Certificate shall be in such form as maybe provided by rules made under this Act, and shall, if sorequired, within any establishment, be produced by theInspector to the occupier or person holding a responsibleposition of management at the establishment.

18.(1) Subject to any rules made in that behalf, anInspector shall have the power for the purposes of this Act, todo all or any of the following acts :

(a)to enter and search any premises or a facility at allreasonable times by day or night ;

(b)inspect or examine a matter or thing found in anypremises or facility ;

(c)take samples of a matter or thing found in anypremises or facility ;

Appointment ofthe inspector.

Powers of theinspector.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200711

(d)measure a matter or thing found in any premisesor facility ;

(e)examine a document including a record kept inaccordance with the requirements of this Act, theregulations made thereunder or the conditions of apermit ;

(f)take extracts from, or make copies of, a document(including a record of a kind referred to in paragraph(e)) or make images of any matter or thing by anymeans whatsoever ;

(g)operate any equipment, including electronicequipment, located at the premises or facility ifthe inspector believes, on reasonable grounds, thatthe equipment can be operated without causingdamage thereto ;

(h)take into any premises or facility any equipment ormaterial that is reasonably required for the purposeof exercising a power under any of the aboveparagraphs ;

(i)question personnel working on the site ; and

(j)do any other act or thing necessary or convenient tobe done to carry out an inspection.

(2) In addition to the powers under subsection (1) areference to an inspection power shall include, in respect ofan Inspector, a power to seize and detain any substance thatthe Inspector believes on reasonable grounds to be evidentialmaterial in relation to an offence committed under this Act.

(3) The powers referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d)and (g) of subsection (1) may, on reasonable grounds, beexercised by an Inspector under paragraph (a) of subsection(1) of section 25, only

(a)with the approval of the Chairman or the Director ofthe Authority ; and

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200712

(b)in accordance with any safety proceduresapplicable at the premises or facility.

(4) The owner or occupier of any premises or facility, hisagents and servants shall at all times furnish the means orfacilities required by and Inspector as are necessary for thepurpose of exercising his powers under subsection (1).

Part III

PROHIBTITION AND REGULATION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND TOXICCHEMICALS

19.(1) Any person who

(a)uses a chemical weapon ;

(b)develops or produces a chemical weapon ;

(c)acquires, stockpiles or retains a chemical weapon ;

(d)transfers, directly or indirectly, any chemical weaponto another person ;

(e)engages in any military preparations to use achemical weapon ;

(f)knowingly assists, encourages or induces, anyprohibited activity ; or

(g)uses any riot control agent as a method of warfare,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and be punishedwith imprisonment of either description for a period notexceeding twenty years and a fine not exceeding one millionrupees.

(2) The prohibition contained in subsection (1) shall notapply to the retention or possession of chemical weapons byan inspector appointed under section 17 or an internationalinspector, pending destruction of such weapons under theauthority of this Act or any regulation made thereunder orany other written law.

Prohibition todevelop,produce,acquire, &c,.chemicalweapons.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200713

(3) In proceedings for an offence under paragraphs (a),(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) of subsection (1) relating to anobject, it is a defence for the accused to prove that

(a)he neither knew nor suspected or had reason tosuspect that the object was a chemical weapon orriot control agent, as the case may be ; or

(b)as soon as reasonably practicable after he first knewor suspected it to be a chemical weapon or riotcontrol agent, as the case may be, he took allreasonable steps to inform an authorized officer ofhis knowledge or suspicion.

(4) Nothing in subsection (3) shall prejudice any defence,which is open to a person charged with an offence under thissection.

20.No person shall

(a)develop, produce, acquire, retain or use a toxicchemical or precursor listed in Schedule I to this Actoutside the territories of State Parties, and shall nottransfer such chemical or precursor outside theterritory of Sri Lanka except to another State Party ;

(b)produce, acquire, retain, transfer or use any toxicchemical or precursor listed in Schedule I to this Actwithout obtaining persmission from the Authorityand unless

(i)the toxic chemicals or precursors listed inSchedule I to this Act are to be applied inresearch, medical, pharmaceutical orprotective purposes ; and

(ii)the types of toxic chemicals or precursors arestrictly limited to those that can be justifiedwith reference to the purposes specified in sub-paragraph (i) and the quantities of such toxicchemicals or precursors for such purposes atany time do not exceed the limits asdetermined by the Authority ;

Prohibitions todevelop,produce,acquire, &c,. toxicchemical orprecursor.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200714

(c)transfer the toxic chemicals or precursors listedin Schedule I to this Act to another State Partyoutside Sri Lanka except

(i)for the purposes specified in sub-paragraph(i) of paragraph (b) ; and

(ii)in accordance with the procedure set out inPart VI of the Verification Annex to theConvention :

Provided that no toxic chemicals or precursorsreferred to in this paragraph shall be re-transferredto any third State.

(d)transfer a toxic chemical or precursor specified inSchedule II to this Act to or from any entity in aState which is not a party to the Convention.

21.(1) No person shall export from, or import into SriLanka any chemical or precursor listed in Schedules I, II andIII to this Act except as approved by the Authority and inaccordance with the provisions of the Customs Ordinance(Chapter 235).

(2) An application for a permit to import or export anychemical or precursor listed in Schedules I, II, and III to thisAct shall, when made to the Controller of Imports and Exports,be referred by him to the Authority for necessary approvalwith or without conditions attached.

22.If there shall be any contravention of or attempt tocontravene any provision of this Act or any regulation madethereunder in respect of a scheduled chemical, such chemicalshall be liable to seizure and forfeiture under the CustomsOrdinance (Chapter 235) as if it were a prohibited importunlawfully imported into Sri Lanka.

Export or importto be made inaccordance withthe CustomsOrdinance(Chapter 235).

Seizure andforfeiture.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200715

23.The High Court of Sri Lanka holden in Colomboor the High Court established by Article 154P of theConstitution for the Western Province holden in Colombo,shall notwithstanding anything in any other law, haveexclusive jurisdiction to hear, try and punish the offencesunder this Act.

PART IV

REGISTRATION OF PERSONS AS PRODUCERS, USERS &C,.

24.(1) No person, shall after the commencement of thisAct, produce, process, acquire, consume, transfer, import,export or use any toxic chemical or precursor listed inSchedules I, II and III to this Act or produce any unscheduleddiscrete organic chemical unless such person has applied tothe Authority for registration of his name as a producer,processor, acquirer, consumer, transferor, importer, exporteror user of any toxic chemical or precursor, as the case may be,or as a producer of any unscheduled discrete organicchemical.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Board ofInvestment Law, No. 4 of 1978, every person who is engagedin the development, production, processing, acquisition,consumption, transfer, import, export or use of any toxicchemical or precursor listed in Schedules I, II and III to thisAct or engaged in the production of any unscheduled discreteorganic chemical, shall, make within thirty days from thecommencement of this Act, make an application to theAuthority for registration of his name, as a producer,processor, acquirer, consumer, transferor, importer, exporteror user of any toxic chemical or precursor or, as the case maybe, or as a producer of any unscheduled discrete organicchemical.

(3) The form of application to be made to the Authorityunder subsection (1) or subsection (2), the particulars to becontained in such application form, the manner in which

High Court to tryoffences underthis Act.

Registration ofpersons engagedin production,&c, of any toxicchemical orprecursor.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200716

such application shall be made, the fee payable on suchapplication, the form of Certificate of Registration and theprocedure to be followed in granting or cancelling aCertificate of Registration shall be as prescribed.

(4) On receipt of the application referred to in subsection(1) or subsection (2) the Authority shall, if the application isin the prescribed form, register the name of the applicant andgrant him a Certificate of Registration.

(5) The Certificate of Registration granted in terms ofthis section shall be valid for the period specified thereinand may be renewed from time to time for such furtherperiod and on payment of such fee, as may be prescribed.

25.(1) Any person who is engaged in the development,production, processing, acquisition, consumption, transfer,import, export or use of any toxic chemical or precursor, listedin Schedules, I, II and III to this Act or is engaged in theproduction of any unscheduled discrete organic chemicaland who is registered with the Authority in terms of Section24 shall

(a)send to the Authority such particulars in such formand at such intervals as are prescribed in relationto

(i)the chemicals and the facility, as the case maybe ;

(ii)the purposes for which the chemicals are to beused ; and

(iii)matters relevant for a declaration required tobe made under the Convention by Sri Lankato the OPCW ;

(b)keep such records in relation to the chemicals andfacility referred to in paragraph (a), as are requiredby regulations made under this Act ; and

Providinginformation andrecord.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200717

(c)prepare and give to the Authority from suchrecords, such periodic reports and such specialreports relating to the chemicals and facilityreferred to in paragraph (a) as are required byregulations made under this Act.

(2) Any person who fails or refused, without reasonablecause, to comply with subsection (1) or prepares, keeps orsends false or misleading records or reports shall be guilty ofan offence under this section and shall on conviction, beliable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupeesor to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months orboth.

(3) Regulations may be made under subsection (1) relatingto

(a)the forms and content of such records ;

(b)the period for which such records are to be kept ;

(c)the form and content of periodic reports to beprovided ;

(d)the circumstances in which special reports arerequired and the form and content of such specialreports ;

(e)the time within which such periodic reports andspecial reports are to be made ; and

(f)the persons who are to sign such periodic reportsand special reports.

Part V

INSPECTION, SEARCH AND FORFEITURE

26.(1) An inspector appointed under section 17, may

(a)with the consent of the person in control of anypremises ; or

Inspection.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200718

(b)under a warrant issued under section 35 in respectof any premises,

enter the premises and inspect

(i)any person who is engaged in the production,processing, acquisition, consumption, transfer,import, export or use of any toxic chemical orprecursor listed in Schedules I, II and III to this Actor the production of any unscheduled discreteorganic chemical ;

(ii)any place where any chemical weapon is located orchemical weapon production facility exists, for thepurposes specified in the Verification Annex to theConvention.

(2) Every inspector or inspection team shall, upon beingauthorized in writing by the Chairman or the Authority have

(a)the right to interview any facility personnel for thepurpose of establishing relevant facts ;

(b)the right to request clarifications in connection withambiguities that may arise during inspection;

(c)the right to demand production of suchdocumentation and records which are relevant andnecessary for the purpose of inspection ;

(d)the right to take photographs of an object or abuilding located within the inspection site if thequestion relating to the object or building is notresolved ;

(e)the right to draw samples and perform on-siteanalysis of such samples ; and

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200719

(f)such other rights as are provided under theConvention.

(3) An inspector or inspection team shall, during theconduct of verification activities enjoy the privilege andimmunities referred to in Part II of the Verification Annex tothe Convention.

27.An international inspector may, with the consent ofthe person in control of any premises

(a)in respect of which any provision of Part VI to IXof the Verification Annex to the Conventionapplies; or

(b)that are subject to an on-site challenge inspectionreferred to in paragraph 8 of Article IX of theConvention; or

(c)in respect of which an investigation under paragraph9 of Article X of the Convention has been initiated,

under a warrant issued under section 35 in respect of anysuch premises

(i)enter the premises ;

(ii)inspect the premises pursuant to theConvention and, in the case of any facility,any applicable facility agreement ; and

(iii)exercise in connection with the inspection,any function contemplated, and powerprovided for, in the Convention and, in thecase of any facility, inspect any applicablefacility agreement.

28.(1) For the purpose of facilitating an inspection byan international inspector, he shall be accompanied by oneof the following officers or both :

(a)an observer ;

(b)an inspector.

Internationalinspection.

Persons toaccompanyinternationalinspectors.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200720

(2) An inspector may exercise any power of inspectionfor the purposes of facilitating an inspection, referred toin section 18.

(3) Observer in this section means an observer referredto in paragraph 12 of Article IX of the Convention, andincludes any person authorized by the Authority to observethe inspection.

29.The Authority shall issue to every inspector andinternational inspector a certificate identifying him as suchinspector or international inspector, as the case may be.

30.Any person who willfully

(a)refuses without reasonable excuse to comply withthe request made by the inspector or inspection teamfor the purpose of facilitating the conduct of aninspection in accordance with the Verification Annexto the Convention ;

(b)delays or obstructs any member of the inspectionteam, inspector, or the observer in the conduct of aninspection ; or

(c)removes or tampers with any on-site instrument orapproved equipment installed by the inspector orinspection team with the intention of adverselyaffecting the operation of such instrument orequipment,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

31.(1) An inspector or an inspection team on obtaininga sample of a chemical shall forthwith inform the person incontrol of any premises of his or its intention to have thesame analyzed by an authorized analyst and shall forthwithdivide the sample into two equal parts and cause each part tobe marked and sealed in such manner as its nature will permitand shall deliver one part each to the person in control of thepremises and the authorized analyst.

Identificationcertificate.

Certain acts. toconstitute anoffence.

Analysis ofsamples.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200721

(2) Where an authorized analyst has made an analysisor examination of the chemical submitted to him undersubsection (1), he shall issue a certificate or report to theAuthority setting out in that certificate or report the results ofhis examination or analysis.

(3) In any proceedings under this Act the production of acertificate or report signed by an authorized analyst withregard to any sample procured for analysis under this sectionshall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.

PART VI

SUPPLEMENTARY

32.The provisions of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter235) shall apply for the purposes of enforcement, andprevention and punishment for any contravention or attemptedcontravention of the provisions of this Act or any regulationmade thereunder relating to chemicals the importation of whichis prohibited or restricted by this Act and such chemical shallbe deemed to be included in the table of prohibitions andrestrictions inwards in Schedule B to the Customs Ordinance.The chemicals, the exportation of which is prohibited orrestricted by this Act shall be deemed to be included in thetable of prohibitions and restrictions outwards in that Schedule.

33.No person shall, whether for himself or any otherperson, for purpose of

(a)the issue, grant, delivery, alteration, or renewal ofany permit, authority, authorization, or certificateunder this Act or any regulation made thereunder ;or

(b)registration as an importer, exporter and dealer ofchemicals,

make any declaration or statement, whether oral or in writing,which is false in any particular, or knowingly utter, produce,or make use of any such declaration or statement or anydocument containing the same.

Application ofCustomsOrdinance(Chapter 235).

Prohibitionagainst falsedeclarations.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200722

34.(1) Where under this Act or any regulation madethereunder any person has power to grant approval, he may,in his discretion

(a)insert such conditions therein as he may considerexpedient;

(b)refuse to grant or revoke the approval.

(2) Every decision under this section shall be subjectto an appeal to the Minister.

(3) This section applies to a permit, authority,authorization or certificate in like manner as it applies to alicense, and applies to any entity in like manner as it appliesto a person.

35.(1) Where a Magistrate is satisfied by informationon oath that there is reason to suspect that any thing ordocument is, in contravention of the provision of this Act orany regulation made thereunder, kept, possessed, sold, ormanufactured in any place or premises, or that any documentdirectly or indirectly relating to or connected with anytransaction or dealing which was, or any intended transactionor dealing which, if carried out, would be an offence underthis Act, is in any place or premises, he may grant a searchwarrant authorizing any officer or person named in thewarrant, at any time or times within one month from the dateof the warrant, to enter, with or without his assistants, if needbe by force, the place or premises named in the warrant, andto search the place or premises and any person found therein,and, if there is reason to suspect that an offence under this Acthas been committed in relation to any thing found in theplace or premises or in the possession of any such person orthat any document so found is such a document as aforesaid,to seize and detain such thing or document.

(2) For the purposes of any search under subsection (1), allsuch measures may be taken and such devices and such forceused as may be necessary to stop any vessel, boat, animal or

Refusal andrevocation ofapproval &c,.

Search warrants.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200723

vehicle, which is not brought to a halt by the person incharge thereof in compliance with any order, direction orsignal given in that behalf by any of the officers or personsmentioned in that subsection.

36.(1) Subject to subsection (2), any person whodivulges any confidential information obtained by theauthority from any declaration or return furnished or anystatement made or information supplied to or obtained by, aninspector or an international inspector or a member of theinspection team during the course of any inspection carriedout under the provision of this Act or from the OPCW or anyState Party, to any other person shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act and shall, upon conviction after summary trialbefore a Magistrate, be liable to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years or to a fine not exceeding one hundredthousand rupees or to both such imprisonment and fine.

(2) Any information specified in subsection (1) may bedisclosed only with the written consent of the person to whoseaffairs it relates or for the purpose of

(a)enabling Sri Lanka to fulfill its obligations underthe Convention; or

(b)the implementation of these provisions of this Act.

37.(1) Every person who contravenes or fails to complywith any provisions of this Act or any regulation madethereunder, or any order or direction lawfully given underthis Act or any regulation made thereunder, or any conditionor provision contained in any licence, authorization, permit,or authority granted under this Act or any regulation madethereunder shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Every person who attempts to commit or abets thecommission of an offence under this Act or any regulationmade thereunder shall himself be guilty of the same offence.

General penalty.

Punishment forcontravention inrelation todisclosure ofconfidentialinformation.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200724

(3) Where an offence under this Act or any regulationmade thereunder is committed by a body of persons then

(a)if the body of persons is a body corporate, everyperson who at the time of commission of the offencewas a director, general manager, secretary or othersimilar officer of that body; or

(b)if that body of persons is not a body corporate everyperson who at the time of commission of the offencewas a member of that body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless the actconstituting the offence took place without his knowledgeor consent.

(4) Every person guilty of an offence under this Act or anyregulation made thereunder shall , for each such offence, beliable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundredthousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description fora period not exceeding two years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

38.(1) A Court which convicts any person of an offenceunder this Act, may impose any of the penalties hereinbeforespecified and may, if it thinks fit, order that all or any articlesin respect of which the offence was committed, and any thingused for the conveyance of such article be confiscated andforfeited to the State.

(2) An Order for forfeiture imposed under subsection (1)shall take effect

(a)where no appeal is preferred to the Court of Appealagainst the Order of forfeiture, on the expiration ofthe period within which an appeal may be preferredto the Court of Appeal against such Order offorfeiture ;

Forfeiture.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200725

(b)where an appeal had been preferred to the Courtof Appeal against such Order of forfeiture, and noAppeal is preferred to the Supreme Court againstthe Order of the Court of Appeal affirming orupholding such Order of forfeiture, on theexpiration of the period within which an Appealmay be perferred to the Supreme Court from suchOrder of the Court of Appeal ;

(c)where an Appeal had been preferred, to the Court ofAppeal against such Order of forfeiture, and anappeal has been preferred to the Supreme Court fromthe determination of the Court of Appeal on the firstmentioned appeal, upon the determination of theSupreme Court affirming or upholding the Order offorfeiture.

39.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality ofthe powers conferred by subsection (1), the Ministermay make regulations for all or any of the followingpurposes:

(a)for prescribing the terms, conditions, limits of anyrestrictions imposed in respect of any matter forwhich regulations are required or authorized to bemade by this Act;

(b)for adding any item to, or deleting any item from, oraltering, varying or amending in any other mannerany of the Schedules;

(c)for specifying

(i)the persons to whom, the circumstances inwhich, and the terms and conditions subjectto which, approval under this Act may begranted or refused; and

Regulations.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200726

(ii)the manner and the form in which a requestfor approval under this Act may be made anddealt with ;

(d)generally for all matters incidental to or connectedwith the matters or subjects mentioned in thissubsection.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) A Notification of the date of disapproval shall bepublished in the Gazette.

40.Any expense incurred by the Authority in any suitor prosecution brought by or against the Authority beforeany court shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, andany costs paid to, or recovered by, the Authority in any suchor prosecution shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.

41.The Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 is herebyamended by the insertion immediately before Part B of theSchedule to that Law, of the following item:

(51) An offence within the meaning of the ChemicalWeapons Convention Act, No. 58 of 2007..

42.Where there is an extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any State in force on thedate on which this Act comes into operation, such arrangementshall be deemed, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No.8 of 1977, to include provision for extradition in respect ofthe offences specified in this Act.

Protection of publicofficers.

Amendment to theExtradition theextradition Law,No. 8 of 1977.

Existingextraditionarrangementswith Statesdeemed toprovide foroffences in theAct.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200727

43.Where there is an extradition arrangement madeby the Government of Sri Lanka with any State theMinister may, by Order published in the Gazette, treat theConvention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No.8 of 1977, as an extradition arrangement of Sri Lanka withthat State, providing for extradition in respect of theoffences specified in this Act.

44.Where a request is made to the Government of SriLanka by or on behalf of the Government of a State withwhom the Government of Sri Lanka has entered into anagreement for the extradition of any person accused orconvicted of an offence described in this Act, the Ministershall, on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka forthwithnotify the Government of the requesting State of the measuresthe Government of Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take,for the prosecution or extradition of that person for thatoffence.

45.(1) The provisions of the Mutual Assistance inCriminal Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall, wherever it isnecessary for the investigation and prosecution of an offenceunder Part III of this Act, be applicable in respect of providingassistance as between the Government of Sri Lanka and otherStates which are either Commonwealth countries specifiedby the Minister by Order under section 2 of the aforesaid Actor Non-Commonwealth countries with which theGovernment of Sri Lanka has entered into an agreement interms of the aforesaid Act.

(2) The grant of assistance to a State may be made subjectto such terms and conditions as the Minister thinks fit.

46.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Minister maytreat Conventionas an extraditionarrangementbetween SriLanka andcertain States, inrespect ofoffences in theAct.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Duty of Ministerto notifyrequesting Stateof measurestaken againstpersons forwhoseextradition arequest is made.

Assistance to aState.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200728

47.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

authorized analyst means the Government Analyst, theAdditional Government Analyst, a DeputyGovernment Analyst, a Senior Assistant GovernmentAnalyst and an Assistant Government Analyst;

chemicals means the chemicals to which this Actapplies specified in Schedules I, II and III to thisAct;

chemical weapon means the following, together orseparately:

(a)toxic chemical and their precursors, exceptwhere intended for purposes not prohibitedunder the Convention, as long as the typesand quantities are consistent with suchpurposes;

(b)munitions and devices, specifically designedto cause death or other harm through thetoxic properties of those toxic chemicalsspecified in subparagraph (a), which wouldbe released as a result of the employment ofsuch munitions and devices; and

(c)Any equipment specifically designed foruse directly in connection with theemployment of munitions and devicesspecified in subparagraph (b);

precursor means any chemical reactant which takespart at any stage in the production by whatevermethod of a toxic chemical. This includes any keycomponent of a binary or multi-componentchemical system;

purpose not prohibited under this Convention means:

(a)industrial, agricultural, research, medical,pharmaceutical or other peacefulpurposes;

Interpretation.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200729

(b)protective purposes, namely those purposesdirectly related to protection against toxicchemicals and to protection againstchemical weapons;

(c)military purposes not connected with the useof chemical weapons and not dependent onthe use of the toxic properties of chemicals asa method of warfare; and

(d)law enforcement including domestic riotcontrol purposes;

riot control agent means any chemical not listed in aSchedule, which can produce rapidly in humanssensory irritation or disabling physical effects whichdisappear within a short time following terminationof exposure;

toxic chemical means any toxic chemical specified inSchedules I, II and III to this Act, which through itschemical action on life processes can cause death,temporary incapacitation or permanent harm tohumans or animals and includes such chemicals,regardless of their origin or of their method ofproduction, and regardless of whether they areproduced in facilities, in munitions or elsewhere;

unscheduled discrete organic chemical means anychemical belonging to the class of chemicalcompounds consisting of all compounds of carbonexcept for its oxides, sulfides and metal carbonates,identifiable by chemical name, by structural formula,if known, and by chemical abstracts service registrynumber, if assigned.

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200730

SCHEDULE I

(CAS registrynumber)

A. Toxic chemicals:

(1)O-Alkyl (C10, incl. cycloalkyl) Alkyl(Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-phosphonofluoridates

e.g. Sarin :O-Isopropyl methylphosphonofluoridate(107-44-8)Somon :O-Pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate(96-64-0)

(2)O-Alkyl (C10, incl, cycloalkyl) N, N-dilkyl(Me, Et, n-Pr or I-Pr) phosphoramidocyanidates

e.g. Tabun :O-Ethyl N,N-dimethylphosphoramidocyanidate(77-81-6)

(3)O-Alkyl (H or C10, incl. cycloalkyl) S-2-dialkyl(Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-aminoethyl alkyl(Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphonothiolates andcorresponding alkylated or protonated salts

e.g. VX :O-Ethyl S-2-diisopropylaminoethylmethyl phosphonothiolate(50782-69-9)

(4)Sulfur mustards:

2-Chloroethylchloromethylsulfide(2625-76-5)Mustard gas :Bis(2-chloroethyl) sulfide(505-60-2)Bis(2-chloroethylthio) methane(63869-13-6)Sesquimustard:1, 2-Bis(2-chloroethylthio) ethane(3563-36-8)1,3-Bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-propane(63905-10-2)1,4-Bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-butane(142868-93-7)1,5-Bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-pentane(142868-94-8)Bis(2-chloroethylthiomethyl) ether(63918-90-1)O-Mustard:Bis(2-chloroethylthioethyl) ether(63918-89-8)

(5)Lewisites:

Lewisite 1:2-Chlorovinyldichloroarsine(541-25-3)Lewisite 2:Bis(2-chlorovinyl)chloroarsine(40334-69-8)Lewisite 3:Tris(2-chloroethyl)arsine(40334-70-1)

(6)Nitrogen mustards :

HNI :Bis(2-chloroethyl)ethylamine(538-07-8)HN2 :Bis(2-chloroethyl) methylamine(51-75-2)HN3 :Tris(2-chloroethyl) amine(555-77-1)

(7)Saxitoxin(35523-89-8)

(8)Ricin(9009-86-3)

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200731

B. Precursors :

(1)Alkyl (Me, Et, n-pr or i-Pr) phosphonyldifluorides

e.g. DF : Methylphosphonyldifluoride(676-99-3)

(2)O-Alkyl (H or C10, incl. cycloalkyl) O-2-dialkyl(Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-aminoethly alkyl(Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphonites andcorresponding alkylated or protonated salts

e.g. QL :O-Ethyl O-2-diisopropylaminoethylmethylphosphonite(57856-11-8)

(3) Chlorosarin:O-Isoprophyl methylphosphonochloridate(1445-76-7)

(4) Chlorosoman:O-Pinacolyl methylphosphonochloridate (7040-57-5)

SCHEDULE II

A. Toxic chemicals:

(1) Amtion :O, O-Diethyl S-[2-diethylamino) ethyl]phosphorothiolate(78-53-5)and corresponding alkylated or protonated salts

(2) PFIB: 1,1,3,3,3-Pentafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)-l-propene(382-21-8)

(3) BZ: 3-Quinuclidinyl benzilate (*)(6581-06-2)

B. Precursors:

(1) Chemicals, except for those listed in Schedule 1,containing a phosphorus atom to which is bondedone methyl, ethyl or propyl (normal or iso) groupbut not further carbon atoms,

e.g. Methylphosphonyl dichloride(676-97-1)Dimethyl methylphosphonate(756-79-6)

Exemption: Fonofos: O-Ethyl S-phenylethlphosphonothiolothionate(944-22-9)

(2) N, N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphoramidicdihalides

(3) Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) N, N-dialkyl(Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-phosphoramidates

(4) Arsenic trichloride(7784-34-1)

(5) 2,2-Diphenyl-2-hydroxyacetic acid(76-93-7)

Chemical Weapons ConventionAct, No.58 of 200732

(6) Quinuclidin-3-ol(1619-34-7)

(7) N, N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr- or i-Pr) aminoethyl-2-chlorides and corresponding protonated salts

(8) N, N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)aminoethane-2-ols and correspondingprotonated saltsExemptions: N,N-Dimethylaminoethanol(108-01-0)and corresponding protonated saltsN,N-Diethlyaminoethanol(100-37-8)

(9) N, N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethane-thiols and corresponding protonated salts

(10) Thiodiglycol: Bis(2-hydroxyethyl) sulfide(111-48-8)

(11) Pionacolyl alcohol: 3,3-Dimethylbutan-2-ol(464-07-3)

SCHEDULE III

A. Toxic Chemicals :

(1) Phosgene : Carbonyl dichloride(75-44-5)

(2) Cyanogen chloride(506-77-4)

(3) Hydrogen cyanide(74-90-8)

(4) Chloropicrin: Trichloronitromethane(76-06-2)

B. Precursors:

(1) Phosphorus oxyichloride(10025-87-3)

(2) Phosphorus trichloride(7719-12-2)

(3) Phosphorus penta chloride(10026-13-8)

(4) Trimethyl phosphite(121-45-9)

(5) Triethyl phosphite(122-52-1)

(6) Dimethly phosphite(868-85-9)

(7) Diethly phosphite(762-04-9)

(8) Sulfur monochloride(10025-67-9)

(9) Sulfur dichloride(10545-99-0)

(10) Thionyl chloride(7719-09-7)

(11) Ethyldiethanolamie(139-87-7)

(12) Methyldiethanolamine(105-59-9)

(13) Triethanolamine(102-71-6)

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 befor 15th December each year in respect of the year following.