PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

FINANCE ACT, No. 11 OF 2002

[Certified on 8th July, 2002]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 12, 2002

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price: Rs. 11.00 Postage : Rs. 4.50


Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002

(Certified on 8th July, 2002]
L. D.—O. 19/2002.

AN ACT TO ENACT THE PROVISIONS OF LAW NECESSARY TO GIVE
LEGAL FORCE TO CERTAIN BUDGET PROPOSALS AND OTHER
MATTERS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR COMMENCING ON APRIL |,
2002 ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO.

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No. 11 of
2002.

PART I
IMPOSITION OF PorTS AND AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT LEVY

2. Subject to the provisions of section 5, there shall be
charged and ievied on every article originating from outside
Sri Lanka and imported into Sri Lanka, a levy to be called the
Ports and Airports Development Levy (hereinafter in this Part
referred to as the “levy”) at the rate of one per centum on the
cost, insurance and freight value of that article.

3. The levy payable under section 2 on an article imported
into Sri Lanka, shall be paid by the person importing the article
to the Director-General of Customs, at the time of the import
of the article. and upon payment of the levy the Director-
General of Customs shall cause an endorsement to be made
on the import invoice relating to that article specifying the
amount recovered as the levy.

4. Where any article originating from outside Sri Lanka
and imported into Sri Lanka is sold—

(a) by the Director-General of Customs for the recovery
of any customs duty, surcharge or other levy payable
or deemed to be payable under the Customs
Ordinance or for any contravention of the provisions
of the Customs Ordinance ;

Short title.

Levy on articles
imported into Sri
Lanka.

Levy to be paid to
the Director-
General of
Customs.

Purchase of
certain articles
deemed to be
imported for the
purposes of this
Act.


Exemptions.

Customs
Ordinance to
apply to the
recovery of levy.

Amount recovered
as levy to be
credited to the
Consolidated
Fund.

Interpretation.

Retrospective
effect.

Validation.

2 Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002

(b) by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority established by the
Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979, for
the recovery of any dues under that Act ; or

(c) by the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue,
for any taxes administered by him,

the purchaser of that article shall be deemed for the purposes
of section 3 to be the person importing that article and the
provisions of this Act shall apply to him accordingly.

5. Nothing in section 2 shall apply to any article imported
into Sri Lanka in respect of the provision of any service by a
mission of any State or any organization under the provisions
of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996.

6. The levy shall, for purposes of recovery of the levy
and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act. be
deemed to be a customs duty payable under the Customs
Ordinance and accordingly, the provisions of the Customs
Ordinance shall apply to the recovery of such levy.

7. The Director-General of Customs shall transmit to the
Consolidated Fund, all sums recovered by him under this Part,
as the levy.

8. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,
“article” means any goods, materials, any agricultural or
horticultural products or merchandise but does not include
diamonds, gems, gold, jewellery and electronic items imported
for the purpose of processing and re-export.

9. Part 1 of this Act shall be deemed, for all purposes, to
have come into force on May 1, 2002.

10. Where the Director-General of Customs collects
during the period commencing on May 1, 2002 and ending
on the date of commencement of this Act, from a person


Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002 3

importing an article an amount cqual to one per centum on
the cost, insurance and {freight value of such article, such
collection shall be deemed for all purposes to have been, and
to be, validly made, and the Director-General of Customs is
hereby indemnified against all action, civil or criminal, in
respect of such collection.

PART II

AMENDMENT TO THE BETTING AND GAMING LEvy
Act, No. 40 oF 1988

11. Section 3 of the Betting and Gaming Levy Act, No.
40 of 1988 (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the substitution for the
words and figure “Where any business of gaming, as is referred
to in paragraph (b) of section 2,”, of the words and figure
“Where any business, as is referred to in subsection (1) of
section 2,”.

12. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words, “levy under this Act shall pay”, of the
words and figures “levy under this Act for any year
commencing prior to April 1, 2002 shall pay”;

(2) by the insertion, immediatcly after subsection (1) of
that section of the following subsection :—

“(1A) A person liable to pay the levy under this
Act for any year commencing an or after April 1, 2002
shall pay the levy to the Commissioner-General in
four equal instalments on or before the first day
respectively, of April, July, October and January of that
year. For the purposes of payment of the levy the
Commissioner-General may issue an identification
number to the person liable to pay the levy :

Amendment of
section 3 of Act
No. 40 of 1988.

Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.


4 Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002

Provided however, that the levy payable by any
person for the year of assessment commencing on
April 1, 2002, shall be paid by him in three equal
instalments on or before the first day respectively,
of July, October and January of the year :

Provided further that, a person who commences
lo carry on any such business as is referred to in
section 2 after the first day of April of any such year
shall pay the levy he is lable to pay under this Act
for that year in such number of instalments not
exceeding four, and on such dates as the
Commissioner - General may consider reasonable,
having regard to all the circumstances of the casc.”;

(3) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words and figure “under subsection (1)," of the
words and figures “under subsection (1) or (1A)”; and

(4) by the addition at the end of that section, of the
following subsection :—

“(6) Where any instalment of the levy is in default,
the Commissioner-General may issue a certificate
containing particulars of the instalment in default and
the name of the defaulter to the Inspector-General of
Police and the Inspector-General of Police shall on
receipt thereof, take such measures as may be necessary
to stop the defaulter from carrying on the business of
bookmaker or gaming, as the case may be, at the place
as shall be specified in such certificate.”

Amendment of the 13. The Schedule to the principal enactment is hereby
Schedule to the amended as follows :-

principal

enactment. (1) in Part I of that Schedule —

(a) by the substitution for the words and figures
“for every year commencing on or after April
1, 2001”, of the words and figures “for the year
commencing on or after April 1, 2001 but prior
to April 1, 2002”; and


Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002 5

(b) by the addition at the end of that Part of the
following :—

“For every year
commencing on or
after April 1, 2002

Where live telecast

facilities are used in

carrying on the

business ... ... ... Five hundred
thousand rupees.

Where live telecast

facilities are not used

in carrying on the

business ......... Ten thousand
rupees.” and;

(2) in Part II of that Schedule —

(a) by the substitution for the words and figures
“for every year commencing on or after April
1, 2001”, of the words and figures “for the year
commencing on or after April 1, 2001 but prior
to April 1, 2002”; and

(b) by the addition at the end of that Part, of the
following :—

“For every year

commencing on or

after April 1, 2002... Twelve million
rupees.”

14. Part II of this Act, shall be deemed, for all purposes, _ Retrospective
to have come into force on April 1, 2002. effect.


Abolition of
stamp duty on
instruments and
documents.

Retrospective
effect.

Refund.

Avoidance of
doubts.

Repeal of Part VI
of Act No.1} of
1963

Retrospective
effect.

6 Finance Act, No, 11 of 2002

PART III

ABOLITION OF CERTAIN LEVIES OF STAMP DUTY WITH EFFECT FROM
May I, 2002

15. No stamp duty shall be imposed or paid under
ihe Stamp Duty Act, No. 43 of 1982 (hereinafter in this
Part referred to as the “principal enactment”) on any
instrument executed or any document presented or filed on or
after the date on which the provisions of this Part shall come
into foree.

16. Part IIT of this Act shall be deemed, for all purposes,
to have come into force on May 1, 2002.

17. Where any person, liable to pay the stamp duty under
the principal enactment on or after May I, 2002, pays such
stamp duty to the Commissioner-General in respect of may
instrument executed or document presented or filed prior to
the date of commencement of this Act, such person shall be
entitled to a refund of the sum so paid as stamp duty on an
application made to the Commissioner-General in that
behalf.

18. For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that
the provisions of this Part shall not derogate from the powers
of any Provincial Council to levy to recover any stamp duty
on any instrument or document referred to in List I of the
Ninth Schedule to the Constitution.

PART IV
AMENDMENT OF THE FINANCE Act, No. 11 oF 1963
19. Part VI of the Finance Act, No..11 of 1963 is hereby

repealed.

20. Part IV of this Act shall be deemed, for all purposes,
to have come into force on April 1, 2002.


Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002 7

PART V

AMENDMENT OF THE NATIONAL Security Levy
Act, No. 52 oF 199]

21. Section 3 of the National Security Levy Act, No. 52
of 1991 (in this Part referred to as the “principal enactment”)
as last amended by Act, No. 4 of 200! is hereby further
amended in subsection (2) of that section as follows :—

(1) by the repeal, of sub-paragraph (xid) of paragraph
(j) of item A of that subsection and the substitution,
of the following sub-paragraph there for—

“(xid) client support services provided, on or after
April 1, 2001 over the internet or the
telephone by an enterprise set up
exclusively for the provision of such
services to one or more identified clients
out side Sri Lanka, for which payment is
received in foreign currency, through a
bank ;

(2) in paragraph (/) of that subsection by the substitution
for the words “for the use of any aircraft.”, of the
words “for the use of any aircraft ;’; and

(3) by the addition, at the end of that subsection, of the
following :—

“(m) the proceeds from the sale of such percentage
of garments as is permitted for sale locally,
and where a sum of rupecs twenty-five has
been paid in respect of each garment, which
is manufactured by a person for export, from
fabric imported into Sri Lanka;”.

22. Part V of this Act shall be deemed, for all purposes,
to have come into force on April !, 2002.

Amendment of
section 3 of Act
No. 52 of 1991.

Retrospective
effect.


Amendment of
section 2 of Act,
No. 34 of 1996.

23.

Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002

PART VI

AMENDMENT TO THE GooDs AND SERVICES TAX

Act, No. 34 oF 1996

(1) Section 2 of the Goods and Services Tax Act, No.

34 of 1996 as last amended by Act, No. 26 of 2000 (hereinafter
in this Part referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
further amended in subsection (3) of that section by the
substitution for the words from “goods imported into Sri Lanka
are dutiable and liable to customs duty” to “Provided however
the Director-General of Customs” of the following :-

“goods imported into Sri Lanka are dutiable and liable to

customs duty :

Provided however no tax shall be charged on—

(a) any goods which entered into a customs bonded area;

or

(b) any fabric imported by any person for the purpose

(c)

of manufacture of garments for export, who has
entered into an agreement with the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka under section 17 of the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law for the
manufacture of garments for export under such
agreement or on the transfer of such fabric with the
approval of the Director- General of Customs or the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, with or without
value addition, to any other person for the purpose
of manufacture of garments for export ;

any fabric imported by any person, who has
registered with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
as a Trading House, for the purpose of manufacture
of garments for export through other garment
manufacturers as are approved by the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka and the transfer with the


Finance Act, No. 1] of 2002 9

approval of the Director-General of Customs or the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, of such fabric to
such manufacturers for the purposes of manufacture
of garments for the export ;

(d) any fibre, yarn, gray cloth, finished cloth, chemicals
and dyes used for the manufacture of fabric, imported
by any fabric manufacture who has entered into an
agreement with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
under section 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka Law, for the purpose of such manufacture”;

Provided further that, the Director-General of Customs”.

“(2) In the second proviso to subsection (3) of that
section—

(a)

(b)

by the substitution for the words “referred
to in subsection (6) of section 22, for a
period” of the words “referred to in
subscction (6) of section 22 or the purchase
of any fabric, manufactured by a person who
has entered into an agreement with the Board
of Investment of Sri Lanka under section 17
of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law
for the manufacture of fabric, by another
person who has entered into an agreement
with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
under section 17 of the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka Law for the manufacture of
garments for export under such agreement
and who utilises the fabric so purchased for
the manufacture of garments for export or a
period”;

by the substitution for the words “from the
date of importation” of the words ‘from the
date of importation or purchase”;


Amendment of 24.

Finance Act, No. 1/1 of 2002

Section 7 of the principal enactment as last amended

section 7 of the by Act, No. 5 of 2001 is hereby further amended by the repeal

principal
enactment.

of sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (d) of that section, and the

substitution therefor of the following :-

“(ii)

Amendment of 25.

clicnt support services provided, on or after April |,
2001 over the internet or the telephone by an
enterprise set up exclusively for the provision of such
services to one or more identified clients outside
Sri Lanka, for which payment is received in foreign
currency, through a bank ;”

Section 22 of the principal enactment as last amended

section 22 ofthe hy Act, No. 26 of 2000 is hereby amended as follows :-

principal
enactment.

(1)

in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “as may be specified in the Act” of the
following:—

“as may be specified in this Act :

Provided however, the amount of tax, due on the
supply of any garments within such percentage as is
permitted for sale locally by the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka under any agreement entered into by
any manufacturer of garments for export under
section 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
Law, shall be twenty-five rupees for each such
garment supplicd within Sri Lanka ;

in the proviso to subsection (4) of that section by
the repeal of paragraph (c) of that proviso and the
substitution therefor of the following:—

“(c) there is in excess of input tax, in any taxable
period, in the case of a registered person who
has entered into an agreement with the Board
of Investment of Sri Lanka and that taxable
period, falls within the period referred to in


Finance Act, No. 11 af 2002 11

item (xxvii) of the Schedule or with the
project implementation period as
stipulated in any agreement referred to in
item (xxviii) of the Schedule or up to the
commencement of commercial activities
whichever is earlier ; or” ;

(3) by the insertion, immediately after subsection
(6) of that section, of the following
subsection :—

“(6A) Notwithstanding anything contained in
subsection (3) and paragraph (il) of
subsection (5) and item (xxvi) of the
Schedule to this Act, credit for input tax
shall be allowed in respect of a registered
person who is engaged in the business of
distribution of power where such power
is purchased by the supplier of power
from the Ceylon Electricity Board
established under the Ceylon Electricity
Board Act, No. !7 of 1969.”.

26. The Schedule to the principal enactment as last
amended by Act, No. 5 of 2001 is hereby further amended
by the substitution for sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph
(a) of item (xxviii) of that Schedule of the following :-

“(ii) a period, on or before June 30, 2002 from the
appointed date, in the case of any person making
only exempt supplies after completion of the
project ; or”.

27. (1) The amendment made to section 22 of the
principal enactment—

(a) by section 25(1) of this Act shall be deemed,
for all purposes, to have come into force on April
1, 2001 ;

Amendment of the
Schedule to the
principal
enactinent.

Retrospective
effect.


Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

12 Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002

(b) by section 25(2) of this Act shall be deemed,
for all purposes, to have come into force on April
1, 1998.

(2) The amendments made to section 2 and the
Schedule to the principal enactment by sections 23 and
26 respectively, of this Act shall be deemed for all
purposes to have come into force on April 1, 2002.

28. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. |, 180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PusLicaTioNs Bureau, No. 32, TRANSworks House,
Lotus Roap, Cocomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
