—
SI,

PARLIAMENT OF. ‘CEYLON

6 ° ws, SS i
ord Session: 19 7-O8 ai
WS \ROE-7-~ 7 1g |

Wildlife Protection Society
of Ceylon
Act, No. 29 of 1968

‘Date of Assent: June 22, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BurREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription ¢including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PusLIcATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, CoLomso 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 60 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon
Act, No. 29 of 1968

L. D.—O. 1/68.

An ACT TO INCORPORATE THE WILDLIFE PROTECTION
SocIETY OF CEYLON.

[Date of Assent: June 22, 1968]

WHEREAS a society called and known as _ the
Wildlife Protection Society has heretofore been
established for the purpose of effectually carrying out
and transacting all matters connected with the said
society according to the rules agreed to by its
members : |

And whereas the said society has heretofore success-
fully carried out and transacted the several matters
for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage
to. grant the application: a.

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: — _

4. This Act may be cited as the Wildlife Protection
Society of Ceylon Act, No. 29 of 1968.

2. From and after the passing of this Act the
President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Com-
mittee for the time being of the Wildlife Protection
Society of Ceylon and such and so many persons as are
now members of the Wildlife Protection Society of
Ceylon or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the. Corporation hereby constituted, shall be and
become a Corporation with continuance for ever under
the style and name of the Wildlife Protection Society
of Ceylon and by that name shall and may sue and be
sued in all courts with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and alter the same at
their pleasure.

8. The general objects for which the Corporation is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

(2) to assist and co-operate in the prevention from
destruction of wild animals and plants and
to encourage the preservation, wherever
‘possible, of wild life in Ceylon in natural
conditions; and 7

H 8016—8,210 (11/67)

Preamble,

Short title.

Incorporation
of Wildlife
Protection
Society of
Ceylon.

General objects

t
Corporation.


Management.

Power to
make rules.

Rules of the
Corporation.

2 Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon
Act, No. 29. of 1968

(5) to promote an interest in the life histories of all
forms of animal life and to co-operate with
other societies and institutions which have
similar aims and objects.

4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject
to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation as hereinafter provided, be administered
by a Committee of Management consisting of the
President, two  Vice-Presidents, the Honorary
General Secretary, Assistant Secretary or Secretaries
and Honorary Treasurer of the Corporation, the
three previous holders of the office of President and
not more than twelve other members of the Corpora-
tion to be elected respectively in accordance with the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.

(2) All members of the Corporation shall be subject
to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation.

(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist
of E. B. Wikramanayake Esq., Q@.C., President, D.
R. Ellapola Esq., and Dr. L. D. C. Austin, Vice-
Presidents, T. W. Hoffmann Esq., Honorary General
Secretary, Lalith Senanayake Esq., Honorary
Assistant Secretary, C. P. de Silva Esq., Honorary
Treasurer and C. E. Norris Esq., Dr. R. L. Spittel,
R. S. V. Poulier Esq., Major A. MacNeil Wilson,
A. H. E. Molamure Esq., Max P. Hemple Esq., Dr.
C. W. A. de Silva, B. S. C. Ratwatte Esq., Dr.
Ranjan Fernando, S. A. Elapata Esq., K. Sunderam-

illai Esq., Selwyn Samaraweera Esq., J. W.

ubasinghe Esq., and Mrs. Jane Sexstone.

5. It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time at any general meeting of the members, and hy
a majority of votes, to make rules for the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members; for the conduct
of the duties of the Committee of Management and of
the various officers, agents and servants of the Corpo-
ration; for the procedure in the transaction of busi-
ness; and otherwise generally for the management of
the affairs of the Corporation and the accomplishment
of its objects. Such rules when made may, at a like
meeting, be altered, added to, amended or cancelled
subject, however, to the requirements of section 7..

6. Subject to the provision in section 5 contained,
the rules set forth in the Schedule shall for all
purposes be the rules of the Corporation :


Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon 3
Act, No. 29 of 1968

Provided, however, that nothing in the section con-
tained shall be held or construed to prevent the Corpo-
ration at all times hereafter from. making fresh rules
or froin altering, amending, adding to or cancelling
any of the rules in the Schedule or to be hereafter
made by the Corporation.

7. No rule in the Schedule nor any rule hereafter
passed at a general meeting shall be altered, amended,
added to or cancelled except by a vote of two-thirds
of the members present at a general meeting of the
Cotporation provided that such amendment shall have

been previously approved by the Committee of
Management.

8. All debts and liabilities of the said Wildlife
Protection Society of Ceylon existing at the time of
the coming into operation of this Act shall be paid by
the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts due
to and subscriptions and contributions payable to
the said Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon shall be
paid to the said Corporation. for the purposes of this
Act.

-. 9. -The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatever except in the presence of
two of the members of the Committee of Management
who shall sign their names to the instrument in token
of their presence and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.

40. The Corporation shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property movable or immo-
vable which may become vested in it by any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
al! such property shal] be held by the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act subject to the rules in force
for the time being of the said Corporation with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.

44. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice
or affect the rights of Her Majesty the Queen, Her
Heirs and Successors or any body politic or corporate
or of any other persons except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.

Amendment of
rules,

Debts,
liabilities,
&c,.

How seal of the
Corporation is
to be affixed.

Power of
Corporation
to hold
property.

Saving of
the rights of
the Crown
and others.


[Section 6)

4 Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon
Act, No. 29. of 1968
SCHEDULE
RULES OF THE WILDLIFE PROTECTION SOCIETY OF CEYLON
1, The Society shall be known as the WILDLIFE PROTEC-

TION SOCIETY OF CEYLON (W. L. P. S.) and is hereinafter

referred to as the Society.

2. MEMBERSHIP—
All residents of Ceylon and such others as are interested in its
objects shall be eligible to become members of the Society.
Ladies and gentlemen shall have equal rights of membership.

Application for admission to membership shall be made in
writing to the Honorary General Secretary, who shall require the
applicaut to fill in and sign a proposal paper, and forward the
subscription for the current year.

Each applicant for membership must be proposed and seconded
by merobers of not less than one year’s standing.

The applicant’s name, profession and residence, as stated in
the proposal paper, shall be laid before the General Committee
at the meeting next after the date of application, and if approved,
the Committee shall authorise the Honorary General Secretary
to notify the applicant and furnish him with a copy of the rules
cf the Society.

Members shall be of the following classes :—

(a) Ordinary Members :—Ordinary members shall be entitled
to all the benefits and privileges of membership. They
shall be entitled to receive all the Society’s publica-
tions.

(b) Honorary Life Members:—Life membership may be
conferred upon any member who has belonged to the
Society sufficiently long to warrant such honour, or
for services rendered which would seem, in the opinion
of the members, to justify such action.

Recommendations for honorary life membership
shall require a proposer and seconder and shall be
made in writing to the Honorary General Secretary
not less than two months before the Annual General
Meeting. The Honorary General Secretary shall in-
clude such recommendations in the agenda for
submission to the members at the Annual General
Meeting.

Honorary Life Members shall be entitled to the
same privileges as ordinary members.

(c) Overseas Members:—Overseas members shall be
ordinary members who have given up permanent
residence in the Island but who wish to maintain
their connection with and interest in the Society and
such others residing outside Ceylon as are eligible
under this rule. They shall be entitled to assume
ordinary membership should they reside in the
Island for a period of more than 6 months.

(d) Honorary Members:—Honorary membership may be
accorded to any person to whom the Society is
indebted for assistance or particular interest.

¢


Wudlife Protection Society of Ceylon 5
Act, No. 29 of 1968

Honorary members shall be elected by the’ General
Committee after candidates have been duly proposed
and seconded by members of the General Committee.

- Honorary membership is subject to annual confirma-
tion by the General Committee.

(6) Corporate Members:—Corporate membership «shall
consist of schools or such groups as may be admitted
as such by the Committee, so long as the membership
of the group exceeds twenty persons; such groups
shal] pay an annual subscription of Rs. 10 and shall be
jointly entitled to receive a copy of all the Society's
publications. ,

(f) Junior Members shall have attained the age of 12 years
and shall not be over 19 years.

Overseas members, Honorary members, Corporate
members and Junior members shall be entitled to
receive all the Society’s publications, but they shall
not be entitled to a vote at any meeting of the Society
and in any poll, nor to any otner privileges of

* membership. ss Ean

3. SUBSCRIPTIONS—

(a) There shall be no entrance fee.

(b) Ordinary Members.—Rs. 15 per annum or such sum as
the Society in General Meeting shall decide. An
Ordinary member may commute all obligations in
respect of subscriptions by a single payment of
Rs. 300. oT

(c) Honorary Life Members :—Nil.

(d) Overseas Members:—Rs. 10 per annum. An Overseas
member may commute all obligations in respect of
subscriptions by a single payment of Rs. 200.

(e) Honorary Members :—Nil.
(f) Corporate Members:—Rs. 10 per annum.
(g) Junior Members:—Rs. 5 per annum.

(h) The annual subscription shall be due on the Ist October,
in each year.

(t) The Honorary General Secretary shall send or post to
the last known address of each subscribing member
’ at the beginning of each financial year a notice that

his subscription is due.

(j) Any member whose subscription is more than 6 months
_in arrears shall not be entitled to any benefits or
privileges of membership.

(k) Any member whose subscription is more than one year
in arrears shall be called upon by the General
Committee to pay the subscription due forthwith,
failing which the Committee may remove his name
from the roll of members of the Society, and he shall
thereafter cease to be a member.


6 Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon

Act, No. 29 of 1968

4. OFFICE-BEARERS—

The Office-bearers of the Society shall be a President, two
Vice-Presidents, a Honorary General Secretary, one or more
Honorary Assistant Secretaries and a Honorary Treasurer. Office-
bearers shall be elected by the General Committee immediately
prior to the Annual General Meeting, and they shall hold oftice
until the appointment of their successors. Vacancies occurring
for any reason shall be filled temporarily by nominees of the
General Committee and such nominees shall hold office until
the next election of Office-bearers,

5. MANAGEMENT—

(a) The management of the Society and its funds shall be
vested in a General Committee which shall consist of
the President, two Vice-Presidents, the three previous

. holders of the office of President, the Honorary
General Secretary, the Honorary Assistant Secretaries
and the Honorary Treasurer, ez officio, and not more

’ than twelve other members of the Society. The
General Committee shall decide any question
regarding the interpretation of the rules and all
matters laid before it for decision. In the event of a
question arising which is not provided for in the rulss
the decision of the General Committee shall be
observed until the matter has been considered and
decided by a General Meeting of the Society. The

- General. Committee shall appoint such Sub-
Committees as it shall think fit.

(b) At every Anaual General Meeting one-third of the
members of the General Committee (excluding the
three previous holders of the office of President) or if
their number is not a multiple of three the number
nearest one-third shall retire from office. The members
- of the General Committee so required to retire shall
be those who have been longest in the Committee
since their last election but as between members who
were elected to the Committee on the same day
those to retire shall be determined by lot. In ‘addition
members.who have held office in the Committee for
3 years since their last election shall retire from office.
(c) The members entitled to vote at the Annual General
aie Meeting -shall elect members to the . General
Committee in place of those who retire but a retiring
member: of the General Committee shall be entitled

. for re-election. | _

Si (d) If an Office-bearer elected in terms of paragraph (b) is

due to retire at the Annual General Meeting to follow,
and if he is re-elected he shall continue to hold the

Hine. offee but if he is not re-elected the General

«li ** Committee shall appoint another in office.
A casual vacancy occurring in the General Committee
ae ‘may be filled by the ‘General Committee but the
-.' person so chosen shall be subject to retirement at
- the same time as if he had become a member of the
- Committee on the day on which the member of the
- Committee ‘in whose place he is appointed was last

elected.


Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon 7
Act, No. 29 of 1968

(f) It shall be lawful for the General Committee at the last
meeting prior to the Annual General Meeting to
nominate for the ensuing year for election at the
Annual General Meeting, its nominees ao member-
ship of the General Committee.

&) Editor of Loris:—The General Committes shall appoint
an Honorary Fditor who will be required to edit and
publish the official magazine of the Society. The
Editor who may or may not be a member of the
General Committee shall hold office until such time
as he resigns or is removed by & majority vote of the
Committee whereupon the General Committee shall
appoint another Editor. He will be under the general
control of the General Committee and shall be
entitled to attend meetings of the General Committee
but shall not be entitled to vote.

6. FINANCIAL YEAR—

The financial year shall end on the 30th September of each
yerr, 7

7. GENERAL MEETING—

(a) The Annual General Meeting ‘shall be held as soon after
the close of the financial year as possible for the
purpose of electing a Patron, should this position be
vacant, an Auditor, and the vacancies in the General
Committee for the ensuing year, to receive the
Honorary General Secretary's report and statement
of accounts for the past year and to transact any
other business of which due notice shall have been
given.

The Honorary General Secretary shali give three
weeks’ notice of the meeting by circular'to members,
and shall send each member a copy of the report
and statement of accounts. Any member may, on
giving not less than ten days’ notice in writing to the
Honorary General Secretary submit to the meeting
nominations for vacancies in the General Committee
or any matter falling within the scope of the objects
‘of the Society.

(b) The General Committee may, whenever it thinks fit,
call a Special General Meeting to discuss matters
falling within the scope of the objects of the Society.

A Special General Meeting shall be summoned by
the Honorary General Secretary at any time at the
request of twenty members, who must state in writing
the reason for which they desire such a meeting to be
called. At such Special General Meeting the discussion
shall be confined to the subject defined by the twenty
er in their written request for the meeting to
be he

(0) The chair shall be taken at all tive meetings by the
President or a Vice-President or, in their absence, by
a member elected by those present. The Chairman
shall, in the event of voting being divided equally,
have, in addition to his own vote, a casting vote.


8 Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon
Act, No: 29 of 1968

(d) Voting at all General Meetings shall be by a:show of
hands unless the majority of members present decide
that voting on any matter shall be by ballot.

(e) If at any General Meeting a poll be demanded by not
less than two members of the Society who have been
members thereof for a minimum period of one full
financial year of the Society a poll shall be taken in
such manner and at such time and place as the
Chairman shall direct. The demand of a poll shall
not prevent the continuance of a meeting for the
transaction of any business other than the question
on which a poll was demanded.

(f) A poll shall be taken by ascertaining as far as possible
the wishes of all members of the Society eligible to.
vote, and its result by simple majority shall be the
final decision on any question on which a poll is
demanded at a General Meeting. The Honorary
General Secretary shall within fifteen days of the
demand of the poll (or within such period as the
Chairman shall fix) send a notice and voting paper
to every member of the Society entitled to vote.
Such notice shall set out in full the resolution upon
which the poll is to be taken, the date of the
meeting at which it was proposed and such other
information (if any) as the Chairman shall or may
think fit to'add for the assistance or guidance of
members. The notice shall further specify the date
(to be fixed by the Chairman) on or before which the
voting paper must be returned to the Honorary
General Secretary. Every voting paper shall be
signed by the member himself and must state ~
without comment.whether the member is in favour
of or against the resolution on which a poll has
been demanded. Any voting paper which is not

. received by the Honorary General Secretary within
the time specified in the notice or which, if duly
received, is inconclusive or contains comments, shall
be void. .The decision of the Chairman or such
scrutinizers (if any) as he shall appoint as to whether
any voting paper is or is not valid shall be final.

(g) At any General Meeting thirty members shall. form a
quorum.

(h) No member, whose subscription for the current year is

unpaid at the time of a meeting, shall be entitled to
vote at that meeting or at a poll held in connection
with the proceedings of that meeting.

8. COMMITTEE MEETINGS—.

(a) At least six General’ Committee Meetings shall be held
during each: year.

(b) The General Committee shall have the power, at any
time to demand the resignation of any member for
such conduct as they may deem prejudicial to the. «
interests of the Society... wtiacl


Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon i)
Act, No. 29 of 1968

(c) All matters dealt with by the General Committee shall
be decided by a majority vote. The Chairman shall
in the event of voting being divided equally, have, in

.. addition to his own.vote, a casting vote.

(d) At meetings of the General Committee seven shall
form quorum.

9. DUTIES OF THE HONORARY GENERAL SECRETARY
AND HONORARY TREASURER—

(a) The Honorary General Secretary and Hony. Treasurer
shall submit for adoption at the Annual General
Meeting, a report on the work of the Society for the
preceding year, together with a duly audited state-
ment of Society’s accounts for the same period,
having first submitted such report and aecounts to
the General Committee for its approval.

(b) The Honorary General Secretary shall see that a copy
of the report and statement of accounts for sub-
mission at the Annual General Meeting is sent to
‘each member ag required under rule 7 (a).

(c) The. Honorary General Secretary shall keep a correct
record of proceedings of all meetings of the Society.
He shall call all meetings of the Society and be an
ex officto member of all Committees.

(d) The Hony. Treasurer shall receive all moneys payable
to the Society and shall make payments on behalf
of the Society.

(e) The Hony. General Secretary shall notify all persons
applying for membership of their enrolment as
members of the Society after their election, as
required under rule 2. _

i0. DUTIES OF. COMMITTEE MEMBERS—
The duties of a member of the General Committee are:—

(a) To keep in touch with members and matters of interest
- .. to the Society and to attend all Committee Meetings.

(b) To receive and enquire into any complaints on repre-
sentation made by members and, when necessary, to
.submit such complaints or representations to the
General Committee.

(c) To foster and encourage interest in the activities of the

, Society, to arrange for meetings of members in order

‘to discuss relevant matters and to interest himself

“ ‘generally in ‘matters affecting the condition of
wild life and the affairs of the Society.


10 Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon
Act, No. 29..of 1968

11. DUTIES OF ALL MEMBERS— —?
It shall be the duty of every member of the Society: —

(a) To further the objects for which the Society is
constituted.

(b) To make himself conversant with the principal
provisions of the Fauna and Flora Protection and
Firearms Ordinances, to assist in enforcing their
observance and when considered advisable, to lay
information against anyone knowingly infringing the
provisions of the said Ordinances.

(c) To report to the District Representative or the Honorary
General Secretary any matter of interest pertaining
to wild life in his area or elsewhere.

12. DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES—

(a) The General Committee shall appoint at the beginning
of each financial year, Honorary District Represen-
tatives, who may or may not be members of the
General Committee but who shall, be members of the
Society. Such Representatives shall be entitled to
attend meetings of the General Committee, but shall
not be entitled to vote.

(b) The District Representative shall be in charge of the
area which he represents and shall keep in touch
with all members of the Society in his area and
assist in the collection of subscriptions. He shall
inform the Honorary. General Secretary of all
matters affecting wild life and the membership in his
area.

(c) The District Representative shall hold at least
2 meetings per year of all members of the Society in
his area; these meetings may be public meetings and
serve the purpose of keeping the membership
informed of the Society’s work and policies, and also
to propagate the Society’s aims.

(d) The District Representative shall convene a Committee
of such number of members of h‘s area as he may
desire and. this .District Committee shall meet ut
lenst 4 times a year and implement the objects of
the Society. . a

(ce) The General Committee or any special Sub-Committee
formed for the purpose, shall from time to time
draw up such rules and notes for the guidance of
the District Representatives as ‘may be deemed
necessary, and these rules shall be observed by the

District Representatives.

13. BUNGALOWS— ° .
(a) The Society may construct and manage for the benefit
of its members bungalows or shelters or. camp sites
| in suitable places. . The General ,Committee shall


Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon 11
Act, No. 29 of 1968

decide from time to time whether and where such
bungalows or shelters or camp sites shall be
constructed and these shall be under the control of
the General Committee.

(b) The General Committee shall from time to time draw
up such rules and regulations for the admunistra-
tion of these bungalows, shelters and camp sites as
may be deemed necessary, and these shall be
observed by all members.

14. BANK ACCOUNTS—

The moneys of the Society shall be with such
bank or banks as the General Committee may
determine from time to time. All cheques, money
orders and vouchers for money and other similar
documents shall be endorsed by two persons, namely,
either the Secretary and Treasurer or any one of
them, together with another member of the
Committee appointed for such purpose.

15. ALTERATION OF RULES—

No amendment or addition or revision shall be
made to or from these rules except at an annual or
special General Meeting of the Society at which not
less than two-thirds of those members present and
eligible to vote are in favour of such amendment or
addition or revision, subject to rule 7 (e and f).
