“PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
9nd Session 1957-58

Tea Subsidy Act, No. 12
of 1958

Date of Assent : April 2, 1958

|
Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be purchased
at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO.
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 25 cents. . Postage ; 10 cents,


Tea Subsidy Act, No. 12 of 1958 3
“Ay, DO. 66/87.

‘yy. ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FUND
*XEoR THE PURPOSE OF SUBSIDISING THE REPI.ANTING
107 sp REHABILITATION OF TEA ESTATES AND SMALL
ME OLDINGS, THE MARKETING OF GREEN TEA LEAF
OF ESTATES AND SMALL HOLDINGS AND THE
JM SANUFACTURE OF MADE TEA FROM SUCH GREEN
"mgs LEAF; AND FOR THE IMPOSITION OF AN EXPORT DUTY
acon TEA TO BE PAID INTO SUCH FUND.

of)

in [Date of Assent: April 2, 1958]

1} .

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon in
this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows :—

4. This Act may be cited as the Tea Subsidy Act,
No. 12 of 1958, and shall come into operation on
such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazetze.

t

9g. (1) There shall be established a Fund called the
Tea Subsidy Fund.

(2) The object of the Fund shall be to subsidise—
) (a) the replanting of estates and small holdings;
(b) the rehabilitation of estates and small
holdings ;
(c) the marketing of green tea leaf of estates and
small holdings; and

(d) the manufacture of made tea from such green
tea leaf.

|
: 3. (1) There shall be paid into the Fund—

(a) the proceeds of the export duty levied under
section 8;

(b) such sums as may from time to time be granted
by Parliament or by resolution of the House
of Representatives for the purposes of this

i Act; and
(c) the proceeds of the sale of seed, cuttings,

plar.ts and fertilizers by the Tea Controller
to proprietors of estates and small holdings.

IJ. N. R 21352-3,025 (2/58

Short title
and date of
operation.

Tea Subsidy
Fund,

{
Payments intd
and out of |
the Fund,


4 Tea Subsidy Act, No. 12 of 1958 i
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund— Te

(a) such amounts as are authorised by regulatign
to be paid as subsidies under a scheme fo
subsidising the replanting of estates an
small holdings or a scheme for subsidisir,
the rehabilitaton of estates and smal
holdings; “f

i rod
(b) such amounts as are authorised by regulation:
to be paid under a scheme for subsidisin
the marketing of green tea leaf of estates
and small holdings or a scheme for
subsidising the manufacture of made tea
from such green tea leaf; ay
(c) the expenses incurred in connection with the
establishment by the Government of
nurseries for the supply of high grade
planting material to proprietors of estates
or small holdings, or in connection
with the supply of fertilizers to such
proprietors ; i |

(d) such remuneration as may be_ payable to
members of the Tea Subsidy Advisory
Board established under this Act;

(ce) the prescribed contributions to any provident
fund or scheme established for the payment
of gratuities to all or any of the officers and

_ servants employed for the purposes of this
Act and their dependants; and

(f) the expenses of the administration of this Act.

Adminis::81:00 4%, (1) The Tea Controller shall, subject to the

of the Fens. direction and control of the Minister, administer the
Fund. |

(2) There may be appointed such officers and ser-
vants as may be necessary for the administration of
the Fund. :

(3) The Tea Controller shall, as soon as possible
after the end of each calendar year, issue a report on
the administration of the Fund.

raceatien of 5. Any monies of the Fund may be invested by the

the moss Tea Controller in such manner as may be approved

theses by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister
of Finance.


Tea Subsidy Act, No. 12 of 1958 D
'g. (1) The Tea Controller shall cause—

(a) full and proper accounts of the Fund to be
kept in respect of each calendar year, and

.' (b) an income and expenditure account and a

a balance sheet made up to the end of such
year to be prepared as soon as possible
after the expiry of such year.

a (2) The accounts of the Fund for each calendar year
‘shall be audited by, or under the direction of, the
Auditor-General.

. (3) The Auditor-General shall examine the accounts
of the I'und, ascertain the correctness of the balance
sheet relating to the lund, and furnish a report
stating—

(a) whether he has or has not obtained all the
information and explanations required by
him, and

(b) whether in his opinion the balance sheet and
the accounts referred to in the report are
. properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true
and fair view of the state of the Fund
according to the information and explana-
tions given to him and as shown by the

books relating to the Fund.

(4) The Auditor-General and any person assisting
the Auditor-General in the audit of the accounts shall
have access to all such books and documents relating
to the Fund as the Auditor-General may consider
necessary for the purposes of the audit.

(5) The Auditor-General shall transmit his report
to the Tea Controller. )

(6) The Tea Controller al on receipt of the report
of the Auditor-General on the accounts of the Fund
for each calendar year, transmit—

() such report of the Auditor-General,

(6) the report of the Tea Controller on the admin-
istration of the Fund for such year, and

(c) the balance sheet and the statement of income
and expenditure. as certified by the
Auditor-General, for such year,

Accounts of
the Fund and
audit of

such accounts.


Winding up of
the Fund.

Special export
duty on tea.

Cap. 165.

Tea Subsidy
Advisory :
Board.

6 Tea Subsidy Act, No. 12 of 1958

to the Minister who shall cause copies thereof to be
placed before the Senate and the House of Repre.

sentatives. "

7. The Minister may, in such manner as may be.
approved by resolution of the House of Representa,
tives, wind up the Fund and dispose of any monieg:
left therein. ;

8. (1) There shall be charged, levied and paid an.
export duty of four cents for every pound of tea:
exported from Ceylon. v

(2) The amount of the export duty imposed under
sub-section (1) may be varied, or such export duty may
be rescinded, by a resolution of the House of
Representatives.

(3) This section shall have effect as though it formed
part of the Customs Ordinance, and the provisions
of that Ordinance shall apply accordingly.

(4) The export duty imposed by this section shall
be in addition to any export duty imposed by or under
any other written law.

(5) The proceeds of the export duty imposed by this
section shall be paid monthly to the Tea Controller by
the Principal Collector of Customs and shall he
credited to the Fund.

9. (1) There shall be established a Board which

shall be called the Tea Subsidy Advisory Board and

which shall consist of the Tea Controller, who shall
be the Chairman of the Board, and such other members
as the Minister may appoint.

(2) Every member of the Board, other than the
Chairman of the Board, shall, unless his appoint-
ment is terminated earlier under sub-section (3), hold
office for such period as may be specified in the letter
of appointment issued to him by the Minister!

(3) The Minister may terminate the appointment of
any member of the Board who has been appointed by
im.
(4) It shall be the duty of the Board to advise the
Tea Controller on the administration of this Act and
on any such matter to which this Act relates as may:

be referred by the Tea Controller to the Board for
advice. |


a Tea Subsidy Act, No. 12 of 1958 7
. (5) The members of the Board may be paid such
“yemuneration as the Minister may determine with the

-‘eoncurrence of the Minister of Finance.

: 40. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
_purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the provi-
sions of this Act.

_,.(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the

enerality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1),
the Minister may make regulations in respect of all
or any of the following matters : —

(a) scheme for subsidising with monies of the
Fund the replanting of estates and small
holdings;

(b) scheme for subsidising with monies of the
Fund the rehabilitation of estates and
small holdings;

(c) scheme for subsidising with monies of the
Fund the marketing of green tea leaf of
estates and small holdings;

(2) scheme for subsidising with monies of the
Fund the manufacture of made tea from
such green tea leaf;

(e) all matters stated or required in this Act to
be prescribed; and

(f) the establishment and regulation of a provi-
dent fund or scheme for the payment of
gratuities to all or any of the officers and
servants employed for thé purposes of this
Act and their dependants.

(3) Regulations in respect of any scheme referred
to in paragraph (a), paragraph (6),/paragraph (¢c) or
paragraph (d) of sub-section (2) may-—

(2) contain such conditions, prohibitions and other
provisions as may be necessary for securing
the due operation and enforcement of the
scheme; and

(b) declare the contravention of, or the failure to

comply with, any provisions of the regu-
“s , lations, and the furnishing of false infor-
Se mation or returns to the ‘Tea Controller to

ent all a ‘
77 a

Regulations


Duration of
the Act.

Tuterpretation.

8 Tea Subsidy Act, No. 12 of 1958

be an offence triable summarily by a Magis,
trate and specify as punishment: for such
offence a fine of an amount not exceeding
one thousand rupees or a term of imprison-
ment of either description not exceeding
six months or both such fine and such
imprisonment.

(4) All regulations shall be published in the Gazette .
and shall come into operation on such date as may he -
specified in the regulations, or, if no date is so speci-s
fied, upon such publication, and shall, as soon as.
practicable after such publication, be brought before’
the Senate and the House of Representatives for
approval. Where any regulation is not approved
elther by the Senate or by “the House of Representa-
tives, it shall be deemed to be rescinded and the rescis-
sion shall take effect on the date on which the regu-
lation is not approved.

(5) The validity of anything done under a regu-
lation shall not be affected by the subsequent rescis-
sion of the regulation under sub-section (4).

(6) Notification of the date on which the rescission -
of a regulation under sub-section (4) takes effect shall
be published in the Gazette.

11. This Act shall expire on such date as may be
appointed by the Minister by Order published in the
Gazette.

H
12. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—

‘“ Board ’’ means the Tea Subsidy Advisory Board
established under this Act; | "
“ cuttings ’’ mean any such cuttings from any’
living portions of any tea plants as may

be capable of being used for propagation;

“estate ’’-means any tea estate registered or
deemed to be registered under the Tea
Control Act, No. 51 of 1957;

‘‘ Fund ”’ means the Tea Subsidy Fund established |
under this Act;


» . Tea Subsidy Act, No. 12 of 1958 9

«green tea leaf ’’ means the leaf, leaf buds and
| immature stalks of the tea plant before
they are subjected to any of the processes
4d” (excluding that known as withering) for
conversion into made tea;

« made tea ’’ means tea manufactured from the
leaves, leaf buds and immature stalk of the
tea plant;

« manufacture ’’, when used with reference to
green tea leaf, means any process by which
such green tea leaf is converted into made

tea;

“plant ’’ means the plant of the species camellia
sinensis (I.) O. Kuntze, also known as
camellia thea Link and thea sinensis 1;

‘prescribed ’’ means prescribed by regulation;

‘proprietor ’’, when used with reference to any
estate or small holding, means a person
who has been registered or is deemed to
have been registered as the proprietor of
such estate or small holding under the Tea
Control Act, No. 51 of 1957;

‘regulation ’? means a regulation made under
this Act;

‘‘ rehabilitation ’’, when used with reference to
any estate or small holding, means anv
operation designed to improve the agricu]-
tural conditions of such estate or smal]
holding and includes the application of
fertilizers, and adoption of soil conser-
vation measures and the planting of addi-
tional tea plants and any other suitable
plants in such estate or small holding; |

—‘ replanting ’’, when used with reference to sal
estate or small holding, means the uproot-
ing of all existing tea plants in the whole
or any part of such estate or small holding:
and their replacement by new tea plants,
and includes the planting of tea plants in
an area which does not form part of the
estate or small holding, if the tea plants in
an equivalent area of the estate or small
holding are eradicated within such time
as the Tea Controller may specify;


10 Tea Subsidy Act, No. 12 of 1958
** seed '’ means the seed of the tea plant;

‘small holding" means any small holding
registered or deemed to have been registered ©
under the Tea Control Act, No. 51 of 1957; «

and am

‘‘tea’’?, when used with reference to planting, «
means tea plants, and when used in any ©
other context, means made tea.
