Price : Rs. 12.25 Postage : Rs. 6.75

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 25, 2002

WELFARE BENEFITS ACT, No. 24 OF 2002

[Certified on 22nd October, 2002]

Printed on the Order of Government

1Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

[Certificate on 22nd, October, 2002]

L. D. O. 26/2002

AN ACT TO PROVIDE THE NECESSARY LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE

PAYMENT OF ALL WELFARE RELIEF BENEFITS; TO SET OUT A

TRANSPARENT SELECTION PROCESS BY WHICH THE RECIPIENTS OF SUCH

BENEFITS CAN BE IDENTIFIED; TO PROVIDE FOR THE TERMINATION OF

SUCH BENEFITS; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Welfare Benefits Act,No. 24 of 2002 and shall come into operation on such date asthe Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette appoint(hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

2. The Minister shall appoint for the purposes of this Act

(a)a person, by name or by office, to be theCommissioner of Welfare Benefits (hereinafterreferred to as the Commissioner); and

(b)four members of the Board,

who shall be appointed in the manner hereinafter provided;and

(c)such number of persons by name or by office, asmay be necessary, to be, AdditionalCommissioners of Welfare Benefits, DeputyCommissioners of Welfare Benefits and AssistantCommissioners of Welfare Benefits.

3.(1) There shall be established for the purposes of thisAct, a body to be called the Welfare Benefits Board,(hereinafter referred to as the Board) charged with theadministration of the Act and the exercise, performance anddischarge of the powers, duties and functions assigned to orconferred on the Board, by this Act.

2H 0164475,650 (07/2002)

Appointmentof officers.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Establishmentof WelfareBenefitsBoard.

2Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

(2) The Board shall be a body corporate with perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

4. (1) The Board shall consist of

(a)the Commissioner of Welfare Benefits, appointedunder paragraph (a) of section 2, who shall be theChairman; and

(b)the four members appointed by the Minister in termsof paragraph (b) of section 2.

(2) The Minister shall, in consultation with theConstitutional Council appoint the Chairman and the membersof the Board. In appointing the Chairman and the fourmembers under subsection (1), the Minister and theConstitutional Council shall agree on the criteria to be usedin the selection of such persons.

(3) The Commissioner shall be the Chief AdministrativeOfficer of the Board and he shall be responsible for theimplementation of all decisions of the Board and for theexercise and discharge of any power or function delegated tohim by the Board or which is conferred on or assigned to himby or under this law.

5. (1) The term of office of the Chairman and each ofthe members appointed under paragraph (b) of subsection (1)of section 4 shall be three years calculated from the date oftheir appointment.

(2) The Minister may prior to the expiration of the termsof office specified above, remove from office, in consultationwith the Constitutional Council, the Chairman or any memberof the Board.

(3) The Chairman or a member as the case may be, shallbe eligible for re-appointment as Chairman or member, unlesshe has been removed from office in terms of subsection (2).

Term ofoffice &c., of theBoard.

Composition ofthe Board.

3Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

(4) The Chairman and the members shall be paid suchremuneration and allowances as may be determined by theMinister.

(5) The Board may act notwithstanding any vacancy in itscomposition and accordingly no act or decision of the Boardshall be invalidated by reason only of the existence of avacancy among its members or any defect in the appointmentof any member thereof.

6. The Board shall have the power

(a)in giving effect to the provisions of the Act, toexercise, perform and discharge the powers, dutiesand functions conferred on or assigned to it, by thisAct ;

(b)to do all such acts as may be necessary or incidentalto the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act ;

(c)to appoint, remove, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control over such officers and servantsas the Board considers necessary for the properadministration of this Act.

7. (1) The Board shall, on the material submitted to it insuch manner as is hereinafter provided, select the personswho shall be eligible to receive welfare benefit payments interms of this Act. Such selection shall be made in a non-discriminatory manner and in accordance with the prescribedselection criteria. No person shall be denied selection as aperson eligible to receive welfare benefit payments in termsof this Act, only on the grounds of race, language, religion,sex or political opinion :

Provided however, any person in receipt of a stipend orpayment, monthly or otherwise, under any public assistancescheme or in terms of the provisions of any law for the time

Powers of theBoard.

Selection ofpersons eligible toreceive welfarebenefit payments.

4Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

being in force, designed to alleviate poverty or for any otherpurpose, shall, within three months of the date of the cominginto operation of this Act, notify the Commissioner of all theparticulars of the stipend or payment so received along withthe information required to be furnished in terms of subsection(3). Upon receipt of such notification and information theBoard shall review each case in order to ascertain accordingto the prescribed criteria the eligibility of such persons toreceive assistance in terms of this Act. In the event of theeligibility of any person being established according to theprescribed criteria, then such person shall be deemed to be aperson who is eligible to receive welfare benefit payments interms of this Act for an initial period of twelve months andthe Commissioner shall notify such person of the same. Atthe end of such period such person shall if qualified, be eligibleto re-apply for entry to a welfare benefit scheme in terms ofthis Act. The name of such person shall if qualified, be addedto the List of names of the person eligible to receive welfarebenefit payments in terms of this Act and the Commissionershall accordingly inform such person of this fact :

Provided further, in the event of the Board deciding thatany such person is not eligible to continue to receive suchwelfare benefit payment, the Commissioner shall notify suchperson accordingly.

(2)Any person who upon application made undersubsection (1), is recognised as a person eligible to receivewelfare benefit payments in terms of this Act, in accordancewith the prescribed criteria, shall forthwith be informed ofsuch fact by the Commissioner. All payments made to suchperson or benefits received by such person under any publicassistance scheme or in terms of the provisions of any lawfor the time being in force, designed to alleviate poverty orfor any other purpose, shall cease with immediate effect.

(3) Every person applying to receive welfare benefitpayments in terms of the foregoing provisions of this section,shall make a declaration to the Commissioner in the manner

5Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

and in such form as may be prescribed therefor, setting outall particulars relating to the income, assets and liabilities ofsuch person, his spouse, dependent children or otherdependents as the case may be. The information set out insuch declaration shall be used by the Board for ascertainingwhether a person is eligible to receive welfare benefitpayments in terms of any prescribed Welfare Benefit PaymentScheme.

(4) It shall be the duty of a person who has notified theCommissioner in terms of subsection (1) or furnisheddeclaration in terms of subsection (3), to notify theCommissioner of any material change which has occurred inrelation to such particulars, within a period of two months ofsuch change.

(5) A person who is selected as being eligible to receivewelfare benefit payments in terms of this Act shall hereinafterbe referred to as a person to whom this Act applies.

(6) A decision of the Board under this section shall befinal and conclusive.

8. (1) The Board may for the effective implementation ofthe provisions of this Act, delegate to any of the officersspecified in paragraph (c) of section 2 of the Act or to any DistrictSecretary, Divisional Secretary or Grama Niladhari or publicofficer any power, duty or function vested in the Board.

(2) The Board may notwithstanding such delegationcontinue to exercise, perform and discharge the power, dutyor function so delegated and may at any time withdraw suchdelegation .

(3) The persons to whom any power is delegated undersubsection (1) shall in the exercise, performance and dischargeof the power, duty or function so delegated to them, be subjectto the general direction and control of the Commissioner.

Delegation ofpowers of theBoard.

6Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

9. (1) All payments of welfare benefits to persons towhom this Act applies, shall be made in accordance with suchWelfare Benefit Payment Scheme as may be determined bythe Minister, in consultation with the Minister in charge ofthe relevant subject and with the approval of the Cabinet ofMinisters.

(2) Each Scheme shall specify, the criteria for eligibilityto receive assistance in terms of a Scheme, the date ofcommencement of the Scheme, the financial or other benefitsto be granted in terms of such Scheme, the period for whichpersons are entitled to receive benefits in terms of the schemeand the total number of persons who will be recipients undersuch Scheme, and such other matters as may be relevant tothe Scheme.

(3) Every such Scheme shall be published in the Gazetteand shall be placed before Parliament for approval, prior tothe date of commencement of the Scheme.

(4) The Minister may, in consultation with the Ministerin charge of the relevant subject, and with the approval of theCabinet of Ministers amend a Welfare Benefit PaymentScheme determined under subsection (1). The provisions ofsubsection (3) of this section shall mutatis mutandis, apply,to every such amendment.

10. (1) The Board shall following such procedure as maybe prescribed appoint Selection Committees.

(2) It shall be the duty of a Selection Committee appointedunder subsection (1) to examine and ascertain the accuracyof the statements contained in the declarations forwarded tothe Board under subsection (3) of section 7 and the accuracyof any notification provided to the Board by any person interms of subsection (1) of section 7.

(3) The Selection Committee shall after inquiring into thedeclarations submitted to it and after making such inquiriesas it deems necessary, forward to the Board a list containing

Welfare BenefitPayment Scheme.

SelectionCommittees.

7Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

Objections.

Additionalinformation.

the names of the persons who in their opinion ought to beeligible to receive welfare benefit payments in terms of anyprescribed Welfare Benefit Payment Scheme.

11.(1) The Commissioner shall on receipt of the listunder subsection (3) of section 10 and after approval by theBoard of the same, cause Notices containing such list of namesto be published in two daily newspapers in the Sinhala andTamil languages, requiring persons to submit objections tothe names included in such list, or claims to be included insuch list, within a period of ten days from the date of thepublication of such Notice.

(2) On receipt of any response to the Notice publishedunder subsection (1) the Board shall require the Commissionerto conduct an inquiry and thereafter arrive at a decision onsuch objection or claim, as the case may be.

12. (1) The Board shall appoint Appeals Committees inaccordance with regulations made in that behalf to conductinvestigations into the objections or claims received inresponse to the Notice published under section 11.

(2) Every Appeals Committee appointed under subsection(1) shall after such inquiry and investigations as the Committeeconsiders necessary in the circumstances, within thirty daysof a matter being referred to them, communicate to the Boardtheir decision in respect of the same.

13.(1) Any officer authorised by the Board, may forthe purpose of ascertaining the accuracy of the matterscontained in the declaration given in terms of subsection (3)of section 7 or information provided to the Board undersubsection (1) of section 7, call for any additional informationwhich he considers necessary for such purpose.

(2) It shall be the duty of any person required to furnishadditional information under subsection (1), to furnish suchinformation within the time stated.

AppealsCommittees.

8Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

14. (1) The Commissioner or any officer authorised bythe Commissioner, may where he has reason to believe thatthe information contained in a decleration made in terms ofsubsection (3) of section 7, or information provided to theBoard under subsection (1) of section 7, is wholly or partlyfalse, recommend the Board that the name of such person beremoved from the list of persons eligible to receive welfarebenefit payments.

(2) The Board may, on receipt of the recommendationunder subsection (1), after making such inquiry as it considersnecessary, remove the name of such person from the list ofpersons eligible to receive welfare benefit payments andinform such person in writing of the same. The Board shallalso discontinue any payment to such person with immediateeffect, and where any benefit has been paid to such person,the Board shall require him to refund the same to the Boardwithin such time as is specified in that behalf.

15.Every Divisional Secretary shall ensure that allSelection Committees falling within the area of his Divisionare carrying out their duties in accordance with the provisionsof this Act or any regulations made thereunder.

16. (1) Any person required to refund the payments madeto him in terms of subsection (2) of section 14 who fails to doso within the time specified, shall be deemed to be in defaultof such amount and be deemed to be a defaulter for thepurposes of this Act.

(2) Where any amount is in default, the Commissionershall issue a Certificate to the Magistrate of the Division withinwhose jurisdiction the defaulter resides or any immovableproperty owned by the defaulter is situated, containingparticulars of the name of the defaulter and the amount indefault. The Commissioner shall cause a notification of theissue of the Certificate to be served on the defaulter or to besent to the defaulter by registered post :

Provided however, that non-receipt of such notificationby the defaulter shall not invalidate any proceedings whichare instituted as hereinafter provided in this section.

Duties ofDivisionalSecretaries.

Procedure ondefault.

Tendering falseinformation anoffence.

9Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

Board to maintainand operate bankaccounts &c.

Accounts of theBoard.

(3) The particulars contained in the Certificate issued bythe Commissioner shall be deemed for all purposes to becorrect and shall amount to a final document in respect of thesame.

(4) The Magistrate shall upon receipt of the Certificate interms of subsection (2), summon the defaulter to appear beforehim and require him to show cause as to why proceedings forthe recovery of the sum stated in the Certificate ought not tobe proceeded with against him. In the absence of sufficientcause being tendered, the amount shall be deemed to be afine imposed by a Magistrate on the defaulter for an offencepunishable with fine only and not punishable withimprisonment. The provisions of subsection (1) of section291 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979(except paragraphs (a), (b) and (i) of subsection (1) of thatsection) relating to the default of payment of a fine imposedfor such an offence, shall thereupon apply and the Magistratemay make any direction, which by the provisions of thatsubsection he could have made, at the time of imposing suchsentence.

17.(1) The Board shall have the power to open andoperate such bank accounts as it considers necessary for thedue discharge of its functions under the Act.

(2) The Board may, designate the persons by whom suchbank accounts may be opened and operated.

(3) The Board may invest any surplus monies of the Boardin such investments, as the Board considers prudent. TheBoard may in its discretion, change or terminate suchinvestments.

18. (1) The Board shall cause to be maintained properbooks of accounts of the income and expenditure, and assetsand liabilities, and all other transactions of the Board.

(2) The financial year of the Board shall be the calendaryear.

10Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shallapply to the audit of the accounts of the Board.

19.All expenses of the Board and the monies requiredfor making welfare benefit payments under any WelfareBenefit Scheme shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

20.Any person who

(a)furnishes a false or incorrect declaration in terms ofsubsection (3) of section 7 or information undersubsection (1) of section 7 ;

(b)fails to notify the Commissioner of any change inthe material particulars contained in the declarationmade by him in terms of subsection (3) of section 7or information under subsection (1) of section 7 ;

(c)furnishes false or incorrect information in responseto a Notice published in terms of section 11 ;

(d)obstructs or interferes in anyway or influences orattempts to obstruct or interfere in any way orinfluence any person in the discharge of his dutiesunder this Act ; or

(e)fails to comply with any regulation made under theAct,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding five thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a termnot exceeding one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

21.Any public officer who, in the excercise, performanceor discharge of his powers, duties or functions under this Act,knowingly and willingly, acts on any information which isfalse or incorrect, shall be guilty of an offence and shall onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liableto a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonmentto a term not exceeding one year or to both such fine andimprisonment.

Offences.

Expenses of theBoard.

Offences bypublic officers.

11Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

22.On the failure of any officer of the Board or memberof any Selection Committee to ascertain the genuineness ofany statement contained in a document forwarded to suchofficer or member, which results in the making of an incorrectwelfare benefit payment, such amount shall be recovered fromsuch officer or member as a debt due to the State.

23.It shall be the duty of the Divisional Secretaries tocause the lists of names of persons eligible to receive welfarebenefit payments to be updated once every year by the additionor omission therefrom of the names of persons who, in relationto the prescribed criteria, in the opinion of the Board becomeeligible or ineligible to receive welfare benefit payments, asthe case may be.

24.The Commissioner may, if he is of opinion that anatural or human made disaster has taken place and thatemergency relief of a temporary nature should be madeavailable to those persons affected by the same, extend withthe prior approval of the Board the welfare benefit paymentsmade under this Act to such persons. Such persons shalltemporarily become persons who are eligible to receivewelfare benefit payments in terms of the Act :

Provided that the emergency relief extended in terms ofthis section shall not in any event extend beyond a period ofone year.

25.The Minister may from time to time issue to theBoard, general or special directions in writing, in respect ofthe powers, duties and functions of the Board. It shall be theduty of the Board to comply with such directions.

26.Every decision of the Board and everyrecommendation made by a Selection Committee to the Board,and every decision by an Appeals Committee, shall be finaland conclusive.

27.(1) The Minister may make regulations for givingeffect to the principles and provisions of this Act and for anymatter required or authorized by this Act to be prescribed.

Recovery in caseof incorrectpayments.

Regulations.

Finality ofdecisions of theBoard.

Minister to issuedirections.

Emergency Relief.

Omission andaddition of namesto the list ofpersons eligible toreceive welfarebenefit payments.

12Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1), regulations may be made inrespect of all or any of the following matters :

(a)the procedure to be followed and the forms if any tobe used in the making of an application for welfarebenefit payments to the Commissioner ;

(b)the Scheme to be followed in choosing the personsto whom this Act applies and in making the welfarebenefit payments ;

(c)the conditions to be complied with by personsapplying for the grant of welfare benefit payment ;

(d)the conditions to be applicable in respect of personsto whom this Act applies ;

(e)the composition of the Selection Committees andthe Appeals Committees and the manner in whichappointments are made to such Committees and theprocedure to be followed by such Committees ;

(f)the procedure to be followed in the making ofobjections to the inclusion of name of any person asa person to whom this Act applies and claims madeby persons to be included in the lists published undersection 11 ;

(g)the manner of instituting and conducting inquiriesagainst officers of the Board and members of theCommittees for failure to ascertain the accuracy ofstatements contained in declarations made to them.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication, or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

13Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

Interpretation.

In case ofinconsistency thisAct to prevail.

(4) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, bebrought before Parliament for its approval. Any regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of such disapproval but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescineded shall be published in the Gazette.

28.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Constitutional Council means the Constitutional Councilappointed under Chapter VIIA of the Constitution ;

Minister for the purposes of this Act, shall mean theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance ;

welfare benefit payment means a payment to which aperson to whom this Act applies, is entitled to, in termsof a Welfare Benefit Scheme ;

Welfare Benefit Scheme means a Scheme formulatedunder section 9 of the Act.

29. (1) Where there is any inconsistency between theprovisions of this Act and the provisions of any other lawunder which any stipend or payment is made to alleviatepoverty or as a Welfare Relief Benefit or any orher similarpurpose, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

(2) Where there is no provision or effective provisionmade to deal with any matter in any such law as is referred toin Subsection (1) of this section, the provisions of this Actshall apply in relation to such matter.

30.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

14Welfare Benefits Act, No. 24 of 2002

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.