“

PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

4th Session 1968-69

Ceylon National Chamber
of Industries

Act, No. 10 of 1969

Date of Assent: May 14, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, CEYLON, To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO.
Annual Subscription (including Bills), Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, P. 0. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before 20th December each year
in respect of the year following. Late subscriptions will be accepted on
the condition that Bills issued before is date of payment will not be
supplied.

Price: 60 cents Postage: 10 cents


Ceylon National Chamber of Industries
Act, No. 10 of 1969

L. D.—O. 88/67.

An Act To INCORPORATE THE CEYLON NATIONAL
CHAMBER OF INDUSTRIES.

[Date of Assent: May 14, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Ceylon National
Chamber of Industries Act, No. 10 of 1969.

2. From and after the passing of this Act, such
and so many persons as now are members of the Ceylon
National Chamber of Industries (hereinafter referred
to as ‘‘the Chamber’’) or shall hereafter be
admitted members of the Corporation hereby consti-
tuted, whose names shall be inscribed in the register
mentioned in section 5, shall be and become a

Corporation with liability limited in manner
provided in section 13, with continuance forever,
ander the style and name of ‘‘ The Ceylon National
shamber of Industries ’’, (hereinafter referred to as
‘* the Corporation ’’) and by that name shall and may
sue and be sued in all Courts, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to change
and alter the same at their pleasure.

8. The objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—

(a) to promote and foster industrial growth in
Ceylon and to co-operate with the Govern-
ment and other associations in the
attainment of such objective;

(b) to promote and protect the interests of persons
connected with industrial undertakings in
Ceylon;

(c) to represent and express on industrial,
commercial and economic matters the
opinions of the industrial community in
Ceylon and to aid, assist and co-operate
with others in such representation and
expression ;

H 16529—4,2565 (8/68)

Short title.

Incorporation of
the Ceylon
National Cham-
ber of Indus-
tries.

General objects
for which the
Corporation is
constituted.


Executive
Council.

2 Ceylon National Chamber of Industries

Act, No. 10 of 1969

(d) to advise and communicate on economic and
industrial matters with public authorities,
with similar associations in other places and -
with individuals;

(e) to foster fellow-feeling and co-operation
among industrialists, workers and con-
sumers in all matters of common interest;

(f) to adjust and settle disputes amongst members;

(g) to promote and take all action necessary to
expand the exports of industrial goods of
Ceylon;

(h) to collect and circulate statistics and other
information relating to industrial,
commercial and economic matters;

(i) to publish industrial, economic, commercial,
scientific, technical and vocational journals
and literature and to propagate industrial
education in Ceylon;

(j) to maintain a library of books and publications ?
on industrial, commercial and economic
maiters; ee

(k) to organize and establish and assist in organiz-
ing and establishing vocational and
industrial training institutions in Ceylon
and to arrange and assist in specialized
training of personnel of members;

(1) to organize and participate in industrial
exhibitions and seminars;

(m) to assist and provide facilities for industrial
research and to take necessary steps to
further the introduction of more eflicient
manufacturing techniques;

(n) to do such other matters as may be necessary
to carry out the objects of the Corporation.

4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject
to the rules in force for the time being of the Corpora-
tion made as hereinafter provided, be administered by
an Executive Council, consisting of the Chairman,
the Deputy Chairman, four Vice-Chairmen, the
Honorary Treasurer and not more than forty other
members to be elected in accordance with the rules
in force for the time being of the Corporation.


Ceylon National Chamber of Industries 3
Act, No. 10 of 1969

(2) The members of the Executive Council of the

Chamber holding office on the date of commencement

; of this Act, shall be the members of the first
‘Executive Council of the Corporation.

5. (1) The Executive Council shall cause a
register to be kept, in which every person who at the
date of the passing of this Act is a member of the
Chamber and every person thereafter duly admitted
a member of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall
have his name inscribed.

(2) The register shall contain the following
particulars : —

(a) the name and address of the member;

(5) the nature of the industry or industries in
which the member is engaged;

(c) the date at which the name of any person was
inscribed in the register as a member; and

(d) the date at which the person ceased to be a
member.

6. It shall be lawful—

al (2) for the Corporation, from time to time, at any
general meeting of the members and by a
majority of votes to make rules and pass
resolutions for the admission, withdrawal
or expulsion of members; for the conduct of
the duties of the Executive Council and of
the various officers, agents, and servants of
the Corporation; and otherwise generally for
the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its
objects. Such rules and resolutions, when
made and passed, may at a like meeting be
altered, added to, amended or cancelled ;

(5) for the Executive Council, from time to time, to

make rules and pass resolutions for the proce-,

dure in the transaction of business, for the
appointment and the payment of remunera-
tion to the various officers, representatives,
agents and servants of the Corporation and
to any other person or persons for services
rendered; and for the expenditure and dis-
posal of the funds of the Corporation. Such
rules when made and such resolutions when

Register of
members.

Corporation may
make rules.


The rules in
the Schedule to
be the rules of
the Corporation.

Power to
raise loans,
&e.

Debts due by
and payable
to the Corpora-
tion.

Procedure for
affixing the
seal of the
Corporation.

Corporation
may hold
property.

4 Ceylon National Chamber of Industries
Act, No. 10 of 1969

passed may, by resolution passed at any

general meeting of the members of the,

Corporation by a majority of votes, be’

altered, added to, amended or cancelled.

7. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 6, the
rules set out in the Schedule, shall for all purposes,
be the rules of the Corporation:

Provided, however, that nothing in this section
contained shall be held or construed to prevent the
Corporation at all times hereafter from making fresh
rules, or from altering, amending, adding to, or
cancelling any of the rules in the Schedule or to be
hereafter made by the Corporation.

(2) All members of the Corporation shall be
subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation.

8. It shall be lawful for the Corporation to borrow
or raise money for the purposes of the Corporation;

and to create, execute, grant or issue any mortgages, ”

bonds, debentures or obligations of the Corporation

and to pay off and reborrow the money secured thereby- .

cr any part or parts thereof.

9. All debts and liabilities of the Chamber
existing at the time of the coming into operation of
this Act shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted, and all debts due to, and subscriptions
and contributions payable to, the Chamber shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

40. The seal of the Corporation shall not be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever except in the
presence of two of the members of the Board of
Trustees, who shall sign their names on the instru-
ment in token of their presence, and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as

“a witness. Any instrument sealed with the seal of

the Corporation and signed by two members of the
Board of Trustees shall be presumed to be duly
executed.

44. The Corporation shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold either as beneficial owner or
as trustee or otherwise any property, movable or
immovable, upon or by virtue of any instrument of


Ceylon National Chamber of Industries 5
Act, No. 10 of 1969

purchase, grant, gift, or lease, or upon or by virtue
of any testamentary disposition or otherwise, and
-all such property shall be held by the Corporation,
for the purposes of this Act and subject to the rules
for the time being of the Corporation or otherwise
for the purposes of and upon the trusts and subject
to the conditions in the relative instrument or
disposition contained, with full power (subject always
to the provisions of any written law relating to trusts
and of the relative instrument or disposition) to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of,
encumber, or charge the same.

12. (1) There shall be a Board of Trustees
consisting of three members of the Corporation who
shall be elected at a general meeting of the Corpora-
tion. Any vacancy caused by the death, resignation
or discontinuance of any member, shall be filled by the
Executive Council till the next general meeting.

(2) The power conferred on the Corporation by
section 11 to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of immovable property, shall be
exercised by the Board of Trustees subject to the
zules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
The Board shall, however, obtain the prior sanction
of the Executive Council for every such transaction.

13. No member of the Corporation-shall, for the
purpose of discharging the debts and liabilities of
the Corporation, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such annual subscriptions as
may be due from him to the Corporation.

14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice
or affect the rights of Her Majesty the Queen, Her
Heirs and Successors or of any . body politic
or corporate or of any other person, except such
as are mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by,
from or under them.

SCHEDULE
RoLes

(1) Save to the extent to which they are hereinafter required
to comply with any of the rules, all firms, companies,
corporations, co-operative societies, associations and
individuals who are members on 1.10.1967, shall be
deemed on the coming into operation of these rules, to
have duly complied with and fulfilled the provisions of
these rules relating to election for membership and accord-
ingly shall be deemed to be members duly elected under
and shall be bound by the rules.

Board of
Trustees,

Limit of
liability of
members.

Saving of the
rights of the
Crown and
others,

Existing
members.


Eligibility for
membership.

Election of
members and
patrons.

Subscriptions.

6

Ceylon National Chamber of Industries
Act, No. 10 of 1969

(2) (a) Any firm, company, corporation, co-operative society,

association or individual, who is engaged in or connected
with an industrial undertaking or who is interested in —
industrial development and willing to aid in carrying
into effect the objects of the Chamber, may apply to
the Secretary for election as a member or patron of
the Chamber.

(b) Every application for election as a member or patron
shall be made in the form or forms provided by the
Chamber for the purpose and shall be accompanied by
the enrolment fee and the annual subscription for
the first year. The application shall include an agree-
ment to be bound, if elected, by the rules and decisions
of the Chamber and by the decisions of the Executive
Council.

(8) (a) Every application for election as member or patron

shall be tabled by the Secretary at the next meeting
of the Executive Council.

(b) The Executive Council shall have the right to call for
further information concerning any candidate for
membership before proceeding to the election.

(c) A candidate who secures a majority of the votes of
the Executive Council members who are present at
the meeting and who vote, shall be admitted as a
member.

(d) The decision of the Executive Council shall be final
and it shall not be bound to assign any reason for its
decision.

(e) The Executive Council may elect for a stated period
any person as honorary patron or honorary member in
recognition of exceptional services rendered by him to
the Chamber and generally to the industrial develop-
ment of the country.

(f) The date at which a person is inscribed as a member
in the Register shall be the date on which he is
elected as a member by the Executive Council.

(g) Every person elected as a member shall be notified
by the Secretary of his admission to membership
within fourteen days of his election.

(4) (a) The annual subscriptions payable by the members are

as follows on the basis of the investment in the

industry :—
Investment Annual
Subscription
(a) Under Rs. 5,000 «. Rs. 75
(b) Rs. 5,000—Rs. 25,000 .. Rs. 100
(c) Rs. 25,000—Rs. 50,000 .. Rs. 125
(d) Rs. 50,000—Rs. 100,000 .. Bs. 150

(e) Rs. 100,000 and above ... Rs. 200


Ceylon National Chamber of Industries 7
Act, No. 10 of 1969

(b) The annual subscription of 2 member who is interested
in industrial development but who is not engaged in
an industrial undertaking is Rs. 50.

(c) The subscription for life-emembership is Rs. 2,500 and
for patron is Rs. 5,000 or more.

(d) The enrolment fee is Rs. 30.

(e) Except in the case of (c) above, the subscription shall
be valid for a period of one year from the date on
which the member was inscribed in the Register.

(f) The renewal subscription shali be paid within three
months from the date of expiry of the subscription for
the previous year and shall be valid for a period of
one year from the date of expiry.

(g) Any member whose subscription is in arrears for a
period of six months from the date of expiry shall
tpso facto cease to be a member. The Secretary shall
inform him of this by registered post.

(hk) The Executive Council may, however, readmit to
membership any person who has ceased to be a member
under (g) above, provided he pays the arrears of
subscription.

(5) The Secretary shall keep a Register of Members, which
shall contain the following particulars :—
we

(a) the name and address of each member,

(b) the name and address of the representative uf each
member,

(c) the nature of the industry and the amount of
investment,

(d) the date at which the name of the person was
inscribed in the Register as member, and

(e) the date at which the person ceased to be a
member.

(6) A member of the Chamber may resign by giving one
calendar month’s notice in writing to the Secretary of
the Chamber of his intention to do so and on expiration
of the notice period, he shall cease to be a member, but
he shall, nevertheless, continue to be liable to the
Chamber for any moneys due from him to the Chamber.

(7) (a) The affairs of the Chamber shall, subject to the rules
in force for the time being of the Chamber as herein-
after provided, be administered by an Executive
Council.

(b) The Executive Council shall consist of ¢
office-bearers and members :—
(i) a Chairman,
(ii) a Deputy Chairman,

he following

Register of
members.

Resignation
of members.

Executive
Council.


8 Ceylon National Chamber of Industries
Act, No. 10 of 1969

(iii) four Vice-Chairmen,

(iv) a Treasurer, .

(v) not less than 30 and not more than 40 members.;"
and

(vi) persons admitted to membership by the Chairman
under Clause 7 (c).

(c) The Chairman with the concurrence of the Executive
Council, may admit to membership of the Council not
more than five persons who have rendered distinguished
public service or are persons of eminence in profes-
sional, commercial or industrial fields, including Law,
Science and Engineering. Such members shall be
members of the Executive Council and shall have
voting rights but will not be called upon to pay any
subscriptions.

(d) The Executive Council shall be elected at each annual
general meeting.

(e) The Executive Council shall retire at each annual
general meeting but every member thereof shall be
eligible for re-election.

(f) Any vacancy occurring in the Council may be filled
by the Executive Council till the next general

meeting. .
The Executive (8) (a) The Chairman of the Chamber or in his absence the
Council meet- Deputy Chairman or in the absence of the Chairman
ings. and Deputy Chairman, one of the Vice-Chairmen shar

preside at any Executive Council meeting. In their
absence, the meeting shall elect a Chairman from
amongst those present.

(b) As far as possible at least one meeting of the
Executive Council shall be held each month.

(c) Not less than seven days notice of every meeting of
the Executive Council shall be given to each member
of the Executive Council.

(d) The Chairman may himself call or on requisition in
writing signed by him or by any five members of the
Executive Council, may require the Secretary to call
a meeting of the Executive Council at any time, and
on receipt of such requisition, the Secretary shall
forthwith call such a meeting.

(ec) At any meeting of the Executive Council, ten members
of the Council present at the meeting shall constitute
the quorum.

(f) Each member of the Executive Council shall have one
vote and in case of @ tie, the Chairman shall, in addi- _
tion to his own vote, have a casting vote. :

Powers of the (9) (a) The Executive Council shall be responsible for the
Executive general direction, supervision and control of all activi-
Council. ties of the Chamber, for the collection and disburse-

ment of its funds and for the proper administration
of the Chamber.


Ceylon National Chamber of Industries 9

(b)

Act, No. 10 of 1969

The Executive Council shall have the power to appoint
such staff and on such terms as it may consider
necessary.

(c) The Executive Council may from time to time appoint

(d

YS

(10) (a)

Sub-Committees for the purpose of considering and
reporting on any affair of the Chamber or carrying
on or promoting any object of the Chamber. The Secre-
tary of the Chamber shall be the Secretary of such
Committees.

The Executive Council shall have the power to charge
fees for any special services rendered by the Chamber
to any member of the Chamber or to anyone else.

There shall be an Advisory Council consisting of the
Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and six other
members.

(b) Four members shall be elected at each Annual General

Meeting.

(c) The other two members shall be admitted to the

r @

Council by the Chairman with the concurrence of the
Executive Council. They shall be persons who have
rendered distinguished public service or persons of
eminence in professional, commercial or industrial
fields, including Law, Science and Engineering.

Meetings of the Advisory Council shall be called by
the Chairman.

(11) (a) There shall be a Chief Executive, Secretary and such

other staff as the Executive Council may deem fit
to appoint.

(b) The Chief Executive and the Secretary shall not be

(c)

removable except on a substantive motion adopted at
a general meeting and passed by a majority of two-
thirds of the members present at that meeting.

The Chief Executive shall have full administrative and

disciplinary control over the employees of the Chamber
and be responsible for its proper and efficient adminis.
tration and for the prompt execution of the decisions
of the Executive Council and general meetings. He
shall be responsible for promptly depositing in the
bank approved by the Executive Council all monies
received by the Chamber.

(d) The Secretary shall attend every general meeting of

the Chamber, of the Executive Council and of any
Committees that may be appointed, and keep records
of the proceedings which shall be submitted by him
at subsequent meetings for confirmation. He shall
be responsible for convening such meetings. He shall
also keep the Register of Members and maintain it
upto date and shall perform such other duties as may
be assigned to him by the Executive Council.

Advisory
Council:

Duties of the
officials of
the Chamber.


Board of
Trustees.

Annual general

meeting.

10

Ceylon National Chamber of Industries
Act, No. 10 of 1969

(e) The Honorary Treasurer shall be responsible for prepar-
ing quarterly statements of accounts, presenting such
accounts at the Executive Council meetings and for |

presenting the audited statement of accounts for the

year at the annual general meeting.

(12) (a) There shall be a Board of Trustees consisting of three

suitable members elected at the annual general
meeting.

(b) Subject to the approval of the Executive Council, the
Board shall have power:—

(i) to purchase and/or take on lease any lands or
buildings for or on behalf of the Chamber at or
for such price or prices and/or for such rent or
rents and under such title and upon such terms
and conditions as the Board may think fit and
proper and also to erect and construct any build-
ing or buildings on any land or lands purchased or
leased or to be purchased or leased as aforesaid.
It shall also have power to sell or mortgage the
whole or any part or parts of the property of the
Chamber, whether movable or immovable;

(ii) to lease or let on any form of tenancy any land
or buildings or any part or portions thereof respec-
tively belonging to the Chamber for such periods

and at such rent and upon such terms and condi- >

tions as it shal] think fit and proper;

(iii) from time to time, at its discretion, to borrow
money for the purposes of the Chamber, to such
extent, in such manner and upon such terms and
conditions as it may think fit and for such
purposes to grant bonds, promissory notes, bills,
debentures, interest warrants, bonds for cash
credit, trust deeds or other documents and to
issue letters of credit.

(13) (a2) The annual general meeting shall be held not later

than the 31st day of May in each year as the Council
for the time being shall decide for the purpose of the
following businesses :—
(i) to receive the Annual Report and Audited
Accounts of the preceding year;

(ii) to elect office-bearers and the Council members
for the ensuing year;

(iii) to elect an Auditor;

(iv) to consider and take action as may be decided
upon with reference to any other business motion
or resolution of which due notice shall have been
given.

(b) A notice of the Annual General Meeting shall be given
to each member at least fourteen days before the date
of the meeting.

(c) Notices of motions or resolutions shall be sent to reach
the Secretary at least seven days before the date of
the meeting.

‘


Ceylon National Chamber of Industries ll
Act, No. 10 of 1969

(14) (a) Special general meetings shall be convened by the Special
Secretary on the direction of the Executive Council for a eling:
the transaction of any business which in the opinion

+ of the Council required the consideration of the general
body of members.

(b) Special general meetings shall also be convened by the
Secretary on a request signed by not less than fifteen
members of the Chamber eligible to vote and specify-
ing the subjects to be discussed.

(c) Not less than ten days’ notice shall be given to each
member specifying the place, date and time of the
meeting.

(d) A statement of the business to be transacted shall be
given by post or otherwise served at least three days
before the date of the meeting.

(15) (a) The Chairman of the Chamber, or in his absence the Proceedings
Deputy Chairman or in the absence of the Chairman = angel
and Deputy Chairman, one of the Vice-Chairmen shall general

preside at any annual or special general meeting. — meetings.

In their absence, the meeting shall elect a Chairman

from among those present.

(b) At any meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the

Meeting shall be decided by a show of hands, unless

a poll (before or on the declaration of the result on the

show of hands) is demanded by the Chairman or by

Pf at least five members. Unless a poll is so demanded,

a declaration by the Chairman that the resolution had,

on show of hands, been carried unanimously or by a

particular majority or lost and the entry to that effect

in the book of the proceedings of the meetings of the

Chamber and signed by the Chairman, shall be
conclusive evidence of the fact.

’ (c) At any meeting of the Chamber, every member present,
provided there are no arrears of subscription due by
him to the Chamber, shall be entitled to one vote and
in the event of equality of votes, the Chairman shall
have a casting vote, in addition to his own vote.

(d) Any member who so desires may nominate in writing
the name of any person to represent him at any meet-
ing of the Chamber and to vote on his behalf, which
writing shall be sent to the Secretary at least three
days before the date of the meeting.

(16) The quorum at meetings of the Chamber shall be as Quorum.

follows :—
Annual or Special General Meeting ws 20
Executive Council Meeting .. 10

(17) The minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Minutes of
Chamber and the Executive Council shall be kept by the meetings.

Secretary and shall be signed by the person presiding over
the next meeting.


Bank account
and books
of accounts.

Industrial
Sections.

Regional
Offices,

Amendments to
rules.

12

Ceylon National Chamber of Industries
Act, No. 10 of 1969

(18) (a) All moneys shall be deposited in the Bank to the

account of the Chamber and such account shall be
operated by the Honorary Treasurer and one other
person from a list of two members nominated by the

Executive Council. e

(b) The Executive Council shall cause to be kept proper

books of accounts with respect to:—

(i) all sums of money received and expended by the
Chamber and the matters in respect of which
receipt and expenditure take place,

(ii) all sales and purchases of goods of the Chamber,
and

(iii) the assets and liabilities of the Chamber.

(c) The books of accounts shall be kept at the office of

the Chamber or at such other place as the Executive
Council thinks fit and shall be open to inspection by
any member of the Executive Council during office
hours.

(19) (a) Any number of members who may wish to associate

themselves together in an Industrial Section with a
view to representing more effectually the interests of
any particular industry, may address the Council to
that effect and the Council thereupon may if it thinks
fit, authorise the formation of such an Industrial

Section. ;
ies

(b) The affairs of an Industrial Section shall be managed

by a Committee elected from its members.

(c) The Secretary shall be the ex officio Secretary of any

Industrial Section.

(20) (a) The Executive Council may establish regional offices

to serve better the needs of members in each region.
Each such office shall elect an Honorary Secretary and
Honorary Treasurer of the Regional Office from among
the members of the region in which the office is to be
established.

(b) The Executive Council, in consultation with members

in the region in which the Regional Office is to be
established may form Regional Committees in order
to assist in the administration of the Chamber in the
respective Regional Offices. :

(c) Where a Regional Office is established, the Executive

Council may frame rules and regulations for the dis-
posal of the funds collected in that region and for the
proper functioning of that Regional Office.

(21) No amendments to these rules shall be made except at

an annual or special general meeting. No such amend-
ment shall be valid unless it is passed by majority of
two-thirds of the members present at that meeting.

¢'

¥


Ceylon National Chamber of Industries 13
Act, No. 10 of 1969

(22) In these rules, the following words shall have the meanings
set out unless such meanings are inconsistent with or
repugnant to the subject or context:—

“the Chamber ’’ shall mean the Ceylon National
Chamber of Industries;

“‘ Executive Council ’’ shall mean the Executive Council
of the Chamber;

““the Chairman ’’ shall mean the Chairman of the
Chamber for the time being and includes the
Deputy Chairman and Vice-Chairmen;

“Honorary Treasurer ’’ shall mean the Honorary
Treasurer for the time being of the Chamber;

“co-operative society ’’ shall mean any industrial
co-operative society registered by the Depart-
ment of Co-operative Development;

‘‘the rules ’’’ shall mean these rules and the rules
of the Chamber from time to time in force;

‘“a member ’’ shall mean a member of the Chamber.

Interpretation.
