PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 11 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st March, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2011

1 Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2011

2PL 0055814,040 (03/2011)

[Certified on 31st March, 2011]

L.D.O. 11/2011.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE

ACT, NO. 13 OF 2006

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Economic ServiceCharge (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2011.

2.The Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended in section 2 as follows:

(1)by the substitution for paragraph (a) and (b) ofsubsecion (2) thereof, of the following

(a)commencing before March 31, 2007, does notexceed ten million;

(b)commencing on or after April 1, 2007, butbefore April 1, 2011, does not exceed rupeesseven million five hundred thousand;

(c)commencing on or after April 1, 2011, doesnot exceed rupees twenty-five million.; and

(2)by the substitution for the word Schedule insubsection 1 of that section the words Schedule Ior Schedule II as the case may be of the wordsFirst Schedule.

3.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the re-numbering of that section as subsection(1) thereof;

(2)in the re-numbered subsection (1), by the substitutionfor the words for any relevant quarter shall, of thewords and figures for any relevant quarter endingon or before March 31, 2011 shall,; and

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 2 of theEconomicService ChargeAct, No. 13 of2006.

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

2 Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2011

(3)by the addition immediately after the re-numberedsubsection (1) of the following new subsecion:

(2) Every person and partnership chargeablewith the service charge for any relevant quartercommencing on or after April 1, 2011 shall,whether or not requested by an Assessor to do so,furnish to an Assessor, on or before the twentiethday of April of each year, a return for the year ofassessment ending on March 31 of that year, insuch form and containing such particulars as maybe specified by the Commissioner-General, of therelevent turnover of such person or partnership,as the case may be. The return shall also indicatethe basis of the calculation of the service chargeand other details, if any, specified by theCommissioner-General in relation to thissection..

4.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 10 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 10A of that enactment :

10A. (1) The turnover from the business ofany Islamic Financial Transaction shall bechargeable to tax in terms of the provisions ofthis Act.

(2) The Commissioner-General of InlandRevenue shall in order to determine the extentof liability to tax of any particular IslamicFinancial Transaction, issue from time to time,such rules and guidelines as may be requiredfor the purpose of

(a)identifying the circumstances whichwould amount to an Islamic FinancialTransaction ; and

(b)ascertaining the profit and incomearising out of any Islamic FinancialTransaction..

Insertion of newsection 10A inthe principalenactment.

Turnoverfrom IslamicFinancialTransactionsto bechargeable totax.

3 Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2011

5.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the definition of theexpression person of the following definition :

person includes a company or body of persons, butdoes not include

(a)any registered society, within the meaning ofthe Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972or under the respective Statute enacted by aProvincial Council providing for suchregistration;

(b)any person carrying on business as an owner orcharterer of an aircraft or ship;

(c)any government institution or local authority asdefined in the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of2006;

(d)any distributor;

(e)any dealer in a lottery;

(f)any Unit Trust or Mutual Fund..

6.The Schedule to the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the word Schedule of thefollowing:

SCHEDULE I

For the period ending on March 31, 2011; and

7.The following new Schedule is hereby insertedimmediately after Schedule I of the principal enactment andshall have effect as Schedule II of that enactment:

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofthe Schedule tothe principalenactment.

Amendment ofthe Schedule tothe principalenactment.

4 Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2011

SCHEDULE II(Section 2)

For the period commencing on April 1, 2011

PART OF THE LIABLE TURNOVER

1.Enterprises to which the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of1978 is applicable (liable to pay incometax)

(a)Apparel exporters;

(b)Board of Investment houses;

(c)Manufacturers of textiles forapparel exporters.

2.Persons granted Exemptions/Concessionary Rates/Others

(a)who are exempt from income tax(including tax holiday companies);

(b)who during certain periods areincurring losses;

(c)who are subject to tax underconcessionary rates;

(d)who are engaged in wholesale orretail trade other than productsmanufactured or produced by theseller (excepting distributors ordealers in motor vehicles or liquor);

(e)who carry out primary conversionof any tea, rubber or coconutplantation including desiccatedcoconut, coconut oil or fiber, copraand sheet rubber, but excluding anyconversion which produces anyalcoholic beverage.

3.Advertising Agents

(a)prior to April 1, 2011

(b)on or after April 1, 2011

4.any other businesses including ofwhich the turnover is defined byNotice published in the Gazette.(including dealers in motor vehicles,liquor, tobacco and petroleum)

1.0 per centum

0.25 per centum

1.0 per centum

RATE OF THESERVICE CHARGE

APPLICABLE TO

THAT PART

0.1 per centum

0.25 per centum

5 Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2011

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof aninconsistency.

8.Any person or partnership carrying on an enterprise,having an annual turnover of a sum not exceeding rupeesone hundred million who is liable to pay the economicservice charge under this Act, who has defaulted in thepayment of such economic service charge as is payable byhim under this Act in respect of any year of assessmentending on or before December 31, 2010, due to the existencegenerally of any conflict environment or due to any financialconstraints of such person or partnership, shall be exemptfrom the payment of such charge as is in default under thisAct :

Provided that, the Commissioner-General of InlandRevenue shall on a request made in that behalf, issue to suchperson or partnership a Certificate of Exemption in respectof the sum in default :

Provided further, the person or partnership to whom theCertificate of Exemption is issued, shall simultaneouslyforward to the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue awritten assurance to the effect that such person or partnershipwill be responsible for the payment of all sums which maybecome payable by him under this Act, in respect of anyfuture year of assessment commencing on or after January 1,2011.

9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Exemption ofcertain small andmediumenterprises fromthe payment oftaxes payable bythem.

6 Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.