5Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

DEBT CONCILIATION (AMENDMENT)ACT, NO. 29 OF 1999

[Certified on 17th September , 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 17, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: Rs.4.50Postage: Rs.3.50

(Internet Version)

1Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1999

[Certified on 17th September , 1999]

L. D. - O . 22/97.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE DEBT CONCILIATION ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Debt Conciliation(Amendment) Act, No.29 of 1999.

2.Section 19A of the Debt Conciliation Ordinance(Chapter 81) (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is heredy amended as follows :-

(1) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection :-(1A) The Board shall not entertain anyapplication by a debtor or creditor in respect of adebt purporting to be secured by any such transferof immovable property as is a mortgage within themeaning of this Ordinance, unless that applicationis made within three years of the date of thenotarially executed instrument, effecting such transfer :Provided that nothing in this subsection shallbe read or construed as preventing the Board fromentertaining, after the period referred to in thatsubsection, an application by a debtor who is inpossession of the Property transferred ; and

(2) by the substitution in subsection (2) of thatsection for the words and figures subsection (1)of the words and figures subsection (1) orsubsection (1A).

3.Section 19B of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figuressubsection (1) of that section , of the words and figuressubsection (1) or subsection (1A) of that section.

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 19A of theDebt ConciliationOrdinance(Chapter 81.)

Amendment ofsection 19Bof theprincipalenactment.

H- 022545

2Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1999

4.Section 21A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section

(2) in the renumbered subsection (1) of that section -(a) by the repeal of all the words from In anyproceeding under this Ordinance to thefollowing matters :- and the substitutiontherefor of the following :-

In any proceedings under this Ordinance inregard to an application relating to a transfer orconditional transfer of immovable property, theBoard shall, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in section 2 of the Prevention of FraudsOrdinance (Chapter 70), or sections 91 and 92 ofthe Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 14) and for thepurpose of deciding whether or not suchtransfer or conditional transfer is in reality amortgage, take into consideration all thecircumstances of the case and in particular thefollowing matters :- ;

(b) in paragraph (d) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words a legallyenforceable agreement of the words anyagreement in whatever form ; and

(3) by the addition of the end of that section of thefollowing new subsection :-(2) The burden of adducing evidence to showthat a transfer of immovable property is in realitya mortgage shall be on the transferor.

5.Section 32 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal of allthe words from the Board shall dismiss the application to may , if it is , and the substitution therefor of the followingwords the Board may, if it is.

Amendment ofsection 32 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection21A of theprincipalenactment.

3Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1999

6.Section 33 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (b) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the following paragraph :-

(b) a creditor shall be allowed, notwithstanding any thing to the contrary in any otherlaw, as interest such sum as appears to the Boardto be reasonable, having regard to all thecircumstances of the case..

7.Section 39 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of that section,by the substitution, for the words may notwithstanding thatthe of the words shall, notwithstanding that the.

8.Section 64 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-

(1) by the substitution in the definition of creditor ,for the words a conditional transfer of immovableproperty, of the words a transfer or conditionaltransfer of immovable property; and

(2) by the substitution, in the definition of mortgage,for the words any conditional transfer of suchproperty of the words any transfer or conditionaltransfer of such property.

9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Amendment ofsection 33 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 39 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 64 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

4Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1999

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180(Foreign). Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.