PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8. 00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 13, 2009

[Certified on 11th March, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

NATION BUILDING TAXACT, NO. 9 OF 2009

Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 20091

[Certified on 11th March, 2009]

L. D.O. 48/2008.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF A TAX TO

BE CALLED THE NATION BUILDING TAX ON THE LIABLE TURNOVER OF

EVERY PERSON TO WHOM THIS ACT APPLIES; AND TO PROVIDE FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Nation Building TaxAct, No. 9 of 2009 and shall come into operation on February1, 2009.

2.(1) The provisions of this Act shall apply to everyperson who

(a)imports of any article, other than any articlecomprised in the personal baggage of the passenger,into Sri Lanka, [baggage shall have the samemeaning as in section 107A of the CustomsOrdinance (Chapter 235)]; or

(b)carries on the business of manufacture of any article; or

(c)carries on the business of providing a service ofany description.

(2) Every person referred to in subsection (1) shall,hereafter in this Act, be referred to as person to whom thisAct applies.

3.(1) A tax to be called the Nation Building Tax(hereinafter referred to as the Tax) shall, subject to theprovisions of this Act, be charged from every person to whomthis Act applies calculated at the rate of one per centum, inthe following manner:

(i)in the case of a person referred to in paragraph (a) ofsubsection (1) of section 2, who imports any article

Short Title.

Person to whomthis Act applies.

Imposition of aNation BuildingTax.

2 PL 0039134,200 (05/2009)

2Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009

into Sri Lanka on or after January1, 2009 the taxshall be chargeable in respect of the liable turnoverof such person arising from the importation into SriLanka of such article; and

(ii)in the case of a person referred to in paragraph (b) or(c) of subsection (1) of section 2, for every quartercommencing on or after January 1, 2009 (hereinafterreferred to as relevant quarter, the tax shall bechargeable in respect of the liable turnover of suchperson for such relevant quarter.

(2) In this section liable turnover

(i)with reference to any person referred to in paragraph(a) of subsection (1) of section 2 arising from theimportation of any article, means the value of thatarticle ascertained for the purpose of Value AddedTax under section 6 of the Value Added Tax Act,No. 14 of 2002;

(ii)with reference to any person and to any relevantquarter referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection(1) of section 2, means the sum receivable whetherreceived or not from the sale in Sri Lanka, in thatquarter, of every article manufactured by suchperson;

(iii)with reference to any person referred to in paragraph(c) of subsection (1) of section 2 and to any relevantquarter means the sum receivable, whether receivedor not, from the provision in Sri Lanka of any servicereferred to in that paragraph.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), theliable turnover for any relevant quarter of any person towhom this Act applies, referred to in paragraph (ii) or (iii) ofthat section shall not include

(i)any bad debt incurred by such person in thatquarter;

Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 20093

(ii)any value added tax under the Value Added TaxAct, No. 14 of 2002 paid in that relevant quarter;

(iii)any excise duty under the Excise Duty (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989, paid in that quarter:

Provided however, any bad debt recovered in any relevantquarter, shall be included in the relevant turnover of thatrelevant quarter.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), thetax shall not be chargeable from any person referred to inparagraph (b) or paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section 2,for any relevant quarter if

(i)liable turnover of such person for that relevantquarter does not exceeds the sum of six hundredand fifty thousand rupees;

(ii)such person has paid for that relevant quarteroptional Value Added Tax under Chapter IIIB of theValue Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002.

4.Every person to whom this Act applies, being a personreferred to in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of subsection (1)of section 2 shall, notwithstanding that no assessment hasbeen made on him for any relevant quarter, pay

(i)an amount equivalent to one third of the Taxpayable for that relevant quarter on or before thetwentieth day of the second month of that relevantquarter;

(ii)an amount equivalent to one third of the Taxpayable for that relevant quarter on or before thetwentieth day of the third month of that relevantquarter; and

(iii)an amount equivalent to the balance of the Taxpayable for that relevant quarter on or before thetwentieth day of the month immediatelysucceeding the end of that relevant quarter,

Payment ofthe Tax.

4Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009

to the Commissioner General, in such manner as may bespecified by him in that behalf.

For the purpose of this section the expression one thirdof the tax payable in relation to any relevant quarter meansone third of the Tax calculated on the sum estimated by suchperson to be the liable turnover for that relevant quarter.

5.(1) The Director General of Customs shall collectfrom every person referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection(1) of section 2, the tax chargeable from such person inrespect of every article imported by such person, at the timesuch article is imported, and shall make an endorsement onthe import invoice relating to such article specifying theamount so collected.

(2) Any amount collected by the Director General ofCustoms in accordance with the preceding provisions ofthis section in relation to any article imported by any personto whom this Act applies shall be deemed to be the Taxchargeable in respect of the liable turnover arising from theimportation of such article and shall be deemed to havebeen paid by such person to the Commissioner-General onthe day on which such amount was so collected.

(3) Any amount collectible under subsection (1) shall forthe purpose of collection and recovery of such amount andnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, bedeemed to be customs duty chargeable under the CustomsOrdinance and accordingly, the provisions of the CustomsOrdinance shall apply to the collection and recovery of suchamount.

(4) Where any article imported into Sri Lanka is sold

(i)by the Director General of Customs for the recoveryof any duty, levy or any charge collectible underthe Customs Ordinance; or

Collection of theTax by theDirector Generalof Customs.

Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 20095

(ii)by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority established by theSri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979, forthe recovery of any dues collectible under that Act;or

(iii)by the Commissioner General,

the purchaser of such article shall be deemed to be a personreferred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 2,and the provisions of this Act shall apply to him accordingly.

6.Where any person to whom this Act applies, being aperson referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) ofsection 2

(i)is deemed, by virtue of subsection (2) of section 5to have paid in any relevant quarter, the tax inrespect of any article imported by him;

(ii)has paid the tax under section 4 in respect of anyarticle purchase by him from another personreferred to in that paragraph,

being in either case an article which is used exclusively inhis business of manufacture, he shall be entitled to credit forthe tax so paid against the tax payable under section 4 forthat relevant quarter:

Provided that where such credit for any relevant quarterexceeds the tax so payable for that quarter, the excess shallbe deemed to be an advance payment of the tax made undersection 4 for the relevant quarter immediately succeedingthat relevant quarter.

7.Every person to whom this Act applies, being a personreferred to in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of subsection(1) of section (2) whose liable turnover for any relevantquarter exceeds the sum referred to in subsection (4) ofsection 3, shall give notice in writing to the Commissioner

Credit for Taxpaid.

Notice ofchargeability.

6Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009

General, of his chargeability to the tax for that quarter, notlater than the fifteenth day of the last month of that relevantquarter. The notification shall disclose the name, the postaladdress, the taxpayer-identification number if any, or theincome tax file number if any, and such other information asthe Commissioner General may specify by Order publishedin the Gazette.

8.The provisions in sections 106, 107, 108 and 112 ofChapter XII relating to Returns etc, Chapter XXII relating toAssessments, Chapter XXIII relating to Appeals, ChapterXXIV relating to Finality of Assessments and Penalty forIncorrect Returns, Chapter XXV relating to Tax in Defaultand Sums Added Thereto, Chapter XXVI relating toRecovery of Tax, Chapter XXVII relating to Miscellaneous,Chapter XXIX relating to Penalties and Offences, Section209 of Chapter XXX relating to Administration and ChapterXXXI on General matters, of the Inland Revenue Act, shallmutatis mutandis apply to the furnishing of returns,assessments, appeal against assessments, finality ofassessments and penalty for incorrect returns, tax in defaultand sums added thereto, recovery of tax, miscellaneous,penalties and offences, administration and general mattersunder this Act subject to the following modifications:

(a)every reference to the year of assessment in anysuch provision of the Inland Revenue Act, shall bedeemed to be a reference to the relevant quarterin this Act;

(b)every reference to assessable income or taxableincome in any such provision of the Inland RevenueAct, shall be deemed to be a reference to the liableturnover in this Act; and

(c)every reference to income tax in any such provisionof the Inland Revenue Act, shall be deemed to be areference to the tax charged and levied in terms ofthe provisions of this Act.

Certainprovisions of theInland RevenueAct to apply.

Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 20097

9.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

10.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,

article includes any goods, material or anyagricultural or horticultural produce, but does notinclude any excepted article specified in Part I ofthe Schedule to this Act;

body of persons, business, CommissionerGeneral and company shall have the samerespective meanings which they have in the InlandRevenue Act;

Inland Revenue Act means the Inland Revenue Act,No. 10 of 2006 ;

manufacture means any process for

(i)making an article;

(ii)assembling or joining any article whether bychemical process or otherwise;

(iii)adapting for sale any article;

(iv)packaging, bottling, putting into boxes,cutting into pieces, cleaning, polishing,wrapping, labeling, or in any other waywhatsoever preparing for sale any articleotherwise than in a retail stores for the purposeof sale in such store exclusively and directlyto the consumer;

person includes any company, body of persons orany partnership;

Interpretation.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

8Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009

quarter means the period of three monthscommencing on the first day of January, April,July or October of any year:

Provided that the quarter which commences on thefirst of February 2009 shall comprise two months;

service does not include any excepted servicespecified in Part II of the Schedule to this Act; and

year means a calendar year.

SCHEDULE

PART I

EXCEPTED ARTICLES

(i)any article exported by the manufacture of such article;

(ii)any article not being plant, machinery or fixtures importedby any person exclusively for use in, or for, the manufactureof any article for export;

(iii)any article sold to any person to whom this Act appliesexporter if the Commissioner General is satisfied, on theproduction of a letter of credit opened in any bank in SriLanka in respect of the export of that article or otherdocumentary evidence that such article has in fact beenexported from Sri Lanka;

(iv)any article which is imported, if proved to the satisfaction ofthe Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, that sucharticle is imported to Sri Lanka for

(i)display at an exhibition;

(ii)the temporary use in Sri Lanka in any project approvedby the Minister;

(iii)for the purposes of repairs to that article to be carriedout in Sri Lanka; or

(iv)any other similar purpose, and is to be re-shipped,within a period of one year from the date of importationof such article to Sri Lanka;

Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 20099

(v)any article imported, if proved to the satisfaction of theDirector General of Customs, that such article was, prior toits importation, taken out of Sri Lanka for repairs;

(vi)any cinematographic film or teledrama produced in Sri Lankaand taken out of Sri Lanka for further processing or printingwith the approval of the National Film Corporation;

(vii)any spare part imported by any airline or shipping company,if proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General,that such spare part is to be used for the maintenance of anyaircraft of ship, used in international traffic and owned orchartered by such airline or shipping company;

(viii)any article sold, to the United Nations Organization or to anyspecialized agency of such organization or to the diplomaticmission of any foreign Government or to any member of thediplomatic staff of such mission or to any other personapproved by the Minister on the recommendation of theMinister of Foreign Affairs as being of the status of adiplomatic mission;

(ix)any article imported if such article is subject to the SpecialCommodity Levy charged under the Special CommodityLevy Act, No. 48 of 2007;

(x)Fertilizer;

(xi)Petroleum and Petroleum products;

(xii)L. P. Gas;

(xiii)Pharmaceuticals; and

(xiv)Tea supplied by the Manufacturer being a manufacturerregistered with the Sri Lanka Tea Board established by theSri Lanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of 1975, to any registeredbroker for sale at the Colombo Tea Auctions.

PART II

EXCEPTED SERVICES

the following services

(i)the business of Banking or Finance;

(ii)supply of electricity;

(iii)medical services;

10Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009

(iv)supply of water;

(v)transport of goods or passengers

(vi)leasing of movable properties;

(vii)service of a construction contractor, not being a sub-contractor, insofar as such services are in respect ofconstructing any building, road, bridge, water supply,drainage or sewerage system, harbour, airport or anyinfrastructure project in telecommunication or electricity;

(viii)services provided to any exporter of any article, beingservices directly related to improving the quality andcharacter of such article;

(ix)the services of sewing garments provided to any exporterof such garments;

(x)services of a freight forwarder, shipping agent licensedunder the Licensing of Shipping Agents Act, No. 10 of1972 or courier insofar as such services are in respect ofthe exporter of any article from Sri Lanka;

(xi)services provided by a public corporation, insofar as suchservices are in respect of the export of any article from SriLanka;

(xii)operating a hotel, guest house, restaurant or other similarbusiness, if such hotel, guest house, restaurant or othersimilar business if such business is registered with the CeylonTourist Board;

(xiii)the services of an auctioneer, broker, insurance agent orcommission agent of any local produce;

(xiv)the services of a travel agent in respect of inbound tours, ifsuch person is registered with the Ceylon Tourist Board;

(xv)services of a computer software developer in respect ofsoftware developed by such person for use wholly outsideSri Lanka and for which payment is received in foreigncurrency through a bank;

(xvi)services provided over the Internet, using custom-builtsoftware, by an enterprise, exclusively for the provision ofsuch services being services enabling or facilitating the saleof goods, or for the provision of services, by a person inSri Lanka to person outside Sri Lanka, for payment inforeign currency;

Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 200911

(xvii)client support services provided over the internet ortelephone, by an enterprise, exclusively for the provisionof such services, to one or more identified clients outsideSri Lanka, for payment in foreign currency;

(xviii)the business of life insurance;

(xix)distribution or production and supply, of anycinematographic films primarily for exhibition in cinemas;

(xx)exhibiting films in a cinema;

(xxi)any service provided to the United Nations Organization orto any specialized agency of such organization or to thediplomatic mission of any foreign Government or to anymember of the diplomatic staff of such mission or to anyother person approved by the Minister of therecommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs as beingof the status of a diplomatic mission; and

(xxii)any service rendered in or outside Sri Lanka to any personor partnership outside Sri Lanka for payment in foreigncurrency if such foreign currency is remitted to Sri Lankathrough a bank.

12Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.