PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

NATIONAL THOROUGHFARES
ACT, No. 40 OF 2008

{Certified on 01st December, 2008]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part I] of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 05, 2008

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRILANKA

TOBE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price: Rs. 34.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

[Certified on Oist December, 2008]
L. D. — O. 34/2004

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PLANNING, DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION,
DEVELOPMENT, MAINTENANCE AND ADMINISTRATION OF AN INTEGRATED
PUBLIC ROAD NETWORK IN SRI LANKA; TO PROVIDE THE LEGAL
FRAMEWORK NECESSARY TO FACILITATE PRIVATE SECTOR INVESTMENT
AND PARTICIPATION IN ROAD CONSTRUCTION, DEVELOPMENT AND
MAINTENANCE; TO ASSIST THE PROVINCIAL COUNCILS AND LOCAI.
AUTHORITIES [N THE DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF ROADS; TO
PROMOTE AND FACILITATE COMMUNITY BASED ORGANISATIONS
ENGAGING IN THE CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND MANAGEMENT
OF ROADS AND PUBLIC ROADS; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS it is the National Policy of Sri Lanka to formulate
and implement within Sri Lanka a policy in retation to its
National Highways whereby the Government is committed
to provide for its citizens a modernised and integrated public
road network operative within Sri Lanka, which network
will be the result of a process of planning, design,
construction, maintenance, development and administration:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1. This Act may be cited as the National Thoroughfares
Act, No. 40 of 2008 and shall come into operation on such
date as the Minister may appoint by Order published in the
Gazette (hereinafter referred to as “the appointed date’’).

PART I

GENERAL
2. Subject to the provisions hereinafter provided, this
Act shall apply to all national highways and to all roads and
all public roads declared under section 4, other than roads
maintained and administered respectively by a Provincial

Council or a local authority.

2—PL 003220— 4,250 (09/2008)

Preamble.

Short title and
date of
operation.

Application of
the Act.


Administration
of the Act.

Declaration of a
road as a public
Road.

Powers of
officers and
servants.

2 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

3. (1) The Road Development Authority established
under Act, No. 73 of 1981. (hereinafter referred to as “the
Authority”) shall subject to the general directions and policy
guidelines of the Minister, have the exclusive power of
implementation and administration of the provisions of this
Act in consultation with such other government departments
or institutions as may be referred to in this Act.

(2) The Authority may also exercise all or any of the
powers conferred upon the Authority by the Road
Development Authority Act, No. 73 of 1981 in the
implementation and administration of the provisions of this
Act.

4, (1) The Minister may in consultation with the District
Road Network Development Co-ordinating Committee
established under section 8, by Order published in the Gazette
declare a road to be a public road :

Provided that, any road which prior to the coming into
operation of this Act has been declared to be a public road,
shall from and after the date of the coming into operation of
this Act, be deemed to be a public road, within the meaning
of this section.

(2) Every public road declared under subsection (1) shall
vest in the Authority and accordingly every such public
road shal! be administered and maintained by the Authority.

(3) For the purposes of this Act a public road includes a
canal or river,

5. (1) Subject to the general direction and control of
the Authority, the Director-General, the Provincial Director,
Chief Engineer and Executive Engineer of the Authority
shall be responsible for the implementation and
administration of the provisions of this Act.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 3

(2) (a) It shall be lawful for the Director-General to delegate
any function assigned to him by this Act, to the Provincial
Director, Chief Engineer, Executive Engineer, any officer of
the Authority or any community based organization as the
case may be.

(b) It shall be lawful for the Provincial Director to delegate
any function assigned to him by this Act, to the Chief
Engineer or Executive Engineer or any community based
organization as the case may be.

(c) It shall be lawful for the Chief Engineer to delegate
any function assigned to him by this Act, to the Executive
Engineer or any community based organization as the case
may be.

(d) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to
delegate any function assigned to him by this Act to any
community based organization.

(e) It shail be lawful for the Director-General to authorize
any officer of the Authority, not being the Provincial Director,
Chief Engineer or the Executive Engineer or a community
based organization to discharge any function assigned by
this Act to the Director-General, Provincial Director, Chief
Engineer, Executive Engineer or the community based
organization as the case may be.

PART If
Apvisory Bovies
6. (1) There shall be established a Road Network
Development Advisory Council (hereinafter Referred to as
the “Advisory Council”) consisting of the following:—
(a) Ex officio members -—
{i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in

charge of the subject of Highways, who shall
be the Chairman of the Advisory Council;

Establishment of
Road Network
Development
Advisory
Council.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(vill)

(ix)

(x)

(xi)

a representative from the Civil Engineering
Department of the University of Sri Lanka,
Moratuwa, nominated by the Head of the
Department;

a representative of the Institute of Chamber of
Construction Industries nominated by the
Institute;

a representative of the Chamber of Commerce
nominated by the Chamber;

a representative of the Institute of Engineers of
Sri Lanka established under the Institute of
Engineers of Ceylon Act, No. 17 of 1968,
nominated by the Institute;

the Director-General of the National Physical
Planning Department or his representative;

the Inspector-General of Police or an officer
not below the rank of Deputy Inspector-
General nominated by him;

a representative of the Land Use Policy
Planning Division of the Ministry of Lands
nominated by the Minister in charge of the
subject of Lands;

a representative of the National Planning
Department of the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of Finance, nominated by such
Minister;

a representative of the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Industries,
nominated by such Minister;

a representative of the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Tourism, nominated
by such Minister;


(

National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 5

(xit) arepresentative of the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Transport,
nominated by such Minister;

xiti) the Surveyor-General or his representative;

(xiv) a representative from the Institute of Town

(b)

(2)

(a)

(b)

(c)

Planners established by the Town Planners Act,
No. 23 of 1986, nominated by the Institute,
and

(xv) the Commissioner of Motor Traffic
Commissioner or an officer not below the rank
of an Assistant Commissioner of Motor Traffic
nominated by him;

five members nominated by the Minister from
among persons who are qualified and have
experience in the fields of economics, infrastructure
development, banking, power and energy,
telecommunication and law.

The functions of the Advisory Council shall be—

to advise the Minister in the formulation of the
Hierarchical Public Road Network Policy of Sri
Lanka (hereinafter referred to as “the Network
Policy”) including bridges and ferry services with
a view to, facilitate travel time and providing easy
movement with improved facility,

to advice the Minister on the development of a
hierarchical road network strategy designed to
improve the quality of the roads;

to advise the Minister on measures required to be
taken in relation to road research, road planning,
road development technology and road safety
measures;


6 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(d) to tender advise when required to do so on matters
relating to planning of roads, national highways,
expressways and restricted access highways that
may be refened to the Advisory Council by the
Authority;

(e) to tender advise on any other matter that may from
time to time be referred to the Advisory Council by
the Minister.

(3) (a) Every member of the Advisory Council shall be
appointed by the Minister and shall, unless he earlier vacates
office by death, resignation or removal hold office for a
period of three years from the date of appointment and shail
be eligible for re-appointment. The Minister may, if he
considers it expedient to do so, by Order published in the
Gazette, remove from office any member of the Advisory
Council for reasons assigned therefor.

(b) A member of the Advisory Council may at any time
resign his office by letter to that effect addressed to the
Minister.

(c) Where any member of the Advisory Council dies,
resigns or is removed from office, the Minister may appoint
any other person to be a member in place of the member who
dies, resigns or is removed from office.

(d) A member appointed under paragraph (c) shall, unless
he earlier vacates office by death, resignation or removal,
hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of
his predecessor.

(e) The Advisory Council may discharge its functions
notwithstanding any vacancy among its members or any
defect in the appointment of any such member.

(f) Eight members of the Advisory Council shall
constitute a quorum for any meeting of the Advisory Council


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 7

and subject to the provisions of this Act, the Advisory
Council may regulate the procedure in regard to its meetings
and the transaction of business at meetings.

(g) The members of the Advisory Council may be paid
such remuneration as may be determined by the Minister in
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.

7. (1) There shall be established a District Road
Network Development Co-ordinating Committee
(hereinafter referred to as the “District Co-ordinating
Committee”) for each District in Sri Lanka consisting of the
following members—

{a) all Cabinet Ministers and other Ministers
appointed by the President of Sri Lanka under the
Constitution, from among the members of
Parliament who represent that District in
Parliament;

(b) the Chief Minister of the relevant provincial
Council;

(c) all Ministers in the Board of Ministers of the
relevant Provincial Council;

(d) all members of the Parliament representing the
relevant District;

(e) all members of the Provincial Council representing
the relevant District;

(f) all Heads of Local Authorities within the relevant
District;

(g) Chief Secretary of the relevant Provincial Council;

(h) District Secretary of the relevant District;

District Road
Network
Development
Co-ordinating
Committee.


(i)

()

(k)

U)

National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

all Divisional Secretaries of the relevant District;

relevant Provincial Director of the Road
Development Authority who shail be the Secretary
of the District Co-ordinating Committee;

all District Heads of all Government Agencies of
the relevant district;

a representative from each of the Community Based
Organizations formed by the road user communities
in the Districts.

(2) The Minister may nominate a person from among the
members referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) to be the
Chairman of the District Co-ordinating Committee.

(3) The functions of the District Co-ordinating Committee
shall be—

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

to formulate an Integrated Road Network
Development and Maintenance Action Plan for the
District;

to co-ordinate and supervise all road network
development and maintenance activities, within the
District;

to direct with the concurrence of the Minister, any
Government Agency or any person to undertake
any road network development project or scheme
within the District and to regulate and supervise
the implementation of such projects or schemes,

to recommend the Minister to undertake and
execute the road development projects including
new constructions or any widening or deviation of
an existing road.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 9

(4) The Integrated Road Network Development and
Maintenance Action Plan specified in subsection (3) means
a plan specifying road development projects in the District
to be undertaken by the Road Development Authority, the
relevant Provincial Council, the relevant local authorities
and other relevant agencies. Such Plan shall be prepared for
a period of five years and shall include a Schedule of the
required capital for the implementation of the development
and maintenance projects set out therein.

(5) The provisions of subsection (3) of section 6 shall
nudatis mutandis apply to and in relation to the period of
membership, vacation of membership, appointment of a
member to a vacant post in the District Co-ordinating
Committee and other related matters of a District
Co-ordinating Committee.

PART ITI
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS

8. (1) The Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette declare any road or public road or classes of roads or
public roads to be a national highway or national highways,
as the case may be.

(2) The Minister may declare a road or a public road as a
national highway under subsection (1) if he is satisfied that—

(a) the road or public road-crosses at least one
provincial boundary and connects two or more
provincial centres and is a principal thoroughfare
for long distance movement of vehicular traffic;

(b) the road or public road connects two trunk roads on
which the volume of vehicular traffic is more than
two hundred and fifty vehicles per day;

(c) the road or public road passes through important
town centres;

Declaration of
National
Highways.


10

(d)

(e)

Dectaration of 9,
Expressways
&e,.

National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

the road or public road has strategic bridge crossing
points across major rivers, providing connection to
other national highways;

the road or public road provides access to a place of
national importance or a special project of the
government; or

the road or public road provides access to an
institution, structure, site or area the subject matter
of which is set out in the List II (Reserved List) of
the Constitution.

(1) The Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette designate a national highway declared in terms of

section 8, to be—

{a)

(b)

an expressway, Or

a restricted access highway.

(2) For a national highway to be designated as an
expressway or as a restricted access highway, as the case
may be, under subsection (1)—

{a)

(6)

the national highway should be designed specially
for high speed movement of vehicular traffic with
minimum interference to such high speed traffic
movements;

the national highway should not serve the properties
bordering it.

(3) The Minister may designate a national highway to
be an expressway under subsection (1), if he is satisfied that
the number of interchanges that affects high speed movement
of vehicular traffic along that national highway is minimal.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 11

(4) The Minister may designate a national highway to
be a restricted access highway under subsection (1), if he is
satisfied that the number of interchanges affecting high
speed movement of vehicular traffic along that nationa!
highway is relatively more in number.

10. (1) Every declaration under sections 8 and 9 shall—
(a) be accompanied by a plan—

(i) specifying the land area which comprises the
national highway;

(ii) specifying the interchanges along the national
highway;

(iii) specifying the components of the national
highway;

(iv) specifying the building limits and the length
and breath of the right of way; and

(b) specify the name by which such national highway
shall be identified.
PART IV
USER FEE NATIONAL HiGuways
41. (1) The Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette, designate the whole or part of an expressway, as a
user fee national highway.
(2) The designation referred to in subsection (1) may if so

required, specify a period during which such designation
shall be in operation.

Requirements of
a declaration
under sections 8
and 9,

Minister to
designate user
fee national
highways.


Authority to
enter into
agreements
regarding user
fee national
highway.

12 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

12. (1) The Authority may enter into an agreement with
any person including a Government Department, Public
Corporation or Private Institution (hereinafter in this part
referred to as the “operator’) in respect of the design,
construction, operation, maintenance, development and
overall management of a user fee national highway.

(2) The Director-General may by Order published in the
Gazette delegate to the operator such powers, duties and
functions of the Authority as may be specified therein. The
Director-General may notwithstanding such delegation
continue to exercise, perform and discharge the powers,
duties and functions so delegated.

(3) The agreement referred to in subsection (1) may
provide for—

(a) the provision of funds for financing the design,
construction, operation, development and
maintenance of a user fee national highway or part
thereof;

(b) the purchase, lease or assignment of land for a user
fee national highway,

(c) the operation, management, maintenance and
improvement of a user fee national highway,

(d)_ the allocation of rights, liabilities and duties of each
party to the agreement;

(e) the mode of adjusting of transactions in conformity
with foreign currency fluctuations and inflation;

(the re-negotiation of the terms of such agreement
and provisions for contingencies,

(g) the mode of collecting user fees from the users of
the user fee national highway,


t

National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 13

(A) the payment of remuneration of the operators and
other employees;

(i) the allocation and distribution of income derived
from the fees referred to in paragraph (x);

(j) the specifying of performance requirements,
performance measures and consequences arising
from failure to meet such performance requirements;
and,

(k) the settlement by conciliation or arbitration of
disputes relating to the agreement including
mandatory procedures, evidentiary provisions and
allocation of the cost of conciliation or arbitration.

13. The Minister may, prescribe the fees to be levied
from all vehicles used in a user fee national highway and
may prescribe different fees for different categories of
vehicles. The Minister may also prescribe the categories of
vehicles exempted from the payment of the fee.

14, (1) The driver of a vehicle used on a user-fee
national highway shall pay the fee referred to in section 13
at the prescribed places and to the prescribed persons.

(2) The driver of a vehicle who contravenes the
provisions of subsection (1) shall commit an offence and
shall on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate be
liable, in the case of —

& first offence to a fine not exceeding five thousand
rupees ; and

(b) second or subsequent offence to a fine not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees.

Minister to
prescribe fees to
be sevied for
user fee national
highway.

Driver of a
vehicle on a user
fee national
highway lo pay
the fee.


Construction of a
new road.

14 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008
PART V
ACQUISITION OF LAND FOR CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS

15. (1) The Minister may, on the recommendation of
the relevant District Road Network Co-ordinating
Committee, or Provincial Council or Local Authority as may
be relevant, or the appropriate Divisional Secretary of the
relevant area or Community Based Organization operating
within such area, authorize —

(a) the construction of a new road or a public road ; or

(b) the widening of an existing road or public road or
any deviations to such road or public road.

(2) The Minister shall, where he authorizes the
construction of a new road or public road under subsection
(1) direct the Authority to prepare a survey plan depicting
the land area required for the construction of such road or
public road, specifying the length and breadth of such road,
including its reservations and its building limits.

(3) The Minister shall, where he authorizes the widening,
improvement or any deviation of a road or a public road
under subsection (1) direct the Authority to prepare a survey
plan depicting the land required for such road or public road
widening or for such deviation specifying the new length
and breadth of such road, including its reservations and its
new building limits.

(4) The Minister shall by Order published in the Gazerre
declare the land area or any interest therein depicted in the
survey plan referred to in subsection (2) or subsection (3) as
the case may be, to be a road reservation or a public road
reservation as the case may be.

(5) Upon publication of the Order in the Gazette, the
provisions of this Act, relating to the prohibition of the
erection or re-erection of any structures within a building
limit shall apply to and in relation to the area of land specified
in such Order.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 15

16. (1) The Minister may on the recommendation of
the Advisory Council or the Authority or the Director-General
as the case may be, authorize the construction of a new
national highway.

(2) The Minister shall where he authorizes the
construction of a new national highway direct the Authority
to prepare a survey plan of the proposed national highway
depicting the area of land required for construction of such
national highway including the facilities for recreation,
leisure, marketing and other ancillary services, the length
and breadth of such national highway, the reservations and
the building limits, proposed interchanges and intersections
along such highway, if any.

(3) The Minister may on the recommendation of the
Advisory Council or the Authority or the Director General
authorize the widening improvement or deviation of an
existing national highway.

(4) The Minister shall where he authorizes widening
improving or deviation of a national highway under
subsection (3), direct the Authority to prepare a survey plan
depicting the area of land that is required for such widening
or for such deviation, including the facilities for recreational.
leisure, marketing and other ancillary services specifying
the new length and breadth of such national highway
including its reservation and its new building limits and
interchangers and intersections if any.

(5) The Minister shall by Order published in the Gazette
declare the land area or any interest therein depicted in the
survey plan referred to in subsection (2) or subsection(4), as
the case may be, to be a national highway reservation.

(6) Upon publication of the Order in the Gazette, the
provisions of this Act relating to the prohibition of the
erection or re-erection of any structures within a building
limit shall apply to and in relation to the area of land specified
in such Order.

Construction of
new National
Highways.


Prohibition of
development
work within a

road reservation.

Application of
the Land
Acquistion Act.

16 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

17. Upon declaration of a road reservation or a public
road reservation or a national highway reservation under
this part of the Act, no development work shall be executed
or caused to be executed by any Government agency or any
other person within the area so declared as a reservation,
except with the prior written approval of the Authority.

18. (1) Where any land or any interest in land is
declared as a road reservation or a public road reservation or
as national highway reservation, as the case may be —

(a) such land or interest therein shall for the purposes
of the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) be
deemed to be required for a public purpose ; and

(b) that land or interest therein maybe acquired under
the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) by the
Government for the Authority.

(2) Where the President is of opinion, upon the
recommendation of the Minister, that any land or interest in
land on which a reservation is declared to be a road reservation
or a public road reservation or a national highway reservation
is required for the purpose of carrying out a “public road
project” or a “national highway project” as the case may be,
and that such project would serve the just requirements of
the general welfare of the people, the President may by Order
published in the Gazette, declare such land or interest in
land on which a road reservation is declared, as the case
may be, as specified therein, is required for the purpose of
such project.

(3) Upon the publication of the Order under subsection
(2), the provisions of sections 3, 4,5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Urban
Development Projects (Special Provisions) Act, No 2 of 1980
shall mutatis mutandis apply to and tn relation to the
acquisition of the land under the provisions of this Act.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 17

19, (1) Where the Minister certifies that any land or
interest in land in any road reservation, or public road
reservation or national highway reservation vested ina Local
Authority, is required for the purposes of this Act, the Minister,
in consultation with the Minster in charge of the subject of
Local Government in the relevant Provincial Council may,
by Order published in the Gazette vest such land or interest
in such land in the Authority, with effect from such date as
shall be specified in the Order, subject to such conditions, if
any, as may be so specified.

(2) An Order made under subsection (1) shall confer on
the Authority absolute title to any land or interest in land
and to any buildings or structures on such land as are specified
in such Order with effect from the date specified therein, free
from all encumbrances. Compensation shall be payable by
the Authority in respect of such land or interest in such land
or buildings or other structures thereon.

20. (1) Where any crown land or part thereof is required
for any of the purposes specified under this part of this Act,
such purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for which a
special grant or lease to be made under section 6 of the
Crown Lands Ordinance (Chapter 454).

(2) All assets including any right of way over all national
highways and other structures in the possession of, or which
are being used by the Authority on the date immediately
preceding the appointed date and which are specified in an
Order made by the Minister and published in the Gazette,
shall be transferred to and shall vest in the Authority with
effect from the appointed date.

21. (1) The Authority may with the approval of the
Minister and with the consent of the owners purchase any
land or any interest therein specified in the survey plan and
the Order referred to in sections 15, 16 and 19 of this Act.

Acquisition of
land vested in a
Local Authority.

Special grants
under Crown
Land Ordinance.

Purchasing of
land for re-
settlement.


Determination to
be made by a
Committee.

Power of
Authority to
alienate Jand.

18 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(2) The Authority may with the approval of the Minister
purchase any land required for re-settlement of persons
displaced or affected due to the implementation of any of
the provisions of this Act.

22. Purchase price of a land under section 21 and other
related matters shall be determined by a Committee
comprising —

(a) the Secretary to the Minister in charge of the
subject of Highways or his representative ;

(b) the Secretary to the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance or his representative ;

(c) the Secretary to the Minister in charge of the
subject of Lands or his representative ;

(d) the Chief Valuer or his representative 5

(e) the registered licensed Valuer nominated by the
Institute of Valuers.

23. (1) The Authority may with the approval of the
Minister for the purpose of maintenance of a road or a public
road or a national highway, alienate any land or any interest
therein held by the Authority, subject to such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the Minister.

(2) The provisions of the Crown Lands Ordinance shall
not apply in relation to the alienation of any land by the
Authority under this section.

(3) For the purposes of this section alienation includes
sale, lease, rent, rent purchase or grant.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 19

Part VI
EXECUTION OF WORKS

24. The direction and control of all work to be
undertaken under this Act shall be vested in the Director-
General subject to the general direction and control of the
Authority.

25. (1) The Minister on the recommendation of the
Authority or the Director-General acting under the
delegation of powers to him by the Authority may, by Order
published in the Gazette order —

(a) the temporary or permanent closure of —

(i) an existing road or a public road or national
highway ; or

(ii) asection of a road or a public road or national
highway ; or

(iii) a bridge ona road or a public road or national
highway ; or

(b) substitution of an alternate route or alternate section
of a road, in lieu of an existing section of a road or
a public road or a national highway.

(2) In the execution of any order under this section if it
becomes necessary to acquire any land for such purpose,
such land shall be deemed to be required for a public purpose
and the provisions of Part V shall apply to and in relation to
such acquisition.

26. (1) No person, Government Department, local
authority or any other institution shall use the reservation of
a road a public road or a national highway for the purpose of
carrying on any gas, water, electricity, telecommunication
or any other service, without the prior written approval of
the Director General, Provincial Director, Chief Engineer or
Executive Engineer of the Authority as the case may be.

Direction and
control of
works to be
vested in
Director-
General.

Minister may
order
temporary
closure of a
road, public
road or a
national
highway.

No services to
be carried on a
road, a public
road or a
national
highway without
the permission
of the Authority.


20 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
charge a rental from any person referred to in this section for
using a road reservation. a public road reservation or a
national! highway reservation for any of the services referred
to in this section.

(3) Minister may from time to time on recommendation
of the Advisory Council, prescribe the appropriate rental to
be charged and other matters relating to charging of rental
under this section.

(4) The Director-General, the Provincial Director, the
Chief Engineer or the Executive Engineer as the case may
be, may on behalf of the Authority enter into agreements,
subject to the provisions of any special enactment in that
behalf and subject to the approval of the Minister, with any
person or Government Department, local authority or any
other institution to authorize and regulate the use by such
person or Government Department or local authority or any
other institution of any road reservation, a public road
reservation or a national highway reservation for the purpose
of carrying on gas, water, electricity, telecommunication or
any other service.

(5) In the event of the widening or the improvement or
deviation of a road, a public road or a national highway, the
Director-General or the Provincial Director or the Chief
Engineer or the Executive Engineer, as the case may be, may
by notice require any person to remove or shift any physical
structure or pipe line erected or laid by such person at the
own cost of that person within the time period specified in
the notice.

(6) Where the Executive Engineer is unable or unwilling
to remove any obstruction referred to in this section due to
any resistance or if the person responsible for causing such
obstruction cannot be found the Executive Engineer may
make an application in that behalf to the Magistrate’s Court
having jurisdiction.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 21

(7) The Magistrate may after considering the facts of the
case, direct the fiscal to remove such obstruction forthwith.

(8) The provisions of this section shall from and after the
appointed date, apply to any person, Government
Department, local authority or other institution using any
road reservation, public road reservation or a national
highway reservation for any of the purposes connected with
the supply of any of the services specified in the aforesaid
provisions of this section, subject however to the provisions
of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 90 of this Act.

27. (1) No person shall, for the purpose of any public
service, or private enterprise, make use of a road or a public
road or a national highway or execute any work thereon, or
set up Or maintain any plant or erection thereupon, except
under and in accordance with, the terms and conditions of
agreement referred to in section 26:

Provided that before any excavation, digging or cutting
of any road, any public road, or any national highway is
allowed to commence in pursuance of any such agreement,
the cost of restoration or repair of such road, public road or
national highway after such excavation, digging or cutting
as estimated by the Chief Engineer, and an additional
refundable deposit as prescribed by the Director-General
shall be paid to the Authority :

Provided further, if there is any additional cost incurred
by the Authority outside of any amount estimated, such
amount shall be deducted from the additional refundable
deposit paid to the Authority and the balance remaining
shall be thereafter be refunded.

(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
any provision of this section shall be guilty of an offence,
and shall, on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate
be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.

No pubtic
service, or
private
enterprise, to
make use of a
road a public
road ora
national
highway without
authority.


Exccutive
Engineer may
Temove
obstructions.

Certain persons
to be
empowered to
survey, measure
&c,. a road, a
public road or a
national
highway.

22 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

28. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any
agreement referred to in section 26 or anything to the
contrary in any other written law, it shall be lawful for the
Executive Engineer to issue notice to any person who has,
in pursuance of an agreement referred to in section 26, caused
an obstruction to any road, any public road or any national
highway, or caused obstruction to the widening or
improvement or deviation of a road, a public road, or a
national highway, to remove or abate such obstruction to
the satisfaction of the Executive Engineer, within such
period of time as may be specified in that notice.

(2) Where such person fails or neglects to remove or abate
such obstruction or to remove or shift such physical structure
or pipeline, within such period of time it shall be lawful for
the Executive Engineer or any person authorized by him to
remove or abate such obstructions or to remove or shift such
physical structure or pipeline and recover the costs incurred
in that connection.

(3) No compensation shall be payable to such person for
any breach of such agreement resulting from such removal
or abatement or shifting, as the case may be.

29. (1) Any officer or servant authorized by the
Director-General may at all reasonable times of the day, and
upon notifying the occupier thereof of their intention, enter
upon any land adjacent to any existing or proposed road,
public road or national highway or upon any land to be
declared in future as new road reservation, new public road
reservation or new national highway reservation with all
necessary vehicles, equipment, tools and other requisites
and perform all acts and things as may be necessary for the
purpose of —

(a) surveying, measuring, tracing, working, opening,
altering, turning. repairing, clearing, improving or
fencing thereupon ;


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 23

(b) constructing, excavating, repairing, clearing or
improving any bridge, causeway, earth retaining
structure, culvert, drain, fence or ditch thereupon ;
and

(c) erecting of temporary quarters or repairing any
building for the use of any such officer and his
workmen.

(2) Any officer or servant authorized by the Director-
General may at all reasonable times of the day and upon
notifying the occupier thereof, of their intention, enter upon
any Jand adjacent to any existing or proposed road, public
road or national highway to search for, dig, cut, take and
carry away water, timber, brushwood, stone gravel, sand or
any other material from any land adjacent or near to any
existing or proposed road or highway or national highway
for the purpose of —

(a) surveying, measuring, tracing, making, working,
opening, altering, turning, repairing, clearing,
improving or fencing thereupon ;

(b). constructing, repairing, clearing or improving any
bridge, causeway, culvert, earth retaining structure,
fence or ditch thereupon ; and

(c) erecting or repairing any temporary quarters or
building for the use of any such officer and his
workmen and labourers.

30. (1) In the event of the necessity arising to effect
emergency repairs to a road, a public road or to a national
highway, it shall be lawful for any officer or servant
authorized by the Director-General to carry away from any
land in the vicinity of any such road, public road or national
highway, any material, which is required for such purpose.

Right of entry to
lands in the
vicinity of a
road, a public
toad or a
national
highway.


Erection of
temporary
buildings on
land for
construction of a
road, a public
road or a
national
highway.

24 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(2) An officer or servant authorized by the Director-
General to carry out any activity under the provisions of
subsection (1) shall not be deemed to be a trespasser.

(3) No officer or servant authorized by the Director General
under the provisions of subsection (1) shall obtain any
material from any land if such materials can be conveniently
obtained from any adjacent state land.

(4) The Authority shall pay to the owner of the land from
which any material has been removed reasonable
compensation for the material so removed and for any
damage caused in obtaining and transporting the same.

(5) An officer or servant authorized by the Director-
General under the provisions of subsection (1) shall take all
safety measures for fencing or barricading of pits and quarries
from where any such materials had been removed.

31. (1) It shall be lawful for any officer or servant
authorized by the Director-General when carrying out a
survey for the improvement or construction of any road, any
public road or any national highway, bridge, causeway,
culvert or earth retaining structure, or carrying out
improvements or repairs thereto, or constructing any new
road. new public road or new national highway, bridge,
causeway, culvert or earth retaining structure, to make and
erect temporary buildings on any land adjacent thereto for
the accommodation of such officers, workmen, machinery
and equipment.

(2) No officer or servant authorized by the Director-
General under the provisions of subsection (1), shall erect a
building on any land under cultivation or on any developed
land if there is suitable waste land or state land within close
proximity available for the purpose.

(3) The Authority shall pay reasonable compensation for
the use of such land for any damages done thereto, to the
owner of such land.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 25

32. (1) When surveying for a new road, public road,
national highway, bridge, causeway, culvert or earth retaining
structure or during the progress of work connected with the
maintenance, repair or construction of a road, public road,
national highway, bridge, causeway, culvert or earth retaining
structure, or clearing any earthslip, it shall be lawful for any
officer or servant authorized by the Director-General to
dispose of any rubble or waste material by dumping the
same on any land adjacent thereto.

(2) An officer or servant authorized by the Director
General under the provisions of subsection (1) shall take all
necessary steps to avoid unnecessary hardship to the owner
or occupants of such land.

33. It shall be lawful for any officer or servant
authorized by the Director-General to make a temporary road
for the diversion of traffic through an adjacent land at any
time during —

(a) closure of bridge, causeway, culvert or earth
retaining structure for repairs or re-construction ;
or

(6) closure of a road, a public road or a national highway
or section of a road, a public road or a national
highway for rehabilitation or reconstruction :

provided that such diversion shall not require the demolition
of any building nor encroach on any enclosed garden or
yard.

34. It shall be lawful for any officer or servant
authorized by the Director-General to cut and remove all
trees, bushes, shrubs, branches, leaves or roots that cause
damage to a road, a public road or an national highway and
obstruction to the passage of traffic, street lighting, visibility,
toad signs, traffic light signals and road furniture, and for
that purpose to enter upon any land or premises with the

f
H
/
i

Rubble and
waste to be
disposed on
adjacent land.

Construction
of temporary
roads.

Cutting, lopping
&c, of trees to
facilitate
construction of a
road, a public
road or a
national
highway.


Erection of
fences &c,.
alongside a
road, a public
road or a
national
highway.

Drains &c, to be
kept open if so
required for the
construction of a
road, a public
road or a
national
highway.

Authorized
officers to pay
compensation
fur damage to
property.

Vexatious
conduct of
officers.

26 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

necessary workmen, tools and equipment for the cutting,
lopping and the removal of such trees, bushes, shrubs,
branches or roots, as the case may be.

35. It shall be lawful for any officer or servant
authorized by the Director-General to put up or make fences,
barricades, ditches, drains or bank alongside any road, public
road or national highway.

36. An officer or servant authorized by the Director-
General shall have power to make, scour, cleanse and keep
open all ditches, drains, culverts and bridge openings, water
courses. No owner or occupier of any adjacent lands shall do
any act or thing that would interfere with or cause damage to
the aforesaid acts.

37. (1) Any person who sustains any loss or damage as
a result of the exercise by any officer or servant authorized
to carry out any act, in the exercise of any power conferred
by this Act shall be entitled to receive compensation for the
same.

(2) A person referred to in subsection (1) shall make an
application to the Divisional Secretary of the area within a
period of three months from the date on which the alleged
damage had been caused requesting the payment of
compensation for the same. No application made after this
period shall be considered for this purpose.

(3) Where the amount of compensation cannot be agreed
upon then such amount may be decided by arbitration by
the arbitrator appointed by the Divisional Secretary.

38. Any officer or servant exercising or discharging any
power or function under this Act, who behaves or conducts
himself in a vexatious manner or resorts to violence shall be
guilty of an offence, and shall be liable on conviction after
summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty
five thousand rupees.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 27

PART VII
PROTECTION OF ROADS, PUBLIC ROADS AND NATIONAL HIGHWAYS

39. (1) The owner or occupier of a land which abuts or
adjoins a national highway declared to be as expressway or
restricted access highway shall not—

(a) enjoy the right of access to, or egress from, the
expressway or restricted access highway ;

(b) have any right of passage, right of use or right of
way between the land and the expressway or
testricted access highway ; and

(c) be entitled to any rights which in anyway affect the
expressway or restricted access highway.

(2) The Authority shall, before declaring a national
highway to be an expressway or a restricted access highway,
provide appropriate alternate access to an owner or occupier
whose access is curtailed under subsection (1).

(3) Any person who acts in contravention of the
provisions of subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate, in the case of first offence for a fine not exceeding
ten thousand rupees and in the case of second or subsequent
offence to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees.

40. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other
written law, no person shall commence any building, or erect
any wall, fence or any other structure alongside any road,
public road or national highway or place any temporary
fence or enclosure on or alongside, any road, public road or
national highway, for commencing or repairing any such
building, fence, wall or any other structure, without giving
one calendar month’s notice in writing to the Executive
Engineer of such intention.

Owners or
occupiers of
land adjacent to
a national
highway have
no right of
access thereto

No building to
commence on
land adjacent to
a road, a public
road or a
national
highway without
notice.


Obtaining
permission for
erection of
temporary
enclosures.

28 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(2) Where any person fails to give notice under subsection
(1), it shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer with the
sanction of the Chief Engineer to cause any such building
to be demolished or any such fence, wall or structure to be
dismantled and removed and to recover the costs of such
removal from such person:

Provided that any such demolition, dismantling and
removal shall be carried out only upon giving the owner or
occupier adequate notice of such impending demolition,
dismantling and removal as the case may be.

41. (1) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to
permit any person on payment of a fee to temporary use any
part of a road, public road or national highway, to erect a
temporary fence or enclosure in order to carry out demolition,
repair or construction work to his house or building,
including the right to erect decorations of a temporary
character subject to following conditions :—

(a) that the person to whom permission is granted shall
at night-time keep a light of sufficient intensity
upon the premises for so long as such temporary
enclosure or structure is in existence , and

(b) that sufficient room on the road, public road or
national highway shall be made available for the
movement of traffic and pedestrians without
hindrance.

(2) Any public officer connected with the distribution
of any service to the public may, notwithstanding the
provisions of section 40 or subsection (1) of section 41 make
temporary use of any part of a road, public road or a national

highway.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 29

42. (1) The Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette specify the building limit alongside a road, public
road or a national highway or part of a road, a public road or
a national highway.

(2) Where a building limit of a road, a public road or a
national highway has not been specified under subsection
(1), the building limit for that road or public road or national
highway shall be —

(a) fifteen metres from the Centre of the carriageway
of that national highway ;

(b) seven decimal point five metres from the centre of
the carriageway of that public road ; and

(c) five metres from the centre of the carriageway of
that road.

(3) No person shall after the appointed date except under
the authority of licence granted by the Executive Engineer
erect, re erect or make any addition to any building, gateway
or any other structure or construct a basement or other
underground structure or dig a well, pond shaft or any other
structure (hereinafter in this Part of this Act referred to as
“structure”) within a building limit.

(4) (a) No licence, for the erection of any structure, shall
be granted under subsection (3) by the Executive Engineer
within ten (10) metres from the centre of a carriageway of
national highway within a town limit and seven point five
(7.5) metres from the centre of a carriageway of a national
highway outside a town limit.

(b) For the purpose of this subsection the word "structure"
does not include a boundary wall.

(c) No licence for the erection of any structure shall be
granted under subsection (3) by the Executive Engineer
between the limits prescribed in paragraph (a) and the

Building limits
alongside a
road, a pubtic
road or a
national
highway to be
declared by
Order.


30 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

building limit, unless he is satisfied that the prohibition
against the erection of any structure within such limit will
cause sesious hardship to the owner of the land on which
such structure is to be erected and the written consent of the
Provincial Director for the granting of the licence is obtained
by the Executive Engineer. The Provincial Director shall
not give such consent unless he is satisfied, having regard to
the width of the road, public road or national highway, the
visibility available for traffic and the proper upkeep of the
road, public road or national highway, that the enforcement
of the aforesaid prohibition is not for the time being essential.

(d) It shall be a condition of any licence granted by the
Executive Engineer under subsection (3) for the erection of
any structure that no compensation shall be payable—

(i) tm respect of such structure or part thereof within
such building limit if such land is acquired under
the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) ; or

(i) in respect of any improvement or adaptation of the
remaining part of such structure after the severance
or removal of such structure within such limit for
any purpose whatsoever.

(e) It shall be a condition of any licence granted by the
Executive Engineer under subsection (3) for the re-erection
of, or for any addition, any structure that if possession for
the public use is taken at any time of the land on which such
structure is situated or if such land is acquired under the
Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460), the compensation
payable in respect of such structure shall be determined in
accordance with the provisions of sections 46 and 47.

(5) (a) The Executive Engineer, shall not grant a licence
under subsection (3), without the approval of the Provincial
Director where the structure is of religious significance.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 3]

(b) Where the Executive Engineer secks approval under
paragraph (a), the Provincial Director shal! hold an
appropriate inquiry in respect of the matter, before granting
the approval.

(c) Where the Provincial Director refuses approval under
this subsection he shall give reasons in writing for such
refusal.

(6) (a) Full particulars of every licence granted under
subsection (3) including particulars of the condition set out
in subsection (4) and of the land and the structure to which
the condition relates and the value thereof shall be entered by
the Executive Engineer in a register to be kept for the purpose
at his office ; and the Executive Engineer shall cause a certified
copy of every such entry to be registered in the office of the
Registrar of lands having jurisdiction over the area in which
such land is situated. The Registrar of Lands shall register all
such copies free of any charge or duty.

(b) Upon the registration of any entry under paragraph
(a), the conditions attached to such licence shall be binding
upon the land and the structure affected thereby in accordance
with the tenor of such condition, and to whomsoever the
ownership or possession of the land, building or structure
may at any time pass.

(c) Every register kept under paragraph (a) at the office
of the Executive Engineer shall be made available for
inspection to any person interested at any time when the
office is open for the transaction of business.

43. Notwithstanding any provision in any other written
law no Agency nor Authority whose approval is required for
the erection of a structure shall grant approval for the erection
of a structure within the building limit specified in section 42
unless such erection has been authorized by a licence granted
by the Executive Engineer in accordance with the provisions
of this Act.

Building
approval only
on obtaining
licence of
Executive
Engineer


Modification of
building limit.

Procedure to be
followed in case
of erection of
structures in
contravention of
section 42.

32 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

44. The Minister may, upon the recommendation of the
Authority or the Director-General by Notice published in
the Gazette modify or extend the building limit in respect of
any road, public road or national highway or part of a road,
a public road or a national highway :

Provided however, that the Authority or the Director-
General shall, before making such recommendation, have
regard to the convenience of the public and to the need for
preserving and continuing the amenities of the locality and
for ensuring that the modification or extension shall not
increase the cost of any proposed scheme for the development,
diversion, deviation or widening of the road, public road or
national highway or part of the road, public road or national
highway or any part of the road, public road or national
highway as the case may be which will be affected by such
modification.

45. (1) Ifany person erects any structure or makes any
addition to an existing structure in contravention of the
provisions of section 42, the Executive Engineer shall, by
written notice, require such person to demolish or remove
such structure or any addition thereto on or before such date
as may be specified in such notice, being a date not earlier
than seven days from the date thereof.

(2) It shall be the duty of the person on whom a notice is
issued under subsection (1) to comply with the requirements
specified in such notice within the time specified therein or
within such extended time as may be granted by the
Executive Engineer, on application made in that behalf.

(3) (a) Where in pursuance of a notice issued under
subsection (1), any structure, is not demolished or removed,
within such time or extended time as the case may be, the
Executive Engineer may apply to the Magistrate for a
Mandatory Order, authorizing the Executive Engineer to
cause such structure to be demolished or removed;


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 33

(b) The Magistrate, may if he is satisfied as to the
existence of the facts, issue notice on the person who had
failed to comply with the requirements of the notice issued
by the Executive Engineer under subsection (1) to dmolish
or remove such structure and thereafter make order
accordingly;

(c) If the person who had erected the structure in
contravention of the provisions of section 42, undertakes to
demolish or remove such structure, the Magistrate may, if he
thinks fit, postpone the operation of the order for a period
not exceeding sixty days, allowing time for such person to
demolish or remove such structure.

(4) (a) Where a mandatory order has been made under
paragraph (a) of subsection (3) for the removal of a structure
of religious significance and where such structure can be
safely removed, then subject to the provisions of paragraph
(b) of subsection (3) such structure shall be removed and
handed over to the organization or institution responsible
for erecting such structure.

(b) Where the Executive Engineer is unable to hand over
the structure as specified in paragraph (a), the Executive
Engineer shall notify the same to the Magistrate and dispose
of the structure on the instructions of the Magistrate with
due respect and care.

(5) Where a mandatory order has been made under
subsection (3) it shall be the duty of the Police to render all
necessary assistance to the Executive Engineer in the
execution of such order.

(6) The Executive Engineer shall be entitled to recover
any reasonable expenses incurred by him in demolishing or
removing any structure in pursuance of an order made by
the Magistrate under subsection (3).


Determination
of compensation
m case of lands
with buildings
on it.

34

46.

National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

Where any addition to a structure which has been

built under the authority of a licence under section 42, is

situated on any portion of land of which possession for the
public use is taken under sections 15 and 18 of this Act, the
determination of the compensation payable in such case
shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Land
Acquisition Act, (Chapter 460) be subject to the following
provisions :—

(a)

(b)

where the whole of the structure is situated within
the building limit, the value assigned to the
structure as distinct from the land acquired shall be
the value entered in the register under subsection (6)
of section 42 or the market value of the structure at
the time of the acquisition, whichever is the less
and for the purpose aforesaid, such market value
shall be the difference between the market value of
the structure together with the land, and the market
value at that time of the land as distinct from the
structure 3

where only a part of the structure is situated within
the building limit and the value entered in the
register under subsection (6) of section 42 is the
value of the entire structure in accordance with
paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 47, the
value assigned to that part of the structure, as distinct
from the land acquired, shall be the value so entered
or the market value of the entire structure at the
time of the acquisition, whichever is the less: Market
value shall for the aforesaid purpose be the
difference between the market value of the entire
structure with the land attached thereto at the time
of acquisition, and the market value assigned at
that time to the land so attached as distinct from the
entire structure ;


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 35

(c) where only a part of the structure is situated within
the building limit and the value entered under
subsection (6) of section 42 is the value of that part
in accordance with paragraph (b) of subsection (2)
of section 47 the value assigned to that part of the
structure, as distinct from the land acquired, shall
be the value so entered in the register or the value
of the part of the structure within the building limit
at the time of the acquisition, whichever is less, and
for the purpose aforesaid such value shall be the
ageregate of —

(i) the estimated cost of the severance and
removal of that part of the structure at that
time : and

(it) the estimated cost in the case of a building, of
adapting at that time the part of the building
which will then remain to the purpose for
which the building is used at that time, and in
the case of a boundary wall or gateway, of
completing at that time such additions or
repairs as may be necessary ,

(d) the value assigned to the land as distinct from the
buildings thereon shall be the market value of the
land at the time of the acquisition.

47, (1) The value of any structure, for the purpose of Valuation of

subsection (4) of section 42 — buildings &c..
within building
. . limits.
(a) shall be fixed by agreement between the Chief

Engineer and the owner or owners of the structure ;
or

(b) where it is not fixed by agreement, shall be
determined by an arbitrator, appointed by the
Provincial Director.


36

National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(2) In determining the value of any structure or any part

thereof

for the purposes of subsection (4) of section 42, the

following principles shall be followed :—

(a)

(b)

where any structure or any part thereof the removal
of which would render the remaining part useless,
is situated within the building limit of any road,
public road or national highway, and where, for
that reason, the removal of the entire structure will
become necessary in the event of the road, public
road or national highway being widened or deviated.
the value of the entire structure shal! be
determined ; and such value shall be the difference
between the market value of the premises, that is to
say, of the structure together with the land attached
thereto, at the time of the valuation, and the market
value at that time of the land as distinct from the
structure ;

where only a part of a structure is situated within
the building limit of any road, public road or
national highway and after the severance and
removal of such part, the remaining part will be
capable of adaptation either to the original purpose
of the structure or to any other purpose permitted
by law, the value of the part within the building
limit shall alone be determined and such value shall
be the aggregate of —

(i) the estimated cost of the severance and
removal of that part of the structure ; and

(ii) the estimated cost, in the case of buildings, of
adapting the part of the building, which will
then remain to the purpose for which the
building was used at the time of the valuation,
and in the case of a boundary wall, gateway or
other structure or any basement or other
underground structure or any pond, well or
shaft of completing such additions or repairs
as may be necessary 5


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 37

(c) where at the time of valuation of any structure, the
value of such structure, is found to have been
increased by any alteration or improvement effected
in the structure, then notwithstanding that the
alteration or improvement may have been
authorized by a licence under subsection (3) of
section 42, the amount of the increase shall not be
taken into account unless the alteration or
improvement was necessary for the maintenance of
the structure in a proper state of repair.

(3) Every award or agreement made or entered into as
the case may be, under subsection (1) in respect of the value
of any structure or part thereof, shall specify the particular
paragraph or paragraphs of subsection (2) in accordance with
which the value aforesaid was fixed or determined.

48. (1) Where the right of the owner of the land, part of
which is situated within the building limit of any road, public
road or national highway, to erect a building on the land, is
restricted by reason of the provisions of section 42, such
owner, may if he desires to erect a building, make application
to the Minister requesting that the portion of vacant land at
the rear of his land, of sufficient extent to afford him building
facilities of the same nature as he would have enjoyed had
the provisions of section 45 not been in force, be acquired
for him at his expense, and the Minister may, upon the
recommendation of the Authority or the Director-General
(acting under the delegation of the powers to him by the
Authority) and after such inquiry as he may deem necessary,
order that a specified extent of the portion of vacant land at
the rear of the land of such owner be acquired for him and
the provisions of sections 15 and 18 of this Act, shall
thereupon apply for the purposes of the acquisition of such
extent of land.

(2) All costs, charges and other expenses incurred in the
acquisition of any extent of land in pursuance of an order
under subsection (1) shall be paid by the owner of the land
upon whose application such extent of a land is acquired.

Acquisition of
adjacent land for
owners affected
by building
limits.


Application of
the provisions of
sections 42 to
48.

Obstruction,
encroachment
&c,. of a road, a
public road or a
national
highway.

38 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

49, (1) For the purposes of sections 42 to 48 a road, a
public road or a national highway shall be deemed to be
under the control of the Authority if it is maintained by the
Authority from funds provided by the Authority. A certificate
under the hand of the Director-General to the effect that any
road, public road or national highway is under the control of
the Authority shall be admissible in evidence and shall be
prima facie evidence of that fact.

(2) For the purposes of sections 42 to 48 the expression
“boundary wall” includes every structure of whatever
material and in whatever manner constructed, and every fence
of whatever description, which serves or is intended to serve
the purposes of a boundary wall.

50. (1) The Executive Engineer may, where it appears
to him that —

(a) any road, public road or national highway has been
obstructed or encroached ; or

(6) that the boundary line of any road, public road or
national highway has been altered without proper
authority ; or

(c) that any road, public road or national highway has
been barricaded without proper authority,

by any person, direct such person by notice in writing to
remove the said obstruction encroachment, alteration or
barricade within the time as the Executive Engineer has
specified in the Notice.

(2) Where any such obstruction, encroachment, barricade
or alteration is not removed and the road, public road or
national highway is not cleared or the boundary line is not
restored within the time specified by the Executive Engineer,
the Executive Engineer shall cause such obstruction,
encroachment, barricade of alteration to be removed or
cleared or restored as the case may be. Any expense incurred
by the Executive Engineer in doing so shalt be recovered
from the offender as a debt due to the State.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 39

(3) Where the Executive Engineer is unable or
apprehends that due to any obstruction or resistance as will
be or is likely to be offered, he will be unable to remove or
clear to restore the road, public road or national highway of
the obstruction, encroachment, barricade or alteration as the
case may be, the Executive Engineer shall on application
made in that behalf to the Magistrate’s Court having
jurisdiction over the area where the road, public road or
national highway which was obstructed, encroached,
barricaded or altered is situated, praying for an order of the
Court directing the Fiscal to take down and remove or clear
or restore such obstruction, encroachment, barricade or
alteration as the case may be.

(4) Where an Order under subsection (3) is issued to the
Fiscal by a Magistrate, he shall forthwith execute such Order
and shall thereafter in writing report to Court such fact along
with a narrative of the manner in which it was executed.

51. Any planor survey made under the authority of the
Director-General shall be admissible in evidence and shall
be prima facie proof of the facts stated therein.

52. For the purpose of the application of the provisions
of the State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act, No. 7 of
1979 to any road or public road or national highway to which
this Act applies —

(a) every written notice issued under any provision of
this Act shall be deemed to be a notice served under
section 3 of the State Lands (Recovery of
Possession) Act, No. 7 of 1979 ;

(b) the expression “competent authority” in the State
Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act No. 7 of 1979,
shall deemed to include a reference to the Director-
General, Provincial Director, Chief Engineer or
Executive Engineer as the case may be of the
Authority ;

Survey to be
prima facie
proof.

Application of
the provisions of
the State Lands
(Recovery of
Possession} Act.


Prescription

Ordinance not to

apply to lands
required for a
road, a pubtic
road or a
national
highway.

Protection of
right to use a
road, a public
road or a
national
highway.

Damaging a
road, a public
road or a
national
highway to be
offence.

40 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(c} the expression "state lands" in the State Lands
(Recovery of Possession) Act, No. 7 of 1979, shall
deemed to include a reference to every road or
public road or national highway to which this Act
applies.

53. The Provisions of the Prescription Ordinance
(Chapter 68) or of any other law relating to the acquisition
of rights by virtue of possession or user shall not apply to
road or public roads or national highways ; and no person
shall be entitled to any exclusive rights of ownership,
possession or user over or in respect of, a road or public road
or national highway.

54. (1) It shall be the duty of the Authority to permit
and protect the rights of the public to the use of any road,
public road or national highway without any hindrance or
inconvenience.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Authority to prevent, as far
as possible, the temporary or permanent closure or
obstruction of any road, public road or national highway.

§5. (1) Every person who, without lawful authority or
excuse —

(a) digs a drain or excavates on any part of a road,
public road or a national highway which consists
of a carriageway ; or

(b) removes the soil or turf from any part of a road,
public road or a national highway except for the
purpose of improving the road, public road or a
national highway without the consent of the
Executive Engineer or Chief Engineer ; or

(c) lights any fire or discharges any material on a road,
public road or a national highway, causing damage
to the same ; or


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 41

(d) operates a vehicle in such a manner that the materials
projecting from the vehicle damages the
carriageway of a road, a public road or a national
highway,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be
liable on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate in
the case of a first offence to a fine not exceeding five thousand
rupees and in the case of second or subsequent offence, to a
fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees and in the case of
continuing offence to a fine of five thousand rupees for each
day after conviction during which the offence is continued.

(2) Every person who, without lawful authority or
excuse damages, pulls down or obliterate a traffic sign, a
traffic signal placed on or over a road, a public road or a
national highway or a kilometer stone or a lamp post or a
direction post or any other similar contrivance or device so
placed on a road, a public road or a national highway, shall
be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after summary
trial by a Magistrate be liable in the case of first offence toa
fine not exceeding five thousand rupees and in the case of
second or subsequent offence to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees and in the case of a continuing offence toa
fine of five thousand rupees for each day after conviction
during which the offence is continued.

56. (1) Every person who, without either the prior
consent of the Executive Engineer or without reasonable
excuse, paints or inscribes or affixes or creates any picture,
letter, sign, statue, hoarding or other mark upon the
carriageway of a road, a public road or national highway or
in a road, public road or national highway or on any road
furniture shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction
after summary trial by a Magistrate be liable in the case of
first offence to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees
and in the case of second or subsequent offence to a fine not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees and in the case of a
continuing offence to a fine of five thousand rupees for each
day after conviction during which the offence is continued.

Painting pictures
&c, along a
road, a public
road or a
national
highway without
lawful excuse an
offence.


Director General
to impose
temporary load
restrictions on a
road, a public
road or a
national
highway.

Damage and
obstruction to
foot walk by
excavation &c,.

42 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(2) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to remove
any picture, letter, sign, statue, hoarding, notice or other
mark referred to in the subsection (1).

57. (1) The Director-General may, having regard to the
safety of the users of a road, a public road or a national
highway, impose temporary load restrictions on any road,
on any public road or on any national highway or section of
a road, a public road or a national highway or on any bridge.

(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection
(1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after
summary trial by a magistrate, be liable, in the case of a first
offence to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees and in
the case of a second or subsequent offence to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand rupees.

58. (1) Where the foot walk of a road, a public road or
a national highway is damaged—

(a) by, or in consequence of any excavation or other
work being carried out on the land adjacent to the
road, public road or national highway;

(b) by a motor vehicle being driven onto the road,
public road or national highway,

the Executive Engineer may forthwith repair the damage
and recover the expenses as are reasonably incurred by him
in doing so, from the owner of the land or the person
responsible for causing the damage.

(2) Where the foot walk of a road, public road or a
national highway is obstructed by the parking of a vehicle,
the person responsible for such parking shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and be liable on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding
five thousand rupees and in the case of a second or subsequent
offence to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees and in


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 43

the case of a continuing offence to a fine of five thousand
rupees for each day in respect of which such offence is
continued after conviction.

59. (1) Every person who, without lawful authority or
reasonable excuse, in any way wilfully obstructs the passage
of vehicles or pedestrians along a road, public road or
national highway, shall be guilty of an offence and be liable
on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine
not exceeding five thousand rupees and in the case of second
or subsequent offence to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees and in the case of the continuing offences to a fine of
five thousand rupees for each day after conviction during
which the offence is continued.

(2) A police officer may arrest without warrant any person
who is committing an offence under this section.

60. Every person who without lawful authority or excuse
deposits sand, stone, timber or any other material on a road,
public road or national highway, shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate in the case of first offence to a fine not exceeding
five thousand rupees and in the case of second or subsequent
offence to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees and in
the case of a continuing offence to a fine of five thousand
rupees for each day after conviction during which the offence
is continued.

61. (1) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer or
a police officer to require the owner of the sand, stone, timber,
or any other material so deposited within the right of way of
the road, public road or national highway to remove or
re-deposit the same or cause it to be removed or re-deposited,
away from the road, public road or national highway.

(2) A person required to remove and re-deposit any sand,
stone, timber or any other material under subsection (1) shall
comply with the requirement within a period of three days,

Obstruction of
toad, public
road or nationa!
highway to be
an offence.

Depositing of
sand, timber
&c,. on a road, a
public road or a
national
highway to be
an offence.

Removal of
sand, stone,
timber &c,.


Restriction of
planting trees,
shrubs in or near
a carriageway.

Executive
Engineer may
grant permission
to plant trees,
shrubs, grass,
plants &c,.

44 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

and if he fails to do so, he shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction after summary trial by a
magistrate in the case of first offence to a fine not exceeding
five thousand rupees and in the case of a continuing offence
to a fine of five thousand rupees for each day after conviction
during which the offence is continued.

(3) Where the owner fails to remove sand, stone, timber
or any such material in compliance with the requirements
set out in subsection (2), it shall be lawful for the Executive
Engineer with the assistance of a police officer to cause such
material to be removed to a suitable location away from the
road, public road or national highway and to charge the
costs of removal to the owner.

62. (1) Every person who, without the lawful authority
or excuse, plants a tree or shrub in a made up carriageway,
traffic island, shoulder or footwalk of a road, public road or
national highway shal! be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate in
the case of the first offence to a fine not exceeding five
thousand rupees and in the case of a continuing offence to a
fine of five thousand rupees for each day after conviction
during which the offence is continued.

(2) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to require
the person who planted such tree or shrub to remove it within
three days or cause it to be removed.

63. (1) The Executive Engineer may permit any person
to plant and maintain shrubs, trees, grass and plants within a
roundabout or traffic island or along the shoulders of a road,
public road or national highway. Such permission shall be
granted subject to the requirement that the trees, shrubs and
plants shall be grown only to such a height as is specified
taking into consideration the movement of traffic and
pedestrians safety and the visibility of the road, public road
or national highway to drivers or riders.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 45

(2) The Executive Engineer may permit a person or a
body of persons to undertake the planting and maintenance
of a specified area along a highway. The person or body of
persons so responsible shall be permitted to place a name
board not exceeding zero point seven five (0.75) metres
height from the ground indicating the name of such person
or body or persons.

64. Any person who—

(a) deposits on the carriageway, foot walk or shoulder
of a road, public road or national highway, any
matter or rubbish; or

(b) pitches a booth, stall or stand on a road, public road
or national highway; or

(c) sends waste water or any other liquid waste from a
house, building or garden to any part of a road,
public road or national highway,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

65. Any person who, without lawful authority or excuse
drops earth, sand, stone or any such material or spills water,
oil or any such fluid while transporting it in a vehicle, on a
road, public road or national highway, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.

66. No person other than a police officer or a member of
the Armed Forces shall erect a gate or barrier across a road,
public road or national highway without obtaining the prior
permission of the Executive Engineer. Any person who so
erects a gate or barrier shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act.

Depositing of
dropping
things or
pitching.

Dropping earth,
sand or stones
&c,. on a road, a
public road or a
national
highway to be
an offence.

Erection of
barriers &c,.
across a road, a
public road or a
national
highway.


Preventing soil
being washed
onto a road, a
public road or a
national
highway.

Power to
remove
projections &c,
across a road, a
public road or a
national
highways.

Notice of
commission of
offence to be
given to
Executive
Engineer.

46 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

67. The Executive Engineer may, by notice in writing
to the owner or occupier of a land adjoining a road, public
road or national highway, require him, within twenty eight
days of the date of service of the notice, to carry out such
works thereon as are necessary to prevent soil or refuse from
that land being washed or carried on to the road or a public
road or national highway or into a gully thereof so as to
damage or obstruct the road or public road or national
highway or choke the gully. Any person who fails to give
effect to such notice within the stipulated time period shall
be guilty of an offence.

68. The Executive Engineer may, by notice to the owner
or occupier of any building, require him to remove or alter
any unauthorised porch, projecting roof, projecting window,
step, wall, gate or any such thing and which has been erected
or placed in front of a building which causes an obstruction
to the safe passage of vehicles and pedestrians along a road,
public road or national highway. Any person who fails to
give effect to such a notice within a reasonable time, shall
be guilty of an offence.

69. (1) Where an offence ts committed under the
provisions of sections 64, 65, 66, 67 and 68 the Executive
Engineer shall on being informed of such fact, give notice
in writing to the person committing the offence, that he
shall forthwith take measures to stop or abate the commission
of the offence.

(2) If the person on whom notice is served under
subsection (1) fails to comply with the requirements therein,
such person shall be subject to summary trial by a Magistrate
and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding ten
thousand rupees and in the case of a continuing offence be
liable to a fine of rupees five thousand for each day after
conviction during which the offence is so continued.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 47

(3) Where an offence under sections 64 to 68 is continued
the Magistrate may issue a Mandatory Order authorizing
the Executive Engineer to demolish or remove the structure
or thing which is the subject of the offence. The Executive
Engineer shall with the assistance of the Police cause such
structure or thing to be removed and recover the cost so
incurred from the offender.

70. (1) No person shall put-up any door or gate upon
any premises to open outwards on to a national highway
except with written consent of the Executive Engineer given
in exceptional circumstances with the concurrence of the
Chief Engineer.

(2) Where a door or gate is put-up in contravention of
subsection (1), the Executive Engineer may, by notice to
the occupier, require him to alter the door or gate, so as not
to open outward on to the national highway.

(3) A notice under subsection (2) may be served on the
owner of the premises instead of on the occupier or may be
served on both the owner and the occupier of the premises.

(4) Any person aggrieved by the refusal of consent under
subsection (1) or by a requirement of a notice under
subsection (2) may appeal to the Provincial Director.

(5) Subject to any order made on appeal, if a person on
whom notice is served under subsection (2) requiring him to
comply with the notice, fails to comply with the requirement
of the notice within fourteen days from the date of service of
the notice he shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate, be liable to a
fine not exceeding one thousand rupees.

(6) Where a notice has been served upon any person
under subsection (2) and he is guilty of an offence under
subsection (5), then whether or not proceedings are instituted

Doors along a
road, a public
road ot a
national
highways not to
open outwards.


Cutting and
felling of trees
overhanging
onto a road, a
public road or a
national
highways.

Permitting
animals to stray
on a road, a
public road or a
national
highways an
offence.

48 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

against him in respect of the offence, the Executive Engineer
may carry out the work required by the notice and recover
the expenses reasonably incurred by him in so doing from
the owner or occupier of the premises.

71. (1) Where atree, shrub or hedge overhangs a road,
public road or national highway in such a manner as to
obstruct or endanger the passage of vehicles or any user of
a road, public road or national highway or interferes with the
view of drivers of vehicles or the light from a public lamp,
the Executive Engineer may, by notice issued either to the
owner or occupier of the land on which the tree, shrub or
hedge is located, require him within seven days to lop or cut
it so as to remove the cause of the danger or interference as
the case may be.

(2) Any person aggrieved by a notice under subsection
(1) may appeal to the Provincial Director.

(3) Subject to any order made on appeal, if a person to
whom a notice is served under subsection (1), fails to comply
with the requirements of the notice within the specified
period, the Executive Engineer may carry out the work
required to be made by the notice and recover the expenses
reasonably incurred in so doing from such person.

72. (1) If an animal is at any time found straying or
lying on or within the reservation of a road, a public road or
a national highway, its keeper or owner or both shall be
guilty of an offence.

In this section ‘keeper’ in relation to an animal means the
person in whose possession the animal is or should have
been.

(2) Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (1),
shall be liable on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees for
the first offence and a fine not exceeding five thousand
rupees for every subsequent offence.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 49

(3) Any animal straying or lying on the national highway
shall be seized by a cattle seizer authorized by the Executive
Engineer and shall be tied in a premises owned or rented by
such authorized Cattle Seizer and approved by the Executive
Engineer :

Provided that such authorized Cattle Seizer is on contract
with the Executive Engineer and every such animal seized
by him shall be reported forthwith by the Executive Engineer
to the nearest Police Station and to the Magistrate having
jurisdiction over such place.

(4) The Executive Engineer shall ensure the safe custody
of the animal seized and shall ensure the feeding of such
animal.

(5) No such animal seized shall] be delivered to the owner
unless upon the payment of the fine imposed by the
Magistrate.

(6) If no person claims the animal and pays the fine within
seven days from the date of imposition of such fine, it shall
be lawful for the Executive Engineer, to sell the animal by
public auction and pay the proceeds from such sale to the
Magistrate having jurisdiction over such place to be credited
to the Consolidated Fund after the expenses reasonably
incurred by the Executive Engineer in connection with
seizing and feeding the animal being recovered.

(7) Ifa person, without lawful authority or excuse, releases
any animal seized for the purpose of being impounded or
already impounded or damages any place where the animal
is impounded, he shall be guilty of an offence and be liable
on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate in the
case of first offence to a fine not exceeding five thousand
rupees and in the case of a continuing offence to a fine of
five thousand rupees for each day after conviction during
which the offence is continued.


Depositing or
throwing
anything onto a
road, a public
road ora
national
highway to be
an offence.

Placing ropes
across a road, a
public road or a
national
highway to be
an offence,

50 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

73. (1) Ifa person without lawful authority or excuse
deposits or throws anything whatsoever on or onto a road,
public road or national highway as a result of which a user of
a road, public road or national highway is injured or likely
to be injured or endangered, he shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate in the case of first offence to a fine not exceeding
five thousand rupees and in the case of a continuing offence
to a fine of five thousand rupees for each day after conviction
during which the offence is continued.

(2) If a person without lawful authority or excuse, lights
any fire or discharges any fire work so as to injure or endanger
a user of a road, public road or national highway, he shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction after
summary trial by a Magistrate in the case of first offence toa
fine not exceeding five thousand rupees and in the case of a
continuing offence to a fine of five thousand rupees for each
day after conviction during which the offence is continued.

(3) If a person without lawful authority or excuse, allows
any dirt, filth or offensive matter or thing to run or flow unto
a road, public road or national highway from any premises,
he shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding five thousand rupees and in the case of a
continuing offence to a fine of five thousand rupees for each
day after conviction during which the offence is continued.

74. A person who places a rope or any apparatus across
aroad or public road or national highway, for any purpose in
such a manner so as to cause danger to users of a road or a
public road or a national highway shall, unless he proves
that adequate warning of the danger was given by him to
such users, be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding two thousand rupees.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 $1

75. (1) The Executive Engineer may, by notice to the
occupier of a premises adjoining a road, a public road or a
national highway, require him within twenty eight days from
the date of service of the notice to construct or erect and
therafter maintain such gutters as may be necessary to
prevent water from the roof or any other part of the premises
falling upon the road, public road or the national highway.

(2) A person aggrieved by a requirement of a notice made
under this section may appeal to the Divisional Secretary of
the area.

(3) Subject to any order made on appeal, if a person to
whom notice is served under this section fails to comply
with the requirements of the notice within the period of time
specified in subsection (1), he shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees and
if the offence is continued after conviction, he shall be guilty
of a further offence and be liable to a fine not exceeding one
hundred rupees for each day on which the offence is so
continued.

76. (1) No person shall, in connection with any
building or demolition or alteration, repair, maintenance or
cleaning of any building, erect or retain, on or over a road,
public road or national highway any scaffolding or other
structure which obstructs the road or public road or national!
highway, unless he is authorized to do so by a licence issued
by the Executive Engineer and complies with the terms and
conditions of the licence.

(2) If a person applies to the Executive Engineer for a
licence in respect of any structure referred to in subsection
(1) and furnishes the Executive Engineer with such
particulars relating to the structure as the Executive Engineer

Executive
Engineer may
require occupier
of premises to
do certain acts.

Licence to be
obtained for
the erection
of
scaffoldings
&c,. on road,
a public road
or a national
highway.


52 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

may reasonably demand, it shal! be the duty of the Executive
Engineer to issue a licence unless he considers—

(a) that the structure would cause an obstruction to a
road, public road or national highway ; and

(b) that a structure erected otherwise than as proposed
by the applicant would cause less obstruction to
the road, public road or national highway than the
proposed structure.

(3) If on an application for a licence under subsection
(2), the Executive Engineer refuses to issue a licence or issues
a licence containing terms to which the applicant objects,
the applicant may appeal to the Provincial Director against
the refusal or the terms of the licence and on such appeal the
provincial Director may—

(a) inthe case of an appeal against a refusal, direct the
Executive Engineer to issue a licence in respect of
the application ; or

(b) in the case of an appeal against the terms of the
licence, alter or vary the terms.

(4) It shall be the duty of a person to whom a licence is
issued by the Executive Engineer in respect of a structure—

(a) to ensure that the structure is adequately lit during
the hours of darkness; and

(b) to comply with any directions given to him in
writing by the Executive Engineer with respect to
the erection and maintenance of any traffic contro!
devices.

(5) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection
(1) or who fails without reasonable excuse to comply with
the terms of a licence issued under subsection (1) or to


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 53

perform a duty imposed on him under subsection (4), shall
be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after summary
trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding five
thousand rupees.

77. (1) Aperson may, with the consent of the Executive
Engineer, temporarily deposit building materials or other
things on a road, public road or national highway or make
temporary excavations in it.

(2) The Executive Engineer may give his consent under
subsection (1), subject to such conditions as he thinks fit,
including in particular, conditions for preventing damage or
ensuring access, to utility services.

(3) Any person aggrieved by the refusal of consent under
subsection (1) or any person to whom such a consent is
given, subject to conditions, may appeal to the Provincial
Director, against the refusal or the conditions, as the case
may be.

(4) It shall be the duty of the person who makes such a
deposit or excavation under subsection (1), to comply with
any directions given to him in writing by the Executive
engineer with respect to the erection and maintenance of
traffic signs in connection with such deposit or excavation.

(5) Where a person places any building materials or any
other thing on, or makes an excavation in a road, public
road or national highway he shall not allow the obstruction
or excavation to remain in the road, public road or national
highway any longer than the period allowed by the
Executive Engineer and in addition he shall—

(a) ensure that the obstruction or excavation to be
properly fenced and to be properly lit during the
hours of darkness; and

(b) if required by the Executive Engineer, remove the
obstruction or fill in the excavation.

Depositing of
building
materials &c,.
along 2 road, a
public road or a
national
highway to be
done with
consent of the
Executive
Engineer.


Precautions to
be taken when
carrying out
road works.

54 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(6) any person who—

(a) without reasonable cause or excuse fails to comply
with any condition subject to which a consent is
given under subsection (1); or

(b) without reasonable cause or excuse fails to perform
the duty imposed on him under subsection (4); or

(c) fails to perform a duty imposed on him under
subsection (5),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding
five thousand rupees in respect of each day on which such
contravention or failure occurs.

78. (1) A person or contractor who is responsible for
executing works ona road or public road or national highway
shall—

{a) erect such barriers and traffic signs as are required
by the Executive Engineer for preventing danger
to traffic, for regulating traffic and warning traffic
of danger, until the work is completed and shall
remove them as soon as the work is completed ; and

(b) ensure that the works to be properly guarded and lit
during the hours of darkness.

(2) If any person or contractor fails to comply with
requirements of subsection (1), he shall be guilty of an
offence and, shall on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred
rupees in respect of each day on which failure continues.

(3) Any person who, without lawful authority or
excuse—

(a) takes down, removes or alters any barrier, traffic
sign, or light erected or placed in pursuance of


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 55

subsection (1), for the purpose of warning the users
of a road, public road or national highway of any
obstruction or for the purpose of protecting the users
of the road, public road or national highway from
danger arising out of an obstruction: and

(6) extinguishes a light so placed,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding
four thousand rupees.
PART VIII
Use or Expressways AND ResTRICTED Access HiGHWays
79. (1) A person shall not walk on an expressway or a

restricted access highway.

(2) On an expressway or a restricted access highway, a
person shall not -—

(a) ride or take an animal other than an animal being
conveyed in a motor vehicle or the trailer of a motor

vehicle ; or

(b) drive a three wheeler, hand tractor or ride or take a
bicycle ; or

(c) drive a vehicle other than —
(i) a motor vehicle ; or
(ii) the trailer of a motor vehicle ; or
(d) drive a vehicle or combination of vehicles that is or

are not capable of attaining and maintaining on a
level road such speed as is prescribed’ ; or

Prohibited
users.


Maintenance of
toads by
community
based
organizations.

56 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(e) drive a vehicle of a prescribed type.

(3) The driver of a vehicle on an expressway or restricted
access highway shall not make a "U" turn except at a place
indicated by a sign permitting "U" turns.

(4) For the purpose of subsection (3) a "U" turn occurs
when a vehicle turns to travel in the opposite direction along
the same or a parallel carriageway.

(5) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
person engaged in maintenance or construction work on an
expressway or a restricted access highway.

(6) A person who fails to comply with requirements of
this section shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate in the case of
first offence to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees
and in the case of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine
not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.

PART IX
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF ROADS BY THE USER COMMUNITY

80. (1) The Minister may, whenever it appears necessary
so to do for ensuring the participation of afl persons living
in the area or in the human settlement within any Divisional
Secretariat Division by Order, published in the Gazette,
handover the operation and maintenance of any road or
public road other than a national highway to a community
based organization formed by such persons.

(2) An Order referred to in subsection (1) shall specify
the length and width of such road and road reservations if
any.

(3) Before an Order under subsection (1) is published in
the Gazette the Executive Engineer shall sign an agreement
with the relevant community based organization.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 57

(4) The terms and conditions of the agreement referred
to in subsection (3) shall inter alia include —

(a) the provision of technical or financial assistance to
the community based organization by the Authority
or the relevant Divisional Secretary or the relevant
Local Authority ;

(b) directions for the receiving of donations and
contributions by the community based organization;

(c) the administration and auditing of the accounts of
the community based organization ;

(ad) the duties and obligations of the community based
organization, the user community the Authority,
the relevant Divisional Secretary and the relevant
Local Authority towards the operation and
maintenance of such road.

PART X

MygsCELLANEOUS

81. (1) Every notice required to be served under this
Act shall be in the Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.

(2) Every notice addressed to any person may be sent by
registered post or served personally upon such person or
such notice may be left with some member of his household
or it may be affixed to some conspicuous part of his house
and a notice served in any of foregoing methods shall be
deemed to be personal service.

82. (1) The driver of a vehicle entering an expressway
or restricted access highway shal] —

(a) if there is no acceleration lane, give way to vehicle
traveling on the expressway or restricted access
highway ;

Language of
notices.

Entering and
leaving an
expressway.


Stopping of
vehicles.

58 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(b) if there is an acceleration lane, use it and when
merging into the traffic on the expressway or
restricted access highway, show due diligence not
to endanger other road users.

(2) The driver of a vehicle leaving an expressway or
restricted access highway shall —

(a) move into the traffic lane appropriate to the
expressway or restricted access highway exit in
proper time ; and

(b) enter the deceleration lane, if there is one, as soon
as is practicable.

(3) The driver of a vehicle shall not enter an expressway
or a restricted access highway at a place other than at the
authorized access point.

(4) A person who fails to comply with requirements of
this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate in the case
of first offence to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees
and in the case of a second or subsequent offence to a fine
not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.

83. (1) A driver of a vehicle on an expressway or
restricted access highway shall not stop the vehicle except —

(a) at a marked parking site in accordance with any
restrictions applying to the use of that site ;

(b) where necessary to avoid injury to a person or
damage to property ;

(c) in obedience to a signal or other instruction which
the person is required by law to obey ;


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 59

(d) where necessary for the purpose of facilitating the
carrying out of maintenance or construction on the
expressway or restricted access highway authorized
by the Authority ;

(e) where the vehicle is so disabled that it is impossible
to avoid stopping ;

(f) where the vehicle is stopping in compliance with a
request to render assistance to a disabled vehicle ;

(g) where the person is reporting a traffic accident or
other situation or incident to the police, the
Authority or other traffic authority, either directly
or by means of an emergency telephone or Similar
device ; or

(h) where the vehicle is being operated in accordance
with an agreement with the Authority to remove
impediments to traffic.

(2) A driver of a vehicle which is stopped on an
expressway or restricted access highway shall move the
vehicle off the carriageway.

(3) A person who is unable to move a stopped vehicle
off the carriageway and roadside of an expressway OF
restricted access highway as required by subsection (2) shall
signal the presence of the vehicle by means of a triangle
warning device at a distance, sufficient to provide adequate
warning to the drivers of approaching vehicles.

(4) A person who fails to comply with requirements of
this section shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate in the case of
first offence to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees
and in the case of a second or subsequent offence to a fine
not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.


Restriction on
placing beams
&e,.

Control of
constructions
&e,.

60 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

84. (1) No person shall place or fix any traffic sign,
overhead beam, pipe, cable, wire, gantries hoardings or rail
or other similar apparatus over, along or across a road, a
public road or a national highway without the consent of
the Executive Engineer. The Executive Engineer may when
giving his consent attach such reasonable terms and
conditions thereto as he thinks fit.

(2) Subject to subsection (3) a person aggrieved by the
refusal of a consent under subsection (1), or by the terms and
conditions attached to such a consent, may appeal to the
Provincial Director.

(3) No appeal lies under subsection (2) against any term
or condition attached by the Executive Engineer to a consent
given by him under this section, if he declares the terms or
condition to be necessary for the purpose of ensuring the
safety of persons using a road, public road or national
highway to which the consent relates or for preventing
interference with traffic thereon.

(4) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection
(1), or the terms or conditions of any consent given thereunder
shall be guilty of an offence and be Jiable on conviction
after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding
five hundred rupees for each day on which the offence is so
continued.

85. (1) No person shall construct a vault, mine, pit or
any such thing under any road, public road or national
highway without the consent of the Executive Engineer,
and Executive Engineer may, by notice served on a person
who has constructed a vault, mine, pit or any such thing in
contravention of the provisions of this section require him
to remove it or to alter or modify it, as specified in the notice.

(2) No person shall carry out any excavation exceeding
three meters in depth, within a distance of fifty meters from
the centre of a road, public road or national highway without
the consent of the Executive Engineer.


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 61

(3) No person shall carry out any sand mining at or near
any bridge, causeway or any structure within a distance of
one hundred and fifty meters from the extreme edge of the
bridge, causeway or structure, or at or near any road, public
road or national highway within a distance of one hundred
meters from the extreme edge of the roadway without the
consent of the Executive Engineer.

(4) A person aggrieved by a refusal of consent or by a
requirement of a notice under subsection (1), may appeal to
the Divisional Secretary.

(5) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1), (2), or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding two thousand rupees.

(6) Subject to an order made on appeal, if a person fails
to comply with a requirement of a notice served on him
under subsection (1), or with the provisions of subsection
(2) or (3), he shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be
liable on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate to a
fine not exceeding five hundred rupees for each day during
which the failure continues.

(7) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to close
any vault, mine, pit or any such thing constructed in
contravention of the provisions of subsection (1), (2) or (3)
and to recover expenses reasonably incurred by him in so
doing from the offender.

86. (1) The Minister may, for reason to be stated, by
Order published in the Gazette, prohibit or restrict access by
the public to or from any public road or national highway or
any part of such public road or national highway.

(2) Upon the making of an Order under subsection (1) no
person shall connect any access way to that public road or
national highway, without the approval in writing of the
Executive Engineer given in concurrence with the Chief
Engineer of the relevant District.

Power to restrict
access to a road,
a public road or
a national
highway.


Clearance of
Executive
Engineer
essential.

Duty of Police
officers and
Grama
Niladharis.

Regulations.

62 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees. He
shall also be liable to pay to the Executive Engineer the cost
incurred by the Engineer in restoring the public road or
national highway to its original state by removing the
connection made by such person.

(4) The Executive Engineer may, where he deems it
expedient in the circumstances in lieu of instituting action
under subsection (3) —

(a) require the offender to forthwith remove the
connection made by him and restore the public road
or national highway to its original state ; or

(6) ifthe offender fails to remove the connection made
by him, proceed to remove such connection and
take steps to restore the public road or national
highway to its original state and recover the cost
incurred by him in doing so, from the offender.

87. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, it shall be the duty of any individual,
authority or institution, granting licences for carrying on
any business abutting any road, public road or national
highway, to obtain the consent of the Executive Engineer of
the area before issuing such licence.

88. It shall be the duty of all police officers and all
Grama Niladharis to aid and assist in the prevention of any
offence as may be committed in contravention of the
provisions of this Act within their respective jurisdictions.

89. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to any matter which
is prescribed under this Act, or in respect of which regulations
are required to be made.


(2)

National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 63

In particular and without prejudice to the generality

of the powers conferred on him by subsection (1), the Minister
may make regulations in respect of all or any of the following
matters, namely :—

{a)

(6)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(g)

(3)

the speed which a motor vehicle must be capable of
attaining in order to use a expressway or restricted
access highway ;

the types of vehicle which may be used ona road, a
public road, national highway or expressway or
restricted access highway ;

the collection and payment of fees in respect of
user fee national highways ;

the form to be used in giving notice of infringement
of the provisions of this Act ;

restrictions on the use of national highways or
expressways or restricted access highways including
the time at which prescribed vehicles may. not be
used on national highways or expressways or
restricted access highways ;

the prevention of ribbon development along the
roads, public roads or national highways or
expressways or restricted access highways ;

duties and obligations of the Authority under the
agreements it may enter in pursuant to section 12
of this Act.

Every regulation made by the Minister shall be

published in the Gazerte and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.


Repeal of
Thoroughfares
Ordinance and
Transitional
Provisions.

64 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

(4) Every regulation shall, as soon as convenient after
publication in the Gazetre be brought before Parliament for
approval. Any regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of the disapproval,
but without prejudice to anything previously done
thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded, shall be
published in the Gazette.

90. (1) Thoroughfares Ordinance (Chapter 193) shall
be repealed with effect from appointed date.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Thoroughfares
Ordinance (Chapter 193) —

(a) all contracts and agreements entered into under the
Thoroughfares Ordinance (hereinafter referred to
as the “repealed Ordinance”) and subsisting on the
day preceding the appointed date shall be deemed,
with effect from the appointed date to be contracts
and agrecments entered into by the Authority and
may be enforced accordingly ;

(6) all actions, matters, proceedings or things instituted
under the repealed Ordinance and pending on the
day preceding the appointed date shall be deemed,
with effect from the appointed date to be
proceedings instituted by or against the Authority
and may be enforced accordingly ;

{c) all decrees or orders entered by any court or tribunal
under the repealed Ordinance shall be deemed with
effect from the appointed date to be decrees or orders
entered by or against the Authority and may be
enforced accordingly ;


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 65

(d) all declarations, notifications, licences and orders
made or issued under the repealed Ordinance and
subsisting on the day immediately preceding the
appointed date, shall be deemed with effect from
the appointed date to be declarations, notifications,
licences and orders made or issued under the
provisions of this Act and shall be construed
accordingly.

91. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

92. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“carriageway” means the travel way of a road, a public
toad or a national highway designed for use by
vehicular traffic and does not include the shoulder
and verge ;

"centre of the national highway for a single
carriageway" means the centre of the carriageway
as determined in the survey plan or as determined
by the Executive Engineer at the site ;

“centre of the national highway for a dual carriageway"
means the centre of the centre median of the
national highway ;

"Chief Engineer" means the Chief Engineer of the Road
Development Authority designated under the
Road Development Authority (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 5 of 1988 ;

"Director-General" means the Director-General of the
Road Development Authority appointed under
section 12 of the Road Development Authority
Act, No 73 of 1981 ;

Sinhala text tw
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

Interpretation.


66 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

"Executive Engineer" means the Executive Engineer
of the Road Development Authority for any
division designated under the Road Development
Authority (Special Provisions) Act, No. 5 of 1988 ;

“inter changes” means the points along an express-
way or a restricted access highway at which access
may be gained by motor vehicles to or from other
public roads ;

"prescribed" means prescribed by regulation made by
the Minister in charge of the subject ;

"Provincial Director” means the Provincial Director of
the Road Development Authority for any
Province ;

“public road" means any road intended for normal
motor vehicular traffic including national
highways, except the streets within a Town Plan
area or Municipality Plan area ;

“reservation” in relation to a road, a public road or
national highways means all land adjoining and
beyond the drains or the verge of a public road or
highway or national highway which has been
reserved for its safety, protection and benefit and
for the future development of the road, public road
or national highway ,

"right of way" includes the carriageway, shoulders,
verge drains and the reservations of a road or
public road or national highway ;

"road" includes —

(a) all public carriageways, fly overs, viaducts,
interchanges, cart ways and pathways, as well
as all bridges, drains and embankments,
causeways and ditches belonging or
appertaining to a road ;


National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 67

(b) all land adjoining any road, which has been
reserved for its protection or benefit ,

(c) all land which has been marked off and
reserved for the construction of any road ;
and

(d) all waste land which, not being private
property, lies within a distance of ten metres
of the centre of public carriageways and cart
ways and three metres of the centre of public
pathways. (The burden of proving that such
waste land is private property lying on the
person asserting the same ;)

"Road Development Authority" means Road
Development Authority established under the
Road Development Authority Act, No. 73 of 1981
and shall be deemed to include any Authority or
other body which may be established by or under
any written law, in place of the Road Development
Authority, or to which the powers in relation to
"roads" or any part thereof presently exercised by
the Road Development Authority may be
transferred ;

“user-fee national highway” means , an expressway, in
respect of which a fee is chargeable from the users
thereof or part thereof ;

“vehicle” means a conveyance that is designed to be
propelled or drawn by any means whether or not
it is capable of being so propelled or drawn and
includes —

(a) a bicycle or other pedal powered vehicle ;
and

(b) atrailer ;


68 National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008

“works” means all road works and shall include —

(a) works associated with the erection or creation
of a structure ;

(6) creation, modification or felling of a trench ;
(c) earthwork ;

(d) interference with land or a structure.


a

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180

(Foreign), Payable to the SupeRINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OF

GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, No. 163, KiruLAPOoNA MawaTHa. PoLHENGopa, Cocomso 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.
