PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SOUTHERN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA
ACT, No. 18 OF 1996

(Certified on Ist August, 1936)

Printed on the Order of Government _

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Demoeratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 02, 1996
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

: TO BE PURCHASED AT THE COVEENMENY PUBLICATIONS BUEEAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: Re. 1.50 Postage: Rs. 2.55


Southern Development Authority of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 418 of. 1996 .

. (Certified on 1st August, 1996]
 LD~-O. 42/95. cs

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENTS OF THE SOUTHERN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA FOR THE PURPOSE OF

_ IDENTIFYING, FORMULATING AND CO-ORDINATING THE IMPLE-
MENTATION OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS WITHIN THE SOUTHERN

_KREA; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

‘BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Southern Development
Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1996.

ESTABLISHMENT AND CONSTITUTION OF
AUTHORITY
2. (1) There shall be established an authority which

shall be eztled the “ Southern Development Authority of Sri
Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as the “ Authority ”) ‘con-

sisting of the persons who are members thereof under .

Section 4.

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it by
Subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may: sue and be sued in

its corporate name.

3. (1) The Authority shall be responsible for co-ordi-
nating the planning and implementation of development
projects within the area as specified in the Schedule hereto
. (hereinafter referred to as the “ designated area”) and shall
for that purpose, exercise, perform and discharge all or any
' of the powers, duties and functions conferred or imposed
on it by or under this Act. “

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
Authority shall have the power to maintain any office or
Stores outside the designated area and execute outside such

designated area any such work as may be necessary for the

discharge of its functions under this. Act. .

to be appointed by the President— .

(a) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister nominated
by such Minister ;

(b) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister in charge of
the subject of Finance nominated by such Minister
and Ey re

(c) five other members (hereinafter referred ‘to as
“apvointed members ”).. se, os

4. The Authority shall consist of the following members

Short Title.

Establish-
ment of the
Southern
Development
Authority.

Designated
Area
of the
Authority. .

Members :
of the
Authority.


Chairman
of the
Authority.

Term of
office of
appointed
members
and their
removal
and

resignation.

2 Southern Development Authority of Sri Lanka
wet, No. 18 of 1996

(1) The President shall nominate from amongst the
members of the Authority, one member.to be the Chairman
of the Authority (hereinafter referred to as _ the
“Chairman ”’).

(2) The Chairman shall Sresidle at all meetings of the
Authority, and in his absence, the members present shall

‘elect one of the members to preside at such meeting.

(3) If the Chairman is, by reason of illness or absence
from Sri Lanka temporarily unable to. perform the duties
of his office, the President may appoint another member
to act in his place.

(4) The President may without assigning any reason

therefor, terminate the appointment of the Cha:rman.

(5) The Chairman may at any time resign from the office

of Chairman by letter addressed to the President. Such

resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted by the
President in writing.

(6) Subject to the provisions of subsections (4) and (5).
the term of office of the Chairman shall be his membership
of the Authority.

®

‘6. (1) Every appointed member shall hold office for a
period of five years from the date of his appointment, unless
he vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal.

(2) Any appointed member may at any time resign his

‘office by letter addressed to the President and such resigna-

tion shall take effect: upon it being accepted by the Presi-
dent in writing.

(3) The President may, by Order published ‘in the Gazette
remove, any appointed member of ihe Authority from

office without assigning any reason therefor and such

removal shall not be questioned in any court.

(4) An appointed member who has been removed from
office shall not be eligib’e for re-appointment as a member
of the Authority or to serve the Authority in any other
capacity.

(5) In the event of the vacation of office by any appointed ~
member, the President may appoint any other person to fill ‘
such vacancy and such person shall hold office for the un-
assigned term of office of the member when he succeeds.


Southern Development Authority of Sri Lanka 3
Act, No, 18 of 1996 _ .

(6) Where an appointed member is temporarily unable
ty pertorm the duues of his omce on account of ill-heaith
absence trom the Mepunlic or any other cause, the J’resi-

Gent may appoint anotner person to act in piace of such
member, : ;

7. -A person shall be disqualified from being - appointed
ov irom continuing as a member of the Authority, it he is—

(a) a Member of Parliament or a Provincial Council or
@ member of a local authority ; or

(b) uxder any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
cther country, found or declared to be of unsound
mind ; or:

(c) a person who, having been declared an insolvent or
a bankrupt under any iaw in Sri Lanka or in any
other country, is an undischarged insolvent or
bankrupt ; or .

(d) serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment
iraposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any other
country.

8. No Act or proceeding of the Authority shall be in-
valid by reason only of any vacancy among its members
or any defect in the appointment of any member thereof,

9%. The members of the Authority may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund of the Authority as may be

determined by the Minister, with the concurrence of the
President. :

10. The qzorum for any meeting of the Autharity shall

be four members and the Authority may regulate its
procedure in regard to the meetings of the Authority any
transaction of business at such meetings.

11. (1)The seal of the . Authority shall be in the
custody cf such person as the Authority may decide from
time to time. :

(2) The seal of the Authority may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Authority.

Disqualifi-
cation for
being
appointed

as membe:s.

Vacancy
among
members
not to
invalidate
acts and
proceedings,

Remuneration
of members.

Meetings
and quorum
at meetings
of the
Authority.

Seal of the

Authority.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to

; =a .
any instrument or document except in the presence 0
the Chairman, and one other member of the Authority
boih of whom shall sign the instrument or document in

tolen of their presence :


4 Southern Development Rete of Sri Lanka
‘ Act; No. 18 of 1996

Provided that where the Chairman is unable to be
present at the time when the seal of the Authority is
affixed to any instrument or document, any other member
of the Authority authorized in writing by the Chairman
in that behaif, shall be competent to sign such instrument
or document inaccordance with the preceding provisions
of this subsection.

(4) The Authority shall maintain a register of the .
instruments and cocamieats to which the seal of the:
Authorié y is- affixed.

OBJECTS, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS |

Objects 7" 12. The objects of the Authority shall be to--
ce) e :
Authority. ‘ | (a) plan and implement development projects in

the designated area to improve productivity
foster economic development and generate
income and employment opportunity ;

(b). carry . out detailed studiés of the projects .

identified: in the overall development plar
. for the designated area, on priority basis ;
(c) request the Ministry of the Minister to seek
- foreign funding for specific projects or
programmes ;

) (d) secure the co-operation of Government
Departments, State Institutions, loca!
authorities, public corporations and .othe:
persons whether private .or public, in
carrying: out: studies referred to in paragrapl:

* ae (b) and. implementation — “of development
projects in the designated area ; and

(e) secure the participation of foreign and local
private sector agencies, in carrying out
‘detailed studies referred to in paragraph
(b) dnd implementation of development
projects in the designated area.

Powers,.. .. 13. For the purpose of ‘carrying out its objects, the. .
coming. 3 ; Authority may exercise, perform and. discharge all or any >
of the. _of the following powers, duties and functions :—

Authority.

(a) secure and obtian technical and financial assistance
from ‘local and foreign sources in fulfilling the
objects of the Authority ;


‘ Southern Development Authority. of Sri Lanka: a
Act, id 18 . 1996 -

~(b) secure local and foreign collaboration for carrying
out studies and implementation of special develop-
ment projects in the designated area ; >

(c) require Government Ministeries, Departments and all
other agencies responsible for the implementation
of the projects being carried on in the designated
area, to co-operate in planning’ eer implementing
such projects ;. : :

(dy with the concurrence of the President request Govern-
inent Ministries, Departments or other authorities
to take over, maintain and operate any develop-
ment project commissioned by the Authority ;

{e) establish its own departments or agencies for the
purpose of any work involved in the discharge of
its functions ; *

(f) carty out research relating to the economic: and , -
social development of the designated area;

(9g) prepare and environmental impact assessment report
in respect of any development projects within the
designated area ;

{h) award in accordance with the tender procedure laid
down by the Government from time to time tenders ©
for the procurement of goods and services necessary
for the implementation of the development projects ;

(1) impose or levy a charge for the services rendered by
the Authority within the designated area;

(j) purchase, acquire, erect, maintain, reconstruct or
adapt any offices, plants, ‘machinery or other
material that may become necessary for the
implementation of any development project ;

(k) implement development projects through any public
or private institution or jointly by private and
public institution ;


Authority to
make
arrangements
or contracts
for carrying
out its
functions. °

Empowering
of persons
to act

for Authority
outside Sri
Lanka.

Special
powers of
Authority in
respect of
certain
Departments
or
Corporations.

6 Southern Development Authority of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 18 of 1996

sea

(l) with the concurrence of the Minister incharge of
the subject of Finance, to borrow, raise money cr

” secure obligations from sources in Sri Lanka ;

. (m) acquire in any manner whatsoever and ho’ d, take or
give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge, sell or
otherwise dispose of, any immovable property;
and

(n) subject to the provisions of the Constitution and any
other written law, do all such other acts as may
be incidental or conducive to the attainment of the
objects-of the Authority or the exercise of its

powers under this Act.

14. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 13, the
‘Authority may make arrangements or contracts with
Government Departments, local authorities, public corpora-
tions and any other institutions, whether private or public
including joint ventuers, for the purpose of discharging its
functions.

15. The Authority may with’ the approval of the
Minister and in writing under its seal empower
any person, either generally or in respect of any
specific matter, to act for and on behalf of the Authority in
any place outside Sri Lanka.

46. (1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other law, where the Authority considers it necessary for
the purposes of this Act, the Authority may, with the ap-
proval of the President, in or in relation to designated area
give special or general directions to any of the Departments
or Corporations requoring any such Department or Corpora-
tion to perform such functions or duties relating to @
development project as the Authority may determine.

(2) It shall be. lawful for any such Department or
Corporation to whom any direction is given by the Autho-
rity under subsection (1), to comply with such direction.


Southern ‘Development Authority of Sri Lanka 7
atch; No. 18 of 1996

(3) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution, 5 -

Department or Corporation to which any direction is given
under suksection (1), shall be subject to the supervision
and control of the Authority in respect of all matters
connected w.th such direction:

17. (1) Where any land or any interest in any land in
any designated area is required by the Authority for any
of its purposes, and the Minister, by Order published in the
Gazette, approves of the proposed acquisition, that land or
interest in any land, it shall be deemed to be required for
a public purpose and may accordingly be acquired under
the Land Acquisition Act and be transferred to the
Authority.

(2) In any case where any land or any interest in any land
in the designated area is to be acquired under the Land
Acquisition Act for any purpose of the Authority and
public notice of the intention to acquire that land or interest
is published as required by that Act at any time within the
period of three years of the date of commencement of this
Act, the following provisions shall apply for the purpcse of
determining the amount of compensation to be paid in
respect of that land or interest, notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in that Act:— —

(a) the market value of the land shall be deemed to be
the market value the land would have had on the
date of such Order if it then was in the same
condition. as it is at the time of acquisition, increased
»y a reasonable amount on account of bona fide
improvements, if any, effected to such land after
such date ;

(b) in ascertaining the market value c¢ the land at the
date of such Order, no account shall be taken of any
benefit or increase in value which may have
accrued, or any expectation of benefit or increase in
value likely to accrue, directly or indirectly, .from

any work of development or other operation of the

Authority in pursuance of this Act.

(3) Any sum payable as compensation for the acquisition
of any land or interest in any land under subsection (1),
fer the Authority, shall be naid by the Authority.

Compulsory
acquisition
of land.


3 Southernd Development Authority of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 18 of 1996 |

FINANCE

Fund’ 18, (1) ‘The Authority shall have its own Fund. There

f the _
Authority. shall be paid into the Fund

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time
to time by the Parliament for the use of the
Authority ;

(b) all revenue derived by the Authority rom any
property vested in or administered by the
Authority ;

(c) all revenue derived by the Authority for service
provided by the Authority ;

(d) -all other donations or grants made to the Authority ;
and ,

fe) all sums of money accruing to the credit of the
Authority.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund, al’ such sums of
money required to defray any expenditure incurred in the
management of the affairs of the Authority and the trans-
action of its affairs.

(3) The Authority shall have with the approval of the
President the powwer to make rules relating to the
withdrawal of any moneys from the Fund and no sum
shall be withdrawan from the Fund except in accordance
with such rules.

Power of 19. .(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other .
Authority written law to the contrary, the Authority may for the
“upon purpose of discharging any cif its functions, allocate funds
Public to any public - corporation, or to any Department of
ee ation —_ Government with the approval of the Minister, and it shall
carry out ‘ be the duty of such corporation, or Department, as the
ate case may be, to carry out the said functions, and duly

" account for the expenditure incurred in discharging such

functions.

(2) The Authority shall be entitled to require any
corporation or Department, to which funds have been
allocated under subsection (1), to furnish such information -
as may be required by the Authority in respect of the
expenditure of such funds and it shall be the duty of
such corporation or ‘Department to comply with such
requirement.


Southern Development Authority of Sri Lanka 9
Act, No. 18 of 1996

20. ‘the » finanetal year of the Authority shall be mg

_ calender year.

91, (1) The Authority shall cause proper books of
accounts to be kept of the income .and expenditure,
assets and liabilities and al other transactions of the

' Authority, . .
(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution

relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations

shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.
22. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any

other written law—

purchased

(a), all goods of any description imported or
exempt

out of bond by the Authority, shall be
from customs duty ;

(b) tne Authority shall be exempt from the payment of .

stamp duty on any instrument executed by, or on
behalf ci‘, or in favour of, the Authority in case
where, but for this exemption the Authority would
be Jiahle to pay the duty chargeable in p respect of
such instrument,

. 25. (1) The Government is hereby authorized to
guarantee, on such terms and conditions as the Government
may determine, loans raised by the Authority from any
local, international or foreign organization approved by the
President. The loans authorized to be guaranteed under

this subsection may be denominated in foreign currency.

(2) All such sums payable ‘by the Government under
any guarentee given under subsection (1), are hereby

charged on the Consolidated Fund.

(3) All sums payable by the Authority in respect of
principal, interest and other charges on any loan to the
Authoitry from any international or foreign orgaization
approved by the President under any guarantee given
unger subsection (1) in respect of such a_ loan, may,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law of
Sri Lankz, be paid— - -

” Financial.
2 year
' of the

Authority.

Audit of

Accounts.

, ‘Exemption .
of

Authority
from
payments
of taxes.

Borrowing
of the

Authority an F]

Government
Guarantec:.


10 Southern Development Authority of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 18 of 1996 °

(a) without deduction. for, and free from, any taxes,
duties or fees imposed by or under any law of Sri
Lanka ; and

(b) free from all restrictions imposed by or under any .
law of Sri Lanka:

Provided, however, that the preceding provisions of this
subsectior: shall not apply to any taxes, duties, fees or
restrictions upon payments under any bond or promissory
note to a holder thereof other than any international or
foreign organization, when such bond or promissory note
is beneficially owned by a person resident in Sri Lanka.

(4) Fer the purposes of subsection (3), the question
Whether a person is or is not resident in Sri Lanka shall
be determined in accordance with the provisions of the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979.

(5) Every guarantee agreement between the Govern-
ment and any international or foreign organization pursuant
to this Act and every guarantee given by the Government
pursuant to any such guarantee agreement _ shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law of
Sri Lanke, be valid and enforceable in accordance with .
their respective terms.

(6) In the case of any loan made to the Authority by any
international or foreign organization approved by the
President and guaranteed by the Government, the Govern-
ment sna!l hear any loss and be entitled to any profit,
resulting from any revaluation of the rupee in relation to
the currency or currencies in which that loan is expressed
and the amount of every such loss is hereby charged to
the Consolidated Fund.

(7) The President or any person authorized in that
behalf by the President, by instrument under his hand is
hereby empowered on behalf of the Government to sign
any guarantee agreement between the Government and
any local, international or foreign organization.


Southern Development Authority of Sri Lanka ae
Act, No. 18 of 1996

STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

94. (1) The Chairman shall be the Director-General of
the ‘Autherii;, and shall be its chief executive officer.

(2) The Director-General shall, subject to the general
direction and control of the Authority, be charged with
the direction of the affairs and. transactions of the
Authoritv, the exercise, discharge and performance of its
powers, ftinctions: and duties, and the administration and
control of the officers and servants of the Authority.

(3) The Director-General may, with the approval of the
Authority, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate to any officer or servant any powers, function or

duty conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, him by this

Act and such officer or servant shall exercise, discharge
and perform such powers, function or duty subject to the
general or special directions of the Director-General.

25. (1) The Authority may “appoint such _ officers
and servants as it considers necessary for the efficient
discharge of its functions. .

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection
(1) shall lhe remunerated in such manner and at such rates
and shall be subject to such conditions of service as may
be determined by the Authority with the approval of the
Presiderit.

(3) At the request of the Authority any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of the officer and the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed
to the Authority for such period as may be determined by
the Authority with like consent, or be permanently
appointed to such staff.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily _

appointed to the ‘staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37. of 1991, shall mutatis mutendis,
apply to and in relation to him.

(5) Where any officer in’ the public . service ~ is
yermanently appointed to the staff of the Authority, the
provisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the National
Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to and in relation to him. :

Direztor-
General.

aff
of the
Authocity.


Appointment
of officers
and servants
of public
corporations
to the

Staff —

of the
Authority.

12 Southern Development Authority of Sri Lanka
be Act, No. 48 of 4996". : ee ‘

(6) Where the Authority employs any person who has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Authority by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such agreement.

(7) At the request of the Authority, any member of
the Local Government Service or any other officer or
servant of a local authority, may, with the consent of such

~ member, officer or servant and the Local Government

Service Commission, or the local authority, as the case
‘may be, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Authority for such period as may be determined by _ the
Authority with like consent or be permanently appointed
to such staff on such terms and conditions including those
relating to pension or provident fund rights as may be
agreed upon by the Authority and the Local Government
Service Commission or that local authority.

(8) Where any member of the Local: Government -
Service or any officer or servant of any local authority is:

: appointed temporarily under subsection (7) to the staff of

the Authority, he shall be subject to the same disciplinary
control as any other member of such staff.

26. (1) At the request of the Authority any officer or
servant of a public corporation may, with the consent of such
officer or servant and the governing board of such corpora-
tion, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority
for such neriod as may be determined by the Authority
with like consent or with like consent be permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority on such terms and
conditions, including those relating to pension or provident
fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Authority and
the governing board of such corporation.

(2) Where any person is appointed whether temporarily
or permanently under subsection (1) to the staff oi the
Authority, he shall be subject to the same disciplinary
control as any other member of the staff. ot

(3) For the purpose of this section “ governing beard”
in relation to a public corporation means the Board of
Directors er other body in which the administration and
management of that public corporation has been vested.


Southern: ‘Development Authority of Sri Lanka 13
Act, No. 18 of 1996

GENERAL

27. W The Authority may, subject to such conditions as
may be specified in writing, delegate to a member or to the
Chairman, any power, duty or function conferred or impos-
€d on, or assigned to, the Authority.

(2) Notwithstanding any such delegation, the Authority -

hey exercise, ‘perform or discharge any such power, duty
“or function.

28. The Authority shall take all such measures as may

be necessary to ensure that any financial assistance rendered
by the Authority to any person in carrying out a develop-
ment project in the designated area is utilized for the pur-
pose for w mach: it is given. |

*: 29, The Authority, shall not make an investment in or
otherwise transact business with an enterprise of which a
member of the Authority is a partner, director or share-
holder or is in any other way directly or indirectly inter-
ested, unless the transaction is approved by the Minister.

30. Thr Minister may order all or any of the activities
of the Authority to be investigated and reported upon by
such’ ‘person or ‘persons as he may specify and upon such
order being nade, the Authority shall afford all such facili-
ties as nay be necessary to carry out such order.

3]. (1) The Minister may in consultation with the
Authority, give to the Authority in writing, general or
Special directions as to the performance of the duties and
the exercise of the powers of the Authority and the Autho-
tity shall carry out such directions.

(2) The Minister may from time to time, direct the
Authority in writing to furnish to him in such form as he
may require, returns, accounts and other information with
respect to the property and activities of the Authority and
the Authority shall carry out every such direction.

Delegation
of powers
&c. of the
Authority.

Authority ‘to
ensure that
finan-zial
assistance.
given for
carrying out
development
projects is
utilized, for *
same,: :

Authority ‘not
to transact
business with
enterprises

in which a
member has

_ interest,

unless
approved

by the
Minister.
Powers of
Minister to-
order

inv eniguitns
upon
activities.

Directions
of the
Minister.


Authority
deemed

to be
scheduled
Institution
within the
meaning

of the
Bribery Act.

Members,

- officers and
servants of
Authority &c.

~ public
servants.

' Protection for
action taken
under this

Act or on the

direction of

the Authority.

Reguiations.

14 Southern Development Authority of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 18 of 1996

32. The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act, shall be construed accordingly.

33. All members, officers, and servants of the Authority
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning
and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

34. (1)No suit or prosecution shall lic—-

(2) against the Authority for any act which in good
faith is done or purported to be done by the
Authority under this Act ; or ,

(b) against any member, officer, servant or agent
of the Authority for any ac twhich in good
faith is done or is purported to be done by
him under this Act or on the direction of
the Authority.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Authority in any sult
or prosecution brought by or against the Authority be‘ore

-any court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority,

and any costs paid to, or recovered by, the Authority in any
such suit or prosecution shal! be credited to the Fund of the

Authority.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is re-
ferred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit
or prosecution brought against him before any court in res-
pect of any act which is done or is purported to be done by
him under this Act or on the direction of the Authority shall
if the court holds that such act is done in good faith, be
paid, out of the Fund of the Authority, unless such expenses
is recovered by him in such suit or- prosecution.

35. (1) The Minister may in consultation with the
Authority, make regulations in respect of matters required
by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regula-

.tions are authorized to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified.in the regulation and shall be as vaild and effectual
as. #f it were herein enacted.


Southern Development Authority of Sri Lanka 15
- Act, No. 18 of 1996

(3) Every regulation shall as soon as it is convenient
ester its publication in the Gazette be brought before the
Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the date of

disapproval but without prejudice to any thing previously

done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any ‘regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

36. (1) The Authortiy may make rules in respect of all
matters for which rules are required or authorized to be
made.

(2) Every rule made by the Authority shall be approved
by the Minister and be published in the Gazette and shall

come into operation on the date of such publication or on —

such later date as may be specified: therein.

37. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shail
prevail.

38. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“development project” means any activity

whether public or private which generated.
production, income, employment or improves

" economic, social or environmental conditions
of the designated area; ~

“environmental impact assessment report” shall
have the same meaning as is assigned to it by
the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of
1980.

“local authority” means any Municipal Council,
Urban (Council, Pradeshiya Sabha ‘and
includes any authority created and establish-
ed by or under any law to exercise, perform
and discharge powers, duties and functions
corresponding to or similar to the powers,
duties and functions exercised, performed
and discharged by any such Council or Sabha.

Rules.

Sinhala tex{
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

Interprcta-.
tion,


wuemmeny ‘19

Menor ‘OV

wucy9g ec

ssuel ee
Swereyewess|| “LE -

@weyenwednun] ‘oC

ae. ememsAuo0g “GE
. Boyuequiey “PE
tos Boorquy CE
ak Beeqedejoxeunbuy ‘aE
BAReNmMeeAA “LE

dpne1Q MOWequey

wAaNeA ‘Of
BrePpeaerg ‘8v
Bemnujreg ‘sz
BWW 12
wuebiey “92
wpobeyyl sz

»  BYOANIG “ve

.  BUBUACH “EZ
BAydringnwey ‘az
Bpoawilery “1Z
Bxeesliyy “OL

Bue Ligny “eh -
BELoseg ‘BL
Bloco|“y ‘21

> POp18/C bse OY

eanpereqsy “91
spore Cs *iv5 “St
wAuduquy ‘zs Urppog-ecey ‘pt

; SuBwosLmy ‘Ch

yHWIG Bundsuwy ByNwerespw i. ‘-z1
wwebeppeg “44
BMNPOMWH “OL

Act, No. 18 of 1996

SINPEW “LS
os tAvdoeg -@
4 wpebuejrauy ‘gs
BUNQUIMOHOP EG ‘SP CAuepvesy “2
ewebelsey “2p epoten ‘g
Cnjeusuel ‘gp
a BAemaeM “SY QWEOME: “py
, wisung “v¥ Qwaébsay ‘¢
BmnpuBequeds ‘ep Bh 2
eeBascuoy * Bicueg “5

39H101Q Ble6aBUCY ug

BMnIeN °S

Bary yusWdo|aAeq WWeuNoS

au : A Per mR PT Ome OF Fr
~°16.°Southern Development Authority of Sri Lenka

VauvY CALVNDISAd aynagaHDs

C(t) ¢ Gomes }
