PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 03, 2005

[Certified on 31st May, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE(AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 14 OF 2005

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20051

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 17 ofAct, No. 15 of1979.

2 P.L. 000106 5,650 (02/2005)

[Certified on 31st May, 2005]

L. D. O. 63/2004.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDUREACT, NO. 15 OF 1979

Be it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Code of Criminal Procedure(Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2005.

2.Section 17 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended by the repeal of subsection(7) of that section and the substitution therefor of thefollowing subsection :

(7) When the compensation ordered is by aMagistrates Court, such compensation shall not exceedone hundred thousand rupees to each aggrieved party,notwithstanding that such amount is in excess of theamount a Magistrate may normally impose as fine..

3.Section 123 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words any specimen of saliva, urine, hair or fingernail, of the words any specimen of blood, saliva, urine, hairor finger nail.

4.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 126 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 126A of that enactment :

126A. (1) No person shall be entitled duringa trial on indictment in the High Court, toadduce evidence in support of the defence ofan alibi, unless he has

(a)stated such fact to the police at the timeof his making his statement during theinvestigation ; or

Amendment ofsection 123 ofthe principalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 126A inthe principalenactment.Notice ofalibi.

2Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2005

(b)stated such fact at any time during thepreliminary inquiry ; or

(c)raised such defence, after indictment hasbeen served, with notice to the Attorney-General at any time prior to fourteen daysof the date of commencement of the trial :

Provided however, the Court may, if itis of opinion that the accused has adducedreasons which are sufficient to show whyhe delayed to raise the defence of alibiwithin the period set out above, permitthe accused at any time thereafter but priorto the conclusion of the case for theprosecution, to raise the defence of alibi.

(2) The original statement should containall such information as to the time and place atwhich such person claims he was and details asto the persons if any, who may furnish evidencein support of his alibi.

(3) For the purposes of this sectionevidence in support of an alibi meansevidence tending to show that by reason of thepresence of the defendant at a particular placeor in particular area at a particular time he wasnot, or was not likely to have been, at the placewhere the offence is alleged to have beencommitted at the time of the allegedcommission..

5.Section 147 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words two certifiedcopies of the words three certified copies.

Amendment ofsection 147 ofthe principalenactment.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20053

6.Section 154 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)of that section:

(2)by the addition, immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) of the following new subsections :

(2)Upon the committal of the accused fortrial before the High Court, the accused may stateto Court that he is willing to plead guilty to alesser offence if he is indicted in the High Courtand the Magistrate shall record such statement :

Provided however, the fact that such astatement had been made shall in no way preventthe accused from proceeding to trial in the HighCourt :

Provided further, the fact that such a statementhad been made shall in no way prejudice theaccused at the trial.

(3) Where the accused, on indictment in theHigh Court states that he is willing to plead guiltyto a lesser offence for which he might have beenconvicted on that indictment and the Court iswilling to accept that plea, the judge shall insentencing the accused, have regard to the factthat the accused had indicated in the MagistratesCourt his willingness to plead guilty to the lesseroffence.

(4) The fact that the accused has made astatement under subsection (2) shall not be readand construed as imposing any obligation on theCourt or the Attorney-General to accept a plea ofguilt made by the accused in the High Court to alesser offence for which he might have beenconvicted on the indictment filed in that HighCourt..

Amendment of154 of theprincipalenactment.

4Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2005

7.Section 197 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

197. (1) If the accused pleads guilty to

(a)the offence with which he is indicted; or

(b)a lesser offence for which he could beconvicted on that indictment and theCourt and the Attorney- General arewilling to accept that plea,

and it appears to the satisfaction of the Judgethat he rightly comprehends the effect of hisplea, the plea shall be recorded on theindictment and he may be convicted thereon :

Provided that when the offence so pleadedto is one of murder, the Judge may refuse toreceive the plea and cause the trial to proceedin like manner as if the accused had pleadednot guilty.

(2) The Judge shall in sentencing the accusedhave regard to the fact that he so pleaded..

8.Section 205 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

205. If the accused pleads guilty to theoffence with which he is indicted or to a lesseroffence for which he could be convicted on thatindictment, the provisions of section 197 shallapply..

Plea ofguilty andsentencing.

Replacement ofsection 197 ofthe principalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 205 ofthe principalenactment.

Section 197to apply indealing withplea of guiltyandsentencing.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20055

Amendment ofsection 263 ofthe principalenactment.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

9.Section 263 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words in his own recognizance or with sureties forhis appearance. of the words :

in his own recognizance or with sureties for hisappearance :

Provided however that every trial in the HighCourt, with a jury or without a jury, shall as far aspracticable, be held day to day..

10.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

6Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2005

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.