_ ; JEG:
-* ’ hile *
a > eee
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF  -
SRI LANKA :
SRI LANKA PORTS AUTHORITY
ACT, No. 51 OF 1979
< [Certified on 30th July, 1979]
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II Pre Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 03, 1979
‘ \ )
Price: Rs, 3.00 $ : Paciagst Re. 1.00


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
[Certified on 30th July, 1979]
LD-O. 39/78
AN Act 10 PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SmI LANKA
+" Porrs AUTHORITY 10 DEVELOP, MAINTAIN, OPERATE AND

PROVIDE FORT AND OTHER SERVICES IN THE PORTS OF COLOMBO,

Gate anp TRINCOMALEE AND ANY OTHER PORT AS MAY BE

DECLARED HEREAFTER BY THE MINISTER BY ORDER, TO BE A PORT

0 WHICH THIS ACT SHALL APPLY ; FOR THE EXERCISE, PERFOR-

(MANCE AND DISCHARGE BY THAT AUTHORITY OF THE POWERS,

DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE Port COMMISSIONER, THE

Port (Canco) ConroRation, aNp Tie Port TALLY AND PRO-

‘recrive SuRVICES CORPORATION AND SUCH OTWIER POWERS,

DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS AS MAY BE CONFERRED, ASSIGNED OR

JMPOSED ON THAT AUTHORITY BY LAW ; FOR MATTERS IN RELA~

‘TION TO THE OFFICERS AND SERVANTS, PROPERTY, RIGHTS, OBLIG~

‘ATONS AND LIABILITIES OF THE Pont (CARGO) CoRroRATION

AND THE Port TALLY AND Prorscrive SERVICES CORPORATION

AND THE PUBLIC OFFICERS OF, THE PROPERTY HELD BY, AND THE

RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS AND LIABILITIES OF, THE DEPARTMENT OF

‘tae Port COMMISSIONER ; FOR THE REPEAL OF THE PORT OF

Couompo (ApMaNisTRaTION) Act (CHAPTER 238), THE Port

(Canco) Conrorarion Act, No. 13 or 1958, an THe Port

‘Taxny anp Protective Seavices Cononarion Act, No, 10

oF 1967 ; FoR THE MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN LAWS IN THEIR .

APPLICATION TO THE Ports oF CoLomno, GALLE AND

TRINCOMALEE AND ANY OTHER PORT AS MAY SE DECLARED

HEREAFTER BY THE Mnwister By OnbER, T0 BE A Port TO

WiicH ‘THis ACT SHALL APPLY; AND FOR CONNECTED

MATTERS,

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Ports Authority Short title
Act, No 51 of 1979, and shall come into operation on such 2nd, dave of
date (in this Act hereafter referred to as the “appointed
date”) as the Minister may appoint by Order published in
the Gazette.

2 (1) This Act shall apply, in, to, and in relation to, the Ports to.
Ports of Colombo, Galle, Trincomalee, and any other Port, which this
‘as may be declared hereafter by the Minister by Order pub- ““* “PPUS*
ished in the Gazette to be a port to which this Act shall
apply. w

(2) ‘The ports to, and in relation to which this Act
shall apply are hereafter in this Act referred to as
“specified ports”.

2A 41025—13,800 19/08)


2 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

(8) The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette,
from time to time, define the limits of any specified port.

(4) Until an Order is made under subsection (3) in
relation to any specified port, the limits of the specified |
ports on the day immediately preceding the appointed date
shall be the limits of the specified ports, with the exclusion
of.

(@) the arcas within limits defined for ports declared

: as Naval Ports under the Navy Act; and
(®) land, buildings and other properties of the Sri Lanka
Customs within the limits of the specified ports.
PART I
Constirumi0n oF THE Sar Lanka Ports AUTHORITY AND
{TTS POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS

‘Phe Sri 3. There shall be established an Authority to be called

Lanka the Sri Lanka Ports Authority, hereafter in this Act referred

Authority, _t0 as the “Ports Authorly” and which shall consist of the

persons who are for the time being members of that
Authority under section 5.

‘The Ports 4. The Ports Authority shall, by the name assigned to it

stnguty t© by section 3, be a body coxporate and shall have perpetual +

corporate, secession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in

that name,

Membership 5: (1) ‘The Ports Authority shall consist of the following

ofthe merabers —

rts.

Authority, (@) the Chairman and five other members all of whom
shall be appointed by the Minister from among
persons who appear to the Minister to have wide
experience in, and to have shown capacity in, port
development or port operations or legal or financial
matters, or shipping, commercial or engineering
activities or administration or labour relations ;

(®) a representative of the General Treasury nominated

by the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance ;

(©) the Principal Collector of Customs ; and

(@) a representative of the Ministry in charge of the
2 Minister to whom the subject of Fisheries has been

assigned, nominated by such Minister.

(2) The Minister may appoint one of the members
appointed under subsection (1) (a), other than the
Chairman, to be tho Vice-Chairman of the Ports Authority.


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 3

(8) The provisions of Schedule I to this Act shall have

effect in relation to the Ports Authority.

6. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act it shall be the Objects and

duty of the Ports Authority— Pd

(@) to provide in any specified port, efficient and regular Au‘Perity-
services for stevedoring, lighterage, shipping and
transhippiag, landing and warehousing of dry and
wet cargo and cargo in bulk; for wharfage, the
supply of water, fuel and electricity to vessels, for
handling petroleum, petroleum products and lubri-
cating oils to and from vessels and between bunkers
and depots ; for pilotage and the mooring of vessels ;
for diving and under-water ship repairs and for
other services incidental thereto ;

(b) to provide in any specified port, efficient and regular
tally and protective services ;

(©) to regulate and contzol navigation within the limits
of, and the approaches to, the specified ports ;

(q@) to maintain port installations and to promote the use,
improvement and development of the specified
ports ;

(©) to co-ordinate and regulate all activities within any
specified port excluding the functions of the
Customs ;

() to establish and maintain on and off the coast of
Sri Lanka such lights and other means for the
guidance and protection of vessels as are necessary
for navigation in and out of the specified ports ;

(g) to perform such other duties as are imposed on the
Ports Authority by this Act;

(h) to conduct the business of the Ports Authority in
such manner and io make in accordance with this
‘Act such charges tor services rendered by the
Authority as will secure that the revenue of the
‘Authority is not less than sufficient for meeting
the charges which are proper to be made to the
revenue of the Authority, to replace assets, make
new investments and to establish and maintain an
adequate general reserve ; and

(® to endeavour to manage the specified ports and each
of them as a self supporting enterprise in accordance
with the provisions of this Act. =


4 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

(2) The services provided under paragraphs (2) and (b)
of subsection (1) are hereafter in this Act referred to as
“Port Services”.

(8) Subsection (1) shall not be construed as imposing on
the Ports Authority, either directly or indirectly, any form
of duty or liability enforceable by proceedings before any
court or tribunal to which the Authority would not
otherwise be subject.

Powers 7. (1) Subject to this Act, the Ports Authority may exer-
of the 4 é

Ports cise all or any of the following powers :—

‘Authority.

(a) to acquire, hold, take on lease to give on lease, hire,
pledge and sell or otherwise dispose of any movable
‘or immovable property }

(®) to employ such officers and servants as may be
necessary for carrying out the work of the
‘Authority ;

(©) to do anything for the purpose of improving the
efficiency of port operations and advancing the skill
of persons employed by the Authority or the effi-
‘ciency of the equipment of the Authority or the
manner in which the equipment is operated, includ-
ing the provision by the Authority and the
assistance of the provision by others, of facilities
for training persons required to carry out the work
of the Authority ;

(@) to establish an insurance scheme, a provident fund,
a welfare ‘fund and a fines fund and to provide
welfare, health and recreational facilities, houses,
hostels and other like accommodation for persons
employed by the Authority ; .

(@) to make rules in relation to the officers and servants
of the Authority, including their appointment,
promotion, remuneration, discipline, conduct, leave,
‘working times, holidays and the grant of Joans and
advances of salary to them ;

(f) to make rules and prescribe procedures in respect of
the administration of the affairs of the Authority ;

(q) to delegate to the Chairman or to any member or
officer of the Authority any such functions as the
Authority may consider necessary to delegate for
the efficient transaction of business ;


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 5

(A) to establish, maintain and operate within the limits

of any specified port , a security service for protec-

ting port installations, equipment, cargo and

vessels within such port and for enforcing the
provisions of this Act ;

(@ to acquire any undertaking affording facilities for the
loading and discharging or warehousing of goods
in any specified port or the bunkering of vessels in
such port;

G) to carry on the functions of builders and repairers of
vessels and machinery, removers or salvagers of
wrecks, ship breakers, carriers of . passengers,
vehicles and goods by land or sea, stevedores,
wharfingers, warehousemen, lightermen, dealers in
coal and other kinds of fuel, suppliers of water and
stores to shipping and dealers in stores and equip-
ment connected with, or required ‘for, any of the
aforesaid activities ;

() to operate and maintain a rail transport system
within the limits of any specified port ;

(@ to control the berthing and movement of all vessels
whether in the harbour or in the approaches to or
alongside any quay, wharf, pier or landing place
within the limits of any specified port and to divert
vessels to any specified port ;

(m) to enter into, and perform, directly or through any
officer or agent authorised in that behalf by the
Authority, all such contracts as may be necessary
for the performance of the functions and the exer-
cise of the powers of the Authority ;

(n) subject to this Act, to levy such port dues, fees and
other charges upon vessels, goods, vehicles and in
respect of services within the limits of any specified
port and upon cargo loaded, discharged or kept in
such port as it may deem necessary ;

(0) to construct, maintain and operate all means and
appliances for berthing, loading and dismooring
within any specified port ;

(p) to provide and use, within the territorial waters of
‘Sri Lanka or otherwise, vessels and appliances for
the purpose of protecting, guiding and, communi-
cating with vessels or towing and rendering
assistance to any vessel or for recovering any
property lost, sunk or stranded ;


6 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

(q) to provide such fire services both within any speci-
fied port and on the high seas, as may be deemed
necessary by the Authority for the purpose of
extinguishing fires on land, on sea or afloat and of
preserving life and property ;

() to appoint, license and regulate weighers and
measurers and surveyors of goods within any speci-
fied port ;

(®) to arrange for insurance of goods in the premises of
the Authority ;

(4) subject to this Act, to borrow money (whether by
way of overdraft or in any other manner) from any
person, organisation or institution within or outside
Sri Lanka or from the Government ;

(u) to control the use of, and to issue licences in respect
of all craft, equipmient, vehicles and services that
are operated within the limits of any specified port ;

(v) to survey, plan and execute maritime engineering

{works for Government departments, public corpo-
rations and for other bodies approved by the
‘Minister ;

(w) to clean, deepen or improve any portion of any
specified port and, for any of such purposes to cons-
truct, maintain and operate dredgers and other
appliances and to make hydrographic surveys}

. (2) to reclaim, enclose, raise, drain and excavate any
area falling within the limits of any specified
port or belonging to the Authority ;

(y) to maintain, repair, erect, cause to be erected and to
control the erection and use of piers, breakwaters,
bridges, wharfs, docks, warehouses, stores, offices,
shops, dwellings and any other buildings or works
within the limits of, or the approaches to, any
specified port and to instal and maintain coast
lights and other means of protecting and guiding
vessels ;

() to provide or cause to be provided, the following
services within the limits of, and the approaches to,
any specified port :—

() the berthing, towing, mooring, moving, slipp-
ing or docking of any vessel including
pilotage ;


‘Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 © 7
(ii) the loading or discharging of any vessel
including al} ancillary services ;
(iii) the sorting, weighing, measuring, storing, ware-
housing or otherwise handling of any goods
+ (i¥) radio communication between the specified
ports and between ships and such ports ;
(¥) transport services and other facilities for part
users and for employees of the Authority; ~
(vi) the handling of petroleum, petroleum products
and lubricating oil to and from vessels and
between all depots and bunkers ;
(vii) the supply of electricity and telephone services
to vessels
(viii). the disposal of garbage from ships ; and

+ (x) tally and protective services;

(ad) to construct, manufacture, purchase, operate, main-
tain and repair anything required for the purposes
of the business of the Authority;

(ab) ‘to co-ordinate and execute any Government project
relating to the establishment of a free trade zone
in any specified port and to enter into any agree-
ment with port users for the utilization of such
facilities ;

(ac) to control the entry of vehicles, persons, goods and
animals within the limits of any specified port
and to regulate their movements within such
Limits;

(ad) to engage in such other activities, and do such
other things as appear to the Authority to be
beneficial, necessary or convenient for it to carry
on, for or in connection with the exercise, perfor-
mance and discharge of its powers, functions and
duties under this Act ; and

(ae) to do all other things which, in the opinion of the
‘Authority, are necessary for carrying on its
business.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not be

construed as authorising the disregard by the Ports
Authority of any law for the time being in force,


8 — Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
Powers of 8 (1) The Minister may give the Ports Authority
Minister. general or special directions in writing as to the performance
in Relation of its duties and the exercise of its powers under this Act on
Borts matters which appear to him to affect the national interest <
Authority. and the Authority shall give effect to such directions,

(2) The Minister may, from time to time, direct the
Ports Authority to furnish to him, in such form as he may
require, returns, accounts and other information with res-
pect to its property and business, and the Authority shall
carty out every such direction.

(3) The Minister may, from time to time, order all or any
of the activities of the Ports Authority to be investigated
and reported upon by such person or persons as he may
specify, and upon such order being made, the Authority

. shall afford all such facilities and furnish all such

information, as may be necessary to carry out the order.

Secopnting: 9, The Chairman, for and on behalf of the Ports Autho-
rity, shall be the Accounting Officer and shall be
responsible for the administration of the affairs of the
Authority,

Delegation 10. (1) The Ports Authority may delegate in writing to

to Bratean the Chairman any of its powers, duties or funétions under

Gclesation _this Act or any other written law.

of powers

Oy rman, (2) The Chairman may, with the written approval of

fe royeen, {he Ports Authority delegate in writing to any employee of
the Ports Authority any of his powers, duties or functions.

Members, 11. All members, officers and servants of the Ports

ee Authority shall be deemed to be public servants within

‘servgnts of the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

Authority

to be

public

fervants for :

the purpose

Penal Code.

Rethority 12, The Ports Authority shall be deemed to be @,,

tobe a scheduled institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act

insitution and the provisions of that Act shall be construed

ening of accordingly.

e Bri
Bet, PSY


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 9
PART I
Starr oF THE Ports AUTHORITY,
13. (1) The Ports Authority may, with the approval in General
anager.

writing of the Minister, appoint a competent and experi- en
enced person as General Manager.

(2) The General Manager shall, subject to the general
direction of the Ports Authority on matters of policy and
special directions of the Chairman, be charged with the
direction of the business of the Ports Authority, the
organisation and the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions and the administrative
control of the employees of that Authority.

(8) The General Manager, may, with the approval in
writing of the Ports Authority, delegate in writing to any
other employee of the Authority such of his powers, duties
or functions as he may from time to time consider
necessary, and any employee to whom such powers,
duties or functions are so delegated shall exercise them
subject to the general or special directions of the General
Manager.

(4) The General Manager may not be removed from
office without the prior approval of the Minister.

(8) If the General Manager is temporarily absent from
Sri Lanka or is temporarily incapacitated by illness or for
other reasons is temporarily unable to perform his duties,
another person may be appointed by the Ports Authority,
with the approval in writing of the Minister, to act in the
place of the General Manager until he is able to resume
duties. :

14. (1) The Ports Authority may appoint a qualified, 7f2e7ee,,
competent and experienced person as Finance Manager.

(2) No decision of a financial nature, in respect of
amounts not less than one million rupees, shall be taken by
the Ports Authority, unless the Finance Manager submits a
financial analysis indicating all the financial implications
of expenditure.


10 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

Temporary, 15. (1) Every public officer of the Colombo Port Com-
sath fhe" — mission who does not belong to a combined service of the
se city Government and who was in service on the day immediately
of offcers «preceding the appointed date, shall be offered temporary
of the employment with the Ports Authority for a period not
Pork exceeding two years.
Commision
who ‘Sans (2) Where a public officer referred to in subsection (1)
ae accepts temporary employment with the Ports
sombined —_Authority—
Service.

(a) if, on the day immediately preceding the appointed

date, his substantive post in the Colombo Port

Commission was a post declared to be pensiona-

ble under the Minutes on Pensions—

@ he shall be deemed, for the purpose of these
Minutes , to continue to hold such a post
so long as he is in the temporary employ-
ment of the Authority and shall be eligible
for the grant of a pension or gratuity as
though his service in the temporary employ-
ment of the Authority were service under
‘the Government ;

(ii) in respect of him, the Ports Authority shall
pay out of its funds to the Deputy Secretary
to the Treasury to be credited to the Con-
solidated Fund for every complete month
of service. during which he is in the
temporary employment of the Authority
such sum not exceeding twenty-five per
centum, as may be determined by the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
of the salary payable to him in the
substantive post that he held in the Colombo

. Port Commission on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date; and
: (if) he shall, for the purpose of the preceding
sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) be deemed,
during such period of temporary employ-
ment with the Ports Authority, to have
earned his increments, if any, in the
substantive post that he held in the Colombo
Port Commission on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date, provided
that the Authority certifies that his work
and conduct wore satisfactory and that he
. has earned his increments.


‘Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 11

(®) if, on the day immediately preceding the appointed

date, he was a contributor to the Public Service

Provident Fund established under the Public

7 Service Provident Fund Ordinance—

(i) he shall be deemed, for the purpose of that
Ordinance, to continue to be such a contri-
butor so long as he is in the temporary
employment of the Ports Authority and
shall be eligible for the grant of any award
under that Ordinance as though his tempo-
rary employment under the Authority were
service under the Government ;

(i) he shall, while in the temporary employment
of the Ports Authority, pay to the Public
Service Provident Fund such contributions
as he was liable under that Ordinance to
pay 5

(iii) in respect of him, the Ports Authority shall
pay at the close of each financial year, out
of its funds, to the Deputy Secretary to the
‘Treasury to be credited to the officer's
account in the Public Service Provident
Fund a sum equivalent to such contribution

; as the Government is liable to pay to such
Fund in respect of him; and ei

(iv) he shall, for the purpose of the preceding
sub-paragraphs (i) and (fi) be deemed,
during such period of temporary employ-
ment with the Ports Authority, to have
earned his increments, if any, in the sub-
stantive post that he held -in the Colombo
Port Commission on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date, provided that
the Authority certifies that his work and
conduct were satisfactory and that he has
earned his increments.

(8) Every public officer referred to in subsection (1) who
does not accept temporary employment with the Ports
Authority shall be deemed to have left the Public Service
on the appointed date.

(4) Every public officer referred to in subsection (2)
whose temporary employment with the Ports Authority
is terminated either at his option or at the instance of the
‘Authority, shall be deemed to have left the Public Service
on the date of termination of such employment,


12 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
Permanent _ 16. (1) Every public officer referred to in section 15(2)
wath the shall, during the period of his temporary employment with
Forts ity __ the Ports Authority be offered permanent employment with
of officers the Authority.
of the
sage (2) Every public officer referred to in section 15(2)
Commission who is permanently appointed to the staff of the Ports
ie dene Authority shall be deemed to have left the public service
combined on the date of his permanent appointment to the staff of
iserioes ‘the Authority.
(8) The provisions of section 26(4) and (5) of the
State Industrial Corporations Act, No. 49 of 1957, shall
apply, mutatis mutandis, to and in relation to public officers
referred to in subsection (2).
(4) Where any public officer referred to in subsection
(1) does not, on or before the date on which his temporary
employment wih the Ports Authority under section 15(1)
terminates, accept permanent employment with the Ports
Authority when such employment is offered to him, his
temporary employment with the Authority shall be
terminated and he shall be deemed to have left the Public
Service on the date of termination of such temporary
employment.
Retirement 17. Every public officer referred to in sections 15 (3),
amards t9 15 (4), 16 (2) and 16 (4) who retires or is deemed to have
the Colombo left the Public Service under the provisions of those
Fort vtesion, Sections shall—
(a) if, on the day immediately preceding the appointed
date, his substantive post in the Colombo Port
Commission was a post declared to be pensionable
under the Minutes on Pensions, be granted such
an award under those Minutes as might have been
granted to him if he had been retired from the
Public Service on the ground of abolition of
office ; or
(®) if, on the day immediately preceding the appointed
date, he was a contributor to the Public Service
Provident Fund established under the Public Ser-
vice Provident Fund Ordinance he shall, for the
purposes of that Ordinance, be deemed to have left
the service of the Government upon the determina-
tion of the contract with the consent of the
Government, otherwise than by dismissal and may
be granted an award under that Ordinance on that
ground,


“Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 13

18. (1) On the appointed date all officers and servants of Officers and
the Port (Cargo) Corporation and the Port Tally and gervants of
Protective Services Corporation who were in the service (Cargo)
of those Corporations on the day immediately preceding Corporation
the appointed date shall be deemed to be transferred to Tally and
the service of the Ports Authority and to be officers and Protective
servants of that Authority on the same terms and condi- Corporation.
tions as were applicable to them immediately preceding
the appointed date,

(2) Every officer or servant who is deemed to be an
officer or servant of the Ports Authority shall be deemed .
to have left the services of the Port (Cargo) Corporation
or the Port Tally and Protective Services Corporation, as
the case may be, and the Ports Authority shall take over
the liability as regards employer's contribution to the
Employees’ Provident Fund under the Employees’

Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958, in respect of each such
officer or servant, from the appointed date.

18, (1) At the request of the Ports Authority, any officer Appointment
in the Public Service other than an officer referred to in of public
section 15 may, with the consent of that officer, the other than
Secretary to the Ministry by or under which that officer those. 4,
is employed, and the Secretary to the Ministry of the in section 15.
Minister in charge of the subject of Public Administration,

be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority for
such period as may be determined by the Authority with
ike consent or with like consent be permanently appointed
to such staff,

(2) Where a public officer referred to in subsection (1)
is temporarily appointed to the staff of the Ports Authority
under that subsection, the provisions of section 13 (2) of
the Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978, shall, mutatis
‘mutandis, apply to and in relation to him.

(8) Where a public officer referred to in subsection (1)
is permanently appointed to the staff of the Ports
Authority under that subsection, the provisions of section
13 (3) of the Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978, shall,

‘mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to him.

20, (1) At the request of the Ports Authority, any Appointment
officer or servant of the Local Government Service or of of ofcers
any local authority (whether he be a member of the Local servants of
Government Service or not) may, with the consent of that the Local

officer or servant and the Local Government Service Service or

Advisory Board or the local authority, as the case may be, of any. Jocal

be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority for y's”
such period as may be determined by the Authority with staff of

like consent or with like consent be permanently appointed ie,POHS


44 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
to that staff, on such terms and conditions, including those
relating to pension or provident fund rights, as may be
agreed upon by the Ports Authority and the Local
Government Service Advisory Board or local authority.

(2) Where an officer or servant of the Local Government
Service or of any local authority (whether he be a member
of the Local Government Service or not) is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Ports Authority under
subsection (1), he shall be subject to the same disciplinary
control as any other member of such staff.

Rutority 21, (1) The Ports Authority may, when offering persons

entitled to ‘temporary or permanent employment under the provisions

iter condi- of section 15(1) or 16(1), make adjustments in salary and

service of __ allowances provided that the terms and conditions shall, on

ted the whole, be not less favourable than those enjoyed by him
in the service of the Colombo Port Commission on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date.

(2) Any person aggrieved by the terms and conditions
offered under subsection (1) may appeal to the Secretary to
the Ministry within a period of thirty days reckoned from
the date on which such terms and conditions are communi-
cated to him by the Ports Authority, and the decision of the
Secretary on such appeal shall be final.

Bare to 22, Where any person has entered into a contract with
pte the Government by which he has agreed to serve the
8 service” Government for a specified period, any period of service
Government to the Ports Authority by that person shall be regarded as
purpoteof _service to the Government for the purpose of discharging the
Sontzacts to obligations of such contract,
Government.
PART I
‘Property OF THE Ports AUTHORITY

Transfer ot 23, (1) With effect from the appointed date, all
held by property movable and immovable (including money) held

fombo
Pert Commi by the Colombo Port Commission and all property, movable
fe ‘Pont’ ° and immovable (including money in the funds) of the Port
Gorpeeiion (Cargo) Corporation and the Port Tally and Protective —
Bathe), Services Corporation, including all assets, powers, rights, ‘
the Satst,, interests and privileges of the Colombo Port Commission
Gorperation’ the Port (Cargo) Corporation, and the Port Tally and
Ruthority.


Wri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 18
Protective Services Corporation, subsisting on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date, shall be
transferred to and shall vest in the Ports Authority.

(2) Upon such transfer, all debts, abilities and
obligations in connection with or appertaining to the
property referred to in subsection (1) of the Colombo Port
Commission, the Port (Cargo) Corporation and the Port
Tally and Protective Services Corporation shall also be
transferred to, and deemed to have been incurred by, the
Ports Authority.

2%, (1) Notwithstanding anything in the Crown Lands Power, of
Ordinance or any other written law, where the Minister to yest land
éonsiders that any land of the Republic is required by the Republic in
Ports Authority for the purposes of its functions, the Svthity,
Minister may, with the concurrence of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Lands, by Order (hereafter in this
‘Act referred to as a “Vesting Order”) published in the
Gazette, vest such land in the Authority with effect from.
such date as shall be specified in the Order, subject to such
restrictions or conditions, if any, as may be so specified.

(2) A Vesting Order shall, subject to such restrictions and
conditions as may be specified in the Vesting Order, have
the effect of giving the Ports Authority absolute title to any
land specified therein free from all encumberances.

25, (1) Where any immovable property, other than the Acquisition 7
property of the Republic, is required for the purposes of lands under
the business of the Ports Authority and the Authority is Acquisition
unable, by agreement to purchase such property, that perf”
property may, if the Minister by Order published in the Authority.
Gazette approves its acquisition, be deemed to be needed for
a publie purpose and be acquired under the Land Acquisition
Act and be transferred to the Ports Authority under that
Act.

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any
immovable property under the Land Acquisition Act by the
Ports Authority shall be payable by the Authority, .


16 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
‘Procedure 26. (1) Where any land is vested in or transferred to the
2 Giectment Ports Authority under sections 24 and 25, the Authority
Ke. of land may, in writing, order any person who is in unauthorised
held by the possession or occupation of such land to vacate the land
Authority. within the time specified in that order.

(2) Where any person to whom an order under sub-
section (1) is served fails to vacate the land to which the
order relates within the time specified in that order any
officer of the Ports Authority authorised in that behalf by
the Authority may, for and on behalf of the Authority take
possession of such land.

(3) Where an officer authorised under subsection (2) to
take possession of any land for and on behalf of the Ports
‘Authority is unable, or apprehends that he will be unable,
‘to take possession of such land because of any obstruction
or resistence that has been or is likely to be offered, he shall,
on his making an application in that behalf to the Magis-
trate’s Court having jurisdiction over the place where such
land is situated, be entitled to an order of the Court direct
ing the Fiscal to deliver possession of such land to such
officer for and on behalf of the Ports Authority.

(4) Where an order under subsection (3) is issued to the
Fiscal by a Magistrate’s Court, he shall forthwith execute
that order and shall, in writing, report to the Court the
manner in which that order was executed.

(5) For the purpose of executing an order issued by a
Magistrate’s Court under subsection (3), the Fiscal or any
person acting under his direction may use such force as
may be necessary to enter such land, building or other
structure to which that order relates and to eject any person
in occupation thereof, and to deliver possession of such Jand,
building or other structure to the person who is authorised
to take possession thereof, for and on behalf of the Ports
Authority.

Bxemption 27, ‘The Minister, with the concurrence of the Minister

from taxes. in charge of the subject of Finance, may provide for the
exemption from any licence fees or taxes, of any equipment
belonging to the Authority, that is used exclusively within
the limits of any specified port,


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 17
28. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written Approval of
law, it shall not be necessary for the Ports Authority to rity not
secure the approval of any local authority for the coms for certain
truction of any works or buildings, other than residential "#6
buildings, within the limits of any specified port.
PART IV :
“ France
29. (1) The Ports Authority shall have its own Fund. All The Fund of
receipts of the Ports Authority shall be paid into that Fund Authority,
and all payments made by the Ports Authority shall be
aid out of the Fund.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not restrict in any way the Ports
Authority from maintaining separate accounts for its
different activities and enterprises,
30, (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any Transfer of
other written law— moneys and
other assets
(a) the balance lying to the credit of the Colombo Port pa
Commission on the day preceding the appointed pnd, grants
date out of the sums voted by Parliament for the Government
expenditure of that Commission under the Authority.
Appropriation Act, No. 18 of 1978;
(®) the value of all warehouses, transit sheds, oil instal-
. lations, port railways,. residential buildings,
equipment and movable property, held by the
Colombo Port Commission on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date, as agreed between
the Ports Authority and the Deputy Secretary to
the Treasury; and
(¢) the balance outstanding out of all loans granted by
the Government to the Port (Cargo) Corporation
and the Port Tally and Protective Services Corpo-
ration out of voted expenditure together with the
amount of interest due on the day immediately
‘ preceding the appointed date,
SA 41025 79/09)


18 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

shall with effect from the appointed date, be deemed to be
an investment of equity capital in the Ports Authority by
the Government, and the Authority shall pay to the Conso-
lidated Fund on such equity capital a dividend not exceed-
ing eight per centum per annum as the Minister in charge .
of the subject of Finance may, in consultaticn with the
Minister, determine.

(2) There may be granted from time to time to the Ports
Authority, by resolution of Parliament from the Consoli-
dated Fund, such sums of money and on such terms as may
be determined by the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance in consultation with the Minister.

Ports 31, (1) The Ports Authority may create and issue any

‘giibonty stock required for the purpose of exercising the borrowing
powers of the Authority and the stock so created and
issued shall be referred to as “ Ports Authority Stock.”

(2) Ports Authority Stock shall be issued, transferred,
dealt with, redeemed and cancelled in accordance with
such terms as may be determined by the Ports Authority
with the approval of the Minister, given with the con-
currence of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance,

Government _ 2. ° (1) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance

guarantee. may with the concurrence of the Minister guarantee the
repayment of the principal of, and the payment of the
interest on, any Ports Authority Stock created and issued
‘under sector 31 (1) or any other loan from any person,
organisation or institution in or outside Sri Lanka.

(2) Any sum required for the fulfilment of a guarantee
provided under subsection (1) may with the prior approval
of Parliament, be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

(8) Any sum paid out of the Consolidated Fund in

J fulfilment of a guarantee provided under subsection aM
shall be repaid, together with interest thereon. at such
ate as the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance may
determine with the concurrence of the Minister, by the
Ports Authority in such manner and over such period as
the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance may with
such concurrence determine,

(4) Immediately after any guarantee is given under
subsection (1) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance shall lay or cause to be laid, a statement of the
guarantee before Parliament,


iSri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 19

(5) Where any sum is paid out of the Consolidated Fund
in fulfilment of a guarantee provided under subsection (2),
the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance shall
forthwith lay or cause to be laid a statement of the
guarantee before Parliament,

32. Unless ‘otherwise specially provided for by this Act, Application
the provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971, provisions
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to the Pinace Act,
financial control of the Ports Authority, Na, 38 ot

34, The financial year of the Posts Authority shall be the Financial
calendar year, yes

35, Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any Exemption
other written law, the Principal Collector of Customs, if- Customs
he is satisfied that it should be in the interests of the S¥'%
national economy, may, with the sanction of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance, waive the Customs
duty on any plant, machinery and other equipment im-
ported by the Ports Authority for any of its purposes.

PART V
(Cnarces, Anp Tue Recovery Or CHARGES
36, With effect from the appointed date all port services Port
i vices in

in any specified port shall be provided exclusively by the Specified
Ports Authority or, in exceptional circumstances, on a POS
direction by the Minister, by any person authorised by the
Ports Authority. .

37, (1) The charges that may be levied by the Ports Charges for
Authority, for the services provided by the Authority shall
be fixed, and may be revised from time to time, by the
Authority with the approval of the Minister who shall,
before giving his approval, consult the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance.

+ (2) Until the charges are fixed under subsection (1) the
charges leviable for services by the Principal Collector of
Customs, the Port Commissioner, the Master Attendant of


20 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

any specified port, the Port (Cargo) Corporation and the
Port Tally and Protective Services Corporation on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date shall be the
charges for the respective services rendered by the Ports +
Authority,

() The Ports Authority may, in the interests of, the
national economy, by resolution, and with the approval of
the Minister, remit the whole or any portion of the charges
leviable under this section.

Recovery of 38. (1) (a) The Ports Authoritiy shall, in respect of

charges it charges which have not been paid on any goods, have a lien
on such goods and shall be entitled to seize and detain such
goods until the charges are fully paid, provided that the
Principal Collector of Customs has no claim on such goods as
goods seized or forfeited or goods liable to such seizure or
forfeiture under the Customs Ordinance.

(b) Where the Principal Collector of Customs has a claim
on goods seized and detained by the Ports Authority for
non-payment of Ports Authority charges, the Principal +
Collector of Customs shall take charge and dispose of such
goods or transfer such goods to a Customs warehouse within
thirty days of such goods being landed in the transit ware-
house :

Provided that where goods seized or forfeited are dis-
posed of by the Principal Collector of Customs under the
preceding provisions of this paragraph, he shall pay to the
Ports Authority all charges due to the Ports Authority :

Provided further that where such goods are released to the
consignee after due inquiry as being goods that are not
liable to seizure or forfeiture such goods shall be released
to the consignee after the Principal Collector of Customs
has satisfied himself that all charges jdue to the Ports
Authority have been paid by the consignee. ‘

(2) The lien referred to in subsection (1) shall have
priority over all other claims and lien except claims for
money payable to the Government.


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 21

(3) Charges in respect of goods to be landed shall become
Payable immediately on the landing of such goods, :

(4) Charges in respect of goods to be shipped shall be
payable before such goods are shipped.

(©) Charges in respect of goods to be removed from the
Premises of the Ports Authority shall be payable on demand,

38. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of section Power to

40, the Ports Authority may, where any goods which have femaining
been placed in any transit sheds of the Authority are not JAuansit
removed from such transit sheds within a period of twenty-
‘one days from the time when such goods were placed in
such transit sheds, at the expiration of such period, sell by
Public auction any or all of such goods as are still in the
said transit sheds:

Provided that—

(@) in the case of goods for which a through bill of
lading has been issued there shall be substituted a

~ period determined by the Ports Authority which
shall not be less than forty-two days for the period
of twenty-one days referred to in this subsection ;

(B) a sale or disposal of any goods shall not be held under
the provisions of this section until the Principal
Collector of Customs has been notified in writing
of the date of the sale or disposal and his con-
currence has been obtained for such sale or disposal
‘and for the valuation of such goods for such sale
or disposal,

(©) notwithstanding anything in paragraph (b) if the
goods are of a perishable, hazardous or offen
sive nature the Authority may direct their removal
within such shorter period (not being less than
twenty-four hours after the landing) as the Autho- .
rity may think fit, and the said power of sale may

\ be exercised at the expiration of such period; -

(@) if no bid is made at such sale, the Authority. may,

with the concurrence or agreement of the Principal
°


22 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
Collector of Customs dispose of such goods in any
manner whatsoever.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) a sale shall not be
rendered invalid by reason only that it takes place on
premises or in an area to which the public is not admitted
except on presentation of a pass.

(@) Before making such sale the Ports Authority shall
give not less than three days’ notice thereof by advertisement
in a Sinhala, Tamil and an English newspaper circulating
fn Sri Lanka unless the goods are of so perishable, hazar-
dous or offensive a nature as in the opinion of the Authority
to render their immediate sale necessary or advisable, in
which event such notice shall be given as the urgency of
the case requires.

(4) Notice shall also be given to the owners of the goods
and to the agent of the discharging vessel by letter deliver-
ed at or sent by registered post to their addresses if such
addresses are ascertainable from the manifest of the cargo
or from any of the documents which have come into’ the
hands of the Ports Authority or are otherwise known. Such
notice shall specify the description and the location of the
goods that are to be sold.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (4), the
title of a bona fide purchaser shall not be invalidated by
reason of the omission to send the said notice, and such
purchaser shall not be required to inquire whether such
notice has been sent. 2

(6) The proceeds of the sale of any goods referred to in
subsection (1) shall be applied by the Ports Authority for
the following payments and in accordance with the follow-
ing order :—

(@ the customs duty payable to the Government in res-

pect of such goods ;

(b) the expenses of the sale ;

(©) the payment of the rates, charges and expenses due

to the Authority in respect of the goods; and


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 23

(q) freight and other claims or lien of which notice under

the 1aw relaung to merchant shipping has been
given,

(1) The balance (if any), of the proceeds of the sale
after making the payments under subsection (6), shall, if
the goods are not perishaole, hazardous or offensive goods,
be paid to the person entitled thereto on demand or, where
no such demand is made within one year from the sale of
the goods or if the goods are perishable, hazardous or offen
sive goods, to the general revenue and thereupon all rights
to the same by such person shall be extinguished.

40. (1) Where the master, owner or agent of a vessel Power to
fails to pay to the Ports Authority on demand any cha:gus , ‘strain for
or part thereof payable under this Act the Authority may Payment
distrain or arrest the vessel and the tackle, apparel or fur- go, "8" .-
niture or other article belonging to the vessel, and detain
the same until the charges are paid :

Provided, however, that it shall be lawful for any party
aggrieved by any distrain or arrest of such vessel to apply
to any court of competent jurisditction for such relief as
he may, in law, be entitled to.

(2) Where any part of the charges, arrears, rents, dues,
penalties or the costs of the distress, arrest or detention of
the vessel, tackle, apparel or furniture or other article re-
mains unpaid for the period of fourteen days next after
any such distress, arrest or detention, the Ports Authority
may cause the vessel or the other articles so distrained,
arrested or detained, to be sold, and may apply the pro-
ceeds thereof to satisfy the charges and costs (including
the costs of the sale) and the Authority shall pay the
balance thereof (if any) to the master, owner or agent of
the vessel on demand,

(8) Where the Ports Authority issues a notice to the
Principal Collector of Customs stating that an amount spect-
fied therein is due in respect of charges against any vessel,
the Principal Collector of Customs may refuse to grant

any port clearence to such vessel until the amount so levi-
able has been paid. ,
* (4) The provisions of this section shall be in addition to,
and not in derogation of the rights of the Ports Authority
under any other written law.


24 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
Deposit of 41. The Ports Authority may require a person who incurs
Qharges °" or intends to incur any charges, to deposit with the
Authority or to guarantee such sum of money in such
. manner as may be determined by the Authority as is, in
the opinion of the Authority, reasonable having regard to - *
the amount of the charge. Where such person fails to
deposit or to guarantee the sum of money required, the
Authority may detain a vessel in the harbour or goods on
the port premises in respect of which the charge has been,
or will be, incurred until the requirement has been com-
plied with or the charge paid,
False 42, (1) Where there is any false or incorrect information
information in any document furnished to the Ports Authority in
of charges. regard to any port services by or on behalf of any port
user and the Authority incurs any expenditure in respect
of these services, it may, after due inquiry and notwith-
standing anything to the contrary in any other provision
of this Act order the consignor or consignee as the case
may be, to pay for that service an amount not exceeding
twice the normal charge made for that service and report
to the relevant authorities. Such amount may be recovered
under subsection (2) as a charge due to the Ports
Authority,

(2) Where the owner of any goods or the owner or ”
master of any vessel fails to pay any charges due to the
Ports Authority, the Authority may institute legal pro-
ceedings for the recovery of such, charges from such
owner or master.

(3) Notwithstanding anything in any other written law,
the legal proceedings referred to in subsection (2) may be
instituted by the Ports Authority any time within a period
of three years from the date on which such charges became
due,

Armange- 43, (1) The Ports Authority shall not deliver any cargo

Between the to the consignee or his agent or ship any cargo until

Authority Customs clearance documents in respect of such cargo are

and the :

Principal produced. =

Collector

of Customs. (2) The Ports Authority and the Principal Collector of
Customs may enter into any such agreement or arrange-
ment as they think fit to provide for, or to-facilitate, the ~
assessment, collection and recovery of charges and for the
speedy loading and unloading of vessels in the specified
ports.


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 25

44, An officer of the Ports Authority authorised by the Entry on
Authority may, on producing, if so required, his authority, V°el*
enter and inspect a vessel within the limits of any specified
port or the approaches thereto to ascertain the charges
payable on or in respect of the vessel or in respect of the
goods carried therein, to obtain any other information
Tequired for, or in connection with, the assessment and
collection of charges and the loading and unloading of
‘cargo from such vessel or to prevent or extinguish a fire.

PART VI
Liasmurry oF Tae Ports AUTHORITY

45. ‘The Ports Authority shall not be liable for any loss, Limitation
damage or injury caused to any property or person withint Quthority's”
the limits of any specified port unless such loss, damage or lability for
injury is caused by the negligence or wrongful or unlaw- {i,siyé®
ful act of that Authority or any of its employees or agents
acting within the scope of his employment.

46, All goods which are lodged or deposited in any place Goods
of deposit provided by the Ports Authority or carried in a lodged or
‘vessel or vehicle belonging to the Authority or its agents fc, to be at
shall be at the risk of the owner, importer, exporter, wner’s risk.
shipper or consignee of such goods and the Ports Authority
shall not be liable for any loss or damage to any such goods
unless caused by the negligence or wrongful or unlawful
act of the Ports Authority or any. of its employees or agents
acting within the scope of his employment.

47. Notwithstanding anything in this Act or in any other Maximum
written law, the Ports Authority shall not be liable to pay ™Puity-
in respect of any loss or damage referred to in section 46,
an amount in excess of five hundred rupees per package
or unit unless the nature and value of the goods contained
therein have, prior to the delivery to the Authority been
declared in writing by the person delivering or causing the
same to be delivered :

Provided, however, that the Authority shall not be
liable therefor where the value of any such goods has
been misstated,

48, ‘The limitation of liability under this Part shall relate Limitation
to the whole of any losses and damages which may arise of lability
upon any one distinct occasion, although such losses or of one.
damages may be sustained by more than one person, and occasion.
shall apply whether the liability arises at common law or
under written law and notwithstanding anything contained
in such written law.


26 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

Bower ot 49, Where any liability is alleged to have been incurred

Goutfidste ‘by the Ports Authority in respect of loss of life, personal

Salm injury, or loss of, or damage to vessels, trains, vehicles or
other goods whatsoever and several claims are made or
apprehended in respect of that liability, the Authority may *
apply to the District Court of Colombo which, notwithstand-
ing anything to the contrary in any other law, is hereby
vested with jurisdiction to hear and determine that
application and that Court may determine the amount of
‘the liability of the Authority and may distribute that
amount rateably among the several claimants and may stay
any proceedings pending in any other court relating to the
same matter and may proceed in such manner and subject
to such directions, as to making persons interested parties
to the proceedings, and as to the exclusion of any claimants
who had not come in within a prescribed time, and as to
requiring security from the Authority and as to payment of
any costs, as such Court thinks fit.

Bors 50, (1) The Ports Authority may with the approval of

Sather the Minister, by notification published in the Gazette

for loss or preseribe the limits within which, and the levels to which,

dreaging «dredging may be carried out by the Authority within any

feiss specified port and the approaches thereto. ¢

a (2) The Ports Authority shall not be liable for any loss

or damage whatsoever to any sea or river-wall, wharf, dock
or other property arising out of any dredging by the
Authority within the limits and the levels so specified.

Ports 51. This Part shall not preclude the Ports Authority

Authority, _ ftom accepting goods for storage as well as liability for any

g00ds as "Toss, destruction or damage to, goods so accepted for storage.

Toes ace

truction or

damage in

certain. clr

cumstances

Liability to 52, This Part shall not affect any liability that may be

Ein te" — imposed on the Ports Authority by any written law relating

workmen. to compensation to workmen,

Ex-eratia 53. This Part shall not preclude the Ports Authority

permens: from making, by resolution, any ex-gratia payment to any
person in respect of any loss, injury or damage referred to
in this Part.


Gri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 27
54, No action shall be instituted against the Ports Notice of
Authority for anything done or purported to have been done cU0m) 4.
in pursuance of this Act— Forts
(@) without giving the Authority at least one months’: Avthority:
~ previous notice in writing of such intended action ;
or
(0) after twelve months have elapsed from the date of
accrual of the cause of action.
PART VIL
Orrencrs, PENALTIES AND PROCEDURES
85. Any person who, within the limits of any specified Penalty for
port or the approaches thereto— \gpetrucsing,
‘Authorit
(a) removes any marks set up for the purpose of inthe
indicating any levels or direction necessary to the _ Performance
execution of any work authorised by this Act ; duties.
(b) wilfully and without lawful cause lifts, injures, makes
a vessel fast to, loosens or sets adrift, any moorings,
buoys, beacons or sea or land marks ;
(c) assaults, resists, obstructs or impedes the Ports
Authority or any of its employees or its agents or .
contractors while in the discharge of his duties or
a incites any other person so to assault, resist, obstruct
or impede ;
(@) without lawful cause discharges any gun excépt for
the purpose of making a signal of distress or for
such other purpose as is allowed under any written
law;
(e) smokes any vessel or boils or heats any pitch, tar,
resin, dammar, turpentine oil or other such
combustible matter on board any vessel, or carries
out any under-water operations, or performs such
acts, at any time or within any limits at or within
which such act is prohibited by any order of the
Ports Authority, or contrary to the orders or
directions of such Authority ;
(f) uses a naked light when drawing off spirits, turpentine
oil, or other inflammable oils or liquids of any kind
on board any vessel ; .
* — (g) pollutes the water of the harbour by the overflow or
discharge of oil or any other impurity ; or
(h) immobilises a vessel without the prior written
permission of the Ports Authority,


28 = Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding two thousand five
hundred rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceed-
ing one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Penalty 56. A person who unlawfully extinguishes the light on
extinguish- lamp belonging to the Ports Authority shall be guilty of
‘ing a lamp. an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a Magistrate
to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees.
Evasion of 57. (1) Any master, owner or agent of any vessel or
ana” any owner of any goods who, by any means whatsoever,
‘charges. evades or attempts to evade any dues, rates or charges
leviable under this Act, shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction by a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding two thousand rupees, or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment, and shall in addition be liable to pay to the
Ports Authority as penalty an amount which is double the
amount of the dues, rates or charges he evaded or attempted
to evade.
(2) The tender to, or the acceptance by, the Ports
Authority or any of its officers of any dues, rates or charges
which have been previously evaded or left unpaid, shall not
release or discharge any person from any liability for any
damages or penalty consequent upon such evasion or non-
payment.
False 58, Any person who knowingly uses forged documents
sia or makes any statement which is false in any material
particulars in any return, claim or other document which is
required or authorised to be made by or under the provisions
of this Act, shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be liable
e on conviction by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of a term not exceed-
ing six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Penalty for 59. Any master of a vessel entering or leaving or intend-
false infor- ing to enter or leave, any dock, berth, or to come alongside,
Beidrugit or depart from, any wharf, who gives false information of
vous, the draught, length or beam of such vessel or refuses to give
such information to any employee of the Ports Authority
whose duty it is to ascertain the same, shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable.on conviction by a Magistrate
. to a fine not exceeding two thousand rupees.


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No, 51 of 1979 29

60. Any person who throws or empties into the harbour Penalty for
or any specified port any ballast, rubbish, dust, ashes, stones {DOWing.
or other refuse or things, or does any act to prejudice any rubbish into
of the works of the Ports Authority, shall be guilty of an h#tbour.
offence and shall be liable on conviction by a Magistrate
to a fine not exceeding two thousand rupees.

61. (1) Any person who wilfully removes, destroys or Damage to
damages any property belonging to the Ports Authority. PT°Perty-
or in its custody or control or hinders or prevents such
property from being used or operated in the manner in
which it is intended to be used or operated, shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees
and on application by the Ports Authority, the Magistrate
may order the offender to pay compensation to the
Authority for any damage done by bim.

(2) Any person who carelessly or accidentally removes,
destroys or damages any property belonging to the Ports
Authority or hinders or prevents such property from being
used or operated in the manner in which it is intended to
be used or operated shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction by a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding five hundred rupees.

(8) This section shall not prevent the Ports Authority
from taking any legal proceedings open to it at law before
any court having jurisdiction for the recovery of the full
amount of the damage caused by such person.

62," Any person who contravenes any provision of this Contraven-
Act or of any regulation or rule made under this Act for #9 ot ie
which a punishment is not expressly provided in this Act sions of this
or such regulation or rule, shall be guilty of an offence Act an
and shall be liable on conviction by a Magistrate to a fine
not exceeding five hundred rupees and, in the case of any
continuing offence, to a fine not exceeding fifty rupees for
every day or part of a day during which the offence is
continued after the date of the conviction.

63. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a Lisbility
ody of persons then— ee

and certain /
__ (@) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every officers of
person who at the time of the commission of the 3 D0dy of,
offence was a director, general manager, secretary dffences
or other similar officer of that body ; or soraeieiedl
Body.


30 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
(®) if that: body is not a body corporate, every person
_ at the time of the commission of the offence was a
member of that body,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he proves:
‘that the offence was committed without his consent or
connivance and that he exercised all such diligence to
prevent the commission of that offence as he ought to have
exercised having regard to the nature of his functions and
in all the circumstances.
beieadet ore 64, All fines imposed for any offence under this Act or
or paid any regulation or rule made thereunder shall when
fahe tes ~— recovered, ~otwithstanding the provisions of any written.
law to the contrary, be paid into the fines fund of the Ports
Authority.
Qe 65. (1) A prosecution for any offence under this Act
eee. or any regulation or rule made thereunder shall not be
jay conduct iMstituted in any court, except with the written sanction of
+ Prosecutions. the Chairman of the Ports Authority or by an officer
authorised by him in writing.

(2) Any employee of the Ports Authority authorised in
that behalf by the Authority may conduct such prosecu-_
tion on behalf of the Authority.

Zoe ct 66. Any person who commits an offence under this Act
. or against whom reasonable suspicion exists that he is

guilty of any such offence may be arrested without any

warrant in any place either upon land or water by a police

officer or within the area of the Ports Authority by an

employee of the Ports Authority duly authorised by the

Authority and every person so arrested shall forthwith—

(a) be produced before a Magistrate to be dealt with

according to law, or

(b) where it is impracticable so to do, be handed over

to the officer in charge of the nearest police station
to be dealt with according to law.
1 PART VIII
Genera t
‘Regulations, 67. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in
respect of which regulations are authorized to be made


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 31
and in particular in respect of all or any of the following
matters :—

(@) the allocation of the berths and stations to be occu-

we pied by vessels, and the removal of vessels from
any berth, station or anchorage, and the time
within which such removal shall be effected ;

(®) the manner in which, and the conditions subject to
which, the loading and discharging of vessels shall
be carried out, and the changing of the position of
vessels loading or discharging ;

(©) the keeping of free passages of such width as is

+ deemed necessary within the limits of any specified

port and along or near, the wharfs, docks, moorings
and other similar works in or adjoining the same
and the marking out of the places to be kept free;

(@) the anchoring, fastening, mooring, unmooring and
warping of all vessels, and the use of their motive
power, warps, moorings, buoys, chains and other
equipment and the granting of permission on such
conditions as the Ports Authority may deem fit,
for the keeping or placing of, private moorings or

= buoys ;

(©) the regulation of traffic ashore, afloat and in the air,
the prevention of obstruction and the keeping of
order on wharfs and in the harbour and the ensur-
ing of the safety in the port premises of any cargo
thereon, port works and equipment ;

(f) the regulation of the use of fires and light and illu-
minations and the signals to be used or measures
to be taken in case of fire ;

(g) the enforcement and regulation of the use of navi-
gation lights, signals and signal lights by vessels,
and the steps to be taken for avoiding collision by
vessels navigating in the waters of any specified
port or the approaches thereto ;

(h) the information to be supplied by the masters,
owners or other persons in charge of vessels in

C. respect of the arrival and departure of vessels, and
of goods loaded or discharged at the wharfs and
Premises of the Ports Authority, and the time and
manner in which such information shall be
supplied ;


32 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

(i) the regulation of the use by vessels of whistles,:sirens
and other like instruments ;

G) the prohibition of chipping, scaling, noisy work or
underwater repairs on vessels or the breaking up of «
vessels except at such places and at such times and
by such persons as may be specified ;

(k) the safe and convenient use of the wharfs, docks and
premises vested in the Ports Authority or under its
control, and of any ferry services maintained or
controlled by the Authority ;

( the arrangements and the conditions relating to the
reception, storage and removal of goods within and
from the premises of the Ports Authority and the
prescribing of the procedure to be followed in res-
pect of the taking charge of goods which have been
damaged before landing or alleged to have been so
damaged ;

(m) the loading, discharging and storage of dangerous
goods within the limits of- any specified ports, the
classification of goods as dangerous goods and the
regulation of navigation and the place of berthing
of vessels carrying dangerous goods ; €

(n) the regulation of the mode of stowing and keeping

> dangerous goods on board vessels carrying dan-
gerous goods within any specified port

(0) the prohibition or the restriction of the conveyance
of any kind of dangerous goods with any other kind
of goods or articles on vessels within any specified
port ;

(p) the handling of petroleum, petroleum products and
lubricating oil to and from vessels and between
depots and bunkers in or around any specified
port ;

(q) the regulation and issue of licences to organisations
or individuals who provide engineering, surveying,
ship chandling, ship repairing, clearing, forward-
ing and similar services in any specified port ;

(7) the establishment and administration of a provident
fund with-the concurrence of the Minister in:charge
of the subject of Labour,'s teward fund and a fines
fund ; ras


~ Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act; No! 51 of 1979 ° 33

(s) the prevention of theft of, pilferage of or damage to,

or the commission of nuisance on, any property

. owned, used or being handled by the Ports
‘ Authority ;

(t) the safety of employees of the Ports Authority and
of port users in any specified port ;

(u) the prevention of damage to.or pollution of premises
of the Ports Authority and the pollution of the
water in the harbours of any specified port ;

(v) the establishment and operation of ports security
service to protect cargo, equipment and property of

f the Ports Authority, to assist in maintaining law
i and order within the premises of specified ports
and to enforce the provisions of this Act; "

(w) the loading, unloading and transhipment of cargo,

including tallying ;

(x) the regulation of the entry of persons and vehicles

and goods to and the regulation of their movement
within specified ports.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on -
the date of such publication or on such later date as may
be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval.

(4) Any regulation which is not so approved, shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of disapproval but
without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(8) The date on which any regulation shall be deemed to
be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

68, (1) The Ports Authority may make rules in respect Rules made
of all or any matters for which rules are authorised or PY t2°
required by this Act to be made. ‘Authority.

(2) A rule made by the Ports Authority under subsection
(2) shall not have effect until Its approved by the Minister
and notification of such approval is published in the Gazette.

4A at995 €29)05)


34 © Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
Protection for 69. A suit or prosecution shall not lie—
faction taken ~
under this (a) against the Ports Authority for any act which in good
cece oe faith is done or purported to be done by the
the Ports Authority under this Act ; or .
Authority.
(b) against any member, employee, or agent of the
‘Authority for any act which in good faith is done
or purported to be done by him under this Act or
under the direction of the Authority.
Writ not to 70. A writ against person or property shall not be issued.
fous eeamst against a member of the Ports Authority in any action
erty of i i
Breen of ® brought against the Authority.
the ‘Ports
‘Authority.
Ports Autho- 71, ‘The Ports Authority may establish and maintain a
Geatewa ‘Ports security service within the limits of any specified
maintain'a Port,
ports,
security
service,
pone ot 72. The Ports Authority may compound any claim or
Authority to demand made against it by any person for such sum or
‘cempound other compensation as it may deem sufficient.
Bonded, 73. (1) Where any warehouse of the Ports Authority is
rehouse, approved and appointed as a bonded warehouse under any
written law for the time being in force, the Authority shall
give such security as is required, in that written law for
the payment of such import duty as is payable in respect
of the goods stored in such bonded warehouse or for the
due exportation of such goods.
(2) Where such security has been given by the .Ports
Authority, further security shall not be required by the
Government or any other person to the same effect.
(3) Any person being, or having the powers of, a revenue
: officer under any written law for the time being in force
shall, for the performance of his duties at- all times be
admitted to all parts of any specified port including those
parts of the premises approved and appointed as a bonded
warehouse, and he shall be permitted.to inspect. the books
xept in connection therewith and the stocks therein,


‘Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 35

74. The Ports Authority may in’accordance with such Contracts of
rules as may be made by the Authority enter into such iC FOr
contracts as are necessary for the discharge of its functions,
and in the case of contracts for the supply of goods or

~ material or for the execution of works, such rules shall—

(@) as far as is practicable and except as otherwise therein

provided, require that notice of the intention to
enter into such contracts shall be published and
tenders invited ; and

(®) specify the manner in which such notice shall be

published and tenders invited:

Provided that a person entering into a contract with the
Ports Authority shall not be bound to inquire whether such
rules have been complied with, and all such contracts, if
otherwise valid, shall have full force and effect notwithstan-
ding that the rules applicable thereto have not been complied
with,

75. Any company or other body of persons may, notwith- Powers. of
standing anything to the contrary in any written law or companies fo
instrument relating to its functions, enter into and perform contracts

{all such contracts with the Ports Authority as may be pith the
necessary for the exercise of the powers and performance Authority.
of the duties of the Authority.
76. (1) All notices, orders, receipts and other documents Receipts and
of whatsoever nature which the Ports Authority is polices may
empowered to give by this Act, or by any other written law, by employes
may be given by any employee of the Authority authorised if authorised.
for the purpose by the Authority.
(2) Where any such notice, order, receipt or document
requires authentication, the signature or a facsimile thereof,
of any employee of the Ports Authority authorised for the
Purpose by the Authority, affixed thereto, shall be sufficient
authentication.
77. (1) Any notice, order or document required or Service of
authorised under this Act or any regulation or rule made "tice &.
thereunder to be served on any person, may be served—-
(a) by delivering it to that person or by delivering it at
the usual or last known place of abode of that
person or to some adult member or servant of his
family ;

BA 41926 9/05)


36 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
(®) by leaving it at the usual or last known place of
‘abode or business of such person in a cover
addressed to such person ; or

(©) by sending it by registered post addressed to that ,

‘person at his usual or last known place of abode or
‘business.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),
any notice required to be given to any person who causes
any obstruction or impediment to navigation and whose
identity is unknown, shall be deemed to be properly
served if affixed on, at or near, the place where such
obstruction or impediment is caused.

Powers to 78. Any person who is an employee, agent or contractor
eer ee of the Ports Authority may, if so authorised by the
Jand. Authority, enter, after sufficient notice at all
reasonable hours of the day into or upon, any
building or land for the purpose of making any survey or
inspection or of executing any work required to be made
or executed for the purposes of this Act. Such person shall
not be liable on account of such entry or on account of
anything done bona fide in any part of such building or
land which is necessary in the execution of his duties in
pursuance of this Act. +
Removal of 79. (1) (a) If a vehicle is left without the permission of
ithe port the Ports Authority—
eg (® in a parking place provided by the Authority for a
jermisaion ;
ermision, | longer period than twenty four hours ;
-AEIDOCNYS Gi) in any part of the port premises where the parking of
vehicles is prohibited by notice erected by the
Authority ; or
(ii) in any place where it is likely to obstruct or interfere
with the use of the port premises ;
the Authority may remove the vehicle and place it in one
of its open yards at the risk of the owner of such vehicle ;

(b) Any such notice as is referred to in sub-paragraph (ii)
of paragraph (a) of this subsection shall be conspicuously
posted in or in proximity to the place to which it relates.

(2) Where the Ports Authority in the exercise ‘of the
Powers of this section removes the vehicle, or uses the
services of any other person to remove the vehicle, the
expenses of and incidental to the removal of the vehicle


‘Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 37
together with any charges or penalty shall be recoverable
by the Authority from the owner of the vehicle as a debt in
any court of competent jurisdiction.

“' (8) If the Ports Authority in the exercise of the powers
of this section removes a vehicle, the Authority shall, if
and as soon as it is reasonably practicable to do so, send to
the person for the time being registered as the owner of the
vehicle for the purpose of the Motor Traffic Act or any
other regulations having the same effect for the time being
in force, at his last known address, his registered address or
at the address where the vehicle is ordinarily kept, notice
that the Ports Authority has exercised the powers of this
section and that the vehicle may be claimed and removed
‘on payment of the charges and penalties specified in sub-
section (2).

(4) Tf any such vehicle is not claimed and removed by the
owner or some person on his behalf within fourteen days
after being removed by the Ports Authority (or in the case
of a registered vehicle, within fourteen days after the
service of a notice on the owner or proprietor) the Autho-
tity may cause the vehicle to be sold by auction or by public
tender but not less than seven days’ notice of such auction
or calling of tenders shall be given in at least one Sinhala,
one Tamil and one English newspaper published and cir-
culated in Sri Lanka and if the vehicle is not sold as a
result of any such auction or calling of tenders the Ports
Authority may sell, destroy or give away the vehicle as
they think fit,

(5) Where any vehicle is sold in the purported exercise of
the power of sale conferred by this section the title of the
purchaser shall not be impeachable on any ground whatso-
ever and he shall take the vehicle free from any title,
estate, interest or right of any other person,

(6) The net proceeds of such sale less any amount paya-
ble under subsection (3) shall be held in deposit with
notice to parties by the Ports Authority and shall be paid
to the person entitled to it.

In the event of there being more than one claimant to the
said proceeds the dispute shall be referred to court for

_ adjudication, . Z

But, if however, the proceeds are not claimed by any
person within one year, the proceeds shall be credited to
‘the Fund of the Authority.


38 ‘Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

(7) If the person to whom any money is so paid is not
the person entitled thereto, the Ports Authority shall not be
liable for such payment, but any other person who claims
such money may have recourse against the person to whom.
payment was made by the Authority. $

(8) In this section “vehicle” includes all goods and
chattels attached to, in, or on, the vehicle.

(®) The powers and discretions conferred on the Ports
Authority by this section may be exercised by any officer
of the Authority authorised in writing in that behalf by the
Authority.

(10) A notice stating the general effect of paragraph (a)
of subsection (1) shall be displayed in a prominent position
in the main notice board of the Ports Authority.

Master to 80. (1) Tho master or owner of every importing vessel

Mave « list or his agent shall sign and leave at the office of the Ports

the-oftce af Authority within fourteen days next after the final dis-

the, Forts charge of all goods imported in such vessel, a full and
accurate list of the said goods, containing all particulars as
to

(@ the gross weight, measurements, marks, numbers and

contents of each package; and ‘

(b) the names of the consignees according to the bills of

lading or the names of the persons actually paying
the freight for such goods.

(2) Any sucn master owner or agent who fails to sign
and leave such list shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction by a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding rupees two thousand.

(8) The owner, charterer, consignor, agent or other
person acting in the loading and clearing of every exporting
vessel shall prepare a full and accurate list or manifest of
all goods exported in such vessel, from the bills of lading
and freight list thereof, and shall sign and leave at the
office of the Ports Authority within fourteen days after
such vessel has cleared from the port, a correct transcript
of such list or manifest, distinguishing therein the names
of the several shippers of such goods according to the bills
of lading.

(4) Any such owner, charterer, consignor, agent or other ~
person who fails to. prepare such list or manifest, and to
sign and deliver such transcript shall be guilty of am
offence and shall be liable, on conviction by a Magistrate
to a fine not exceeding rupees one thousand.


\Sri Lanka Ports. Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 39

81. (1) Every vessel lying alongside a wharf or within Vessels to be
the harbour of any specified port, shall be kept so equipped, Kept equipped
provided and loaded or ballasted so as to enable her to be with safety.
removed with safety whenever it is necessary in the judge-
ment of the Ports Authority that it shall be removed.

(2) Any master or owner of a ship contravening the
provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable, on conviction by a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding rupees one thousand.

82, (1) In every case in which any damage is done to Master,
any property of the Ports Authority by any vessel or 2822r os
vehicle or by any person employed in or about the same, charge of
the cost of making good such damage may be recovered Yel
by the Authority from the master, owner or person in for damage.
charge of such vessel or vehicle.

(2) The Ports Authority may detain any such vessel or
vehicle until the cost of making good such damage has been
Paid to the Authority or security has been given to the
Authority for the amount thereof,

(8) For the purposes of subsection (2) the provisions of
section 40 (2) shall apply.

82. (1) If through any act, neglect or default on account Damage to
of which any person has incurred any penalty imposed he Fors,
under this Act any damage to the property of the Authority property to
hhas been caused by such person, he shall be liable to geod in
make good such damage as well as pay such penalty. 3dluon to

(@) The amount of such damage shall, in the case of
dispute, be determined by the court by which the party
incurring such penalty has been convicted, and may be
recovered as if it were a fine imposed by the court,

84, (1) Where any cargo is left standing in the premises Disposal of
of any specified port for a period of over three months and, $ppears to
in the opinion of the Ports Authority, appears to be be sg
abandoned or is obstructing its transit sheds, the Authority Grits
may dispose of such cargo by public auction or by calling  gbstiueting
for tenders and if such cargo is not sold as a result of any sheds.
such auction or calling for tenders, the Authority may sell,

_ give away or destroy such cargo :

Frovided that sale or disposal of cargo shall not be held
under this section until the concurrence of the Principal
Collector of Customs is obtained in respect of such sale or


40 Sri Lanka Ports, Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979
disposal and valuation in respect of such cargo for such
sale or disposal.

(2) The proceeds of the sale of any goods referred to in”
subsection (1) shall be applied by the Ports Authority in © ,
the manner set out in section 39 (6).

(8) The balance, if any, of the proceeds of the sale after
making the payments under supsection (2) snail be paid
to tue person entided there. on demand or wnere no such
demand 1s made witnin one year trom tne sale of the goods,
to tne general revenue and thereupon all rigns by such
Person to the same shail be extinguished.

‘Transitional «85. (1) Any fund, scheme, document, licence, provision

Provisions or resuiuuon, constituted, prepared, made, grauied oF
approved under the Hort of Cowwmvo (Aamunisirauion) Act,
‘the Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1998, tne Port
‘Tally and Protective Services Corporation Act, No. 10 of
1967, or under the provisions of any other written law
relating to such functions as are vested in the Ports
Authority under this Act shall, except where otherwise
expressly provided in this Act or any other written law,
continue to have effect, and be deemed to have been
constituted, prepared, made, granted or approved, as the
case may be, under this Act, ‘

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal by this Act of any
written law, every rule, regulation or order made under
such repealed law shall, if it is in force immediately prior
to the appointed date and is not inconsistent with the
Provisions of this Act, be deemed to be a rule, regulation
or order made under this Act, and have effect accordingly 3
and may be amended, replaced or rescinded by any rule,
regulation or order, as the case may be, made under this
Act.

(8) All deeds, bonds, agreements, instruments and work-
ing arrangements subsisting on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date, affecting any of the assets
and liabilities vested in the Ports Authority or any employee
ofthe Ports Authority under this Act, shall have full force
and effect against or in favour of the Ports Authority, a8
the case may be, and be enforceable as fully and effectually
as if, instead of the Port Commissioner, the Port (Cargo)
Corporation, Port Tally and Protective Services Corpora~
tion, the Government or any person acting on behalf
thereof, the Ports Authority had been named therein or had
been a party thereto.


iSri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 41

(4) All legal proceedings instituted or which might have
been instituted by or against the Port Commission, the
Port (Cargo) Corporation or the Port Tally and Protective
Services Corporation in respect of any functions or assets
which, under and by virtue of this Act, are transferred to,
and vested in, the Ports Authority may, subject to the
provisions of this Act and to any other written law, be, if
they are pending on the day immediately preceding the
appointed date, continued or be, if they have not been
instituted before the appointed date, instituted by or against
the Ports Authority.

86, (1) The Port of Colombo (Administration) Act, the Repeal and,
Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958, and the Port "certain
Tally and Protective Services Corporation Act, No. 10 of laws
1967, are hereby repealed.

(2) The Customs Ordinanee, in its application in relation
to, but only in relation to, acts or things done or omitted
to be done, or required or authorised to be done, in any
specified port shall have effect subject to the adaptations,
modifications and additions set out hereunder, that is to
say—

(@) section 15 of that Ordinance shall not apply within
the limits of any specified port in respect of any
warehouse or other place of deposit under the
control of the Ports Authority ;

(b) sections 23, 24 and 25 of that Ordinance shall not
apply in respect of and within the limits of any
specified port subject to the modifications that the

! Principal Collector of Customs shall continue to
have the power to enforce payment of penalties
under the provisions of section 24 of the Customs
Ordinance ;

(©) sufferance shall not be granted by the Collector
under section 34 or section 62 of that Ordinance
until the Ports Authority has communicated to the
Principal Collector of Customs in writing its
consent to the grant of such sufferance ;

The reference to the warehouse of the Republic
in section 34 of that Ordinance shall include any
Ports Authority warehouse or transit shed approved

~ © by the Principal Collector of Customs and any
rent payable under this section’ shall be paid to the
Ports Authority ;


42 {Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

(@ section 37 of that Ordinance, in its application to the
transhipment of cargo within any specified port
shall have effect, subject to the modification that
the Ports Authority may conduct- transhipment
‘operations in the presence of an officer deputed by
the Principal Collector of Customs to superintend
the Customs procedures of such operations ;

(©) section 41 of that Ordinance, in its application in the
case of goods placed in any warehouse or transit
shed belonging to the Ports Authority shall have
effect subject to the modification that the powers
conferred on the Collector other than the power
to require packages to be stored, if necessary, in
a grill or other place of security inside a ware-
house, shall be exercised by the Ports Authority 5

(A) section 42 of that Ordinance, in its application in the
case of any offence committed in relation to any
goods in any warehouse or transit shed belonging
to the Ports Authority shall have effect subject to
‘the modification that the reference in that section ,
to the Collector shall be deemed to be a reference
to the Ports Authority ;

(g) section 60 of that Ordinance shall have effect subject
to the modification that the power to issue stiffen
ing orders shall be exercised by the Ports
Authority ;

(h) section 102 of that Ordinance shall have effect
subject to the modification that the power conferred
by that section on any officer of the Customs to
require the removal of certain articles from the
Customs premises may also be exercised by any
officer authorised in that behalf by the Ports
Authority in writing;

(i section 104 of that Ordinance shall have effect subject
to the modification that the reference therein to
‘the Port Commissioner shall be deemed to be a
reference to the Ports Authority, and the reference
toa Colombo Port warehouse shall be deemed to be
a reference to any warehouse or transit shed under
the control of the Ports Authority ;


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 43

(j) section 116 of that Ordinance shall have effect subject
to the following modifications :—

() the reference to the Collector shall be deemed
to be a reference to the Ports Authority ;

(ii) the reference to the proper officer of Customs
shall be deemed to be a reference to any
officer authorised in writing by the Ports
Authority ;

(ii) the reference to one hundred rupees shall be
deemed to be a reference to one thousand
rupees 5

() section 117 of that Ordinance shall have effect subject
to the following modifications :—

(@) the reference to the Collector shall be deemed
to be a reference to the Ports Authority ;

(i) the reference to one hundred rupees shall be
deemed to be a reference to one thousand
rupees 5

(iil) a sale of any goods shall not be held under that
section (as herein modified) until the Collec-
tor has, in writing addressed to the Ports
Authority, fixed the upset price of the goods
and approved the sale, and the entire
proceeds of any such sale shall be disposed
of by the Ports Authority as provided in that
section provided that the Customs duties are
credited to the Collector ;

@ sections 146 and 147 of that Ordinance in their appli-
cation in relation to any offence or contravention
mentioned in Schedule II of this Act shall have
effect subject to the following modifications :—

(i) the reference in the proviso to section 146 to
the Principal Collector of Customs shall be
deemed to be a reference to the Ports Autho-
rity;

(i) the power under section 147 to sanction a pro-
secution or to compound any offence shall be
exercised by the Ports Authority ;

(iif) the reference in subsection (4) of section 147
to the Principal Collector of Customs shall
be deemed to be a reference to the Ports
Authority ;


44 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

(m) notwithstanding anything in section 153 of that
Ordinance the amount of any penalty payable
under section 42 of that Ordinance in respect of any
goods placed in a Ports Authority warehouse or
transit shed or payable under section 116 or section
117 of that Ordinance in respect of any contraven-
tion committed in any specitied port, shall be paid
to the Ports Authority and shall (after deducting
any expenses incurred) be paid to the reward fund
maintained by the Ports Authority for distribution
at its discretion among informers and deserving
employees ;

(n) section 163 of that Ordinance shall, in the case of any
forfeiture or penalty, or liability or forfeiture or
penalty, incurred under section 42 of that Ordinance
in relation to any goods placed in any Ports Autho-
rity warehouse or transit shed or under section 116
or 117 of that Ordinance in respect of any contraven-
tion committed in any specified port, have effect
subject to the modification that the power of miti-
gation shall be exercisable by the Ports Authority,
subject to revision by the Minister on application
made to him,

(3) The Masters Attendant Ordinance, the Pilots Ordi- *

nance, the Boats Ordinance, the Customs Ordinance, the
Police Ordinance and the Boatmen’s Ordinance and the rules
and regulations made thereunder shall, in their application
to any specified port, have effect subject to the modification
‘that the powers, duties and functions conferred and imposed
on the Master Attendant or the Port Commissioner (as
the case may be) by those Ordinances, rules and regulations
shall be exercised, performed and discharged by the Ports
Authority ; and accordingly every reference in those Ordi-
nances and in any rules and regulations to. the Master
Attendant or the Port Commissioner shall be deemed to be
a reference to the Ports Authority.

The provi: _81. The provisions of this Act shall be construed to be in

‘Act to be addition to and not in derogation of the provisions of the

13 proving Customs Ordinance,

of Customs

Ordinance.

pert. 88. The provisions of this Act shall apply to and shall

Actto bind blind the Republic or any Department of the Government

Republic,


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979° 45
89, In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— Inter.
“beacon” means any light, mark or sign used as an aid Pretston

to navigation, other than a lighthouse or buoy ;
“buoy” includes any floating light, mark or sign used as
‘an aid to navigation, other than a lighthouse
“charges” include charges, rates, fees and dues of every
description which the Ports Authority is, for the
time be-ng authorised to demand, take and recover
and “ charge” shall be construed accordingly ;

“dangerous goods” include aquafortis, vitriol, naptha,
benzine, gunpowder, lucifer matches, nitroglyce-
rine, petroleum, carbide of calcium and any
explosive within the meaning of the Explosives
‘Act;

“ goods” include animals, carcases, baggage and any other
movable property of any kind whatsoever ;

“land” includes land covered by water and any interest
in land ;

“Jocal authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council, Town Couneil or Village Council and
{includes any Authority created and established by
or under any law to exercise, perform and dis-
charge powers. duties and functions corresponding
to or similar to the powers, duties and functions
exercised, performed and discharged by any such
Couneil ;

“master” includes every person, except a pilot having
for the time being the command, charge or control
of any vessel ;

“owner” when used in relation to goods, includes any
consignor, consignee, shipper or agent of the owner
for the sale, custody, loading, handling, discharge
or delivery of such goods; and when used in rela-
tion to any vessel, includes any part-owner, char
terer or operator thereof or any duly authorised
agent of any such person;

“Port (Cargo) Corporation” means the Port (Cargo)
Corporation established by the Port (Cargo) Corpo-
ration Act, No. 13 of 1958;


46 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

“Port Commissioner” means ‘the Port Commissioner
appointed under the Port of Colombo (Administra-
tion) Act and includes any officer acting under the
authority in writing of such Port Commissioner ;

“port premises” means the landing places and all other
works and land at any time vested in, belonging to
or administered by the Ports Authority

“Port Tally and Protective Services Corporation” means
the Port Tally and Protective Services Corporation
established by the Port Tally and Protective
Services Corporation Act, No. 10 of 1967;

“stevedoring” means the operations connected with the
loading, discharging, shipping, transhipping and
storage of cargo in the holds of, or on board, any
vessels ;

“ tallying and protecting services " means tally and watch-
men and other protective services performed by
persons employed on board a ship or ashore in the
interest of the owner, agent or master of the ship
and includes receipt keepers, assistant receipt
keepers, supervisors, plan clerks and pier clerks;

“transit shed” includes all buildings, yards and other *
places owned or occupied by the Ports Authority
and appropriated by the Authority for the landing
and shipping of goods and any foreshore so owned
or occupied and used for such purposes, but shall
not include any portion of the foreshore or other
places not so owned or occupied ;

“vessel” includes any ship or boat or any other descrip-
tion of vessel used in navigation ; and

“wharf” includes a quay, pier, jetty or other landing
place.


* Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979 47
SCHEDULE I
[Section 5 (3)]

._ PRovISIONS RELATING TO THE MEMBERS OF THE PorTS AUTHORITY

1. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or
continuing as a member of the Ports Authority if he is a
‘Member of Parliament.

2. Before appointing a person to be a member of the Ports
Authority, the Minister shall satisfy himself that such
Person shall not have any financial or other interest as is
likely to affect prejudically the discharge by such person
of his functions as a member of the Authority; and the
Minister shall also satisfy himself, from time to time, in
respect of every member of the Ports Authority appointed
by the Minister that he does not have any such interest.
Any person appointed by the Minister or whom the Minister
Proposes to appoint as a member of the Authority shall,
when requested by the Minister so to do, furnish to the
‘Minister such information as the Minister considers neces-
sary for the performance of his functions under this Act.

8. A member of the Ports Authority who is in any way,

= directly or indirectly, interested in any contract made or
Proposed to be made by the Authority shall disclose the
nature of his interest at a meeting of the Authority and
such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the
Authority and the member shall not take part in any deli-
beration or decision of the Authority with regard to that
contract.

4, (1) Every member of the Ports Authority, other than
the Principal Collector of Customs, the member nomi-
nated by the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance
and the member nominated by the Minister in charge of
the subject of Fisheries shall, subject to the provisions of
sections 5 and 6 of this Schedule hold office for such term
not exceeding three years reckoned from the date of his
appointment as the Minister may at the time of
appointment determine and unless he has been removed
from office under section 5 of this Schedule, shall be eligible
for re-appointment :

Provided that a member appointed by the Minister in
place of a member who vacates office shall unless he vacates
office earlier hold office for the unexpired part of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds,


48 Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No.'51 of 1979

(2) Subject to section 6 of this Schedule, the term of
office of the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman shall be the
period of his membership of the Ports Authority.

5. The Minister may, without assigning any reason”
‘therefor, remove any member of the Ports Authority
appointed by him and the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance or the Minister in charge of the subject of
Fisheries, as the case may be, may, without assigning any
reason therefor, remove the member of the Ports Authority
nominated by that Minister and such removal by the
Minister or the Minister in charge of the subiect of Finance
or the Minister in charge of the subject of Fisheries, shall
not be called in question in any court or tribunal.

6. A member of the Ports Authority appointed by the
Minister may at any time resign his office as a member,
Chairman, or Vice-Chairman by a letter in that behalf
addressed to the Minister.

7. (1) Where any member of the Ports Authority is
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office on
account of ill health or other infirmity, absence from Sti
Lanka or any other cause, then— .

(@) if he is a member appointed by the Minister, the

Minister may appoint another person to act in
place of that member, or

(®) if he is the member nominated by the Minister in

charge of the subject of Finance, that Minister may

nominate another representative of the General
Treasury to act in place of that member, or

(©) if he is the member nominated by the Minister in

. charge of the subject of Fisheries, that Minister

may nominate another representative of the
Ministry to act in place of that member, oF

(d) ithe is the Principal Collector of Customs, the officer

for the time being acting for him may act as @
member of the Ports Authority. i

(2) Where the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the-Ports

Authority is temporarily unable to perform the duties of

his office due to ill health, other infirmity, absence from

Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint

any other member appointed by him to act as Chairman or

Vice-Chairman, as the case may be.


Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979. 49

8. All or any of the members of the Ports Authority may
be paid such remuneration, allowances and other expenses
out of the funds of the Ports Authority, as may be deter-
mined by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance.

9, The quorum for any meeting of the Ports Authority
shall be three members. The Chairman of the Authority
shall preside at all meetings of the Authority. In the
absence of the Chairman from any meeting of the Autho-
rity, the Vice-Chairman of the Authority shall pres'de and
in the absence of both the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman
from any meeting of the Authority, the members present
shall elect one of them to preside at the meeting.

10. Subject to the other provisions of this Schedule, the
Ports Authority may regulate its own procedure in regard
to its meetings and the transaction of business at the
meetings.

11. The seal of the Ports Authority shall be in the custody
of the Chairman of the Ports Authority and it shall not be
affixed to any instrument or document except in the
presence of two members of the Authority one of whom
shall be the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Authority.
Both such members shall sign such instrument or docu-
ment in token of their presence. The seal of the Authority
may be altered in such manner as may be determined by
the Authority.

12, The Ports Authority may act notwithstanding any
vacancy among its members and any act or proceeding of
the Authority shall not be or be deemed to be invalid by
teason only of the existence of any vacancy among its
members or any defect in the appointment or nomination
of a member thereof.

SCHEDULE IT
OFFENCES REFERRED TO IN SECTION 86 (2) (I)

1. Any offence referred to in section 42 of the Customs
Ordinance alleged to have been committed in respect of
goods placed in any Ports Authority Warehouse.

“2. Any offence against or contravention of any of the
following sections of the Customs Ordinance, alleged to
have been committed in any specified port, that is to say
sections 102, 104, 116 and 117.
