PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

FOREST (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 84 OF 1988

(Certified on 20th December, 1988]
Printed on the Orders of Govérnment

ees ee TE §

published asa Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist re of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, §RI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 60 cents. | Be Postage : 75 cents.


Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 84 of 1988

[Certified on 20th December, 1988]

L.D.—O. 16/85.

| AN Act TO AMEND THE Forest ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the' Forest (Amendment)

- Act, No, 84 of 1988.

2. Section 7 of the Forest Ordinance
referred to as the

(hereinafter

“principal enactment”) is hereby

amended by: the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following subsection :—

“ (3) No proseeution for an offence under this section
shall be instituted except with the written sanction o:

the Conservator of Forests,

the Deputy-Conservator of

Foresis, an Assistant Conservator of Forests, or a Divi-
sical Yorest Officer.”
3. The following | new section is hereby inserted.

immediately after section 40, and shall have effect as
section 40a, of the principal enactment :—

“ Section
306 of
the Code
of Criminal
. Procedure
Act, No. 15
of 1973,
not to
apply to
persons
who plead
guilty to,
or is found
guilty of a
forest
aence

49a. The provisions of section 306 of the

' Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979, shall net apply to, or in relation to, any
“person who pleads guilty to, or is found

guilty of, a forest offence. ”.

fh, Section 49a: of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :---

“Penalty
for
obstructing
or

assaulting -

forest
officers &c.

 AQa, Any person who threatens, intimi-
dates, ‘assaults ‘or obstructs or in any way

interferes with a forest officer, police officer ©

or any other officer authorized to act in that
behalf in the exercise, performance and
discharge of his powers, duties and functions
under this Ordinance shall be guilty of an
offence. and shall on conviction be liable to

Short title,

Amendment
of section 7
of Chapter
451.

Insertion .
of anew
section 40a -
in the
principal
enactment,

Replace—
ment of
section 49a
of the
principal]
enactmert

imprisonment of either description for a


- Amendment
ofsection ..

48 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section |
58 of the
Frincipa]_.
enactment.

| Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 84 of 1988

term not: less than three years and not
exceeding seven years or to a fine not less
than two thousand rupees and not exceeding
‘five thousand rupees, or to both such fine
and pprisbenrisant .

Provided that a prosecution shall not be

instituted under this section, except with

’ the sanction of an officer not below the

rank of Divisional Forest Office, Govern-
ment Agent or Superintendent of Police. ”.

5. Section 48 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that rani
and the substitution therefor of the following subsection :

‘ (2) Every officer making an arrest under this section
shall, without unnecessary delay, take or send the person
arrested to the nearest police station or, if there is no
police station in the division, before the divisional
revenue oflicer of the division, together with a state-
ment showing the offence with which the accused is
charged. The . officer-in-charge of tne Police station or
the Divisional Revenue Officer shall, without unnecessary
delay, take or send the person arrested to the nearest —
Magistrate : r

. Provided, however, that where the arrest of any person |
under this section is made by a forester or a range

forest officer such persen may be produced before the

nearest Magistrate by such forester or the range forest

officer, if he is of opinion that undue delay is likely to

be caused if such person is to be produced before the

Magistrate through the officer in charge of the police

station or the divisional revenue officer, ”.

6. Section 58 of the principal | enactment is hereby

amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following subsection :—

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection. (1),
the Minister may authorize—

‘(a) any employee of the State Timber Corporation

established under the State Industrial Corporations
- Act, No. 49 of 1957. to perform the functions of a
‘forest officer for the purposes of sections 24, 27,
37 cr 48 of this Ordinance; or ‘


Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 84 of 1988 3

(b) any employee of the Sri Lanka State Plantations

Corporation established under the Sri Lanka State

, Plantations Corporation Act, No. 4 of 1958, or the

Janatha Estate Development Board or the Agri-

cultural Development Authority established under

the State Agricultural Corporations Act, No. 11 of

1972, to perform the functions of a forest officer for

the purposes of sections 27, 37 or 48 of’ this
Ordinance,

and any such employee or officer shall while engaged in the
perfrrmance of these functions be deemed to be a forest
officer. ”. ;

7. Section 64 of the principal encatment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (c) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following paragraph :—

“(¢) to provide for the payment into such fund of the
whole or part of sums received in composition of
offences under this Ordinance and awards made
under the Iniormers’ Reward Ordinance to
informers in case of such offences, and such other
contributions as may be made to the fund by the
Government, any public or private corporation or

' any individual, and for the payment out of the
fund, subject to such -conditions as may be
specified in the regulations,. of rewards to
informers and the forest officers, of compensation
for bodily injury caused to forest officers, police
officers or other officers in the exercise, perfor-
mance and discharge of their powers, duties and
functions under this Ordinance, or when death
results from such injury, of compensation to their
heirs, of travelling expenses properly incurred hy

witnesses in attending court for the purposes of .

giving evidence in trials under this Ordinance,
of expenses for carrying on raids to abate illicit
fellings of, and illicit transport of, timber and of
expenses incurred in forest protection activities
including the conduct of training programmes for
‘forest officers enabling them to carry out their
functions efficiently under this Ordinance.”.

$. Section 78 of the principal enactment is hereby amen-
ded in the definition of “forest officer” by the addition of
the words “ Additional Conservators” immediately after
the word “Conservators” thereof.

e,

Amendment
of section

64 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section
78 of the
principal
eractment,
