PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

STAMP DUTY (AMENDMENT)

-_ ACT, No. 71 OF 1988

[Certified on 17th December 1988]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988 _

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

—_

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price : 90 cents postage : 75 ceats


Stamp Duty (Amend: ient) Act, No. 71 F oj 1988.

LD.—O. 22/87
 * [Certified on 17th December, 1988]

AN Act ‘To AMEND THE STAMP Duty Act, No. #8 OF 1982 .

BE it enacted - by fhe Pailiatient of
Socialist Republic ‘of Sri Lanka as follows : —

1. This Act may be cited as the Stamp Duty, (Ametid- “Short

ment) Act, No. a of 1988.

2, Section 2 of the Stamp Duty Act, No. 43 of i9e2
(hereinafter referred to as “the principal enactment”) is
hereby amended in paragraph (b) of that section, by the
substitution, for the words ‘

law ;

uN

3.. Section 4 cf .the principal enactment is hereby
amended hy the substitution for the words “of any instru-
ment’? wherever those words appear in that section, of the
words “ of any instrument or document. M.

4, Séetion. 5 of the principal, enactment lis “hereby.

amended as followst —_—

a) in) sarearaph (12) of that section, by the substitution -

for the werds “instrument executed by”, of. the

 : words “instrument, other than an application for a
letter of credit made to an approved credit agency,

~~ trust receipt or a letter of trust or declaration of a

trust in respect, of corporal movables in favour of
‘any such agency .or any contract _mentioned in

paragraph (¢e) of section 24, executed by,”

(iy in paragraph (14) of that section, by the motes

immediately after ' sub-paragraph ‘(e) of that
_ paragraph of the following paragraphs : —

™ (ee) all documents filed by or on behalf of any

person, who is certified bya prescribed officer

HOR - ~ as suing; defending or intervening with legal
se : Heo. “The Legal. Aid mau E:

_ aid provided.
No. 27 of 1978 ;

aD o01708—10, 240 (10/88)

the Democratic

‘admiralty proceedings institut- .
ed in the High ‘Court ;”; of the words “admiralty or civil -
proceedings instituted in the High Coutt or eivil proceedings --
angeitted, in any: other court. created, or ostablished by

title.

Amendment
of section
2of Act .-
No. 43 of
1982.

Amendment .
of section
4ofthe .
vrincipal
enactment.

Amendment |

of section
5 of the

principal
enactment: —


+ 2 Stamp Duty (Amendment) Act, No. 71 of 1988

(eee) all documents filed:in any court by, or’ on
behalf of. any person. claiming damages
arising from: death or damage caused by a
motor vehicle. ; and

ati) by the addition immediately. after “ft tal (21) of:
- that section of the following panagrapis —_

“ (22) instrument executed in pursuance of ihe
provisions of the Farmers Pension and Social
Security Benefit Scheme Act, No. 12. of 1987.”.

Replace- 5. ‘Section 7 of the’. principal enactment is hereby
ment of
section 7 repealed and ie following. new section substituted | there:
ofthe ~— +: for:—
principal - ne ;
enactment, “ Cancella- 7. (). Where the — of atari, duty
ort with which an instrument is chargeable is.
- Stamps, ‘indicated by’means of an adhesive stamp the
. person executing such instrument or in the
case of a notarially executed instrument, the-
notary and the person or any onc’ of. the
persons executing such instrument shall
cancel the stamp by writing his name or
their names: respectively across and initiall-
' ing it in. ink so as: not to admit of it being

_used again,

(2) Where an. 1 instrament execu tea outside:
Sri Lanka has been duly. stamped, a person
referred to in section 25'(2) shall cancel the
adhesive stamp affixed on such instrument by
writing his‘name across ‘and ititialling it in
ink so as not to admit of it being used again..

(3) Where an. instrument bears. an
adhesive stamp of the value of fifty. rupees
or more such stamp, shall, in addition to the ©

_ ‘writing referred to in. subsection (1) or (2),
“be cancelled by. cutting it. with a prick,
punch, cutter or nipper.

were ay (4) Any instrument bearing an adhesive

; stamp which has not been cancelled in the.

- manner set out in subsections -(1),. (2) ar (3)

- Shall be deemed to be unstamped to the’
extent of the value of that stamp. ”: -

gemienamient 6. Section. 12 of the principal “enactmrient is hereby

12 of rae amended by the substitution for. the. ward. jue of one
Ghactnent, . T™pee” pee Sasworae ot? oF stamps to the volue
on on rupee ”- rrr,

OS Cae re ool


‘Stamp Duty (Amendment) Act, No. 71 of 1988 3

wee Section 13 of the prinefpal ‘enactmtnt is hereby 7

amended as tollows ;-

(1). in citieaction (1) of that section— -

(a) by the substitution in paragraph (e), for the:
words, “the High Court, or a District Court, ”,
of the words, “the High Court, a District
Court or any other..court created or estab-

_ lished by law”; and ,

Amendment
of section
13 of the
principal -
enactment..

(b) by the substitution, for: the ‘words, “ chenue _—

drawn: and issued on forms _ supplied”
. ‘wherever those. words: appear’. in that
subsection, of the words, “cheque forms
. supplied”; ot ,

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection, (4) of -

ihat section of the following subsection :-—

.© (4a) Where the payment of stamp duty payable .

on-shares or. debenture stock issued by a company
Las been compounded under this " section, the
"principal officer of such conipany authorized under
subsection (1), shall endorse .on each such share,

or debenture certificate the amount of stamp duty _
payable on such share or debenture certificate and

_ ‘that the payment of such stamp duty has been
" compounded in accordance with this section.” ;

(3) in subsection (5) of that section, by the. substitution, ~

- for the. words, “the High Court or a District Court ”,

of the words, “the High Court, a District Court or ll

_any other ‘court created or established by-law”.

8. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby
emended in subsection (1) of that’ section : —

@) by the substitution in paragraph (a) thereof for the
_words “or a District Court; or”, of the words “or
the High Court or a District Court or. any other
> court’ created or established by law; or”

(ii) by the insertion immédiately. after sdbeaeareit (i)
-of that subsection of the following sub-paragraph :~:
eee oe (iia): be the net value of the estate, in the case
of applications ‘for probate or. letters of ae

tion in respect of the: estate of a deceased persons

a
2

Amendment

> -of section

14 of the
principal
enactment. -


4. “Stamp Diity (Amendment) Act, No. 71 of 1988

Amendment 9, Section 15 of the principal enactment: is hereby
section amended by the addition immediately after subsection: (3)
15 of the of that section, of the following new subsection : —
principal ‘ |
enactment, “ (4) Where any property transferred consists ot shares
. of a company the stamp duty with which the instrument
of iransfer is chargeable shall be calculated :—

(a) where’ such transfer is by way of gift, on the value

of the shares on the date of transfer ;

(b) where such transfer is by way of aie on the value
of such shares on the date on which the offer of the
sale is accepted or on the price agreed upon by the
varties whichever is higher. an

Easertion - 10. The ‘following new section is hereby inserted

section immediately after section 15 of the principal enactmient —

15Ainthe — and shall have effect as section 15a of that: enactment: —~
principal : _ ae
enactment, “Conversion. - 15a. Where any instrument is chargeable
a, a, = with stamp duty in ‘respect of any money
Ze a, expressed in any currency other than that of —
“4 _. Sri Lanka, such. duty shall be calculated on
_ the value of such money in the currency of
Sri Lanka according to the current rate of
exchange on the day of the date of the .
* instrument or where the instrument is a
bill.of exchange, cheque or promissory note
' drawn, or made, out of Sri Lanka, on the day ~
"On, which the instrument is stamped in Sri -
“ ' Lanka.” ;
cmondment AL Section 18. of the - principal enactment is chereby
f secti : 1
an ae the -amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitu-
pring . tion for the words “ conveyance of property *, of the words -
“conveyance of movable property ”.
. Amendment ~ of, Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
ti . . . " . if 5 .
4 Of the amended by the insertion immediately ‘after paragraph (e).
ela one of that. section of the following paragraph : — .

ss (ee) in the case of a contract entered into, with, or on .
' behalf of, or in favour: of the Government for the
'. provision of any services or for the. supply ‘of any goods,
(including electrical energy), for which payment is mace °
by the Government, by the paity entering into such |
. contract with the Government ;


Stamp Duty (Amendment) Act, No. 71 of 1988 5

13.. Section 33 of. the . principal enactment is heresy
-amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitu-
tion for paragraph (6) of the proviso to that subsection of
the following paragraph: -—

“ (b) ‘if the stamp duty chargeablé on such instrument
‘is five thousand rupees or less. be acted upon by the
Registrar-Gleneral, or any Deputy Registrar-General, or
any Assistant Registrar-General authorized BY the
Regisirar-General in that behalf, ”.

14, Section 38 of the principal. “enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitu-
havior for-the words “a fee of fifty rupees”, of the words

“a fee. of two hundred and fifty rupees ”’,

15. “Section 45 of: the principal enactment is Thereby
-amended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following subsection :— .

“(1) The duty required to be paid by. any notice issued
under section 30(1) (b) shall be paid‘on or before the date

specified in such notice, and, where such duty is not paid |

- on or before the date specified therein, such duty together
- with a penalty .equal to ten per centum of the duty for
every month of non payment shall be deemed to be in
defauit and the person by. whom-such duty is. payable

shall be deemed to be a defaulter for the purposes of mi
Act "

. Provides that the total amount i mayable’s ‘as poehaliy shall

not exceed fiity per centum of the duty in default. a

16. The following new section is hereby ‘inserted imme:

diately after section 56 of the principal enactment and shall |

have effect as: section 56a of that enactment:— .

“Forging. 56a, Any person who without lawful autho-
of stamps. °
manner whatsoever, in the making or produc-
ing, of any stamp or die or has. in his posses-
sion, any such dies or any stamp so made or
produced shall be guilty of an offence and be
liable on conviction after summary trial be-
fore a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding ‘five
thousand rupees ‘or 'to ‘imprisonment of either
description for a term -not exceeding six
months or to both such fiine and imprison-
ment.”., 0 0) | s Hee,

rity makes or produces, or assists, in any —

Amendment
of section
33 of the.
principal
enactment. .

Amendment .
of section
38 of the .
principal

enactment.

Amendment
of section

.45 of. the

principal
enactment.

Insertion of
new, section
56ainthe 4
principal

_ enactment.


Inserticn of
new section
59a in the ..
. principal
’ enactment.

Insertion of
new section
64a of the
principal
enactment.

"§ Stamp Duty (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 1988

17. The following new ‘section is — inserted
immediately after section 59 of the principal enactment and
‘shall have effect as section 59a of that enactment : —

“Non com-
pliance with -
‘ notice under |

section 53 or
‘section 644,

“69a, Any person who fails to comply _—
the requirement of ‘a notice given to him
under section 53,. or section 64a shall be

guilty of an offence and shall-be liable on
. conviction after summary trial .before a ~

Magistrate to. a fine nok: exceeding _ five’
thousand rupees. ”

18... The following new section - is hereby | ‘inserted

- immediately after section 64 of the principal énactment and

shall have effect as section 644 of. that: enactment : a

‘Power to”

call for

information.

"64a. (1) The Commissioner- General, a De- .
puty Commissioner or an. Assessor may for .
the purposes of this Act give notice in writing ;

to any person requiring him to— _ : 7

(i) produce, or transmit to ign for exami- .
nation, within the period specified in
.such notice, any such document or
instrument as may -be | epegitied fn

. such notice ;

Gi) furnish any: such information as may

be specified , in such notice’; >,

ii) attend in’ person, or by” authorized
representative at such place and on
ie such date and at such time as may |

be specified in such notice; so that he
. may be @€xamined on. any such matter
be i as may be specified in such HOLICE.

(a) Where notice has beet given. §0 any

person under subsection (1) requiring him

to furnish any: information, such person shall
comply with such requirements notwithstan- —
ding anything to the contrary in any other

law prohibiting the furnishing, of such infor- ;

n lation.


Stamp Diity (Amend-nent) Act, No. 71 of 1988 = 7

-(8) Any person who attends in compliance
- with a notice given under subsection (2)
7 may be allowed by the Commissioner-Gene- |
_ral, such expenses as are reasonably incur-
red by him in so attending. — a *
(4) In this section “person” includes a |

Banker. ’. :

page

19. Section 1 of . the principal enactment is — Amendment

of section °
amended by the substitution for the definition of “docu- riveree
ment as ef the following definition : — : i enactment,

“document” in relation to legal proceedings in any
court means an appointment of Attorney, plaint, answer,
replication. or other pleading, petition, application, affida- |
vit, appointment, summons, judgement, decree, order of
any description, award, writ, warrant, inventory, account, _
mandate, ‘bond recognizance, citation, application other -
than motion, interrogatories, answer to interrorgatories
notice of appeal, bill of ROsts, commission, p Injuction: or
notice 5
