PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 13.50 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 12, 2007

[Certified on 11th April, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

PREVENTION OF MOSQUITO BREEDINGACT, NO. 11 OF 2007

1Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

Short title.

[Certified on 11th April, 2007]

L. D.O. 98/2002

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PREVENTION OF MOSQUITO BREEDING ; FOR

THE ERADICATION OF PLACES OF MOSQUITO BREEDING AND FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS dengue fever and dengue haemorrhagic feverhas become a major public health problem in Sri Lanka, withthe number of persons infected and dying of this diseaseincreasing rapidly :

AND WHEREAS there is at present no vaccine available toprevent this serious disease nor is there any specific treatmentto cure the disease :

AND WHEREAS the only method of preventing andcontrolling the spread of the disease is by destroying breedingplaces of the mosquito which spread the disease :

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to effectively dealwith this health problem from a national perspective by theformulation of a National Policy and by the appointment ofa Competent Authority and other officers to be responsiblefor the implementation of the National Policy :

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Prevention of MosquitoBreeding Act, No. 11 of 2007.

2.For the purpose of ensuring the prevention anderadication of all mosquito borne diseases, it shall be theduty of every owner or occupier of any premises to cause :

(a)open tins, bottles, boxes, coconut shells, splitcoconuts, tyres or any other article or receptaclefound in or within such premises , capable of holdingwater, to be removed, destroyed or otherwiseeffectively disposed of ;

Prohibitionagainst creatingconditionsfavourable to thebreeding ofmosquitoes.

Preamble.

2 Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

(b)gutters, down-pipes and drains to be cleared of allobstructions, so as to allow a smooth flow of water;

(c)cisterns, tanks, air conditioners and other receptaclesfor water to be maintained in good repair, closedand covered so as to prevent the breeding ofmosquitoes;

(d)any well found in the premises and its surroundingsto be maintained and kept in good repair so as tomake it mosquito-proof and thereby prevent thebreeding of mosquitoes;

(e)any artificial pond or pool found in such premisesto be emptied at least once in every week;

(f)any casual collection of water within the premiseswhich is conducive to mosquito breeding, to beregularly drained;

(g)shrubs, undergrowth and all other types ofvegetation, other than those grown for the purposeof food or those which are ornamental, found withinor outside any building or structure within thepremises used as a dwelling place which has becomea breeding place for mosquitoes, to be removed;

(h)the removal and destruction of the water plantshaving the botanical name Pistia Stratiotes andcommonly known as Diya Parandal,Kondepasei, Telpassy, Barawa-Pasi,Nanayaviraddi and of any other water plant, orplants, found within the premises, which mayfacilitate the breeding of mosquitoes;

(i)the prevention of the spread of any water plantreferred to in paragraph (h) by the erection of suitablebarriers where necessary, having obtained theapproval of any relevant authority, which will stopsuch plant from floating along any water-course;and

3Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

(j)the elimination or the prevention of any othercondition favourable to the breeding of mosquitoes,in or within the premises.

3.(1) Where it appears to the Competent Authority thatany premises or anything kept or maintained therein hasbecome favourable to the breeding of mosquitoes, theCompetent Authority may by written Notice require theowner or occupier of such premises, to adopt or take any oneor more of the following measures within the time specifiedin such Notice :

(a)the repair of all gutters, down-pipes and drains ofany building found in that premises;

(b)the construction or reconstruction of any cistern,tank or artificial pond found in the premises in suchmanner so as to make it capable of being emptiedperiodically;

(c)to temporarily drain and clear any cistern, tank orpond found in the premises and the closing thereofwhen it is no longer being used by the owner oroccupier of the premises;

(d)to maintain any well found in the premises in suchcondition so as to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes;

(e)to fill-up, drain or treat with larvicide, anyexcavation, disused well, cesspit, pond or any otherplace where water is capable of being collected andstagnated;

(f)to fill up pits and low lying areas found within thepremises;

(g)to fill-up or drain or treat once a week with larvicide,swamps and water courses and water logged area asfound in the premises;

Owner oroccupier to bedirected to takecertain measures.

4 Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

(h)remove, uproot and destroy water plants having thebotanical name Pistia Stratiotes and commonlyknown as DiyaParandal, Kondepasei, BarawaPasei, or Nanayaviraddi Telpassy, or of anyother water plant or plants which may be found toafford breeding conditions to mosquitoes;

(i)prevent the spread of any water plant referred to inparagraph (h), by the erection of suitable barrierswhich will stop such plant from floating along anywater-course; and

(j)any other measures, which the Competent Authorityor any Public Health Inspector authorised in thatbehalf, may deem necessary.

(2) The written Notice referred to in subsection (1), shallfurther inform that in the event the owner or occupier neglectsor fails to comply with such Notice within the time specifiedtherein, the Competent Authority shall be forced to carry outthe measures specified in the Notice, and any expensesincurred in carrying out the same shall be recovered fromsuch owner or occupier.

4.(1) Every owner or occupier who contravenes or failsto comply with any duty or requirements imposed by sections2 or 3 of this Act, shall be guilty of an offence under this Actand shall on conviction after summary trial before aMagistrate, be liable to a fine not less than one thousandrupees and not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees andin the case of a continuing offence, to a fine of one hundredrupees for each day on which such offence is continued to becommitted after conviction:

Provided that no such owner or occupier shall be deemedto be guilty of that offence, if such owner or occupier provesto the satisfaction of the Magistrate, that such offence wascommitted without his knowledge or that he exercised alldue care and diligence to prevent the commission of suchoffence.

Failure tocomply withrequirementsimposed bysections 2 or 3 tobe an offence.

5Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

(2) The Magistrate may, where the person is found guiltyof having failed to comply with a duty imposed by section 2of this Act, in addition to the imposition of the fine referredto in subsection (1), require such owner or occupier to takesuch preventive or corrective measures as the Magistrate maydeem appropriate in order to prevent the breeding ofmosquitoes, in compliance with the duties imposed on suchowner or occupier by that section.

5.(1) Where the owner or occupier of any premises onwhom any written Notice has been issued under section 3 ofthis Act, neglects or fails to comply with the requirements ofsuch written Notice within the time specified therein, theCompetent Authority may authorize in writing any officer orofficers, as the case may be, to enter such premises at anyreasonable hour during the day and carry out the work ormeasures specified in the Notice which the owner or occupierhas neglected or failed to do. Prior to commencing any workor measure under this subsection, such officer or officers shallbe required to show the owner or occupier, a copy of thedocument issued by the Competent Authority by which suchofficer or officers were authorized to carry out such work ormeasure.

(2) Nothing contained in subsection (1) shall preclude anowner or occupier who failed to comply with a Notice soissued, from being prosecuted for an offence under section 4of this Act.

(3) Where any works or measures are adopted or executedunder subsection (1), the amount of expenses incurred ascost shall be payable by the owner or occupier to theCompetent Authority, within two weeks of the date on whichthe demand for payment of the same is communicated tosuch owner or occupier.

(4) Where the owner of any premises in respect of which asum of money is due and owing under subsection (3) of thissection, sells or transfers such premises before payment ofthe money due, such owner shall, notwithstanding the sale ortransfer of such premises, continue to be liable to pay theamount due.

CompetentAuthority tocarry out workor measures.

6 Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

6.(1) Where an owner or occupier fails to make thepayment within two weeks of the demand for payment beingcommunicated to him under subsection (3) of section 5, theCompetent Authority shall issue a Certificate containingparticulars of the amount due as expenses incurred in carryingout such work or measures, to the Magistrate havingjurisdiction over the area in which such premises is situated.

(2) The Magistrate shall thereupon summon such owneror occupier, as the case may be, to appear before him andshow cause as to why further proceedings for the recovery ofthe amount due should not be taken against him and in defaultof sufficient cause being shown, the amount shall be deemedto be a fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate on suchowner or occupier, for an offence punishable with a fine onlyor not punishable with imprisonment .

(3) Where the Competent Authority issues a Certificateunder subsection (1), he shall also cause a notification thereofto be issued to the relevant owner or occupier. Non-receipt ofa notification issued to an owner or occupier, shall notinvalidate any proceedings under this section.

(4) Nothing in this section shall authorize or require aMagistrate in any proceedings thereunder, to consider,examine or decide the correctness of any statement containedin the Certificate issued by the Competent Authority.

(5) Any sum levied as a fine under subsection (2), shall betransmitted by the Magistrate to the Competent Authority.

7.(1) The Competent Authority may by notice in writingserved on any owner or occupier of a premises, require suchowner or occupier to spray any pond, cistern, fountain or anyother place where water collects and where mosquitoes arefound to be breeding, with such type of pesticide as specifiedin such notice and within the time specified therein.

Recovery ofexpensesincurred as costunder section 5.

Spraying ofpesticides.

7Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

(2) The failure to comply with a notice issued undersubsection (1) within the time specified shall be an offenceunder this Act, and on conviction after summary trial before aMagistrate, such owner or occupier shall be liable to a finenot exceeding one thousand rupees.

8.(1) No owner, occupier or any other person shallknowingly or wilfully, resist or obstruct the CompetentAuthority or any person to whom he has delegated theperformance or discharge of any of his duties or functionsunder this Act, in the lawful performance or discharge ofthose duties or functions.

(2) Any owner, occupier or any other person who acts incontravention of the provisions of subsection (1) of thissection shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liableto a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to a term ofimprisonment not exceeding six months, or to both such fineand imprisonment.

9.(1) An owner or occupier or any other person shallnot knowingly or willfully, commit any act which is likelyto

(a)cause the deterioration of any anti-mosquitomeasures carried out or adopted in any premises ; or

(b)lessen the efficacy of any anti-mosquito measurescarried out or adopted in any premises,

whether such measures were carried out or adopted by theowner or occupier of the premises or by the CompetentAuthority as the case may be.

(2) Any owner, occupier or any other person who acts incontravention of the provisions of subsection (1), shall beguilty of an offence under this Act, and on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not

Resisting orobstructingCompetentAuthority &c;.

Lessening theefficiency of anymeasuresadopted.

8 Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

exceeding ten thousand rupees or to a term of imprisonmentnot exceeding three months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

10.Where any premises are in the occupation of morethan one person or where any property is co-owned by morethan one person, for the purpose of the enforcement of theprovisions of this Act, each of the occupiers and each of theco-owners shall be severally liable for any neglect or failureto comply with any requirements imposed by or under thisAct.

11.No suit or prosecution shall lie against an owner oroccupier of a premises, for any act or omission which is doneor purported to be done in good faith.

12.(1) Where any drain, canal, water course or swampfound within the administrative limits of a local authoritywhich such authority is required to maintain in propercondition, is found to have become conducive to the breedingof mosquitoes due to the failure or negligence on the part ofsuch local authority to maintain the same in such propercondition, the Competent Authority shall have the power toissue such directions as he may consider necessary orappropriate, to rectify such situation and prevent the breedingof mosquitoes.

(2) A local authority which fails to comply with anydirections issued under subsection (1) shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act, and any prosecution for such anoffence instituted by the Competent Authority, shall be filedagainst the Chairman of such local authority or any otherCompetent Authority appointed under any law relating tolocal authorities to act on behalf of that local authority.

Co-owners andco-occupiers tobe liableseverally.

Protection for anact or omissiondone orpurported to bedone in goodfaith.

Directions to beissued to localauthorities whofail to maintaindrains, canals&c,. which theyare required tomaintain.

9Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

13.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), theCompetent Authority shall have the power to enter anypremises at any reasonable time

(a)to carry out any survey, inspection or search for thepurpose of determining whether

(i)any duties imposed by section 2 of this Actare being complied with by the occupier orowner of such premises; or

(ii)any measures are necessary, and if so theextent to which they are necessary, for theelimination or the prevention of the breedingof mosquitoes;

(b)to execute any work or measure required to be carriedout under section 5 of this Act.

(2) For the purpose of carrying out any survey, inspectionor search under subsection (1), written consent to enter thepremises shall be obtained

(i)where the premises concerned is a place ofreligious worship or is a place not open tothe public, from the person in charge of suchpremises or any other competent person; or

(ii)where the premises concerned is used as aplace of private residence, from the owner oroccupier of such residence.

(3) Where a consent that is required to be obtained undersubsection (2) is unfairly refused and the Competent Authorityis satisfied that there is reason to suspect that any requirementimposed under this Act is not being complied with, theCompetent Authority may obtain from a Magistrates Court asearch warrant for the purpose of entering such premises orprivate residence, as the case may be, and exercise all or anyof the powers conferred upon him by such search warrant.

Power of entryand inspection.

10 Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

14.(1) The Director-General of Health Services shallbe the Competent Authority for the purposes of this Act andshall be charged with the effective implementation of theprovisions of this Act.

(2) The Director-General of Health Services may,whenever he considers it necessary and expedient, delegatethe performance or discharge of any duty or function imposedupon him by this Act in his capacity as the CompetentAuthority, to a Medical Officer of Health or to a Public HealthInspector in any area, and the officer to whom the duty orfunction was so delegated, shall perform or discharge thesame subject to the control and supervision of the CompetentAuthority.

(3) An officer to whom a delegation is made undersubsection (2) of this section shall, in the performance anddischarge of the duties and functions so delegated, exercisethe same power of entry and inspection as given to theCompetent Authority under section 13 of this Act, and anyobstruction caused to such officer shall be an offence undersection 8 of this Act.

(4) The Competent Authority may give such directionsas he may deem necessary, to any Public Health Inspector orMedical Officer of Health with regard to the effectiveimplementation of the provisions of this Act and anyregulations made thereunder and every such officer to whomany such directions are given, shall be required to complywith the same.

15.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, every offenceunder the Act shall be deemed to be a cognizable offencewithin the meaning and for the purposes, of that Act.

16.A prosecution for any offence under this Act shallnot be instituted except with the sanction of the CompetentAuthority or the Medical Officer of Health of the area wherethe offence is alleged to have been committed.

CompetentAuthority anddelegation by theCompetentAuthority.

Offences to becognizableoffences.

Prosecutionsunder this Act torequire sanction.

11Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

17.(1) Where an offence is found to have beencommitted under this Act by an owner or occupier, prior to aprosecution being instituted, a Public Health Inspector shallbe required to serve a written notice upon the alleged offenderrequiring such person to adopt or take such correctivemeasures as shall be specified in such notice, within twoweeks of the receipt of the same. A person upon whom anotice is served under this subsection may request for anextension of time within which to adopt or take the correctivemeasures required, and the Public Health Inspector may inconsultation with the Medical Officer of Health of the area,grant or refuse to grant such extension. No extension shall begranted beyond a period of a further two weeks.

(2) On the expiry of the time granted for adopting or takingthe required corrective measures under subsection (1), thePublic Health Inspector who served the notice shall inspectthe measures adopted or taken and within one week ofcarrying out the inspection, submit a report on the same tothe Medical Officer of Health of the area. In the reportsubmitted, the Public Health Inspector may, where heconsiders it necessary, recommend the institution ofproceedings against the alleged offender.

(3) Where the Public Health Inspector recommends beinginstitution of proceedings, the Medical Officer of Healthshall, subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of this section,grant sanction for the same within one week of the receipt ofsuch recommendation.

(4) A Medical Officer of Health to whom arecommendation for the institution of proceedings has beenmade under subsection (2) may, where on the informationcontained in the report submitted along with suchrecommendation, he considers that the institution ofproceedings is not warranted, shall be required himself toinspect the measures adopted or taken by the alleged offenderand submit his own recommendations on the same, to theCompetent Authority. The Competent Authority shall within

Prosecutionprocedure.

12 Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

two weeks of receiving the recommendation, arrive at a finaldecision as to whether prosecution should or should not beinstituted against the alleged offender.

18.The Competent Authority and any person to whomany of his functions and duties has been delegated shall, inthe discharge and performance of such function or duty, bedeemed to be peace officers within the meaning of the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, for the purpose ofexercising any of the powers conferred upon peace officersby that Act.

19.Any notice required to be served on an owner oroccupier of a premises under sections 3, 7 or 17 of this Act,may be effected either personally by handing over such noticeto the owner or occupier of the premises or by affixing suchnotice in a conspicuous place within the premises.

20.The provisions of this Act shall apply to and shallbind the Republic and any Ministry or Department of theGovernment of Sri Lanka.

21.No civil or criminal proceedings shall be institutedagainst the Competent Authority or against any MedicalOfficer of Health or Public Health Inspector to whom theperformance or discharge of any function or duty imposedupon the Competent Authority by this Act has been delegatedunder subsection (2) of section 14 of this Act, for any actwhich in good faith is done or purported to be done by suchMedical Officer of Health or Public Health Inspector, as thecase may be.

22.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector, manager or secretary of that body corporate;

CompetentAuthority etc. tobe peaceofficers.

Service ofnotices.

Act to bind theRepublic etc.

Protection foraction takenunder this Act.

Offencescommitted by abody of persons.

13Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

(b)if that body of persons is a partnership, every partnerof that partnership;

(c)if that body of persons is an unincorporated body,every individual who is a member of that body; and

(d)if that body of persons is a local authority, theChairman of such local authority or any otherCompetent Authority appointed under any lawrelating to local authorities to act on behalf of thatlocal authority shall be guilty of that offence :

Provided that any person referred to in paragraphs (a),(b), (c) and (d) above shall not be deemed to be guilty ofsuch offence, if such person proves to the satisfaction ofthe court that such offence was committed without hisknowledge or that he exercised all due care and diligenceto prevent the commission of such offence.

23.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister maymake regulations in respect of all or any of the followingmatters :

(a)issuing guidelines as to the form of any noticerequired to be sent by the Competent Authority toany owner or occupier under this Act;

(b)recommending the measures to be taken and thetype of pesticides to be used by an owner or occupierof any premises to eradicate the breeding ofmosquitos; and

(c)issuing guidelines on Anti-Mosquito measures tothe Anti-Malaria Campaign and any other similarAgency functioning under the Ministry, for theprevention and eradication of the breeding ofmosquitos.

Regulations.

14 Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette, and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as shall bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for its approval.

(5) Any regulation which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval,but without prejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(6) The date on which any regulation shall be deemed tobe rescinded, shall be published in the Gazette.

24.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

25.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Director-General of Health Services means theDirector of Health Services appointed undersection 3 of the Health Services Act(Chapter 219);

Medical Officer of Health means any officerappointed to the designated post of MedicalOfficer of Health in the Department of HealthServices or any officer acting in that post, andincludes a Chief Medical Officer of Health, aDeputy Chief Medical Officer of Health and aMedical Officer of Health in the service of aMunicipal Council who is serving within theadministrative limits of such Council;

occupier means a person in occupation of anypremises or having the charge, management or

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

15Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

control thereof, whether on his own account oras an agent of any other, but does not include alodger;

owner includes a co-owner, a lessee, any personwho by whatever right is entitled to the rent orproduce of any premises and any individual,institution, body corporate or official who isresponsible for the proper maintenance of thepremises;

premises means any land together with any buildingor part of a building standing thereon; and

Public Health Inspector means any officerappointed to such post in the Department ofHealth Services and includes any Public HealthInspector of a local authority, who is authorizedby the Competent Authority to perform anyfunction as a Public Health Inspector under thisAct.

16 Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Act, No. 11 of 2007

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.