PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
srd Session 1967-68 FE age

Ceylon Petroleum Corporation
(Determination of Compensation)
Special Provisions Act,

No. 22 of 1966

Date of Assent: June 11, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press, CryLoN. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, OVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, P. O. Box 500, Coromso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 45 cents Postage: 10 cents


Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (Determination
of Compensation) Special Provisions
Act, No. 22 of 1968

L. D.—O. 35/65.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE DETERMINATION OF THE
CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION MADE BY PERSONS OTHER
THAN FOREIGN-OWNED PETROLEUM COMPANIES IN
RESPECT OF LAND VESTED IN OR REQUISITIONED FOR
THE CEYLON PETROLEUM CORPORATION, FOR THE
MODE AND MANNER OF THE PAYMENT OF COMPENSA-
TION, AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: June 11, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation (Determination of Compensation) Special
Provisions Act, No. 22 of 1968.

2. Where any land (other than land of a foreign-
owned petroleum company) has been vested in or
requisitioned for the Corporation, the Chairman of
the Board of Directors shall, by notice published in
the Gazette and in such other manner as may be
determined by him, direct every person (other than a
foreign-owned petroleum company) who was interested
in such land immediately before the date on which
such land was so vested or requisitioned to make,
within a period of one month reckoned from the date
specified in the notice, a written claim to the whole or
any part of the compensation payable in respect of
such land, and to specify in the claim—

(a) his name and address;
(b) the nature of his interest in such land;
(c) the particulars of his claim; and
(zd) how much of such compensation is claimed by
him:
1°—H 9260—3,559 (11/67)

Short title.

Notice of any
claim for
compensation
pavable in
respect of land
(other than
land of a
foreign-owned
petroleum
company)
vested in or
requisitioned
for the
Corporation to
be made to the
Chairman of
the Board of
Directors.


Power of the
Chairman of
the Board of
Directors or
officer
authorized by
him to
determine
compensation
payable to
claimants,

Power to hold
inquiries into
claims for

compensation.

2 Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (Determination
of Compensation) Special Provisions
Act, No. 22 of 1968

Provided that where any claim for compensation
in respect of such land has been made on any day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, such
claim shall be deemed to have been made in pursuance
of the preceding provisions of this section and no
fresh claim shal! be required to be made.

3. (1) The Chairman of the Board of Directors or
such other officer as may be authorized by him in that
behalf shall, as soon as possible after the receipt of
a claim for compensation made or deemed to have
been made by any person under section 2, determine
such claim, and accordingly the Compensation
Tribunal established or constituted under the
provisions of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Act
shall be deemed, at all times, not to have had, and not
to have, any power or authority or jurisdiction to hear
or determine such claim.

(2) Where there is any dispute as to the persons
entitled to compensation in respect of any land vested
in or requisitioned for the Corporation, the Chairman
of the Board of Directors or such other officer as may
ke authorized by him in that behalf shall defer making
any determination as to the compensation payable in
respect of such land and shall refer the dispute for
decision to the District Court within whose jurisdic-
tion such land is situate at the time it was so vested
or requisitioned, and shall, after such court makes
its decision on such dispute, make an award of
compensation in accordance with such decision.

4, (1) For the purpose of making a determination
under section 3, the Chairman of the Board of
Directors or such other officer as may be authorized
by him in that behalf may, if such Chairman or other
officer considers it necessary so to do, hold an inquiry,
and such Chairman or other officer shall by notice in
writing direct every claimant for compensation to be
present on such date, and at such time and place, as

e

may be specified in the notice.

(2) The Chairman of the Board of Directors, or
such other officer as may be authorized by him in that
behalf, conducting an inquiry under sub-section (1)
may adjourn the inquiry from time to time and on
every occasion on which such Chairman or other officer
adjourns the inquiry, such Chairman or other officer


Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (Determination 3
of Compensation) Special Provisions
Act, No. 22 of 1968

shall notify to every claimant for compensation the
date on which, and the time and place at which, such
inquiry will be resumed.

(3) The Chairman of the Board of Directors, or
such other officer as may be authorized by him in that
behalf, conducting an inquiry under sub-section (1)
may by summons under the hand of such Chairman or
other officer require—

(a) any person whose evidence is, in the opinion of
such Chairman or other officer, likely to be
material for the determination of the amount
of compensaticn, to attend and to give
evidence at the inquiry on such date and at
such time and place as may be mentioned in
the summons; and

(b) any person to produce at the inquiry on such
date and at such time and place as may he
mentioned in the summons for examination
by such Chairman or other officer any such
document or book of accounts in the possession
of such person as is in the opinion of such
Chairman or other officer likely to contain
such information as may be necessary to
determine the amount of compensation.

(4) A summons to any person under sub-section (3)
shall be served on him in the same manner as is
provided by the Civil Procedure Code for the service
of summons in a civil suit.

(5) The examination of any witness at anv inquiry
under sub-section (1) shall be on oath or affirmation
administered by the Chairman of the Board of
Directors or other officer conducting the inquiry.

5. (1) The amount of the compensation payable in
respect of any land vested in the Corporation shall
be a sum equal to the value which that land would
have realized if sold in the open market on the date on
which that land was so vested:

Provided that where, on any date prior to the date
on which that land was so vested, any building had
been constructed on, or any other improvements had
been effected to, such land by any foreign-owned

Assessment
and pavwent
of compensation
under this Act.


4 Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (Determination
of Compensution) Special Provisions
Act, No. 22 of 1968

petroleum company, no account shall be taken of such
building or improvements in the computation of the
market value of that land.

(2) In determining the compensation payable under
sub-section (1) in respect of any land vested in the
Corporation any sum which had been paid in advance
to the owner of such land as rent for any period after
the date on which the land was so vested shall be
deducted from the amount of the compensation.

(3) Section 48 of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation
Act shall apply in the assessment of the amount of
compensation payable under this Act in respect of
land requisitioned for the Corporation subject to the
following modifications :—

(2) that there were substituted for the word

‘“ property ’’ occurring in that section, the
word ‘‘ land ’’,

(b) that there were added at the end of sub-section
(1) of that section the following proviso :—

‘* Provided that in the computation of the
rent payable in respect of any land for the
purposes of the preceding provisions of this
section no account shall be taken of any
building constructed on, or other improve-
ments effected to, such land by any foreign-
owned petroleum company prior to the date
on which such land was so requisitioned.’’;
and

(c) that there were added at the end of that section
the following new sub-section : —

‘* (3) The amount of any rent paid in
advance to the owner of any land for any
period after the date on which such land was
requisitioned shall be deducted from the
compensation payable under sub-section

(1).”?,

(4) Sections 49 and 50 of the Ceylon Petroleum Cor-
poration Act shall apply in relation to the payment
of compensation under this Act subject to the modi-
fication that there were substituted for the word
‘ property ’’, occurring in each of those sections, the
word ‘‘ land ’’, :


Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (Determination 5
of Compensation) Special Provisions
Act, No. 22 of 1968

6. The Chairman of the Board of Directors or
such other officer as may be authorized by him in that
behalf shall, upon the determination of the amount
of compensation payable to any person in respect of
any land vested in or requisitioned for the Corpora-
tion, make an award under his hand of the amount
of such compensation and give written notice of such
award to the person or persons entitled to such
compensation.

7. (1) Where any person is dissatisfied with the
amount of the compensation awarded to him under
section 6, such person may appeal against the award
to the Board of Review constituted under the Land
Acquisition Act (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘ the
Board of Review ”’’).

(2) Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be in
writing and be addressed to the Chairman of the
Board of Review and be transmitted to, or delivered
at, the office of that Board.

(3) Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall—

(a) state the name and address of the appellant;

(b) mention as the respondent the Chairman of the
Board of Directors or other officer who made
the award against which the appeal is
preferred ;

(c) contain a concise statement of the description of
the land in respect of which the award was
made; and

(d) state the amount of compensation claimed by the
appellant and the reasons why he considers
the amount awarded by the respondent to be
insufficient.

(4) No appeal under sub-section (1) shall be enter-
tained by the Board of Review unless it is preferred
within twenty-one days after the date on which notice
of the award of the compensation under section 6 of
this Act was received by the appellant.

8. (1) The provisions of section 2+ of the Land
Acquisition Act shall apply to proceedings before the
co of Review on any appeal to that Board under

is Act.

Duty of
Chairman of
the Board of
Directors or
other olEcer to
make an uward
of the
compensation
and to give
notice of such
award.

Person
dissatisfied
with the
amount of
compensation
awarded may
appeal there-
from to the
Board of Review
constituted
under the
Land Acquisi-
tion Act.

Application of
certain sections
of the Land
Acquisition Act
in relation to
appeals to the
Board of Review
under this Act.


Finality of
an award made

under this Act.

‘Tender and
payment of
compensation.

6 Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (Determination
of Compensation) Special Provisions
Act, No. 22 of 1968

(2) The provisions of section 25 of the Land Acqui-
sition Act shall apply in relation to the decision of
the Board of Review on any appeal to that Board
under this Act subject to the following modifica-
tions :—

(a) sub-section (3) of that section shall have effect
as though the words ‘‘or reduce’’ were
omitted; and

(b) sub-section (4) of that section shall have effect
as though the proviso thereto were omitted.

(3) The provisions of section 26 of the Land Acqui-
sition Act shall apply in relation to any appeal to the
Board of Review under this Act subject to the modi-
fication that for sub-section (2) of that section there
were substituted the following sub-section : —

‘* (2) All such costs ordered to be paid by
any person to the Chairman of the Board of
Directors of the Ceylon Petroleum Corpor-
ation, or any officer authorized by him in
that behalf, in any appeal against an award
under the provisions of the Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation (Determination of Compen-
sation) Special Provisions Act, may be
deducted from the amount of the award pay-
able under that Act to that person.’’.

9. An award under this Act of the Chairman of
the Board of Directors, or any other officer autho-
rized by him in that behalf, or if instead of that
award, a new award has on appeal to the Board of
Review been made by that Board, such new award
shall be final and not called in question in any court.

40. Where an award is made under section 6, the
Chairman of the Board of Directors shall tender to
the person who is entitled to compensation according
to that award the amount of compensation allowed to
him by the award or, if in lieu of that amount a new
amount has been allowed as compensation by a decision
of the Board of Review on an appeal by him to that
Board, tender that new amount to him, and shall pay
the tendered amount to him if he consents to receive

1b.


Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (Determination 7
of Compensution) Special Provisions
Act, No. 22 of 1968

114. Where any person to whom any compensation
under this Act is awarded declines to receive it when
it is tendered to him, or where such person is dead or
cannot be found after diligent search, the amount of
such compensation shall be paid into the District
Court or the Court of Requests having jurisdiction
over the place where the land in respect of which
such compensation is awarded is situated, according
as the amount of such compensation exceeds or does
not exceed seven hundred and fifty rupees, to be
drawn by the person or persons entitled thereto.

Notice of the payment of any sum as provided in
this section shall be published in the Gazette and in
at least one Sinhala daily newspaper, one Tamil daily
newspaper and one English daily newspaper circu-
lating in Ceylon.

42. (1) The Chairman of the Board of Directors
may before the determination of a claim for compen-
sation under this Act pay to a person whom he con-
siders entitled to such compensation an advance, and
any sum so paid shall be deducted from the amount
of the compensation awarded to him under section 6.

(2) Where any sum had been paid prior to the date
of commencement of this Act to any person as an
advance on account of compensation to be paid to
such person under the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation
Act in respect of any land vested in or requisitioned
for the Corporation, such payment shall be deemed
to have been paid under sub-section (1) and accord-
ingly such sum shall be deducted from the amount of
the compensation awarded to such person under
section 6 of this Act.

43. The mode and manner of payment of com-
pensation under this Act shall be determined by the
Minister in consultation with the Minister of Finance.

14. If any person upon whom a summons is served
under this Act—

(a) fails to appear at an inquiry on the date and at
the time specified in the summons without
cause, which in the opinion of the Chairman
of the Board of Directors or other officer con-
ducting the inquiry is reasonable;

(b) having appeared at the inquiry refuses to be
sworn, or, having been duly sworn, refuses
or fails, without cause, which in the opinion

Payment inte
court of the
amount of any
compensation
awarded under
this Act where
person entitled
thereto declines
to receive it,
or is dead or
cannot be
found.

Power of the
Chairman of the
Board of
Directors to pay
advances on
account of
compensation.

Mode and
manner of
payment of
compensation
under this Act.

Offences.


Finality as to
payment of
compensation.

This Act to
prevai} over
other written
law.

Interpretation.

8 Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (Determination

of Compensation) Special Provistons
Act, No. 22 of 1968

of such Chairman or other officer conducting
the inquiry is reasonable, to answer any
question put to him; or

(c) refuses or tails without cause, which in the
opinion of such Chairman or other officer
conducting the inquiry is reasonable, to pro-
duce any document or book of accounts
required to be produced,

such person shall be guilty of an offence under this
Act and shall on conviction after summary trial before
a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one
hundred rupees.

45. Where compensation under this Act has been
paid in respect of any land in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, no further claim against the
Corporation either by the person to whom such com-
pensation was paid or by any other person shall be
allowed and no action shall be instituted against the
Corporation in any court in respect of such further
claim.

46. The provisions of this Act shall have eflect
notwithstanding anything contained in any other
written law, and accordingly in the event of any
conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of this
Act and such other law, the provisions of this Act
shall prevail.

47. In this Act unless the context otherwise

requires—

‘ Board of Directors ’? means the Board of Direc-
tors of the Corporation;

‘* Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Act ’’ means the
Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Act, No. 28
of 1961, as amended by any subsequent Act;

‘ Corporation ’”? means the Ceylon Petroleum Cor-

oration established under the Ceylon Petro-
eum Corporation Act;

‘ foreign-owned petroleum company ’? means any
foreign-owned petroleum company within
the meaning of the definition of ‘ foreign-
owned petroleum companies ’ in the Ceylon
Petroleum (Foreign Claims) Compensation
Act, No. 19 of 1965;

‘land ” includes buildings.
