PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

2nd Session aia eve

Enlargement of Powers (Urban
Councils, Town Councils and
Village Committees) Act,
No. 14 of 1958

Date of Assent: May 9, 1958 = hs

H
’
4
'
‘

Printed on the Orders of Government iy

|

Printed at the GoverNMENT Press, CryLoN. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in

advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Secretariat, Colombo 1

Bureau, Post Orrice Box 9500,
Postage : 10 cents

Price: 15 cents


' Enlargement of Powers (Urban Coumcus, 83

Town Councils and Village Committees)
Act, No. 14 of 1958

“y, D.—O. 42/57.
Ay Act TO AMEND THE URBAN COUNCILS ORDINANCE,
“ No. 61 oF 1939, THE Town COUNCILS ORDINANCE,
“ No. 3 oF 1946 AND THE VILLAGE COMMUNITIES
_ ORDINANCE, AND TO VALIDATE CERTAIN PAST
EXPENDITURE AND CONTRIBUTIONS INCURRED AND
VOTED BY URBAN COUNCILS, TOWN COUNCILS AND
VILLAGE COMMITTEES WITH THE SANCTION OF THE
MINISTER OF LocAL GOVERNMENT AND CULTURAL

AFFAIRS.
[Date of Assent: May 9, 1958]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows :—

4. This Act may be cited as the Enlargement of
Powers (Urban Councils, Town Councils and Village
Committees) Act, No. 14 of 1958.

2. Section 172 of the Urban Councils Ordinance,
No. 61 of 1939, is hereby amended, in sub-section (1)
of that section, by the substitution, for paragraphs (/)
and (g) of that sub-section, of the following new
paragraphs : —

‘* (f) such expenses not exceeding in the aggre-
gate two thousand rupees in any year as
may be incurred by the Council, and such
other expenses as may be incurred by the
Council with the prior sanction in writing
of the Minister, in connection with civic
receptions or the celebration or observance
of any events or occasions of public interest,
or any| religious, charitable, cultural,
health,! recreational or educational
purposes ;

(g) such contributions not exceeding in the
aggregate one thousand rupees in any year

as may be voted by the Council, and such:

other contributions as may be voted by the

Council with the prior sanction in writing

of the Minister, towards the cost of public

entertainments or recreations, or towards
1—J, N. R 21886-3,025 (3/58)

Cap. 198.

Short title.

Amendment of
section 172 of

Ord

No.

inance
61 of 1939.


Amendment of
section 172 of
Ordinance

No. 3 of 1946,-

Amendment of
section 43 of
Chapter 198,

4

Enlargement of Powers (Urban Councils, :
Town Councils and Village Committees)

Act, No. 14 of 1958

the support of any libraries, or any edys
tional, scientific, charitable or beneyoja,,
institutions, or any religious, charita}),’:|
cultural, health or educational purposes"
and ’’. i

3. Section 172 of the Town Councils Ordinang'
No. 3 of 1946, is hereby amended, in sub-section (1) of
that section, by the substitution, for paragraphs (@:
and (f) of that sub-section, of the following ney:
paragraphs : —

‘“ (e) such expenses not exceeding in the aggte.

gate one thousand rupees in any year ag
may be incurred by the Council, and such
other expenses as may be incurred by ths
Council with the prior sanction in writipg'
of the Minister, in connection with civig |
receptions or the celebration or observang
of any events or occasions of public interest, :
or any religious, charitable, cultural, :
health, recreational or educational.
purposes ; ‘4

(f) such contributions not exceeding in the agere..

gate one thousand rupees in any year as!
may be voted by the Council, and such other :
contributions as may be voted by the’
Council with the prior sanction in writing
of the Minister, towards the cost of public .
entertainments or recreations, or towards.
the support of any libraries, or any educa-
tional, scientific, charitable or benevolent
institutions, or any teligious, charitable,

cultural, health or educational purposes;
and ’’. | :

4. Section 43 of the Village Communities Ordi-
nance is hereby amended by the insertion, immediately:
after paragraph (kk) of that section, of the following
new paragraphs : — |

“‘ (Al) to apply any part of the communal fund to

the payment of such expenses not exceed-
ing in the aggregate one thousand rupees
in any year as may be incurred by the
Committee, and such other expenses as may
be incurred by the Committee with the
prior sanction in writing of the Minister,
in connection with civic receptions or the


Enlargement of Powers (Urban Councils, 5
Town Councils and Village Committees)
Act, No. 14 of 1958

celebration or observance of any events or
occasions of public interest, or any
religious, charitable, cultural, health,
recreational or educational purposes;

(km) to make from the communal fund such
contributions not exceeding in the aggre-
gate five hundred rupees in any year as
may be voted by the Committee, and such
other contributions as may be voted by the
Committee with the prior sanction in
writing of the Minister, towards the cost
of public entertainments or recreations, or
towards the support of any libraries, or any
educational, scientific, charitable or bene-
volent institutions, or any religious,
charitable, cultural, health or educational

?)

purposes ;

5. Where, prior to the date of the commencement
of this Act and with the sanction of the Minister of
Local Government and Cultural Affairs, any Urban
Council, Town Council or Village Committee has—

(a) incurred any expenditure in connection with
any civic reception, or the celebration or
observance of any event or occasion of
public interest, or any religious.
charitable, cultural, health, recreational
or educational purpose, or

(5) voted any contribution towards the cost of
any public entertainment or recreation, or
towards the support of any library, or any
educational; scientific, charitable or bene-
volent institution, or any religious,
charitable, cultural, health or educational
purpose, ,

such sanction and the expenditure or contributions so
incurred or voted shall be deemed to have been and
to be as valid and effectual as if the Urban Councils
Ordinance, No. 61 of 1939, the Town Councils Ordi-
nance, No. 3 of 1946, or the Village Communities
Ordinance under which such Council or Committee
has been constituted had enabled such sanction to be
given and such expenditure or contributions to be so

incurred or voted. —

Validation of
certain past
expenditure
and contri-
butions.

Cap. 198.
