PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

DEVELOPMENT COUNCILS (REPEAL)
ACT, No. 14 OF 1989

[Certified on 3rd November, 1989)

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 03, 1989

‘PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SET LANKA

To Ba PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 60 cents.                                            Postage : 75 cents


i      Development Councils (Repeal)
‘Act, No, 14 of 1989

[Certified on 8rd November, 1989]
L.D.0.—69/88.

AN Act 70 REPEAL THE Devetorment Councns Act, No. 35
‘oF 1980 ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OF INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Development Councils
(Repeal) Act, No. 14 of 1989.

2 (1) The Development Couneils Act, No. 35 of 1980, is
hereby repealed.              .

(2) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this
section—

(a) section 17A of the Development Councils Act, No. 35
of 1980 (in this section referred to as “the repealed
Act”) shall continue in force, and accordingly,
every Gramodaya Mandalaya, established under
that section shall continue to exercise and dis-
charge the powers and functions conferred on, and
assigned to, such Mandalayas by that section or
by other written law (cther than such of those
powers and functions as relate to Development
Councils) 5

(b) all regulations made under section 71 of the repealed
‘Act, and in force on the day preceding the date
‘of commencement of this Act, relating to the con-
duct of business, and the procedure for the dis-
charge of functions, by a Gramodaya Mandalaya
shall continue in force so far as their continuance
is necessary for the proper functioning of Gramo-
daya Mandalayas ;

(©) every District Secretary appointed under the
repealed Act and holding office on the day pre-
ceding the date of commencement of this Act shall
continue to hold such office fora period of six
months or such longer period as may be determin-
ed by the Minister, to assist the Commissioner in
the performance of his functions under this Act
and the transfer of the rights and obligations of
Development Councils to local authorities.

Short title,

Repeal of
‘Act No. 35
of 1980,


provisions.

2        Development Councils (Repeal)
Act, No, 14 of 1989

3. (1) (@) Every officer or servant of a Development
Council constituted under the repealed Act holding office
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this
Act, who is a member of the Local Government Service
established by the Local Government Service Law, No. 16
of 1974, shall if he consents to continuing to be a member
of such service, continue to be a member of such service.

(b) Every officer or servant of a Development Council
constituted under the repealed Act, not being an officer or
servant Feferred to in paragraph (a), notwithstanding any-
thing in the Local Government Service Law, No. 16 of 1974,
shall, if he consents in writing to becoming a member of
the Local Government Service, be deemed, with effect
ifrom the date of such consent, to be a member of such
service.

(©) An officer or servant of a Development Couneil cons-
tituted under the repealed Act and referred to in paragraph
(b) who does not consent to becoming a member of the
Tocal Government Service shall be entitled to the payment
of such compensation and gratuity as may be determined
‘oy the Minister in consultation with the Linister in

charge of the subject of Finance.

(2) All moneys lying, on the date of commencement of
this Act, to the credit of a Development Fund established
‘by a Development Council under section 19 of the repealed
Act shall-stand transferred, with effect from that date,

.to the fund of such local authority as the Commissioner

may appoint by Notice published in the Gazette.

(3) Subject to the provisions of section 16'of the Prade-
shiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, all—
(a) property, movable and immovable (other than the
property referred to in subsection (2) ) ; and

(v) assets and liabilities,

of a Development Council constituted under the tepealed
Act shall stand transferred, with effect from the date of
commencement of this Act, to such local authority as

the Commissioner may appoint by Notice published in the
Gazette. ,                                   a


Development Councils (Repeal)        3
Act, No, 14 of 1989

(4) Subject to the provisions of section 16 of the Prade-
shiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, all debts owing, on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, to
a Development Council cons‘ituted under the repealed Act,
shall be deemed, with effect from the date of commence-
ment of this Act, to be debts owing to such local
authority as the Commissioner may appoint by Notice
published in the Gazette and may be recovered by such
Jocal authority accordingly.

{5) Subject to the provisions of section 16 of the Prade-
shiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, all contracts entered into
by a Development Council constituted under the repealed
Act and subsisting on the day preceding the date of com-
mencement of this Act, shall be deemed, with effect from
the date of commencement of this Act, to be contracts
entered into by such local authority as the Commissioner
may appoint by Notice published in the Gazette, and may
be enforced accordingly.                                F

(6) (a) All proceedings instituted in any court oF
tribunal by or against a Development Council constituted
under the repealed Act and pending on the day preceding
the date of commencement of this Act, shall ke deemed,
with effect from the date of commencement of this Act, to
be proceedings instituted by or against such local authority
‘as the Commissioner may appoint by Notice published in
the Gazette, and may be continued accordingly.

(b) All decrees or orders entered by any court or
sribunal, in favour of, or against, a Development Council
constituted under the repealed Act shall be deemed, with
effect from the date of commencement of this Act, to be
decrees or orders entered in favour of, or against, such
Jocal authority as the Commissioner may appoint by Notice
published in the Gazette, and may be enforced accordingly.

~(1) In exercising his powers under this section the

Commissioner shall act in accordance with such general or
special directions as may be issued by the Minister in
consultation with the local authorities concerned and
having regard to the promotion of Local Government
services.

(8) In this section—

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Local
Government ; and                       .

“Jocal authority” means a Municipal Council, an Urban
Council or a Pradeshiya Sabha.
