PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01.

Price : Rs. 13.50 Postage : Rs. 5.25

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of July 14, 2000

GOODS AND SERVICES TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 26 OF 2000

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 13th July, 2000]

Printed on the Order of Government

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 20001

[Certified on 13th July, 2000]

L.D.O. 7/2000.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE GOODS AND SERVICES TAXACT, NO. 34 OF 1996

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Goods and Services Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 2000.

2.Section 2 of the Goods and Services Tax, Act, No. 34of 1996 amended by Act, No. 11 of 1998 (hereinafter referredto as the principal enactment) is hereby further amended,in the proviso to subsection (3) of that section, by thesubstitution, for the words goods imported by a registeredperson who imports goods to be used for the purpose ofmanufacture and exports the goods so manufactured, of thefollowing words :

goods imported by a registered person who importssuch goods to be used by such person for the purpose ofmanufacture and exports the goods so manufactured;

3.Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section substituted therefor :

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of section2, the tax shall not be charged on the whole saleor retail supply of goods, other than on the wholesale or retail supply of goods, by a

(a)manufacturer of such goods ; or

(b)importer of such goods ; or

(c)person who is unable to satisfy theCommissioner-General as to the sourcefrom which the goods supplied by himwere acquired..

2H 0065277,075 (00/04)

Tax not becharged onwhole sale orretail supplyof goods.

Replacement ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 2 of ActNo. 34 of 1996.

Short title.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 20002

4.Section 5 of the principal enactment amended by ActNo. 11 of 1998 is hereby further amended as follows :

(1)in subsection (8) of that section, by the substitution,for the words shall not be less than the open marketvalue, of the following :

shall not be less than the open market value :

Provided however in the case of a hire purchaseagreement

(a)where the cash price includes the taxcharged on the seller of such goods by thesupplier on which the seller cannot claiminput credit, the cash price and the marketvalue shall be adjusted by deducting the taxso charged on the seller ;

(b)under which second hand goods, whichhave been in circulation for a period overone year, are supplied, the cash price andthe market value of such goods shall be thevalue specified in the hire purchaseagreement less any charge made for suchhire purchase facility included in suchagreement.;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (9) of that section, andthe substitution therefor, of the followingsubsection :

(9) The value of supply of land andimprovements thereon, shall be the value of suchsupply less the value of the land at the time of supplyand the value of any improvements on the land as atMarch 31, 1998 which shall not be less than the openmarket value of such supply excluding the value ofsuch land at the time of supply and the value of anyimprovements on such land as at March 31, 1998.;

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 20003

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

(3)by the repeal of subsection (11) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(11) The value of a supply, under any non-reviewable agreement not being a hire purchaseagreement entered into prior to the appointed date,shall be the total amount payable or paid under suchagreement for any taxable period and shall beconsidered as a tax inclusive consideration..

5.Section 7 of the principal enactment amended by ActNo. 11 of 1998 is hereby further amended in subsection (1)of that section as follows :

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that subsection andthe substitution therefor of the following :

(a)goods shall be zero rated where the personsupplying the goods has exported suchgoods ;;

(b)in paragraph (b) of that subsection

(i)by the substitution in subparagraph (ii) of thatparagraph for the words for the purpose ofre-export, of the words for the purpose ofre-export and;;

(ii)by the substitution in paragraph (iii) of thatparagraph for the words for use outsideSri Lanka ; and of the words for use out sideSri Lanka; and

(iii)by the repeal of subparagraph (iv) of thatparagraph ;

(c)by the addition at the end of paragraph (b) of thatsubsection of the following paragraph :

(c)such services relating to internationaltransportation (including trans-shipment) ofgoods or passengers as are specified by theCommissioner-General by Notificationpublished in the Gazette, shall be zero rated..

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 20004

6.Section 10 of the principal enactment amended by Act,No. 11 of 1998 is hereby further amended in subsection (2)of that section, by the substitution, for all the words fromdate on which he becomes so liable.

For the purpose to the end of that section of thefollowing :

date on which he becomes so liable.

For the purposes of this section the total value of taxablesupplies shall not include the supplies of any whole sale orretail trading activity excluded from the payment of tax undersection 3..

7.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words specified formfor registration under this Act of the words specified formfor registration under this Act :

Provided, however, the Commissioner-General may, afteraffording the applicant an opportunity of being heard, andhaving regard to the nature of the business carried on or carriedout by such applicant, the value of the taxable supplies madeby such applicant in the two preceding taxable periods andthe probability that the value of his taxable supplies will notexceed the value referred to in section 10, refuse to registersuch applicant..

8.Section 13 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 11 of 1998 is hereby repealed and the followingsection substituted therefor :

13. Where any person

(a)makes an application for registrationunder section 10 or is deemed to beregistered under section 75; or

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

Registeredperson.

Replacement ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 20005

Insertion of newsection 15A in theprincipalenactment.

(b)makes an application for registrationunder section 12 and such applicationhas not been refused by theCommissioner-General; or

(c)has not made an application forregistration, but the Commissioner-General is of opinion having regard tothe nature of the activities carried on orcarried out by him that such person isliable to be registered under this Act, andafter affording such person anopportunity of being heard,

the Commissioner-General shall register suchperson with effect from such date as may bedetermined by him..

9.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 15 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 15A of that enactment :

15A. (1) Every person who is registeredunder section 13 and to whom a tax registrationnumber has been issued under subsection (1) ofsection 15 shall display such tax registrationnumber in legible writing on every name boarddisplaying the name, address and the taxableactivity carried on or carried out by such person.

(2) Where any person fails to comply withthe requirement of subsection (1) theCommissioner-General may

(a)impose on such person a penalty of asum not exceeding fifty thousand rupeesand give notice in writing to such personof the imposition of such penalty ;

Registeredperson todisplay taxregistrationnumber.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 20006

(b)by notice in writing require such personto

(i)pay such penalty; and

(ii)comply with the requirements ofsubsection (1) within such periodas may be specified in suchnotice.

(3) The Commissioner-General may, reduceor annul any penalty imposed by him on anyperson under paragraph (a) of subsection (2), ifsuch person proves to the satisfaction of theCommissioner-General that his failure to complywith the requirements of subsection (1) was dueto circumstances beyond his control and that hehas subsequently complied with suchrequirements..

10.Section 16 of the principal enactment amended byAct No. 11 of 1998 is hereby further amended asfollows :

(a)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,for the words a period of twenty four months, ofthe words a period of twelve months;

(b)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the following :

(2) The Commissioner-General

(a)shall on receipt of an applicationmade under subsection (1);

(b)may at any time,

and upon being satisfied that the applicant or anyregistered person as the case may be, has ceased tocarry on or carry out a taxable activity or that thetotal value of his taxable supplies does not exceed

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 20007

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

the value referred to in section 10, or that facilitiesunder the Customs Ordinance in respect of him havebeen suspended by the Director-General of Customsor that the continuation of such registration mayimpede the protection of revenue cancel hisregistration..

11.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words the certificate of registrationor a copy thereof; and of the words the certificate ofregistration or a copy thereof or indicate the tax registrationnumber in the manner provided for in section 15A.

12.Section 20 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act No. 11 of 1998 is hereby further amended in subsection(6) of that section by the substitution for all the words fromNotwithstanding the provision of section 2 to tax invoicesetting out the following of the following :

Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2),where a registered person makes a taxable supply and thevalue of such supply does not exceed two thousand rupeesor makes a whole sale or retail supply of taxable goods orservices he may, where the person to whom such taxablesupply is made or such whole sale or retail supply is made,as the case may be, does not demand a tax invoice asprovided in subsection (2) issue a tax invoice setting outthe following..

13.Section 22 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 11 of 1998 is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and bythe substitution, therefor of the following :

(3) Where goods or services supplied to aregistered person, or goods imported by him, are usedor to be used partly for the purposes of a taxable

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 20008

activity carried on or carried out by him on whichtax can be levied and partly for other purposes, thetax on such supplies and importations shall beapportioned so however that only so much of the taxon such supplies or importation as is referrable tohis taxable activity on which tax can be levied shallbe counted as his input tax.;

(2)in subsection (4) of that section :

(i)by the substitution for the words be refundedand where it is not so refunded of the wordsbe refunded upon application made thereforto the CommissionerGeneral and where it isnot so refunded.;

(ii) by the repeal of the proviso to that subsectionand by the subsitution therefor of the followingproviso :

Provided however, that where in a taxableperiod

(a)there is an excess of input tax includingthe tax deferred under section 2, in thecase of a registered person the value ofwhose zero rated supplies for thattaxable period was more than fifty percentum, of his total taxable supplies forthat taxable period, the excess of theinput tax (inclusive of an excess inputtax brought forward from a precedingtaxable period) ; or

(b)any registered person who has obtaineda deferment of the tax under section 2in any taxable period and not made anyzero rated supplies or made zero ratedsupplies of fifty per centum or less ofhis total taxable supplies for such taxableperiod, the excess of input tax notexceeding the amount of such deferredtax under section 2; or

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 20009

(c)there is an excess of input tax, in thecase of a registered person who hasentered into an agreement with theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka,and that taxable period, falls withinthe period referred to in item (xxvii)or (xxviii) of the Schedule upto thetaxable period, in which thecommencement of commercialactivities takes place which ever isearlier ; or

(d)there is an excess of input tax and thatany taxable period falls immediatelybefore the taxable period, in whichthe making of taxable supplies,commences as undertaken by suchperson in the case of a person referredto in subsection (6),

such part of the excess or such excess as thecase may be, shall be refunded subject to theprovisions of section 58, not later than onemonth, after the end of the taxable period orfrom the date of receipt of the return for suchtaxable period in which the excess arose,which ever is later :

Provided further, in case of a registeredperson who imports goods for re-sale withoutprocessing the excess input tax representingthe tax paid under subsection (3) of section 2shall not be refunded.

In the event of a failure to pay such refundwithin such period, interest on such refundshall be payable from the date on which therefund becomes due to the date of paymentthereof at such rate as may be prescribed undersection 59 subject to the provisions of theproviso to that section..

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200010

(3)in paragraph (iii) of subsection (5) of that section bythe substitution for the words if the supply is notsupported by a tax invoice or, of the words if thesupply is not supported by a tax invoice receivedwithin twelve months from the end of the taxableperiod in respect of which the tax invoice relates or ;

(4)by the insertion immediately after subsection (7)thereof of the following :

For the purposes of this subsection, any input taxclaimed by any person

(a)who has not commenced any commercialoperation within or on completion of theproject implementation period referred to initem (xxvii) or item (xxviii) as the case maybe ;

(b)who has obtained approval under subsection(6) and has not commenced business in makingtaxable supplies as stated in the undertakinggiven, by such person prior to the obtaining ofsuch approval,

shall be deemed to be an excess amount of input taxclaimed by such person..

14.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the proviso to that section by the substitution forthe words shall be liable to tax. , of the words

shall be liable to tax :

Provided further that where any amount of taxcorresponding to a bad debt has been deducted by any person,the amount so deducted shall be an output tax for thecorresponding period of the person in respect of whom thebad debt was incurred if he is a registered person..

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200011

15.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the addition atthe end of that subsection of the following :

For the purposes of this section the notice givenunder this section may refer to one or more taxableperiods..

16.Section 30 of the principal enactment ishereby repealed and the following section substitutedtherefor :

30. Where the Assessor is of opinion that aregistered person has made a taxable supply

(a)for a value less than the open marketvalue of such supply or for no value ;or

(b)the transaction in respect of whichtaxable supply has been made, isbetween two associated persons,

in order to avoid payment of tax, he shalldetermine the open market value of such supplyon which tax shall be charged, having regard tothe circumstance of the transaction and the timeof supply..

17.Section 33 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfrom the words tax in respect of that period to make anadditional assessment of the words tax in respect of anyperiod, it shall not be lawful for the Assessor where anassessment

(a)has not been made to make an assessment ; or

(b)has been made, to make an additional assessment.

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 30 of theprincipalenactment.

Power ofAssessor todetermine theopen marketvalue.

Amendmentof section 33of theprincipalenactment.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200012

18.Section 34 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (5) of that section by the substitutionfor the words and figures provisions of subsections (1), (2),(3) and (4), of the words and figures provisions ofsubsections (2), (3) and (4).

19.Section 75 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 11 of 1998 is hereby further amended by theaddition immediately after subsection (4) of that section ofthe following subsection :

(5)Where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that aregistered person or any other person, as the casemay be, on or after the appointed date, has paid taxon the acquisition of goods for the purpose of makingan exempt supply, the tax so paid by such personshall be deemed to be input tax where such supplyhas subsequently become a taxable supply and thegoods so acquired are being used in making suchtaxable supply :

Provided however the CommissionerGeneralshall determine the allowable portion of such inputtax where the goods so acquired are being used onlypartly for the purpose of making a taxable supply..

20.Section 76 of the principal enactment amendedby Act, No 11 of 1998 is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)in the definition of associated person by theaddition immediately after paragraph (g) of thatdefinition of the following :

(h)any two or more persons carrying on anyactivity separately or jointly which has resultedin the supply of identical goods or serviceswhich cannot be produced by any other personor persons ;.

Amendment ofsection 34 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 75 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendmentof section 76of theprincipalenactment.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200013

(2)in the definition of body of persons by thesubstitution for the words any undertaking of theGovernment of Sri Lanka of the words anyundertaking of the Government of Sri Lanka or anyco-ownership of immovable property ;;

(3)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofcompany of the following definition :

customs bonded area means

(a)a bonded warehouse approved undersection 69 of Customs Ordinance ;

(b)a bonded warehouse approved undersection 84 A of Customs Ordinance ;

(c)a warehouse of the Republic as definedin section 167 of Customs Ordinance ;

(d)a Free Trade Zone declared by the Boardof Investment of Sri Lanka which issubject to monitoring by the Departmentof Customs ;;

(4)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofDeputy Commissioner of the followingdefinitions :

educational establishment means

(a)a higher educational institutionestablished under the Universities Act,No. 16 of 1978 or the Buddhist and PaliUniversity ;

(b)any recognized Institution providingvocational training or re-training forpersons engaged in any trade, professionor employment and includes anincorporated examination body;;

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200014

educational services means the provision ofservices by any educational establishment in relationto education vocational, training or retraining ;;

(5)in the definition of importation, by the substitutionfor the words customs bonded warehouse of thewords customs bonded area;

(6)in the definition of input tax by the substitutionfor the words tax paid on the supply of the wordstax paid by him on the supply;

(7)by the repeal of the definition of supply of goodsand the substitution of the following definitiontherefor :

supply of goods means the passing of exclusiveownership of goods to another as the owner of suchgoods or under the authority of any written law andincludes the sale of goods by public auction, thetransfer of goods under a hire purchase agreement,the sale of goods in satisfaction of a debt and thetransfer of goods from a taxable activity to a non-taxable activity;;

(8)in the definition of supply of services by thesubstitution for the words not a supply of goodsof the words not a supply of goods but includesany loss incurred in a taxable activity for which anindemnity is due;.

(9)in paragraph (d) of the definition of taxable activityby the substitution for the words of any immovableproperty of the words of any immovable propertyor the administration of any property ;;.

21.The Schedule to the principal enactment as amendedby Act No. 11 of 1998 is hereby further amended as follows :

(1)in item (i) of that Schedule by the substitution forthe words unprocessed produce of any agricultural,horticultural, animal husbandry, poultry or fishing

Amendment of theSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200015

undertaking; of the words unprocessed produceof any agricultural, horticultural, animal husbandry,poultry (not being meat of any kind) or fishingundertaking;;

(2)by the repeal of item (v) of that Schedule and thesubstitution therefor of the following item :

(v)The supply or import of milk includingpowdered or condensedmilk other than anyother article manufactured or producedfrom such milk ;;

(3)in item (vii) of that Schedule by the substitution forthe words ayurvedic, siddha, unani or homeopathicpreparations of the words ayurvedic, siddha, unanior homeopathic preparations not being cosmeticpreparations ;

(4)by the repeal of item (viii) of that Schedule, and thesubstitution therefor of the following item :

(viii)The supply of educational services by aneducational establishment or GovernmentSchools or Schools funded by theGovernment ;;

(5)in item (xii) of that Schedule by the substitution forthe words liquid petroleum, gas, of the wordsliquid petroleum gas in a cylinder which has acapacity not exceeding 15 kg,;

(6)by the repeal of item (xiii) of that Schedule and thesubstitution therefor of the following item :

(xiii)The supply of public library services by theGovernment, a Provincial Council or a localauthority ;;

(7)in item (xvi) of that Schedule by the repeal ofparagraph (i) of that item and the substitution thereforof the following paragraph :

(i)life insurance, Agrahara Insurance andcrop and livestock insurance ;;

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200016

(8)in item (xxi) of that Schedule by the substitutionfor the words for the relief of distress caused bynatural or other disaster, of the words or supplyof goods directly funded by foreign organisations,for the relief of distress caused by natural or otherdisasters or similar cause or for religious or charitablepurposes ;;

(9)by the repeal of item (xxiii) of that Schedule and thesubstitution therefor of the following item :

(xxiii)The supply of public passenger transportservices (other than air or water transportor transport of tourists by way of excursiontours or taxi services) or import or supplyof a motor coach with seating capacity notless than thirty passenger seats or a chassisor body of such motor coach to be used insuch public passenger transport serviceincluding the provision of leasing facilitiesfor such motor coaches ;;

(10)in item (xxiv) of that Schedule by the substitutionfor the words exclusively for agricultural work;of the words exclusively for agricultural workincluding accessories and parts for such tractors;.

(11)by the repeal of item (xxx) of that Schedule and thesubstitution therefor of the following :

(xxx)The supply of goods at a restaurant situatedbeyond the immigration counter at theBandaranaike International Airport ;

(12)by the repeal of item (xxxiii) of that Schedule ;

(13)in item (xxxv) of that Schedule by the substitutionfor the words hotel accommodation to tourists ofthe words hotel accommodation to foreign touristswho are domiciled outside Sri Lanka;

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200017

(14)in item (xxxviii) of that Schedule by the substitutionfor the words for the provision of Health Services.of the words for the provision Health Services ;;

(15)by the addition immediately after item (xxxviii) ofthat Schedule of the following items :

(xxxix)The supply or import of artificial limbs,crutches, hearing aids, accessories for suchaids or other appliances which are worn orcarried or implanted in the human body tocompensate for a defect or disability witheffect from such respective dates as aredetermined by the Director-General ofCustoms ;

(xL)The supply or import of wheel chairs,prepared culture media for development ofmicro organisms, diagnostic or laboratoryreagents, surgical gloves, contact lenses, X-ray tubes, white canes for the blind andBraille Typewriters and parts with effectfrom such respective dates as are determindby the Director-General of Customs;

(xLi)The supply of services in relation to the feescollected by the Sri Lanka Bureau ofForeign Employment from prospectivemigrants as provided for in the Gazettedated September 01, 1995 ;

(xLii)The supply of services in relation to burialsand cremations

(a)by the Government, a ProvincialCounil or a local Authority ;

(b)by any person,

(xLiii)The supply of free or subsidised meals byan employer to his employees at their placesof work ;

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200018

(xLiv)The supply of transport free or at asubsidised rate by an employer to hisemployees using a vehicle on which theinput tax has been disallowed or a motorcoach provided by an employer to transportemployees to and from their homes andtheir places of work..

22.(1) The amendments made to sections 2, 5, 7, 20subsections (3) and (7) of section 22, section 30 and section33, section 34 and section 76 of the principal enactment bysection 2, 4 (3), 5, 12, section 13 (1), section 13 (3) section16, section 17, section 18, section 20 (6) and section 20 (7)of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to have come intoforce on April 1, 1998.

(2) The amendments made to subsection (4) of section 22and section 28 of the principal enactment by section 13(2)and section 15 of this Act, shall be deemed for all purposes tohave come into force on April 1, 2000.

(3) (a) The amendments made to items (vii) (xvi), (xxi),(xxxv) of the Schedule by section 21(4), section 21(7), section21(8) and section 21(13) shall be deemed for all purposes tohave come into force on April 1, 1998 ;

(b) the addition of items (xLii) (a) and (xLiv) in theSchedule by section 21(15) shall be deemed for all purposesto have come into force on April 1, 1998 ;

(c) the addition of item (xLiv) in the Schedule by section21(15) of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to havecome into force on April 1, 1998 ;

(d) the addition of item (xLi) in the Schedule by section21(15) of this Act shall be deemed to have come into force onSeptember 15, 1998 ;

(e) the addition of item (xLiii) in the Schedule by section21(15) of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to havecome into force on April 1, 1999 ;

Retrospectiveeffect.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200019

(f) the amendments made to items (i), (xiii), (xxxiii) inthe Schedule by sections 21(1), 21(6), 21(12) of this Act shallbe deemed for all purposes to have come into force onFebruary 15, 2000 ;

(g) the addition of item (xLii) (b) in the Schedule by section21(15) shall be deemed for all purposes to have come intoforce on February 15, 2000.

(4) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of thissection, on prosecution shall be instituted under the principalenactment for any contravention or non-compliance with theprovisions of sectons 2, 5, 7, 20, 22(3), 22(4), 22(7), 28, 30,33, 34 and 76 and items (i), (vii), (xiii), (xvi), (xxi), (xxxiii),(xxxv), (xLi) (xLii) (a), (xLiii), (xLiv) of the Schedule, of theprincipal enactment as amended by this Act, in so far as suchcontravention or non-compliance relates to a period prior tothe date on which this Act is certified as an Act of Parliament.

23.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.text shallin case ofstency.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 26 of 200020

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.