PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
5th Session 1969-70

Industrial Development Act,
No. 36 of 1969

Date of Assent: December 28, 1969

&

Printed on the Orders of Government '
and published as a Supplement to Ceylon Government Gazette,
Part II of January 2, 1970

Printed at the DepaARTMENT Or GOVERNMENT PRINTING, CEYLON. To be
purcnused at the GOVERNMENT PUSLICATIONS BuREAU, COLOMBO,

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 380 (Local), Rs. 40

(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT

Pusuications Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before 20th

December each year in respect of the year following. Late

subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.




Industrial Development Act, No. 36 of 1969 °
L. D—O. 3/66.

_An AcT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT,

‘PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT OF INDUSTRIES IN
CEYLON; TO ESTABLISH A PUBLIC AUTHORITY KNOWN
AS THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BoaRD OF
CEYLON; TO SET UP AN INDUSTRIAL ADVISORY
CouNCIL AND INDUSTRIAL PANELS; TO PROVIDE FOR
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
FunD, AND TO MAKE PROVISION FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: December 28, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Industrial Short title
Development Act, No. 36 of 1969, and shall come ni tse of
into operation on such date, hereinafter referred to
as the ‘‘ appointed date’’, as the Minister may

. appoint by Notification published in the Gazette.
‘9. For the purposes set out in this Act, there shal] Establishment
be established in accordance with the succeeding %,the Industrial

cae zi Development
provisions of this Act— Board of

. . . Ceylon, &c.
(a) an Industrial Advisory Council,

(b) such number of Industrial Panels as the
Minister may determine,

(c) a fund called the Industrial Development Fund,
and

(d) a board called the Industrial Development

Board of Ceylon, hereinafter referred to as
the ‘‘ Board ’’.

PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF AN INDUSTRIAL ADVISORY
4 CouNCIL AND INDUSTRIAL PANELS

4 8. (1) There shall be a Council of persons which Industrial
shall be called ‘‘ The. Industrial Advisory Council’, Council”
hereinafter referred to as ‘‘ the Council ”, to advise and ite
the Minister on matters connected with the promotion :
and development of industries in Ceylon.

1—B 69542—5,723 (12/69)


Establishment
of Industrial
Panels and
their
functions,

Expenses of

administration
of Industrial

Panels.

The Industrial
Development
Fund.

Payments
into the
Fund.

2 Industrial Development Act, No. 36 of 1969

(2) The Council shall consist of a Chairman and
such other members not exceeding twenty in number,
appointed by the Minister. Subject to the provisions.
of this Act, the functions and duties of the Council /
shall be prescribed by regulation.

4, (1) The Minister may establish Industrial *
Panels for any class or group of industries or for any *
prescribed matters connected with the development of
industries.

(2) Each Industrial Panel, hereinafter referred to
as the ‘‘ Panel ’’, shall consist of a Chairman and
such other members as may be appointed by the
Minister. The functions and duties of the Panel
shall be prescribed by regulation.

5. The expenses of the administration of the
Industrial Panels (including the remuneration of
members of the Panels) shall be borne by the Board.

PART II

ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND

6. There shall be established with the General
Treasury a fund called the Industrial Development *
Fund, hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘ Fund’’, for
the encouragement, promotion and development of
industries in Ceylon.

7. There shall be paid into the Fund—

(a) the proceeds of the industrial development
cess levied under section 12;

(b) the proceeds of licence fees on the importation
of specified goods in the manner set out in
section 9 (1);

{c) the proceeds of the business turnover tax in
respect of specified classes of business in the
manner set out in section 9 (2);

(d) all such sums of money as may from time to
time be voted by the House of Representatives
for the purposes of the Fund;

(e) all moneys received as donations under section 8; {
and

(f) all such sums of money as are required to be
paid into the Fund under this Act or ary
other written law.


Industrial Development Act, No. 86 of 1969 3

8. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury may receive Donations to
and credit to the Fund any donations made by any ‘te Fun
person to the Fund.

(2) Where a person making a donation under sub-
section (1) specifies the purpose for which such dona-
tion is to be used, such donation shall be used only for
such purpose.

9. (1) Where the Minister, with the concurrence of Mode ot
the Minister of Finance, specifies, for the purposes of fvment of
section 7, any description of goods for the importation tases to the
of which a licence fee is payable under regulations Fy, ,,
made under the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, in section 7.
the Controller of Imports and Exports shall credit the
proceeds of the import control fees collected in respect

of such goods to the Fund.

(2) Where the Minister, with the concurrence of
the Minister of Finance; specifies, for the purposes of
section 7, any class or description of business, the
business turnover tax collected in respect of such class
or description of business by the Commissioner of
Inland Revenue shall be credited to the Fund.

(3) In this section—

‘© Controller of Imports and Exports ’’? means the
Controller of Imports and Exports appointed
under the Imports and Exports (Control)
Act;

‘* business turnover tax ’’ has the meaning assigned
to it in Part XII of the Finance Act, No. 11
of 1963;

‘“‘ Commissioner of Inland Revenue ’’ means the
Commissioner of Inland Revenue appointed
under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 4 of 1963.

(4) Regulations may be made in regard to all
matters necessary for the effective collection and

crediting to the Fund of the fees and taxes referred
to in section 7.

10. (1) The Fund shall be under the contro] and Administration
administration of the Deputy Secretary to the % ‘ *™4
Treasury.

(2) The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury shall, as
soon as possible after the end of each calendar year,

- prepare a report on the administration of the Fund.

(3) The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury shall
cause to he maintained a full and appropriate account
of the Fund in respect of each calendar year.

2—B 9542 (12/69)


4 Industrial Development Act, No. 36 of 1969

(4) The accounts of the Fund for each calendar year
shall be audited by or under the direction of the
Auditor-General.

(5) A report on the administration of the Fund a,
(together with the report of the Auditor-General on
the accounts of the Fund) shall be placed by the .
Minister before the Senate and the House cf
Representatives.

Beypiante bat 41. The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury shall
pay out of the Fund—

(a) to the Board such sums of money as the Minister
may, in consultation with the Minister of
Finance, from time to time determine; and

(b) to any other institution or body of persons
(whether corporate or unincorporate), such
sums of money as the Minister may, with the
concurrence of the Minister of Finance, from
time to time determine as being necessary
for the promotion and development of
industries in Ceylon.

Industrial 42. (1) For the purposes of this Act there shall be

ahi imposed, levied and paid, a cess, called the industrial
development cess, in respect of any industry or indus- ,
tries, in such manner and of such amount as may from,}
time to time be determined by resolution of the House
of Representatives. The proceeds of such cess shall
be credited to the Fund.

(2) Any resolution passed by the House of

Re, >esentatives under sub-section (1) may be rescinded
or amended from time to time by the House.

' (3) Regulations may be made in respect of all
matters necessary for the effective levy and collection
of the industrial development cess, and its payment
into the Fund.

PART III
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BoarD OF CEYLON
Its Objects and Constitution

Taare 48. There shall be established a Board which shall
Board of be called the Industrial Development Board of Ceylon.
Ceylon. 5
Bosrd to be 4%. The Board shall, by the name assigned to it’
body corporate, 7

by section 13, be a body corporate and shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue
and be sued in that name.


Industrial Development Act, No. 86 of 1969 5

15. The objects of the Board shall be:—
(a) to assist in the encouragement, promotion and Board.

development of industries in Ceylon;

(b) to assist in the proper co-ordination and in the

(c) to

(d) to
{e) to

(f) to

(g) to

(h) to

inter-related growth of all industrial under-
takings in the private and public sectors of
the economy of the country;

foster industrial research with the object of
utilizing the natural resources of Ceylon,
improving the technical processes and
methods used in industries and developing
appropriate technologies and equipment for
local industries, and discovering processes
and methods for the better utilization of
waste products;

foster the export of local industrial products
to overseas markets; ;

assist in such measures in the field of inter-
national trade and regional co-operation as
are necessary or conducive to industrial
development;

provide for services and facilities of every
description required by or in connection
with any industrial undertaking or indus-
trial establishment in Ceylon, including the
provision of capital, credit, marketing,
managerial, technical facilities and legal
advice:

Provided that in regard to the provision of
capital grants such service shall be limited ta
establishments or undertakings whose capital
investment does not exceed two hundred
thousand rupees; ;
advise on matters relating to the promotion
and development of industries in Cevlon;
and
take all such measures as may be necessary
for, or conducive to, the attainment of the
objects specified in this section.

16. For the purpose of fulfilling the objects of
the Board, the Board may exercise, discharge and

perform

the powers, functions and duties conferred

or imposed on the Board by or under this Act or any

other written law.

47. (1) The Board shall consist of nine members

of whom—

(a) six members shall be appointed by the Minister;

Objecta
of the

Board

to exercise
its pewsre
to fulfil
its objects.

Constitution
of the Board.


Disqualifica-
tion.

Terms of
office of
members.

Appointment
of acting
members.

Resignation
and removal
of members.

Eligibility

of members
for reappoint-
ment.

Quorum for
meeting of the
Board.

Procedure at
meetings of
the Board.

Vacancy
among

- members

not to
invalidate
acts of the
Board.

Remuneration
of members
of the Board.

6° Industrial Development Act, No. 36 of 1969

(b) one member shall be appointed by the Minister
in consultation with the Minister in charge
of Planning and Economic Affairs;

. (c) one member, being an officer of the General
Treasury, shall be appointed by the Minister
in consultation with the Minister of
Finance; and

(d) one member shall be appointed by the Minister
in consultation with the Minister in charge
of Commerce and Trade.

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the members
of the Board to be the Chairman of the Board.

48. A Senator or a Member of Parliament shall
not be qualified to be a member of the Board.

49, Every member shall hold office for a period of
three years, unless he vacates, or is removed from,
office earlier.

20. If any member is temporarily unable to dis-
charge the duties of his office on account of ill health,
absence from Ceylon or any other cause, the Minister
may, subject to the requirements of section 17, appoint
some other person to act as member in his place.

21. (1) A member may resign office by letter
addressed to the Minister.

(2) The Minister may, if he thinks it expedient to
do so, remove a member from office.

92. A member who vacates office by effluxion of
time shall be eligible for reappointment.

23. The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall
be five.

24, Subject to the other provisions of this Act,
the Board may regulate its procedure in regard to the
meetings of the Board and the transaction of business
at such meetings.

25. Any act or proceeding of the Board shall not
be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of any vacancy among its members or any defect in
the appointment of any of its members.

26. The memhers of the Board shall be remunerated
in such manner and at such rates as the Minister may,
in consultation with the Minister of Finance,
determine.


Industrial Development Act, No. 86-of 1969 7

. 27, (1) The common seal of the Board shall ‘be geal ot ©
in the custody of such person as the Board may decide he Board.
from time to time.

(2) The seal of the Board may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Board.

(3) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except in the presence of two
members of the Board, both of whom shall sign the
instrument or document in token of their presence.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the
instruments or documents to which the seal of the
Board is affixed.

28. (1) In the exercise, discharge and performance Minister's
‘of its powers, functions and duties, the Board shall drechons
be subject to, and act in accordance with, such general .
or special directions as the Minister may from time
‘to time issue.

(2) The Minister shall, in issuing directions under
sub-section (1) with regard to any matter affecting the
‘functions assigned to any other Minister, act in
consultation with that Minister.

\~ 29. All members of the Board shall be deemed to Members of
“be public servants within the meaning and for the ie Bee
purposes of the Penal Code. be public
: ‘ servants.
, 80. (1) The Board may delegate to any member Delegation
of the Board or to any employee of the Board any of of, Autiess
_its powers or duties.

Para
(2) Every delegate appointed under sub-section (1)
shall exercise or perform the power or duty delegated
to him subject to the general or special directions of
the Board.
PART IV
Duties AND Powers oF THE BoaRD
81. It shall be the duty of the Board— Duties of
the Board.

(a) to render as far as possible, such services as are
contemplated in the objects of the Board for
the benefit of—

(i) the Government or any Department of the
Government, or

(ii) any industry which is, or is to be carried
on, in Ceylon, or ;


No duty of
tbe Board
to be
enforcenble
in court.

Powers of the
Board.

8 Industrial Development Act, No. 86 of 1969

(iii) any Government-sponsored Corporation,
or

(iv) any agency of the Government, or
(v) any local authority;

(b) to take all such measures as may be necessary
for the fulfilment of its objects;

(c) to submit to the Minister, together with the
views of the Board, the reports and recom-
mendations of the Industrial Panels set up
under this Act; and

(d) either on its own motion or at the request of the
Minister, to advise him on all matters
relating to the promotion and development of
industries.

32. Nothing in section 31 shall be construed as
imposing on the Board, either directly or indirectly,
any form of duty or liability enforceable by proceed-
ings before any court or tribunal to which the Board
would not otherwise be subject.

83. (1) The Board shall have the power to do ail,
such acts and take all such steps as may be necessary
for or conducive to the attainment of its objects.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the
powers conferred by sub-section (1), the Board shall
have the power—

(a) to establish, maintain and carry on industrial
estates in Ceylon;

(6) to engage in, or co-operate with, local institu-
tions or bodies of persons or foreign institu-
tions or governments, in the display or
distribution of industrial products manufac-
tured in Ceylon;

(c) subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) of section
15, to assist financially or otherwise any local
authority, State-sponsored Corporation or
Government Department or any person or
body of persons (whether corporate or/

unincorporate), in the purchase of industrial’ '

machinery or raw materials, or in the provi-
sion of any other facilities or in the doing of
any act or thing necessary for or conducive
to the attainment of the objects of the Board;

ms es

>
i


Industrial Development Act, No. 86 of 1969 9

(d) to

(e) to

(f) to

(9) to

(h) to

Om

(7) to

(k) to

train, or assist financially the training of,
persons to do work which is wholly cr
mainly connected with the attainment of the
objects of the Board;

participate in the business of any industrial
undertaking or activities related to industrial
development in such manner as the Minister
may determine;

levy fees or other charges for services
performed, or facilities or equipment pro-
vided, by the Board;

acquire, hold, take or give on_ lease,
mortgage or hire, pledge or sell or otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable
property;

employ such officers and servants as may be

necessary for carrying out the objects of the
Board;

provide financial assistance, welfare and
recreational facilities, houses, hostels and
other like ‘accommodation for persons
employed by the Board;

construct, manufacture, purchase, maintain
and repair anything required for the
purposes of the objects of the Board;

enter into and perform or carry . out,

whether directly or through any officer or
agent authorized in that behalf by the Board,
all such contracts or agreements as may be
necessary for the attainment of the objects
of the Board;

(2) subject to the provisions of this Act, to make

rules in relation to its officers and servants,
including their appointments, promotions,
remuneration, disciplinary control, conduct
and grant of leave to them;

(m) subject to the provisions of this Act, to make

(n) to

rules in respect of the administration of the
affairs of the Board;. and

do all other acts which, in the opinion of the
Board, are necessary to facilitate the proper
carrying out of its objects or the perform-
ance of its duties.


Board to
utilize
its moneys.

Accounts of
the Board.

Financial
year of
the Board.

Audit of
accounts of
the Board.

10 Industrial Development Act, No. 86 of 1969
PART V

FINANCE AND ACCOUNTS OF THE BoarD

34. The moneys of the Board may be utilized by
the Board for the purpose of carrying out its objects
or in the exercise, discharge or performance of its
powers, functions and duties under this Act or any
other written law.

35. The Board shall, in respect of each financial
year, cause proper accounts of its income‘and expendi-
ture and of all its other transactions to be kept and
shall prepare an annual statement of accounts and
statistics relating to its business, in such form and
containing such particulars as the Minister may
determine.

36. The financial’ year of the Board shall be as
determined by the Board.

37. (1) The accounts of the Board in respect of
each financial year shall be submitted to the Auditor-
General for audit before the lapse of six months from
the end of the financial year. For the purpose of
assisting him in the audit of such accounts, the
Auditor-General may employ the services of any
qualified auditor or auditors who shall act under his

direction and control.

(2) For the purpose of meeting the expenses incurred
by him in auditing the accounts of the Board, the
Auditor-General shall be paid from the funds of the
Board such remuneration as the Minister may, with
the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, determine.
‘Any remuneration received from the Board by the
Auditor-General shall, after deducting any sums paid
by him to any qualified auditor employed by him for
the purpose of such audit, be credited to the
Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

(3) The Auditor-General and any person assisting
him in the audit of the accounts of the Board shall
have access to all such books, deeds, contracts,
accounts, vouchers and other documents of the Board
as the Auditor-General may consider necessary for

the purposes of the audit, and shall be furnished by |

the Board, or its officers with such information within
their knowledge as may be required for such purposes.

(4) For the purposes of this section, the expression
** qualified auditor ’? means—


Industrial Development Act, No. 86 of 1969 11

(i) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Ceylon, possesses a certificate to practise as
an Accountant issued by the Council of that
Institute; or

(ii) a firm of Chartered Accountants each of the
partners of which, being a member of that
Institute, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of
that Institute.

83. (1) The Auditor-General shall examine the
accounts of the Board and furnish a report—

(a) stating whether he has or has not obtained all
the information and explanations required
by him;

(b) stating whether the accounts referred to in the
report are properly drawn up so as to exhibit
a true and fair view of the affairs of the
Board; and

(c) drawing attention to any item in the accounts
¥ which in his opinion may be of interest to the
Senate and the House of Representatives and
any examination of the activities and
accounts of the Board.

(2) The Auditor-General shall transmit his report
to the Board together with the audited accounts.

°89. The Board shall, on the receipt of the audited
accounts and the Auditor-General’s report each year,
transmit such report and such accounts together with
the statement by the Board of its activities during
the financial year to which such report relates, to the
Minister who shall cause copies thereof to be laid
before the Senate and the House of Representatives
within twelve months of the close of the financial year
of the Board to which the accounts relate.

. 40. Notwithstanding anything in any other
written law, the Principal Collector of Customs may,
with the sanction of the Secretary to the Treasury,
waive the customs duty on articles imported by the
Board for any of its purposes.

The Auditor
General's
report.

The Auditor-
General's
report and
the report

of the

annual activities
of the

Board to

de transmitted
to the
Minister,

Exemption
from customs
duty.


Powers to
borrow.

Staff of the
Board,

Agencies,
departments
and divisions

of the Board.

12 Industrial Development Act, No. 36 of 1969

41. (1) It shall be lawful for the Board, subject
to the approval of the Minister, to borrow from the

Government or any person or persons such sum or :

sums of money as may be necessary for any of the
purposes of the Board.

(2) Every loan raised by the Board shall be subject
to such rate or rates of interest and to such conditions
for the repayment thereof as may be approved by the
Minister.

(3) For the purposes of securing the repayment of
any sums borrowed by the Board and interest accruing
thereon, the Board may mortgage or assign to the
lender by or on whose behalf such sum or. any part
thereof may be lent, any property belonging to the
Board or assign to such lender any right to any sums
of money accruing to the Board.

PART VI
STAFF AND DEPARTMENTS OF THE BOARD

42. Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the
Board may—

(a) appoint, dismiss and exercise disciplinary con-

trol over the staff of the Board;

(b) fix the wages or salary or other remuneration of
such staff;

(c) determine the terms and conditions of service of
such staff;

(d) establish and regulate a provident fund or
scheme for the benefit of such staff and may
make contributions towards such fund or
scheme,

43. (1) The Board may establish and maintain such
number of departments, divisions or agencies of the
Board as it may deem necessary for the proper and
effective conduct of its business.

(2) Each department, division or agency of the
Board shall be responsible for the administration and
conduct of such part of the business of the Board as
may be assigned to it by the Board.

(3) The head of each such department, division or’

agency and other members of the staff of the Board
attached to such department, division or agency shall
exercise, discharge and perform such powers, functions
and duties as may be determined by the Board.


Industrial Development Act, No. 86 of 1969 13

(4) Regulations may be made under this Act in
respect of all or any of the matters referred to in the
preceding provisions of this section.

44, (1) At the request of the Board any officer in
the public service may, with the consent of that officer
and of the Secretary to the Treasury, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Board for such period as
may be determined by the Board with like consent or
be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where an officer in the public service is tempora-
rily appointed to the staff of the Board—

(a) he shall be subject to the same disciplinary
contro] as any cther member of such staff;

(b) if at the time of his temporary appointment to
the staff of the Board, his substantive post
in the. public service was a post declared to
be pensionable under the Minutes on
Pensions—

(i) he shall, while in the employ of the Board,
e deemed to have been absent from
duty in the public service on leave
granted without salary on grounds of
public policy and accordingly, section
10 (i) of those Minutes shall apply to

him, and

(ii) in respect of him, the Board shall pay out
of the funds of the Board to the
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury to be
credited to the Consolidated Fund of
Ceylon for every complete month
during which he is in the employ of
the Board, such sum not exceeding
twenty-five per centum of the salary
payable to him in his substantive post

.1n the public service as may be deter-
mined by the Minister of Finance; and

(c) if, at the time of his temporary appointment to
the staff of the Board, he was a contributor
to the Public Service Provident Fund estab-
lished under the Public Service Provident
Fund Ordinance, his service to the Board
shall, for the purposes of that Ordinance, be
deemed to be service to the Government, and
accordingly he shall, while he is in the
employ of the Board, continue to pay to the

Appointment of
public officers

to ths stall

of the Board,


14 Industrial Development Act, No. 36 of 1969

Public Service Provident Fund such contri-
bution as he was liable under that Ordinance
to pay, and in respect of him the Board shall ~
pay at the close of each financial year out of ©
the funds of the Board to the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury to be credited to
the officer’s account in the Public Service
Provident Fund a sum equivalent to such
contribution as the Government is liable to
pay to the Public Service Provident Fund
in respect of him.

(83) Where an officer in the public service is
permanently appointed to the staff of the Board—

(a) he shall be deemed to have left the public
service;

(b) if, at the time of his permanent appointment
to the staff of the Board, his substantive post
in the public service was a post declared to
be pensionable under the Minutes on
Pensions—

(i) he shall be eligible for such an award
under those Minutes as might have
been made to him if he had been _
retired from the public service on the ik
ground of ill health on the date of ’
his permanent appointment to the
staff of the Board,

(ii) the amount of any such award made under
those Minutes shall not be paid to
him unless his employment in the
Board is terminated by retirement on
account of age or ill health or by the
abolition of the post held by him in
the Board or on any other ground
approved by the Minister of Finance,
and

(iii) in the event of his death while in the
employ of the Board, such an award
as might have been made in respect
of him under those Minutes if he had
died immediately before his permanent
appointment to the staff of the Board {
may be made in respect of him; and *

(c) if, at the time of his permanent appointment to
the staff of the Board, he was a contributor
to the Public Service Provident Fund


Industrial Development Act, No. 36 of 1969 15

established under the Public Service

Provident Fund Ordinance, he shall, for

the purposes of that Ordinance, be

4 deemed to have left the service of the

Government upon the determination of

contract with the consent of the Government
otherwise than by dismissal.

(4) Where the Board employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by
which he has agreed to serve the Government for a
specified period, any period of service to the Board by
that person shall be regarded as service to the Govern-
ment for the purpose of discharging the obligations
of such contract.

PART VII

GENERAL

45. (1) The Minister may make regulations for Regulations.
the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the
principles and provisions of this Act, and for all
matters which are required by this Act to be pres-
cribed, or in respect of which regulations are required
to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be

published in the Gazette and shall come into opera-

ion on the date of such publication or on such later
date as may be specified therein.

(8) Every regulation made by the Minister shall,
as soon as convenient after its publication in the
Gazette, be brought before the Senate and the House of
Representatives for approval.

Any such regulation which is not so approved shall
be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of dis-
approval but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder. Notification of the date on which
any regulation made by the Minister is so deemed to
be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

46. The Board may compound any claim or demand Power of
made against the Board by any person for such sum _ Berd to

, compound
or other compensation as the Board may deem claims.

sufficient.

4. 27. The Board shall be deemed to be a scheduled Bosra
slnstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and deemed to

Hs be a scheduled

. the provisions of that Act shall be construed institution

/ accordingly. 7 mmeRtite of
the Bribery

Act.


16 Industrial Development Act, No. 36 of 1969

48. The Board or any officer of the Board autho-

Returns and

ifoeasen rized in that behalf by the Board, may by notice
require any person to furnish to the Board or to such
officer, within such period of time as shall be specified »
in the notice, all such returns and information as are
within the knowledge of that person relating to any
matter as may be necessary to enable the Board to
perform its duties and functions under this Act.

Power of 49. Any public authority or other body of persons

eee atte (whether corporate or unincorporate) may, notwith-

int contracts standing anything to the contrary in any written law

pus tie or instrument relating to its functions, enter into and

Transfer of
Crown property
and certain
contracts and
liabiiities to

perform all such contracts with the Board as may be
necessary for the exercise, discharge or performance
of the powers, functions or duties of the Board.

50. (1) The Minister may, subject to the provisions
of sub-section (2) and sub-section (3), by Order pub-
lished in the Gazette, transfer to the Board—

sue Bowtie (2) any movable or immovable property of the

Crown required for the purposes of the
Board, and

(b) any contracts and liabilities of the Crown con-
nected with such purposes.

_ (2) No movable property, and no contract al
liability, of the Crown shall be transferred to the
Board under sub-section (1) without the concurrence
of the Minister of Finance.

(3) No immovable property of the Crown shall be |
transferred to the Board under sub-section (1) without
the concurrence of the Minister of Finance and the

Minister to whom the subject of Crown lands is for
the time being assigned.

(4) Upon the publication of an Order under sub-
section (1) in the Gazette—

(2) the properties specified in that Order shall vest
in and be the properties of the Board;

(>) the contracts specified in that Order shall be
deemed to be the contracts of the Board and
all subsisting rights and obligations of the

Crown under such contracts shal] be deemed

te Me the rights and obligations of the Board

(c) the liabilities speci i
pecified in that Ord be §
deemed to be the liabilities of the Fon °


Industrial Development Act, No. 36 of 1969 17

51. The Minister may by Order published in the

"Gazette approve of the proposed acquisition of any

Jand, or any interest in any land, other than Crown

land, for any purpose of the Board, and where such
an Order is so published, the land or the interest in

any land specified in the Order shall be deemed to be
required for a public purpose and may be acquired
under the Land Acquisition Act, and, when so
acquired, shall be transferred to the Board under that
Act.

52. (1) The Minister who for the time being is in
charge of the subject of Crown lands may, by Order
published in the Gazette, exempt the Board from any
such provision of any of the following Ordinances as
may be specified in the Order: —

Crown Lands Encroachments Ordinance;
Crown Lands Ordinance;

Definition of Boundaries Ordinance;
Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance;
Forest. Ordinance;

Land Development Ordinance.

(2) An Order made and published under sub-section
(1) shall have the force of law.

fs . 53. (1) Any expense incurred by the Board in any

suit or prosecution brought by or against the Board
before any court shall be paid out of the funds of the
Board, and any costs paid to, or recovered by, the

Board in any such suit or prosecution shall be credited
to the funds of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by any member, officer,
servant or agent of the Board in any suit or prosecu-
tion brought against him before any court in respect
of any act which is done or purported to be done by
him under this Act, or on the direction of the Board
shall, if the court holds that such act was done in

* good faith, be paid out of the ‘funds of the Board,

.

unless such expense is recovered by him in such suit
or prosecution.

54, (1) On such date as the Minister may fix by
notification published in the Gazette, the Board shail
take over and carry on the business of —

(7) “ The Industrial Development Board ”? ; and

(5) ‘* The Industrial Estates Corporation ”?,

set up under the State Industrial ;
No. 49 of 1957. rial Corporations Act,

Power to
acquire land
compulsorily.

Exemption from
provisions of
certain
Ordinances.

Expenses
incurred

for action
taken under
this Act on
the direction
of the Board.

Beard to
teke over

the business
of certain
Corporations.


18 Industrial Development Act, No. 36 of 1969

(2) Upon the taking over by the Board of the
business of the Corporations set up under the State
Industrial Corporations Act, No. 49 of 1957, and
referred to in sub-section (1), the Board shall offer
employment to every employee of each of the said
Corporations upon terms and conditions not less
favourable than those enjoyed by such employee before
the taking over.

(3) Regulations may be made in respect of all
matters directly or indirectly arising out of the carry-
ing out by the Board of its duties referred to in sub-
section (1) and sub-section (2).

55. The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything contained in any other
written law and accordingly, in the event of any con-
flict or inconsistency between the provisions of this
Act and such other written law, the provisions of this
Act shall prevail.

56. In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires:

‘* agency of the Government” means any body or
institution acting on behalf of the Govern-
ment, whether established by any written law
or otherwise;

‘* Government-sponsored Corporation’’ has the
same meaning as in the Government-
sponsored Corporations Act;

“local authority ’’ means any Municipal Council,
Urban Council, Town Council or Village
Council;

“* public officer ’’ has the same meaning as in the
Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Council, 1946.

Thia Act to *
have precedence
over other
written law.

Interpretation.
