PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SPORTS (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 47 OF 1993

[Certified on 20th October, 1993]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of fhe Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 22, 1993

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF COVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LAGE
2 ee

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT FUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLTSTEO q

Price: 60 cents. Postage; Ke. 1.08


Sports (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1993
[Certified on 20th October, 1993]

LD.—O. 25/92.
AN AcT 10 AMEND THE Sports Law, No. 25 or 1973

BE it, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socia-
list Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Sports (Amendment)
Act, No. 47 of 1993.

2. The long title to the Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973,
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is
herehy repealed and the following new long title substitut-
ed therefor :—

“ A LAW TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE
NATIONAL Sports Councit, District SpoRTS COMMITTEES,
THE Natronat ASSOCIATION OF SporTs COACHES AND
TECHNICAL OFFICERS AND THE NATIONAL OLyMPic ComM-
MITTEE OF SRI LANKA; FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
Sporrs FUND ; FOR THE REGULATION AND SUPERVISION OF
NaAtion1L ASSOCIATIONS OF SrORTS ; FOR THE ESTABLISH-
MENT OF SCHOOLS OF SPORTS; AND TO PROVIDE OR ALL
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO. ”.

8. Section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (b)
of that section, of the following new paragraph :—

(bb) a National Association of Sports Coaches and
Technica] Officers ;” ;

4. Part I of the principal enactment is hereby amended
in the heading to that Part by the substitution for the words
“District Sports Committees and a National Olympic
Committee” of the words “District Sports Committees, a
Naticnal Association of Sports Coaches and Technical
Ofticers and a National Olympic Committee”.

5. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 17 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 17a, of that enactment :—

“ Kstanlish- 17a. (1) There may be established an

ment

of National Association which shall be called “the
of Sports National Association of Sports Coaches and
Coaches an ;

Technical Technical Officers of Sri Lanka.

Officers,

Short title.

Amendment
of the
long title
of Law
No. 25 of
1993.

Amendment
of section
2 of the
principal
enactment.

principal
enactment,

Insertion
of new
secton 17a
in the
principal
enactment.


Amendnent ~

of section 18
of the

principal
enactment.

2 Sports (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1993

(2) The composition, powers, functions, and
duties of the National Association of Sports
Coaches and Technical Officers, shall be
prescrited by regulation. ”.

6. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—

“ (2) Such Committee shall consist of—

(a) the Director of Sports appointed under section
3, who shall be an ex-officio member ;

(b) rnembers, if any, of the International Olympic
Committee in Sri Lanka, who shall be ex-
officio non veting members, unless they have
been appointed under paragraph (c) ;

~

(c) two representatives of each of the National
Associations of Sports registered in accordance
with the succeeding provisions of this Law,
provided however, that each such National
Association is affiliated to, or is a member of
its respective International Federation and
the sports it represents are included in the
programme of the Olympic Games.

The Committee may co-opt delegates of other registered
National Associations of Sperts or persons who have render-
ed or can render exceptional service to the Olympic muve-
ment, provided that such co-opted members do not consti-
tute the voting majority in the Committee ”.

1. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 18 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sectior 18a of that cnactment :—

“Term of 18a. Every member of such Committee,
ae ee of other than the Director of Sports, shall hold
Committee. office for a term of four years. ”.

8. Sestion 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the addition at the end of that section of the
following paragraph :—

“ (e) not being the member referred to in subsection
2(a) of section 18, has served in such Committee
for two consequtive terms of office. ”.


Sports (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1993 . 3

9. The following new section is hereby inserted
iminediately atter section 21 of the principal enactment
and shail have effect as section 21a of that enactment: —

“ Accounts

and Audit. |

21a. (1) The National Olympic Com-
mittee of Sri Lanka and every National

Association of Sports registered under
Chapter III shall cause proper books of
accounts to be kept of the income and
expenditure and all other transactions of
such Committee and Association.

(2) Such Committee and every such
Association shall cause its books to be
balanced as on the thirty-first day of
December in each year, and shall before the
Thirty First day of March next, cause to be
prepared, an incume and expenditure
account and a balance sheet containing a
summary of the assets and liabilities of
such Committee and of every such Associa-

tion, as the case may be, made up to the first

mentioned date.

(3) The Auditor General shall audit the
accounts of such Committee and every
such Association.”’.

10. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b)
of that section, of the following new paragraph :—

“ (bb) all sums of money payable by the Government,

a Public Corporation or a Govrnment owned busi-
ness undertaking for the sponsorship of any sport
or sports event;”.

11. Section 34 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the addition at the end of that section of the

following subsection :—

" (4) Where the Minister makes an Order under sub-
section (1) ordering the dissolution of any National
Association of Sports or suspends the registration of any
National. Association of Sports’ under section 32, the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister may, oy notice
in writing, require the office-bearers of such National
Association of Sports to deliver all movable property

Insertion of

new section
2la of the
principal

a cement:

Amendment
of section 23
of the
principal
enactment.

.

Amendment
of section
34 of the
principal
enactment,


Amendment
ot section
43 of the
principal
enactment

Sinhala text
to prevail
in case of
inconsistency,

4 . Sports (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1993

(including any books and documents) ‘of such National
Association of Sports to the Director of Sports. Any
person who fails to comply with any requirement
imposed on him under this subsection shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction, after summary
trial before a Magistrate toa fine of five thousand rupees.”.

12. Section 42 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words ‘National
Spurts Council and District Sports Committees” of the
words “National Sports Council, National Assoication of
Sports Coaches and Technical Officers and District Sports
Committees, ”

13. Section 43 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately before the definition
of “a National Association for Sports”, of the following
defin:tion :—

“public corporation” means any corporation, board
or %ther bcdy which was or is established by, or under,
any written law other than the Companies Act, No. 17
of 1982, with funds or capital wholly or partty provided by

_ the Gcevernment, by way of grant, loan or otherwise. ”.

14, In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinnala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall

prevail. -
