PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTION LEVY(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 15 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th of March, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 22, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Social Security Contribution Levy(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2024

[Certified on 20th of March, 2024]

L.D.- O. 70/2023

AN ACT TO AMEND THE SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTION LEVYACT, NO. 25 OF 2022

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Social SecurityContribution Levy (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2024.

2. Section 4 of the Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended by the repeal of subsection(1) thereof and the substitution therefor, of the following:-

4. (1) Every taxable person, other than a taxableperson referred to in paragraph (a) of section 2, who,carries on or carries out any activity referred to insection 2 (in this Act referred to as a taxable activity)shall be required to be registered under this Act bymaking an application for such purpose to theCommissioner-General of Inland Revenue (in this Actreferred to as the Commissioner-General) in thespecified form-

(a) not later than fifteen days from the date ofoperation of this Act, in the case of a taxableperson whose aggregate of the turnover,within the twelve months period immediatelyprior to the date of operation of this Act,exceeded one hundred and twenty millionrupees;

(b) for any quarter commencing prior to January1, 2024, not later than fifteen days from thedate on which the aggregate of the turnoverfor a quarter exceeds or likely to exceed thirtymillion rupees, in the case of a taxable personto whom paragraph (a) does not apply;

Short title

Amendment ofsection 4 of Act,No. 25 of 2022

2Social Security Contribution Levy(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2024

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment

(c) for any period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2024, not later than fifteen daysfrom the date on which the aggregate of theturnover for a quarter exceeds or likely toexceed fifteen million rupees or from the dateon which the aggregate of the turnover for aperiod of consecutive four quarters exceedsor likely to exceed sixty million rupees:

Provided that, a taxable person to whom paragraph(c) applies shall be deemed to have complied with therequirement of registration under this subsection, if suchperson makes an application for such purpose to theCommissioner-General in the specified form not laterthan fifteen days from the date of operation of this(Amendment) Act..

3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (1) thereof as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (a) thereof, by the substitution for thewords and figure in section 2; or, of the wordsand figure in section 2;;

(2)in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitution for thewords each immediately preceding four quartersof the relevant quarter does not exceed hundredand twenty million rupees., of the words and figureseach immediately preceding four quarters of therelevant quarter prior to January 1, 2024, does notexceed hundred and twenty million rupees; or;and

3Social Security Contribution Levy(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2024

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

(3)by the addition immediately after paragraph(b) thereof, of the following:-

(c)for any period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2024, the aggregate turnover ofsuch registered person for a period ofconsecutive four quarters does not exceedsixty million rupees..

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

4Social Security Contribution Levy(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.