PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PROVINCIAL COUNCILS ELECTIONS(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 17 OF 2017

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 22nd of September, 2017]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 22, 2017

1Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

2PL 0053442,986 (07/2017)

Short title.

[Certified on 22nd of September, 2017]

L.D.O. 30/2015

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PROVINCIAL COUNCILS ELECTIONSACT, NO. 2 OF 1988

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Provincial CouncilsElections (Amendment) Act, No. 17 of 2017.

2.Section 10 of the Provincial Councils Elections Act,No. 2 of 1988 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended in subsection (1) of thatsection by the substitution for the words one week of thewords four weeks wherever those words appear in thatsection.

3.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords one nomination paper setting out the names,of such number of candidates as is equivalent tothe number of members to be elected from thatadministrative district, increased by three. Suchnomination paper shall be substantially in form Aset out in the First Schedule to this Act, of thewords two nomination papers setting out the namesof the candidates contesting electorates, and thenames of the candidates on the district list and theelectorate list. Such nomination papers shall besubstantially in the form prescribed by law:

provided that, in submitting such lists, eachpolitical party or independent group shall ensure

Amendment ofsection 10 ofAct, No. 2 of1988.

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

2Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

that not less than one-sixth of the total number ofcandidates to be nominated on the electorate list,and not less than fifty per centum of the totalnumber of candidates in the district list, shall bewomen candidates:

Provided further that, in the event that thenumber corresponding to one-sixth of fifty percentum as the case may be shall be an integer andfraction, the integer shall be deemed to be theapplicable number:

Provided further that, the Commissioner ofElections shall, by notice published in the Gazette,simultaneously with the call for nominations,specify the number of women candidates to benominated on each nomination list, in respect ofeach administrative district.;

(2) in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution forthe words, whose name appears first in thenomination paper of the words, who is theindependent group leader;

(3) in subsection (4) thereof, by the substitution forthe words, first in such nomination paper of thewords, first in the nomination paper setting outthe names of the candidates on the district list;

(4) in subsection (5) thereof, by the substitution forthe words, such nomination paper of the words,the district list;

(5) in subsection (7) thereof, by the substitution forthe words, form A set out in the First Schedule tothis Act. of the words, the form prescribed bylaw..

3Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

4.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 3 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 3A of that enactment:

3A. (1) There shall be a DelimitationCommittee (hereinafter referred to as theCommittee) appointed by the Presidentwithin two weeks of the commencement of thisAct, consisting of five persons representing thepluralistic character of Sri Lankan society,including professional and social diversity byOrder published in the Gazette, one of whomshall be nominated by the President as theChairman of the Committee.

(2) The Committee shall divide eachadministrative district into such number ofelectorates as corresponds to Fifty percent(50%) of the total number of members to beelected from such administrative district interms of subsection (3) of section 3:

Provided that, if the number correspondingto Fifty percent (50%) of the total number ofmembers to be elected from such administrativedistrict in terms of subsection (3) of section 3is an integer and a fraction, the number shallbe rounded to nearest integer.

(3) The Committee shall assign names toeach such electorate.

(4) In the division of administrative districtinto electorates, the following factors shall betaken into consideration by the Committee:

(a)where it appears to the Committee that,there is, in any area of anadministrative district, a substantial

DelimitationCommittee.

Insertion of newsection 3A to theprincipalenactment.

4Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

concentration of persons united by acommunity of interest, whether racial,religious or otherwise, but differing inone or more of these respects from themajority of the inhabitants of that area,the Committee may make suchdivision of the administrative districtsinto electorates;

(b)in making such division, theCommittee shall have due regard to

(i)the desirability of reducing to theminimum the disproportion in thenumber of persons resident inthe several electorates of theadministrative districts within theProvince; and

(ii)the geographical and physicalfeatures of the electorates.

(5) Where the Committee is of the view thathaving taken into consideration therequirements specified in subsection (4), it isappropriate to create an electorate which shallbe entitled to return more than one member,the Committee shall create a multi memberelectorate or electorates, as the case may be forany administrative district.

(6) Each electorate within an administrativedistrict shall be entitled to directly return oneor more members, as the case may be, to aProvincial Council.

(7) The Committee shall fulfil itsresponsibilities and duties in terms ofsubsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of this section,

5Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

within four (4) months of its appointment andthereafter submit its report to the Minister.

(8) The Committee shall endeavour to arriveat a consensus in deciding on the mattersentrusted to the Committee.

(9) The Committee shall decide on theprocedure to be followed in fulfilling itsobligations.

(10) For the purpose of fulfilling itsobligations in terms of this section, theCommittee shall appoint such officers, experts,technical committees and sub-committees asmay be necessary.

(11) The Committee shall submit its reportto the Minister, who shall within two weeks ofthe receipt of such report, table it in Parliamentfor its approval by not less than two-thirds ofthe whole number of Members of Parliament(including those not present) voting in itsfavour.

(12) Where Parliament does not approvesuch report in terms of subsection (11) withinone month of the tabling of the report, then theSpeaker shall appoint a Review Committee,consisting of five persons representing themajor communities and, headed by the PrimeMinister.

(13) The Review Committee shall cause anyalteration to be made to the names, numbers,and boundaries of any electorate.

6Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

(14) The Review Committee shall fulfil itsresponsibilities and duties in terms ofsubsection (13), within two (2) months of theMinister having referred the report for itsconsideration and thereafter submit its reportto the President.

(15) Upon the receipt of the report of theReview Committee, the President shall byProclamation forthwith publish the new numberof electorates, the boundaries, names assignedto each electorate so created on the reportsubmitted by the Review Committee.

(16) The total number of members whicheach administrative district is entitled to returnshall comprise of

(a)such number of members as isequivalent to the number of Electorateswithin such administrative district;and

(b)such number of additional members tobe elected (hereinafter referred to asthe additional members) in order toensure that the total number ofmembers elected from suchadministrative district is equivalent tothe number of members to be electedfrom such administrative district of theProvince as determined by the ElectionCommission in terms of subsection (3)of section 3.

(17) Any recognized political party or anygroup of persons contesting as independent

7Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

candidates (hereinafter referred to as anindependent group) may for the purpose ofany election of members of Provincial Councilsfor any administrative district, submit twonomination papers setting out

(a)the names of each candidatenominated in respect of each electorate(in this Act, hereinafter referred to asthe Electorate List); and

(b)the names of additional candidates inrespect of such administrative districtas is equivalent to the number ofadditional members entitled to beelected from such administrativedistrict, increased by three (in this Acthereinafter referred to as the DistrictList)..

5.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed, and the following new section substitutedtherefor:

18. (1) Where the candidates of only onerecognized political party or one independentgroup stand nominated for election, thereturning officer shall declare the candidateson the electorate list of such party or group ashaving been elected as members of thatProvincial Council, and shall call upon thesecretary of such recognized political party orthe group leader of such independent group todecide, within such period as may be specifiedby the returning officer, which of thecandidates whose names appear in the DistrictList shall be declared elected as additionalmembers of that Provincial Council. Wheresuch secretary or group leader communicateshis decision to the returning officer within the

Uncontestedelection.

Replacement ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

8Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

period specified by the returning officer, thereturning officer shall declare such candidateselected as additional members of that ProvincialCouncil. Where such secretary or independentgroup leader fails to communicate his decisionto the returning officer within the periodspecified by the returning officer, then suchnumber of candidates, in the order in which theirnames appear in such district list, as is equalto the number of additional members to beelected to that Provincial Council, shall bedeclared elected as members. The provisionsof section 58B shall apply to such nominations.The provisions of section 58B shall apply toany nomination made by such Secretary orindependent group leader, as the case may beor to any declaration made by the returningofficer under this subsection.

(2) The returning officer shall forthwithmake a return which shall be substantially inthe prescribed form, to the Commissioner whoshall cause the names of the members so electedto be published in the Gazette..

6.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the deletion of paragraph (b) of thatsubsection and the substitution therefor,of the following new paragraphs:

(b)the names of each political party orindependent group contesting ineach administrative district, and theapproved symbol allotted to eachsuch party or independent group, andin the case of an independent group,the words Independent Group and

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

9Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

the distinguishing number if any,and

(i)the names of candidates of eachparty or group contesting inrespect of each electorate; and

(ii)the names of the candidates ofeach party or independent groupon the district list, in the sameorder as appears in thenomination paper submitted bysuch party or independentgroup;;

(b)in paragraph (d) of subsection (1), by thedeletion of the words of the pollingdistricts and the substitution therefor ofthe words electorate;

(2)in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution, forthe words polling district of the wordselectorate.

(3)by the substitution for subsection (4) of that section,of the following:

(4) The polling station or stations for eachelectorate shall be situated within such electoratesave where the returning officer, having regard tothe special circumstances in any electorate, maydecide upon a polling station outside suchelectorate. The location of the polling station shallbe such as to cause the minimum inconvenience tothe electors of the electorate:

Provided that, the Elections Commission shallat all times have the power to direct that a pollingstation be established in respect of more than oneelectorate..

10Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

7.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (3) of that section by the substitutionfor the words regulations contained in the Second Scheduleto this Act wherever those words appear, of the wordsprescribed by law.

8.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows:

(1)in paragraph (a) of that subsection thereof, by thesubstitution for the words form set out in the ThirdSchedule to this Act of the words form prescribedby law.

(2)by the substitution for paragraph (b) of thatsubsection of the following paragraphs:

(b) the names of each political party orindependent group contesting in eachadministrative district, and the approvedsymbol allotted to each such party orindependent group and in the case of anindependent group the words IndependentGroup and the distinguishing number if any,and

(i) the names of candidates of each party or

independent group contesting in respectof each electorate; and

(ii) the names of the candidates of each partyor independent group on the district list,in the same order as appears in thenomination paper submitted by suchparty or independent group..

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

11Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

9.Section 30 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof as follows:

(1)by the substitution for the words form C set out inthe First Schedule to this Act of the words formprescribed by law;(2)by the substitution for paragraph (a) of thatsubsection of the following:

(a) shall contain the approved symbol allottedto each political party or independent groupcontesting in the administrative district, andthe name of the candidates of each party orindependent group contesting in respect ofsuch electorate within such administrativedistrict;.

10.Section 36 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words form D set out in the First Schedule to thisAct of the words form prescribed by law.

11.Section 37 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (1) of that section for the wordsvoters in the Third Schedule to this Act and of the wordsvoters and.

12.Section 38 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, substitution for the wordsvoters in the Third Schedule to this Act, but ofthe words voters, but;

(2)in subsection (2) thereof

(a) in paragraph (a) of that subsection,substitution for the words, voters in the ThirdSchedule to the principal enactment may beof the words voters may be ;

Amendment ofsection 30 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 36 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 37 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 38 of theprincipalenactment.

12Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

(b) in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words form set out in the FourthSchedule to this Act of the words formprescribed by law.

13.Section 41 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words in forms E, F and G set out in the First Scheduleto this Act of the words in the forms prescribed by law.

14.Section 43 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words form H set outin the First Schedule to this Act and in form I in the FirstSchedule to this Act of the words form prescribed by lawrespectively.

15.Section 45 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words form J set out in the First Schedule to this Act ofthe words in the forms prescribed by law.

16.Section 46A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (5) thereof, by the substitution forthe words and the number of preferences securedby each candidate nominated by each such party orindependent group of the words in respect of eachelectorate and in respect of the administrativedistrict as a whole;

(2)in subsections (6) and (7) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words administrative districtof the words, administrative district or electorate;

(3)in subsection (8) thereof

(a) by the substitution, for the words and thepreferences secured by each candidatenominated by each such party or independent

Amendment ofsection 41 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 43 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 45 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 46Aof the principalenactment.

13Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

group of the words in respect of eachelectorate and in respect of the administrativedistrict as a whole; and

(b) by the substitution for the wordsindependent group and the preferencessecured by each such candidate at the pollof the words independent group at the poll.

17.Section 50 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words ballot boxes. of thewords, ballot boxes in respect of each electorate;

(2)in subsection (5) thereof, by the substitution for thewords ballot papers, of the words ballot papersin respect of each electorate.

18.Section 51 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords guidance of voters in the Third Schedule tothis Act. of the words guidance of voters.;

(2)in subsection (7) thereof, by the substitution for thewords of the number of preferences indicated forevery of the words in respect of the votes polledin respect of each electorate by the;

(3)by the repeal of subsections (8), (9) and (10) thereof.

19.Section 53 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in parapraph (h) thereof, by the substitution for thewords and the number of preferences secured by eachcandidate nominated of the words in respect of the votespolled in respect of each electorate.

Amendment ofsection 50 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 51 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 53 of theprincipalenactment.

14Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

20.Section 54 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words set out in theSecond Schedule to this Act and returning officer of thewords, prescribed by regulation and returning officer, soas to ensure the counting of votes in respect of each electorateseparately. respectively.

21.Section 58 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) thereof

(a)in paragraph (a) of that subsection thereof,by the substitution for the words and thenumber of preferences indicated for eachof the words in respect of the votes polledin respect of each electorate by the; and

(b)by the substitution for paragraphs (b), (d),(e) and (f) of that subsection thereof, of thefollowing:

(b)the candidate belonging to therecognized political party or theindependent group who obtainedthe highest number of votes ineach electorate and who wasnominated by such recognizedpolitical party or independentgroup in its nomination paper asits candidates for that electorateshall be declared elected as themember of such electorate;

(c)where and equality of votes isfound to exist between any twoor more recognized politicalparties or two or moreindependent groups, and the

Amendment ofsection 54 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 58 of theprincipalenactment.

15Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

addition of a vote would entitlethe nominated candidate of onesuch recognized political partyor independent group to beelected as the member of suchelectorate, the determination ofthe recognized political party orindependent group to which suchadditional vote shall be deemedto have been given, shall bemade by lot drawn in the presenceof the chief counting officer, insuch manner as he shalldetermine..

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof.

22.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 58 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 58A and 58B of that enactment:

58A .(1) Upon the declaration under section58, the additional members elected for all theelectorates of the administrative district shallbe apportioned in the manner hereinafterprovided for in this section.

(2) The total number of valid votes receivedby all the candidates of each recognizedpolitical party and independent group in theadministrative district shall be divided by thetotal number of members to be elected andreturned to Provincial Council from suchAdministrative District. The number resultingfrom such division (any fraction not beingtaken into account) shall hereinafter in thissection be referred to as the qualifyingnumber.

Insertion of newsections 58A and58B in theprincipalenactment.Election ofmembers ofProvincialCouncils.

16Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

(3) The aggregate of the votes received bythe candidates of each recognized politicalparty and independent group in the respectiveelectorates shall then be divided by thequalifying number, in order to ascertain thenumber of persons entitled to be elected andreturned as members of the Provincial Council,from such administrative district. Where thenumber ascertained by this method is an integerand a fraction, the integer shall be deemed tobe the number for the purpose of thissubsection.

(4) Upon ascertaining the number ofcandidates entitled to be elected and returnedfrom such administrative district, as membersof that Provincial Council, by each recognizedpolitical party or independent group, as thecase may be, in terms of subsection (3), if it isfound that the number of members elected fromsuch recognized political party or independentgroup from such administrative district for thatProvincial Council

(a)exceeds the number ascertained tobe elected and returned as membersunder subsection (3), then suchoverhang shall be determined by theCommissioner of Elections; or

(b)falls short of the number ascertainedto be elected and returned asmembers under subsection (3), thensuch additional number of members,shall be returned by the respectivesecretary of the recognized politicalparty or leader of the independentgroup from the candidates on theElectorate List or the District List,

17Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

other than the candidates who havebeen elected or are not qualified tobe a member.

(5) Where at the conclusion of ascertainingthe number of members to be returned by anyrecognized political party or independentgroup on the method specified in subsection(3), there remains a further number of membersto be returned under the proportionalrepresentation system as determined undersubsection (4), such remaining number shallbe allocated on the basis of the highest fractionreceived by each recognized political party orindependent group, as ascertained undersubsection (3).

(6) The returning officer shall inform thesecretary of the recognized political party orthe leader of the independent group, as the casemay be, which is entitled to return such numberof members as ascertained under subsection(3) of this section, of the number of membersincluding women members that suchrecognized political party or independentgroup, as the case may be, is entitled to beelected and returned from the candidates ofthe Electorate List or the District List otherthan the candidates who have been elected orare not qualified to be members. The Secretaryor Independent Group Leader as the case maybe shall accordingly nominate the names ofpersons who are to be returned as membersunder that subsection.

(7) The names of the candidates who arereturned under this section shall thereafter bedeclared by the returning officer of therespective administrative district.

18Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

(8) The Commissioner shall ensure thattwenty five per centum of the total number ofmembers to be elected and returned from eachadministrative district within a Province shallbe women members:

provided that, where the numberconstituting twenty five per centum of the totalnumber of members is an integer and fraction,the integer shall be deemed to be the numberwhich shall constitute twenty five per centumfor the purpose of this section :

Provided further that a Provincial Councilconstituted in terms of this Act, shall not bedeemed to be unlawful only by virtue of aninability to comply with the provisions of thissubsection.

58B. (1) Where the number of memberselected from any recognized pilitical party orindependent group for an administrative districtresults in an overhang and thereby exceeds thenumber ascertained to be elected and returnedas members under subsection (3) of section 58A,the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of thissection shall not apply to such recognizedpolitical party or independent group.

(2) Where any recognized political party orindependent group has received less thantwenty per centum of the total number of votespolled in an administrative district, then theprovisions of subsections (3) and (4) of thissection shall not apply to such recognizedpolitical party or independent group.

Number ofmembers to bereturned.

19Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

(3) the apportionment of women membersto be elected and returned from eachadministrative district to each ProvincialCouncil from the recognized political partiesand independent groups other than the politicalparties and the independent groups referred toin subsections (1) and (2) of this section, shallbe determined by the Elections Commission,taking into consideration the number of validvotes polled by the other recognized politicalparties and independent groups within suchadministrative district, and the method ofapportionment set out in Article 99A of theConstitution of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka shall mutatis mutandisapply thereto.

(4) Where the number of women memberselected for all electorates within anadministrative district from any recognizedpolitical party or independent group, is lessthan the number apportioned in terms ofsubsection (3) of this section, then the shortfallin the number of members shall be returnedfrom among the women candidates in theElectorate List or the District List other thanthe women condidates who have been electedor are disqualified to be a member..

23.Section 60 of the principal enactment is amendedby the substitution for the words form K set out in the FirstSchedule to this Act, of the words the form prescribed bylaw.

24.Section 65 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (2) thereof

(a)by the substitution for the words of a personeligible under this Act for election as a

Amendment ofsection 60 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 65 of theprincipalenactment.

20Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

member of the words any other candidateof the Electorate List or the District List otherthan the candidates who have been electedor are not qualified to be a member,

(b)by the substitution for the words nominationpaper submitted by that party or independentgroup for the administrative district in respectof which the vacancy occurred, the candidatewho has secured the highest number ofpreferences at the election of members to thatProvincial Council, next to the last of themembers declared elected to that ProvincialCouncil from that party or independentgroup of the words the condidate next inthe District List other than a candidate whohas been elected or is not qualified to be amember;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following newsubsection :-

(3) Where a vacancy occurs in the case of awoman member of a Provincial Council undersubsection (1) or (2) such vacancy shall be filledonly by the nomination of a woman condidate fromthe relevant Electorate List or the District List otherthan the women condidates who have been electedor are not qualified to be a member..

25.The Schedules of the principal enactment are herebyrepealed.

26.Section 129 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after the definitionof the expression members of the following definition:

overhang means, the number of candidates electedfrom an administrative district to a Provincial

Repeal ofSchedules in theprincipalenactment.Amendment ofsection 129 ofthe principalenactment.

21Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

Council from any recognized political party orindependent group in excess of the number suchrecognized political party or independent groupis entitled to have elected in terms of paragraph (a)of subsection (4) of section 58A of this Act;.

27.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

22Provincial Councils Elections (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2017

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.