PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs. 4.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of December 20, 2002

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th December , 2002]

PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, No. 33 OF 2002

1Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)Act, No. 33 of 2002

[Certified on 17th December, 2002]

L.D.O. 51/2002.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR AN ALTERNATE PROCEDURE FOR THE IMPORT,

EXPORT, SALE, SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION OF PETROLEUM ; TO

VEST CERTAIN POWERS IN THE ENERGY SUPPLY COMMITTEE ; AND

TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Petroleum Products(Special Provisions) Act, No. 33 of 2002 and shall come intooperation on such date as the Minister may by Order publishedin the Gazette appoint, (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date).

2.The provisions of this Act shall operate in addition toand not in derogation of the powers vested in the CeylonPetroleum Corporation.

3.The Energy Supply Committee shall in relation to thisAct, exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions hereinafter set out.

4.Notwithstanding anything contained in the provisionsof section 5K of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Act, theprovisions of sections 5B, 5C, 5E, 5F, 5G, 5I and 5J of thatAct, shall not apply in respect of the powers conferred on orassigned to the Energy Supply Committee by the succeedingprovisions of this Act.

5.(1) The Minister may, taking into consideration therequirements of the petroleum sector and the interests of thenational economy, on the recommendation of the EnergySupply Committee, grant a licence to any person or body ofpersons, to import, export, sell, supply or distribute petroleum.

Short title anddate of operation.

2H 168095,650 (2002/08)

Powers of theCeylon PetroleumCorporation notderogated from.

Energy SupplyCommittee to bevested withpowers under thisAct.

Certain provisionsof the CeylonPetroleumCorporation Act,not to apply to theEnergy Supply ofCommittee.

Grant of licence toimport, export,&c,. petroleum.

2Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)Act, No. 33 of 2002

(2) The grant of a licence in terms of subsection (1) shallbe subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by theMinister on the advice of the Energy Supply Committee forthe purpose of ensuring that the import, export, sale, supplyor distribution of petroleum would be properly regulated.

(3) The total number of licences issued in terms of thissection shall not in the first instance exceed three :

Provided however, that where it appears to the EnergySupply Committee that it is in the interest of the nationaleconomy and the needs of the consumers to increase thenumber of licences granted under this section, it mayrecommend to the Minister that additional licences be grantedto such number of persons as may be necessary taking intoconsideration the interest of that sector. The Minister maytaking into consideration all the related circumstances,increase the number of licences to be granted.

(4) The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation shall be deemedto be a licensee for the purposes of this Act and the provisionsof this Act shall accordingly be read and construed as beingapplicable to such Corporation.

6.(1) In granting a licence for the distribution ofpetroleum in terms of section 5, the Minister in charge of thesubject of Power and Energy shall consult the Minister incharge of the subject of Economic Reforms in order toascertain the viability of engaging, on the premises used forsuch distribution, in any prescribed activity.

(2) Prescribed activity shall be such activities as mayfrom time to time, be prescribed by regulation. The specialconditions, which will govern the prescribed activities, shallalso be prescribed.

(3) The licence granted for the distribution of petroleumin terms of this Act, shall contain in addition to the otherconditions applicable to a licence for distribution, specialconditions which will govern the activities connected withthe distribution and such other prescribed activity.

Granting of alicence fordistribution ofpetroleum.

3Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)Act, No. 33 of 2002

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

(4) The prescribed activity shall be carried out inaccordance with the requirements specified in any written lawfor the time being in force in relation to construction, planningand safety.

7.(1) The Minister may make regulations for the purposeof carrying out and giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister under subsection(1) shall be published in the Gazette and shall come intooperation on the date of such publication or on such later dateas may be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall as soon as convenient after its publicationin the Gazette be brought before Parliament for approval. Anyregulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to berescinded as from the date of such disapproval but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date of which a regulation is deemedto be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

8.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

9.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Ceylon Petroleum Corporation means the CeylonPetroleum Corporation established in terms of theprovisions of section 2 of the Ceylon PetroleumCorporation Act, No. 28 of 1961 ;

Energy Supply Committee means the Energy SupplyCommittee established in terms of the provisions ofsection 2 of the Energy Supply (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 2002 ;

Regulations.

4Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)Act, No. 33 of 2002

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.