PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

NATIONAL TRANSPORT MEDICAL INSTITUTE

' ACT, No. 25 OF 1997

[Certified on 6th October, 1997]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to part IT of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 10, 1997

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price : Rs. 9.00 ' . Postage : Rs. 4.60


National Transport Medical Institute Act ,No. 25 of 1997

L.D.—O. 57/95
[Certified on 6th October, 1997]

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL
TRANSPORT MEDICAL INSTITUTE AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1. This Act may be cited as the National Transport
Medical Institute Act, No. 25 of 1997, and shall come into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the
“appointed date”).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL TRANSPORT MEDICAL
INSTITUTE

2. (1) There shal! be established, in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, an Institute which shall be called the
National Transport Medical Institute (hereinater referred to as
the “ Institute ”).

(2) The Institute shall, by the name assigned to it by sub-
section (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession and
a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3. The functions of the Institute shall be—

(a) to provide medical services and assistance to drivers
and operators operating or driving all categories of
motor vehicles including heavy duty vehicles ;

(b) to examine drivers and operators of all categories of
motor vehicles including heavy duty vehicles and
furnish certificates of physical and mental fitness to
such drivers and operators ;

2—D 042645—8,550 (96/12)

Short title and date
of operation.

Establishment of
the National
Transport Medical
Institute.

Functions of the
Institute.


National Transport Medical Institute Act, No. 25.of 1 997

(c) to carry out medical examinations on drivers and
operators of all categories of motor: vehicles
including heavy duty vehicles and furnish
recommendations regarding their ‘Suitability and
fitness ;

(d) to provide medical services and assistance in the cases
of accidents involving any category of motor
vehicles ;

(e) to ensure either by itself or in consultation with other
agencies, that motor vehicles of all descriptions are
operated or driven only by persons whoare physically
and mentally fit and competent ; .

(f) to appoint a panel of suitable medical: officers to
various districts and provinces for thre: purpose of
discharging its functions ;

(g) to render medical advice and recommendations on
industrial hygine and industrial accidents ;

(A) toprovide advice and special guidelines relating to the
quantum of compensation or damages payable i in
cases of accident ;

(i) to set standards and prescribe parameters regarding
transport medicine to be adopted and implemented
by the relevant implementing authorities ; and

(j) torender medical services and assistance to the drivers
and operators employed in companies formed under
the Conversion of Public Corporations or Govern-
ment owned Business Undertakings into Public
Companies Act, No. 23 of 1987, public corporation
and Private Omnibus Companies, registered under
the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of
1991.

4. The Institute shall have such powers as may be

necessary for the discharge of its functions and in particular,
shall have the power to do all or any of the following :—


National Transport Medical Institute Act .No. 25 of 1997

@ to acquire, (whether by sale, gift, or otherwise) hold,

mee take.or give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge and
sell ‘or otherwise dispose of, any movable or
: immovable property ; ;

- oy 10" open ‘and maintain current, savings or deposit
rogccounts. jn any bank or banks ;

oO © atoept grants or donations, from persons or bodies
‘tof persons, whether in or outside Sri Lanka ;

(d\  to‘enterinto and perform, all such contracts as may be
" "necessary for the exercise of its powers, or the
' . discharge of its functions ;

-{(e)- to ‘invest: any moneys belonging to the Institute
.. +. _s-ineluding any unapplied income, in any security or
>. tofnvest any such moneys in the purchase of
immovable property in Sri Lanka or vary such
- investments, or to place in fixed deposits in any
bank, any portion of such moneys as are not required

_. for immediate expenditure ;

- to borrow such sums of money as may be necessary for
. the. > purpose of discharging its functions ;

, Oy toenter into agreements for co-operation with medical

- andother institutions, whether in Sri Lanka or abroad,

- ‘having dbjects wholly or partly similar to those of the

Institute ; for the exchange and training of personnel,

’* research and advisory services ; and generally, for

. such’ purposes as may be in furtherance of their
ve common objects ;

(h) to- “appoint, employ, remunerate and exercise
. \disciplinary control over, and dismiss such officers,
- or servants as are necessary for the discharge of the
functions of the Institute under this Act ;

(i) to charge fees for the services and assistance provided
’ by the Institute ;


4 National Transport Medical Institute Act, No. 25 of 1997

(j) to make rules in respect of all matters in respect of
which it is required by this Act to make rules ; and

(k) to do all such other things which in the opinion of the
Institute are necessary to facilitate the discharge of
its functions.

PARTI

CONSTITUTION OF THE BOARD

pennies “ 5. (1) The administration, management and control of the
in he Bead affairs of the Institute shall be vested in the Board of Directors
of the Institute (hereinafter referred to as the ““Board”).

(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of administering the
affairs of the Institute, exercise, perform and discharge, the
powers, duties and functions conferred or imposed on or
assigned to, the Institute by this Act.

Constitution of the 6. (1) The Board shall consist of the following :—
Board.

(a) five ex-officio members, namely :—

(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Transport or his
« representative ;

(ii) the Chairman of the National Transport
Commission established by the National
Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 or
his representative ;

(iii) the Deputy Inspector-General of Police
(Traffic) or his representative ;

. (iv) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Health or his
representative ; and

(v) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance or his
representative ; and


‘National Transport Medical Institute Act ,No. 25 of 1997

(6) four members, appointed by the Minister, (hereinafter
referred to as the “appointed members”) chosen
from among persons who have had experience or
have qualifications or have shown capacity, in the
fields of transport, or medicine.

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the members of the
Board, as the Chairman of the Board.

(3) The Chairman shall be the Chief Executive officer of
the Institute.

(4) Aperson shall be disqualified from being appointed or
from continuing as a member of the Board if he is, or becomes,
a member of Parliament or a member of a Provincial Council.

7. (1) An appointed member of the Board shall hold office
for a period of three years from the date of his appointment.

(2) The Minister may without assigning any reason there
for remove any appointed member of the Board from office.
The removal of any member of the Board shall not be called
in question in any Court.

(3) An appointed member of the Board may at any time
resign his office by a letter addressed to the Minister.

(4) Inthe event of a vacancy occurring in the membership
of the Board as a result of any appointed member vacating
office by death, resignation, removal from office or other-
wise, another person shall, having regard to the provisions of
section 6, be appointed to fill such vacancy.

(5) Where another person is appointed to fill a vacancy
caused by the death, resignation, removal from office or
otherwise of an appointed member, the person so appointed
shalt hold such office for the unexpired part of the term of
office of the member of the Board whom he succeeds.

Term of office.


6 National Transport Medical Institute Act, No. 25 of 1997

(6) Where any appointed member is by reason of illness,
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period of not less
than three months, temporarily unable to perform his duties,
another person, may, having regatd to the provisions of
section 6, be appointed to act in his place.

(7) Any appointed member of the Board, who is absent
without leave from three consecutive meetings of the Board
shall be deemed to have vacated his office.

Chairman of the 8. (1) The Chairman may at any time resign from the
Board. office of Chairman by letter addressed to the Minister.

(2) The Minister may at any time, remove the Chairman
from the office of Chairman, without assigning any reason
therefor.

(3) If the Chairman is by reason of illness or absence from
Sri Lanka, temporarily unable to perform the duties of his
office, the Minister may appoint another member of the
Board tc act in his place.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2), the
term of office of the Chairman shall be the period of his
membership in the Board.

Miestings of the 9, (1) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the

; Board. In the absence of the Chairman from any meeting of the
Board, a member chosen by the members of the Board present
at such meeting shall preside at such meeting.

(2) In the event of an equality of votes at any meeting of the
Board, the Chairman or the member presiding at such meeting
shall in addition to his vote, have a casting vote.

(3) The meetings of the Board shall be convened by the
Chairman and shall be held as frequently as is necessary for
the purpose of discharging the functions of the Institute under
this Act.

(4) The quorum for meeting of the Board shall be five
members.


National Transport Medical Institute Act ,No. 25 of 1997

(5) The members of the Board shall be remunerated: in
such manner and at such rates as may be deterthined by the
Minister, in consultation with the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance.

(6 Subject to the provisions of this Act, regulations may
be made, regulating the procedure to be followed with regard
to conduct of its meetings and the transaction of business at
such meetings.

(7) The Board shall in the exercise of its powers, the
performance of its duties and the discharge of its functions, be
subject to and act in accordance with, such directions as the
Minister may from time to time issue.

10: Subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of section
9, the Board shall have the power to act notwithstanding any
vacancy in its membership, and no act or proceeding of the
Board shall be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
such vacancy or any defect in the appointment of a member
thereof.

11. The seal of the Board—

(a) shall be in the custody of the Chairman of the Board ;

(6) shall be of such design as shall be approved by the
Board and may be altered in such manner as may be
determined by the Board ; and

(c) shall not be affixed to any document except in the
presence of two members of the Board, both of
whom shall sign the document in token of their
presence.

12. Subjecttothe provisions of this Actand any regulations
made by the Minister, the Board shall have the power to
appoint the officers and servants of the Institute.

Proceedings of the
Board not to be
invalid by reason of
any vacancy or
defect in the
appointment of a
member.

Seal of the Board.

Staff of the Institute.


Service to the
Institute deemed to
be service to the
Government for the
purposes of certain
contracts.

Appointment of
public officers to the
staff of the {nstitute,

Delegation of
powers of the Board
to the Chairman of
the Board.

National Transport Medical Institute Act, No. 25 of 1997

13. Where the Institute employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Institute by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such contract.

14, (1) Atthe request of the Board, any officer in the public
service serving in the Ministry of the Minister may, with the
consent of the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister given
with the concurrence of the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Public Administration and
of the officer, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Institute for such period as may be determined by the Board
with like consent or with like consent be permanently appointed
to such staff.

(2) At the request of the Board, any officer in the public
service other than an officer referred to in subsection (1) may,
with the consent of that officer and of the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Public
Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Institute for such period as may be determined by the Board
with like consent or with like consent be permanently
appointed to such staff.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of section
14 (2) of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of
1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to, him.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of section
14 (3) of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of
1991, shall, mutatis mutandis , apply to, and in relation to, him.

15. (1) The Board may delegate to the Chairman of the
Board any of its powers, duties or functions other than its
powers under this subsection.


National Transport Medical Institute Act ,No. 25 of 1997

(2) The Chairman of the Board to whom any power, duty
or function has been delegated under subsection (1) shall
exercise, perform and discharge such power, duty or function,
subject to the directions of the Board.

PART III

FINANCE
16. (1) The Institute shall have its own fund.

(2) There shall be credited to the fund of the Institute—

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time to
time by Parliament for the use of the Institute ;

(b) all such sums of money as may be teceived by the
Institute in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions , and

(c) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Institute by way of loans, donations, gifts or grants
from any source whatsoever, whether in or outside
Sri Lanka. ,

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Institute—

(a) all such sums of money as are required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Institute in the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act ; and

(b) all such sums of money as are required to be paid out
of such fund, by or under, this Act.

17. The financial year of the Institute shall be the calendar
year.

18. The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall
apply to, and in relation to, the audit of the accounts of th
Institute. .

Fund of the Institute.

Financial year of the
Institute.

Audit of Accounts.


Regulations.

Protection of actions
taken under this
Act.

National Transport Medical Institute Act, No. 25 of 1997
PART IV
GENERAL

19. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
matters, for which regulations are required or authorized by
this Act to be made or which are required by this Act to be
prescribed.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall as
soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be
brought before Parliament for approval and any regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded with
effect from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice
to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

20. (1) No suit or prosecution shalt lie—

(a) against the Institute for any act which in good faith is
done or purported to be done by it under this Act ;

(b) against any member of the Board, officer, servant or
agent of the Institute for any act which in good faith
is done or purported to be done by him under this Act
or on the direction of the Board.

(2) Any expenses incurred by any such person as is referred
to in subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought against
him before any court in respect of any act which is done by him
under this Act or on the direction of the Board shall, if the
Court holds that the act was done in good faith, be paid out of
the fund of the Institute.


National Transport Medical Institute Act ,No. 25 of 1997

21. The Institute shali be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution, within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

22. All members, officers and servants of the Institute
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning, and
for the purposes, of the Penal Code.

23. (1) All property, movable and immovable vested in
the Medical Centre established under the Transport Board
Law, No. 19 of 1978 or in the Sri Lanka Transport Board
established by that Act, and used on the day preceding the
appointed date, for the purposes of such Medical Centre, shall
vest in the Institute with effect from the appointed date.

(2) All contracts and agreements entered into, by, or with
the Medical Centre established under the Transport Board
Law, No. 19 of 1978 or the Sri Lanka Transport Board
established by that Act, for the purposes of such Medical
Centre and subsisting on the day preceding the appointed date
shall be deemed, with effect from the appointed date to be
contracts and agreements entered into, by or with the Institute,
as the case may be, and may be enforced accordingly.

(3) All actions and proceedings or matters instituted by or
against the Sri Lanka Transport Board established by the
Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978 relating to the Medical
Centre established under that Act and pending on the day
preceding the appointed date shall with effect from the
appointed date, be deemed to be actions and proceedings
instituted by or against the Institute, as the case may be, and
may be continued accordingly.

2A. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

25. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“motor Vehicle” has the same meaning as in the Motor
Traffic Act, (Chapter 203) ;

“ Provincial Council ” means a Provincial Council
established by Chapter XVIII of the Constitution.

H

The Institute deemed
to be a Scheduled
Institution within the
meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Officers and servants
of the Institute
deemed to be public
servants. ‘

Transitional
provisions.

Sinhala text to
Prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.


ee
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180

(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, No. 32,
Transworks House, Lotus Roap, CoLomso 01 before 15th December each year inrespect
of the year following.
