PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INSTITUTE OF FUNDAMENTAL STUDIES,SRI LANKA (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 25 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th August, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 11.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 08, 2014

Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 20141

[Certified on 08th August, 2014]

L.D.O. 50/2011.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INSTITUTE OF FUNDAMENTALSTUDIES, SRI LANKA ACT, NO. 55 OF 1981

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Institute of FundamentalStudies, Sri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 2014.

2.The Long Title to the Institute of FundamentalStudies, Sri Lanka Act, No. 55 of 1981, (hereinafter referredto as the principal enactment) is hereby amended by thesubstitution, for the words AN INSTITUTE OFFUNDAMENTAL STUDIES of the words A NATIONALINSTITUTE OF FUNDAMENTAL STUDIES.

3.(1) In the principal enactment and in any other writtenlaw there shall be substituted for the words Institute ofFundamental Studies, Sri Lanka and Institute ofFundamental Studies of the words National Institute ofFundamental Studies, Sri Lanka.

(2) Every reference to the Institute of FundamentalStudies, Sri Lanka or Institute of Fundamental Studiesdenoting the Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka inany notice, contract, communication or other document shallbe read and construed as a reference to the National Instituteof Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka.

4.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) ofthat section, of the following paragraph:

(aa)to collabrate with public and privateinstitutions as may be necessary to further

Short title.

Amendment ofLong Title toAct, No.55 of1981.

Amendment tothe principalenactment andwritten law.

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 20142

develop applications relevant to the studiesconducted in relation to paragraph (a);

(2)by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (d) ofthat section of the following:

(e)provide training, guidance and assistance forresearch leading to the award of post graduatedegrees by institutions recognized by theUniversity Grants Commission established bythe Universities Act, No.16 of 1978.;

(3)by re-lettering of paragraph (e) as paragraph (f) ofthat section.

5.The section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section is substitutedtherefor:

6. (1) The administration, management and control ofthe affairs of the Institute shall be vested in the Board ofGovernors (hereinafter referred to as the Board) whichshall consist of:

(a)the following ex-officio members, namely:

(i)the Advisor to the President on ScientificAffairs;

(ii)the Chairman of the University GrantsCommission; and

(iii)the Director of the Institutie;

(b)the following appointed members:

(i)four perosns appointed by the President for aperiod of three years, from among personswho are specially qualified in relation to the

Replacement ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 20143

work of the Institute and one of whom shallbe appointed by the President as theChairman of the Board; and

(ii)two persons appointed by the Minister for aperiod of three years from among persons, whoare specially qualified in relation to the workof the Institute; and

(c)two persons elected from among its members by theResearch Council, for a period of three years or untilhe ceases to be a member of the Research Council,whichever date is earlier (hereinafter referred to asthe Council members).

(2) An appointed member or a Council member vacatingoffice after a period of three years from his date of appointmentshall be eligible for re-appointment, unless removed ondisciplinary grounds.

(3) (i) A member appointed by the President may, at anytime resign his office by a letter addressed to the Presidentand such resignation shall take effect on the date on which itis accepted by the President.

(ii) A member appointed by the Minister or a Councilmember may, at any time resign his office by a letter addressedto the Minister and such resignation shall take effect on thedate on which it is accepted by the Minister.

(4) (i) The President may, for reasons assigned remove amember appointed by him.

(ii) A member appointed by the Minister or a Councilmember may be removed by the Minister for reasons assigned.

(5) (i) A vacancy occurring as a result of a memberappointed by the President vacating office by death,resignation or removal shall be filled by the President havingregard to the provisions of subsection (1).

Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 20144

(ii) A vacancy occurring as a result of a member appointedby the Minister vacating office by death, resignation orremoval shall be filled by the Minister having regard tothe provisions of subsection (1).

(iii) Any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall holdoffice for the unexpired period of the term of office whom hesucceeds.

(6) (i) Where a member appointed by the President is, byreason of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, for aperiod of not less than three months, termporarily unable toperform the duties of his office, he shall inform the Presidentin writing such inability and the President may appointanother person to act in his place during the period of hisabsence.

(ii) Where a member appointed by the Minister is, byreason of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, for aperiod of not less than three months, termporarily unable toperform the duties of his office, he shall inform the Ministerin writing such inability and the Minister may appointanother person to act in his place during the period of hisabsence.

(iii) Where a Council member is, by reason of illness,infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, for a period of not lessthan three months, termporarily unable to perform the dutiesof his office, he shall inform the Minister in writing suchinability and the Minister may upon the recommendation ofthe Research Council appoint another person to act in hisplace during the period of his absence..

6.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof andsubstitution therefor of the following:

(1) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of theBoard. Where the Chairman is absent from any meeting the

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 20145

members present shall elect a Chairman for that meetingfrom among themselves..

7.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof andsubstitution therefor of the following:

(b) elect two members for appointment by the Ministerto the Board and recommend the removal of any such memberto the Minister ;.

8.Section 44 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the definitions of the expressionsof Leader of the Opposition and Prime Ministerrespectively.

9.For the avoidnace of doubts it is hereby declared thatthe National Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lankaestablished by this Act, shall for all purposes be deemed tobe the successor to the Institute of Fundamental Studies, SriLanka established under section 2 of the principal enactment,and accordingly

(a)all contracts and agreements entered into, by theInstitute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka;

(b)all suits, actions, appeals and other legalproceedings instituted by or against the Institute ofFundamental Studies, Sri Lanka;

(c)all judgments and orders made in favour or againstthe Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka;

(d)all other rights, liabilities and obligations of theInstitute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka inexistence as at the date of coming into operation ofthis Act; and

(e)all properties movable or immovable, owned bythe Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka and

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 44 of theprincipalenactment.

Savings.

Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 20146

used for the purposes of the same on the dayimmediately preceding the relevant date,

shall be continued, enforced and carried out by the NationalInstitute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka.

10.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 20147

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.