PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ANIMAL FEED (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 15 OF 2016

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 07th September, 2016]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 9.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 09, 2016

1Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2016

[Certified on 07th September, 2016]

L.D.O. 69/2006.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE ANIMAL FEED ACT, NO. 15 OF 1986

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Animal Feed(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2016.

2.Long title of the Animal Feed Act, No. 15 of 1986(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment)is hereby amended by the substitution for the wordsMANUFACTURE, SALE AND DISTRIBUTION OFANIMAL FEED of the words MANUFACTURE, SALE,IMPORTATION FOR SALE, DISTRIBUTION AND USE OFANIMAL FEED.

3.Section 2 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:

2. (1) The Director-General of AnimalProduction and Health (hereinafter referred toas the the Director-General) shall beresponsible for the general administration ofthis Act.

(2) There may be appointed such number ofDirectors, Deputy Directors, Assistant Directorsof Animal Production and Health and suchother officers as may be necessary for thepurpose of assisting the Director-General incarrying out or giving effect to the provisionsof this Act.

(3) Any power, duty or function of theDirector-General under this Act may beexercised, performed or discharged by any

Short title.

Amendment ofthe long title ofAct, No. 15 of1986.

Director -General ofAnimalProductionand Health.

Replacement ofsection 2 of theprincipalenactment.

2PL 0100662,961 (07/2016)

Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20162

Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Directorof Animal Production and Health under thedirection of the Director-General or by suchother officer who is authorized to do so by theDirector-General in writing..

4.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 2 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 2A of that enactment.

2A. (1) There shall be appointed an officerbelonging to the Grade I of the Sri LankaAnimal Production and Health Service havingnot less than three years of active service inthat Grade to be or to act as the Registrar ofAnimal Feed (hereinafter referred to as theRegistrar) who shall be the licensing authorityfor the purposes of this Act.

(2) The Registrar shall exercise, perform anddischarge any power, duty and functionassigned to him under this Act, subject to thedirection and control of the Director-General..

5.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:

3. No person shall manufacture or importany animal feed except under the authority ofa licence issued by the Registrar under thisAct..

6.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords Every person desirous of obtaining a licenceto manufacture of the words Every person desirousof obtaining a licence to manufacture or import;

Licensingauthority foranimal feed.

Replacement ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 2A in theprincipalenactment.

Licensing.

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

3Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2016

(2)in subsection (2) thereof

(a)by the deletion of paragraph (d); and

(b)in paragrph (e) by the substitution for thewords a statement of the composition ofsuch animal feed, of the words a statementof the nutrient composition of such animalfeed,.

7.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the following subsection:

(1) The Registrar shall declare any animalfeed manufactured or imported for sale on alicence issued under section 5 of this Act to bean approved animal feed (hereinafter referredto as approved animal feed) and assign anumber in respect of such approved animalfeed..

8.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:

7. No person shall sell, expose for sale, offerfor sale or distribute any animal feed other thanan approved animal feed declared undersection 6..

9.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 7 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 7A of that enactment.

7A. No person shall sell, expose for sale, offerfor sale, store, supply or distribute any approvedanimal feed at or from any premises unless auchpremises has been registered in the mannerprescribed by the Registrar and a Certificate ofRegistration is obtained in that behalf..

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 7A in theprincipalenactment.

Sale ofapprovedanimal feed.

Registeringof premisses.

Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20164

10.Section 8 of the principal enactment is amended asfollows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) andsubstitution therefor of the following:

(a)the Director-General or a person nominatedby him; and;

(2)in subparagraph (ii) of pargraph (b) of subsection(1) by the substitution for the word three of theword five;

(3)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words three members. of the words fourmembers.;

(4)by the insertion immediately after subsection (3) ofthat section of the following new subsection whichshall have effect as subsection (3A):

(3A) The Registrar shall be the Secretary of theCommittee..

11.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in paragraph (i) by the substitution for the wordsmanufacture, storage and prepartion of animal feedfor sale of the words manufacture, importation,storage and preparation of animal feed for sale orfor use;

(2)in paragraph (ii) by the substitution for the wordsof any approved animal feed; of the words ofany approved animal feed or any other raw materialsuitable of being used as animal feed,;

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

5Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2016

(3)in paragraph (iii) by the substitution for the wordsfix the maximum level of deleterious of the wordsspecify the maximum level, and prohibit whererequired, the use of deleterious;

(4)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (iii)of that section of the following paragraph whichshall have effect as paragraph (iiiA):

(iiiA)recommend to the Minister on mattersrelating to the quality of animal feed andraw materials;.

12.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (c) by the substitution for the wordcomposition of the words nutrient composition.

13.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted thererfor:

12. The Committee shall

(a)study and keep under reviewmatters relating to

(i)the production, importation,manufacture, sale, processing,distribution and use ofanimal feed;

(ii)preparation of animal feed;

(b)report on matters relating tosubparagraphs (i) or (ii) ofparagraph (a) from time to time tothe Minister; and

(c)recommend to the Minister suchproposals as it considers necessaryor advisable for the control,

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

Committeeto makecontinuingstudies andreports.

Replacement ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20166

supervision, use, marketing anddistribution of approved animalfeed in the interest of nationaleconomy..

14.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) by the substiution for the wordsthe production, manufacture, processing, distribution andsale of approved animal feed of the words the production,manufacture, importation, processing, distribution, use andsale of animal feed.

15.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words No alteration inthe container, print or the label or of the words Where anyapproved animal feed is intended to be sold, no alteration inthe container, print or the label or.

16.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2).

17.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words manufacture,prepare or store any approved animal feed for sale of thewords manufacture, import, prepare or store any approvedanimal feed for sale.

18.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words no person shallmanufacture, any approved animal feed for sale or sell ofthe words no person shall manufacture or import anyapproved animal feed for sale, use or sell.

19.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) by the substitution for the wordsNo manufacturer or a distributor or a commissionagent or a dealer of any approved animal feed shall

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

7Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2016

sell such approved animal feed of the words Nomanufacturer or an importer or a distributor or acommission agent or a dealer of any approvedanimal feed shall sell such approved animal feed;

(2)in subsection (2) by the substitution for the wordsWhere any manufacturer or a distributor or acommission agent or a dealer of any approvedanimal feed of the words Where any manufactureror an importer or a distributor or a commission agentor a dealer of any approved animal feed.

20.Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) and substitutiontherefor of the following:

(1) The Director-General may nominate anypublic officer by name or by office to be anauthorized officer to carry out the provisions ofthis Act and any regulation made thereunder.;

(2)by the insertion immediatly after subsection (1) ofthat section of the following subsection which shallhave effect as subsection (1A):

(1A) Every authorized officer nominatedunder subsection (1) shall be deemed to be apeace officer within the meaning and for thepurposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979.;

(3)in paragrah (b) of subsection (2) of that section bythe substitution for the words any approved animalfeed, from any person who has such animal feed inhis possession for the purpose of sale; of the wordsany approved animal feed, from any person whohas such animal feed in his possession for thepurpose of sale or for any other use;.

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment.

Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20168

21.Section 25 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) by the substitution for the wordsthe referee analyst of the words the authorizedanalyst or the referee analyst;

(2)in subsection (2) by the substitution for the wordsthe referee analyst of the words the authorizedanalyst or the referee analyst;

(3)in subsection (3) by the substitution for the wordsthe referee analyst of the words the authorizedanalyst or the referee analyst.

22.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsecion (1) by the substitution for the wordsto a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees of the wordsto a fine not less than fifty thousand rupees and notexceeding two hundred and fifty thousand rupees.

23.Section 31 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) by the insertion immediately afterparagraph (a) of that section of the following paragraph whichshall have effect as paragraph (aa):

(aa)prescribing the standards for the manufacture ofself mixed animal feed;.

24.Section 32 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately before the definitionof the expression animal feed of the followingnew definition:

animal shall have the same meaning as in theAnimal Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1992;;

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 31 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 32 of theprincipalenactment.

9Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2016

(2)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression compounded feeds of thefollowing new definition:

Controller of Imports and Exports means theController of Imports and Exports appointedunder section 2 of the Imports and Exports(Control) Act, No. 1 of 1969;

Director-General means the Director-General ofthe Department of Animal Production andHealth;

Distributor means a person who distributesanimal feed obtained from a manufacturer,importer or a dealer to a retailer, a seller or auser respectively;;

(3)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression referee analyst of the followingnew definition:

self mixed animal feed means a feed obtainedby mixing two or more feed stuffs to be usedas a feed by any person for animal or poultryin his custody;;

(4)by the repeal of the definition of seller andsubstitution therefor of the following newdefinition:

seller means any person to whom any approvedanimal feed is sold or delivered by themanufacturer or importer, for the purpose ofsale by retail, and includes any person whobarters or supply any approved animal feedunder the integrated contract farmingarrangement, and the word sell shall beconstrued accordingly;;

Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 201610

(5)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression simple feed of the following newdefinition:

user means any person who has any animalfeed in his possession to be used as a feed foranimal or poultry in his custody or for themanufacture of feed;.

25.(1) In the principal enactment and in any otherwritten law wherever the words Director of AnimalProduction and Health and Director occur there shall besubstituted the words Director-General of AnimalProduction and Health and Director-General respectively.

(2) Every reference to the Director of Animal Productionand Health and Director in any notice, notification,contract, communication or other document under this Actshall be read and construed as a reference respectively to theDirector-General of Animal Production and Health andDirector-General.

26.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof anyinconsistency.

The Director ofAnimalProduction andHealth andDirector to beknown as theDirector-General ofAnimalProduction andHealth andDirector-General.

11Animal Feed (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2016

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.