oon
“Ba tHpo8 oo
z Oo

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
- SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS)

ACT, No. 12 OF 1989

[Certified on 30th May, 1989]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 2, 1989

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMEO
Price : 45 cents. . _ Postage : 75 cents


Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) ;
Act, No. 12 of 1989
, [Certified on 30th May, 1989]

L.D.—O. 77/88

AN ACT TO MAKE INTERIM PROVISION FOR THE INTERPRETATION

OF WRILI1EN LAW ON MATTERS SET OUT IN List I
OF THE NINTH SCHEDULE TO THE CONSTITUTION,

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and shall
cease to have effect on such date as the Minister may, by
Order published in the Gazette, appoint.

2. (1) Where ary power or function is conferred on, or
assigned to a Minister or to a public officer, as the case may.
be, by any written law made prior to November 14, 1987
on any matter set out in List I of the Ninth Schedule, such
power or function may,—

(a) ifsuch power or function is conferred on, or ‘assigned
te, a Minister, be exercised or discharged, in rela-
tion to a Province and unless the context otherwise
requires, by the Governor of that Province or the
Minister of the Board of Ministers of that Province

- to whom the subject has been assigned; and
accordingly, references in every such written law
to a Minister shall be deemed to include references
to a Governor of a Province or the Minister ofthe

Board of Ministers of such Province to whom the

function has been assigned; and

(b) if such power or ‘ function is conferred on, or assigned
to, a public officer, be exercised or discharged, in
relation to a Province and unless the context
otherwise requires, by the officer of the provincial

_ public service holding an office corresponding to
the office held by such public officer; and
accordingly, references in every such written law
to a public officer shall be deemed to include a
reference ta the officer of the provincial public
service who holds an office corresponding to the
office held by such public officer.

2—D 004479—0,950 (89/04)

Short title

Provision -
regarding
interpreta-
tion of
written
law on
matters set
out in

List I of
the Ninth
Schedule
to the
Constitution.


2 Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions)
Act, No. 12. of 1989

(2) Where any law made prior to ‘November 14, 1987,
‘on any matter set out in List I of the Ninth Schedule
to the Constitution confers power on a Minister to
make any Order, Proclamation, Notification, regulation
or rule, such power shall, in relation to a Province anv
unless the context otherwise requires, be exercised by
the Governor of that Province or the Minister of the
Board of Ministers of that Province to whom that subject
has been assigned, and accordingly, references in any pro-
vision ‘of the law conferring that power, to a “Minister ”
shall be deemed to include a reference to the Governor
of the Province or the-Minister of the Board of Ministers .
of the Province to whom that subject has been assigned.

(3) Where any such law as is referred to in subsection
(2) makes provision—

(i) for any Order, Proclamation, Notification, regulation
or rule made under that. law 1 be laid before
Parliament ; or

(ii) for the anzulment or ‘ipxovel of any such Order,..
_ Proclamation, Notification, regulation or rule, by
Parliamenit,

such provision shail have effect in relation to a Province
as if references in it to Parliament were a reference to
the Provincial Council established for that Province.

(4) In this Act, the expressions “ public officer”. and
“written law ” shall have the respective meanings assigned
to them by the Consputtion:
