Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 1957

Date of Assent: January 24, 1957.

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOVERNMENT PRESS, Creyton. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Posr Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 15 cents : - Postage: 10 cents


Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund 3
(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 1957

L. D.—O. 28/55.

An AcT TO AMEND THE Wipows’ AND ORPHANS’ woe
Prnsion FunND ORDINANCE. page 343).

[Date of Assent: January 24, 1957]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: — }

4. This Act may be cited as the Widows’ and __ Short title.
Orphans’ Pension lund (Amendment) Act, No. 1 of
1957.

2. Section 11 of the Widows’ and Orphans’ Amendment ot
Pension Fund Ordinance (hereinafter referred to as Chapter 296.
the “‘ principal enactment ’’) is hereby amended as
follows : — ,

(a) by the renumbering of that section as sub-
section (1) of section 11; and

| (6) by the addition, at the end of that section,
¥ of the following sub-section : —

‘* (2) Where a contributor to the Fand
is a pensioner, he shall, whenever his
pension is revised, have the right to make
an election under sub-section (1), whether
or not he has previously made an election
under that sub-section.’’.

8. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby ATERATEEAE DE
amended as follows :— the peraeipul
: . enactment.
(1) by the renumbering of that section as sub-

section (1) of section 12;

(2) in sub-section (1) of that section as re-
numbered, by the substitution, for all the
words from ‘‘ must make his election ’’ to

- the end of that sub-section, of the
following : —
‘* shall make his election,—

ae (a) if the election is in consequence
of the reduction of his salary
by abatement of the ordi-
nary emoluments, within six
months after the date of the
notification to him of such
reduction, or

1——J. N. R 8991-2,575 (11/56)


Insertion of
new section
12a in the
principal
enactment.

4 Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund
(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 1957

(b) if the election is in consequence

of his retirement on pension, —

within six months after the
date of such retirement or
the date of the notification to
him of his pension, which-
ever date is later,

and such election shall be final.’’;.

: ve | ;
(3) by the addition, at the end of that section, of
the following sub-section : —

‘* (2) An election by any person under
sub-section (2) of section 11 shall be made
within six months after the date of the
notification to him of his revised pension,
and such election shall be final.’’; and:

(4) by the substitution, for the marginal note of

that section, of the following marginal
note:: —

‘* Time within which election under
section 11 should be made.’’.

4. The following new section is hereby inserted

a

—

immediately after section 12, and shall have effect as —

section 124, of the principal enactment : —

“combntal (oa of 12a. (1) Where a public officer whose
soon =o salary is reduced by abatement of his

cases. ordinary emoluments—

(a) dies within the period for mak-
ing an election under sub-
section (1) of section 11 with-
out having made _— such
election, or

(b) dies before the notification to
him of such reduction,

the contributions payable by him under
this Ordinance on and after the date of
such reduction shall be computed upon.
his salary on the date immediately prior
to the date of such reduction.

(2) Where a public officer who has
retired on pension—

(2) dies before the notification to
him of his pension, or


Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund 5
(Amendment) Act, No.1 of 1957

(b) dies within the period for mak-
ing an election under sub-
section (1) of section 11
without having made such
election, or

(c) dies after the revision of his
pension and within the period
for making an election under
sub-section (2) of section 11
without having made such
election, or .

(d) dies after the revision of his
pension but before the noti-
fication to him of his revised
pension,

the contributions payable by him under
this Ordinance on and after the date of
his retirement shall be computed upon
his salary on the date immediately prior
to the date of his retirement.’’

_. §. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
‘amended by the substitution, for the words ‘‘ have
been fully discharged.’’, of the following : —

‘“ have been fully discharged :

Provided, however, that where the Directors
are satisfied that the discharge of any dcbt due

to the Fund by any public officer cannot be proved |

on account of the loss of any record of that
officer’s contributions to the Fund, they may
authorise the award and payment of such pension
to the widow or any orphan of that officer as would
have become due and payable to that widow or
orphan had every debt due to the Fund by that
officer been fully discharged.’’.

Amendment of
section 21 of
the principal
enactment.
