16Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF LOCALGOVERNANCEACT, No. 31 OF 1999

[Certified on 23rd September, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 24, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: Rs.10.25Postage: Rs. 5.25

(Internet Version)

1Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

[Certified on 23rd September , 1999]

L.D.- O. 38/98.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF LOCAL GOVERNANCE AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Institute ofLocal Governance Act, No.31 of 1999 and shall come intooperation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OFLOCAL GOVERNANCE

2. (1) There shall be established an Institute which shallbe called the Sri Lanke Institute of Local Governance (hereinafter referred to as the Institute)

(2) The Institute shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3.The functions of the Institute shall be -(a) to provide training to the members and officers andservants of Provincial Councils and local authoritieswith a view to equipping them to perform theirofficial duties efficiently and effectively ;

(b) to conduct workshops and training courses onprovincial and local government management ;

(c) to award certificates to those who have success-fully completed the training courses conducted bythe Institute ;

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaInstitute of LocalGovernance.

the Functions ofthe Institute.

H - 022545

2Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

(d) to assist in the building up of a cadre of competentprovincial and local government officers and personnel in the country, with a view to ensuringgood governance ;

(e) to make available to Provincial Councils and localauthorities, the services of specialists in provincialand local government management ;

(f) to assist Provincial Councils and local authoritiesin improving their organizational systems andmanagement capability ;

(g) to undertake consultancy assignments in the fieldof provincial and local government ;

(h) to provide a forum for a critical appraisal ofprovincial and local government organizationalmanagement systems and practices ;

(i) to assist Provincial Management Development andTraining Units and local authorities in,management development and the establishmentof work norms, determination of compensationsystems, and generally, to improve their productivity ;

(j) to collaborate with other organizations, in Sri Lankaor abroad having objects similar to those of theInstitute ;

(k) to sponsor and hold, conferences and seminarsand to publish books and magazines, on provincialand local government ;

(l) to provide necessary data and information to theMinister, for the purposes of formulating nationalpolicies on local government ;

(m) to disseminate information on the functions andactivities of the Institute to the relevantinstitutions and to the public ;

3Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

(n)to conduct, promote and assist research into allaspects of provincial and local government.

4. The Institute shall have such powers as are reasonablynecessary for the discharge of its functions, and in particularthe power -(a) to acquire in any manner whatsoever, and to holdand to take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of any movableor immovable property ;

(b) to establish and maintain training centres ;

(c) to appoint, employ, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control over, its officers and servants ;

(d) to levy fees or charges for any service rendered bythe Institute ;

(e) to import any machinery and equipment requiredfor the purposes of the Institute, and to receiveany machinery and equipment and other assistancenecessary for discharging the functions of theInstitute ;

(f) to establish work performance standards for itsofficers and servants, evaluate the performance ofsuch officers and servants according to suchstandards and to take action thereon ;

(g) to establish and maintain welfare and recreationalfacilities for its officers and servants ;

(h) to make rules in relation to its officers and servantsincluding their appointment, training, promotion,remuneration, disciplinary control, conduct andgrant of leave to them ;

(i) to enter into such contracts as may be necessaryfor the discharge of its functions ;

(j) to make rules in respect of the generaladministration of the Institute ; and

Powers of theInstitute.

4Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

(k) to do all other things which are necessary for, orconducive or incidental to, the discharge of thefunctions of the Institute.

5. (1) The administration and management of the affairsof the Institute shall be vested in a Governing Council(hereinafter referred to as the Council) consisting of thefollowing :-

(a) ex - officio members, namely -(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Provincial Councils andLocal Government who shall be the Chairman ofthe Council ;

(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance and Planning ;

(iii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Housing and UrbanDevelopment ;

(iv) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Environment ;

(v) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Public Administration ;

(vi) a representative of the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Cultural Affairs,nominated by that Minister ;

(vii) the Dean of a faculty of a university where thesubject of Local Government is included in acourse of study provided by such Faculty, andnominated by the Minister in charge of the subject of Higher Education ; and

(viii) the Director of the Institute appointed undersection 12 who shall be the convenor of theCouncil ; and

Establishment andconstitution ofthe GoverningCouncil.

5Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

(b) the following other members namely -(i) a person from the private sector, ornon-governmental organizations who in theopinion of the Minister has had experience inprovincial or local government ;

(ii) a person from a professional organization, who in the opinion of the Minister has hadexperience in provincial or local government ;

(iii) a person from an Association of LocalAuthorities nominated by the Minister ;

(iv) two persons who in the opinion of the Ministerhave had experience in provincial or localgovernment.

(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor from continuing as a member of the Council -

(a) if he is, or becomes, a Member of Parliament or aMember of a Provincial Council ; or

(b) if he, directly or indirectly, holds or enjoys anyright or benefit under any contract made by or onbehalf of the Institute ; or

(c) if he has financial or other interest as is likely toaffect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Council.

(3) Every member appointed under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 5 shall, unless he vacates officeearlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office for aperiod of three years.

(4) (a) Where a member of the Council appointed underparagraph (b) of subsection (1) of this section, dies or resignsor is removed from office, the Minister may, having regard to

6Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

the provisions of that paragraph appoint another person tobe a member in place of the member who dies, resigns or isremoved from office.

(b) Any Member of the Council appointed under paragraph(a) of this subsection, shall unless he earlier resigns orvacates his office by death or removal, hold office for theunexpired part of the term of office of the member whom hesucceeds.

(5) Where a member of the Council appointed underparagraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 5 is, by reason ofillness or other infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka,temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, theMinister may, having regard to the provisions of thatparagraph, appoint another person to act in his place.

6.The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove fromoffice, any member of the Council appointed under paragraph(b) of subsection (1) of section 5.

7.A member of the Council appointed under paragraph(b) of subsection (1) of section 5 may at any time resign hisoffice by letter addressed to the Minister.

8.Any member of the Council appointed underparagraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 5 who vacates office, other than a member who is removed from office undersection 6, shall be eligible for reappointment.

9.No act or proceeding of the Institute shall be deemedto be invalid by reasons only of the existence of any vacancyin the Council or defect in the appointment of any member ofthe Council.

Power of theMinister toremove fromoffice anappointedmemberof the Council.

Resignation ofappointedmembers of theCouncil.

Eligibility forreappointment asmember of theCouncil.

Acts orproceedings of theInstitute deemednot to be invalidby reason of anyvacancy or defectin the appointmentof a member

7Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

10.All or any of the members of the Council may bepaid such remuneration out of the Fund of the Institute asmay be determined by the Minister with the concurrence ofthe Minister in charge of the Subject of Finance.

11.(1) The meetings of the Council shall be held onceat least in every month.

(2) The Chairman shall give at least seven daysnotice in writing of every meeting of the Council to each of the members of the Council and shall specify in such notice thebusiness to be dealt with at such meeting.

(3) The Chairman shall summon a special meeting ofthe Council within seven days after being requested inwriting to do so by two members of the Council,notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2).

(4) Five members shall form a quorum at any meetingof the Council.

(5) The Chairman shall preside at meetings of theCouncil and in the absence of the Chairman from any meetingof the Council, a member chosen by the majority of memberspresent shall preside at such meeting.

(6) If the Chairman is by reason of illness or otherinfirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily unable toperform the duties of his office, the Minister may appointanother member of the Council to act in his place.

(7) Where there is an equality of votes on any matteror thing to be decided at a meeting of the Council, theChairman at such meeting shall, in addition to his own vote,have a casting vote.

(8) Subject to the provisions set out in this sectionthe Council shall determine the procedure in regard to itsmeetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

Remuneration ofmembers.

Meetings of theCouncil.

8Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

PART II

APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE INSTITUTE AND OTHER

OFFICERS AND SERVANTS OF THE INSTITUTE

12. (1) The Minister shall appoint to the staff of theInstitute, a Director of the Institute (hereinafter referred toas the Director) who shall be the Chief Executive officer ofthe Institute.

(2) The Director appointed under subsection (1) shall,unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a period of five years from the date ofhis appointment.

(3) The Director shall exercise, and discharge suchpowers and functions as may be delegated to him by theCouncil.

(4) The Minister may remove from office the Directorappointed under subsection (1).

(5) The Director shall be paid such remuneration asmay be determined by the Minister with the concurrence ofthe Minister in charge of the Subject of Finance.

(6) The Office of the Director shall become vacant uponthe death, removal from office under subsection (4) orresignation by letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister,by the holder of that office.

(7) Unless removed from office under subsection (4)any person who holds office as Director shall be eligible forreappointment as Director.

(8) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the Director ,the Minister may appoint a member of the Council to performthe duties of the Director until an appointment is made undersubsection (1).

Appointment ofthe Director ofthe Institute.

9Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

13. (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, theCouncil may -

(a) appoint to the staff of the Institute, such otherofficers and servants as may be necessary forthe purposes of the Institute ;

(b) dismiss and exercise disciplinary control over,such officers and servants ;

(c) fix the wages or salaries or other remuneration ofsuch officers and servants ;

(d) determine the terms and conditions of service ofsuch officers and servants ; and

(e) establish and regulate provident funds andschemes for the benefit of such officers andservants and make contributions to any suchfund or scheme.

(2) Rules may be made under this Act in respect of allor any of the matters referred to in subsection (1).

14. (1) The Council may delegate to the Director all orany of its powers relating to the appointment of other officersor servants to the staff of the Institute. The conditions ofemployment including remuneration of any officers andservants appointed by the Director under the powersdelegated to him under this section shall be determined byhim with the concurrence of the Council.

(2) Any person aggrieved by any decision made bythe Director under this section may appeal therefrom inwriting to the Council and the decision of the Council on suchappeal shall be final.

(3) The dismissal by the Director of any officer orservant of the Institute shall not take effect unless suchdismissal is approved by the Council.

Powers of theCouncil in regardto appointmentsto the staff of theInstitute.

Delegation ofpowers of theCouncil to theDirector in regardto appointments.

10Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

15. (1) At the request of the Council any officer in thePublic Service may, with the consent of that officer and of theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of thesubject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed tothe staff of the Institute for such period as may be determinedby the Council with like consent or with like consent bepermanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service istemporarily appointed to the staff of the Institute theprovisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No.37 of 1991, shall, mutatismutandis, apply to, and in relation to, such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service ispermanently appointed to the staff of the Institute, theprovisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No.37 of 1991, shall, mutatismutandis, apply to, and in relation to, such officer.

(4) Where the Institute employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which he hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service to the Institute by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

PART IIIFINANCE

16.(1) The Institute shall have its own fund ;(2) There shall be credited to the Fund of the Institute-

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted fromtime to time by Parliament for the use of theInstitute ;

(b) all such sums of money as are received by theInstitute in the exercise and discharge of itspowers and functions under this Act ; and

Appointment ofPublic Officers tothe staff of theInstitute.

Fund of theInstitute.

11Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

(c) all such sums of money as are received by theInstitute as loans, grants and donations fromsources within or outside Sri Lanka.

(3) All sums of money required to defray anyexpenditure incurred by the Institute in the exercise anddischarge of its powers and functions as or are required to bepaid out of the Fund by any provision of this Act shall becharged on the Fund of the Institute.

17.The financial year of the Institute shall be thecalendar year.

18.The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionshall apply in relation to the audit of the accounts of theInstitute.

PART IVGENERAL

19. All members of the Council and officers and servantsof the Institute shall be deemed to be public servantswithin the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

20.The Institute shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theProvisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

21. (1) No member of the Council or officer or servant ofthe Institute shall disclose to any person, except for thepurposes of discharging of his functions under this Act orwhen required to do so by a court or under any law, anyinformation acquired by him in the discharged of hisfunctions under this Act :

The Institutedeemed to be aScheduledInstitution withinthe meaning ofthe Bribery Act.

Prohibition ondisclosure ofinformation.

Financial year ofInstitute.

Members andofficers andservants of theInstitute deemedto be publicservants.

Audit of accounts.

12Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

Provided, however, that no information in relation to matterswhich the Institute is bound to treat as confidential by anyagreement with another party other than the Government shallbe disclosed under the preceding provisions of this section.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

22. (1) Where any immovable property is required to beacquired for the purposes of the Institute and the Minister, byOrder published in the Gazette approves of the proposedacquisition, that property shall be deemed to be required fora public purpose and may accordingly be acquired under theLand Acquisition Act and be transferred to the Institute.

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of anyimmovable property under the Land Acquisition Act for theInstitute shall be paid from the Fund of the Institute.

23.(1) Where any immovable property of the State isrequired for the purpose of the Institute, such purpose shallbe deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or leaseof such property may be made under section 6 of the CrownLands Ordinance and accordingly the provisions of thatOrdinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of suchproperty to the Institute.

(2) Where any movable property of the State isrequired for the purpose of the Institute, the Minister may, byOrder published in the Gazette, transfer to and vest in theInstitute the possession and use of such property :

Provided, however, that no Order affecting anymovable property of the State shall be made under the preceding provisions of this section without the concurrenceof the Minister having control over such property .

24. (1) The Minister may give special or generaldirections in writing to the Council as to the exercise of thepowers of the Institute, and the Council shall give effect tosuch directions .

Acquisition ofimmovableproperty under theLand AcquisitionAct for theInstitute.

State propertyboth movable andimmovable to bemade available tothe Institute.

Power of theMinister to givespecial or generaldirections to theCouncil

13Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

(2) The Minister may from time to time direct theCouncil to furnish to him in writing such information as hemay require relating to the work of the Institute.

25.(1) The Council may make rules in respect of all or anyof the matters for which rules are authorized or required bythis Act to be made.

(2) No rule made by the Council shall have effect untilit has been approved by the Minister.

26.(1) No suit or prosecution shall lie -

(a) against the Institute for any act which in good faith is done or purported to be done by the Instituteunder this Act ; or

(b) against any member of the Council or officer,servantor agent of the Institute for any act which in goodfaith is done or purported to be done by him underthis Act or on the direction of the Council.

(2) Any expense incurred by such person as is referredto in subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought againsthim before any court in respect of any act which is done byhim or purported to be done by him under this Act or on thedirection of the Council shall, if the court holds that the actwas done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of theInstitute.

27.No writ against person or property shall be issuedagainst a member of the Council in any action brought againstthe Institute.

28.Every person who commits an offence under thisAct shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment of either description fora period not exceeding six months or to a fine not exceedingfive hundred rupees or to both such fine and imprisonment.

No writ to issueagainst person orproperty of amember of theCouncil.

Offences andpenalties.

Rules.

Protection foraction taken underthis Act or on thedirection of theCouncil.

14Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

29. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

30. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -

local authority means any Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil, or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any otherauthority created or established by or under any law toexercise, discharge and perform powers functions andduties, corresponding to, or similar to, the powers,duties and functions exercised, performed anddischarged by any such Council or Sabha ;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Council establishedby Chapter XVIIA of the Constitution;

public corporation means any corporation, board or otherbody which was or is established by or under anywritten law, other than the Companies Act, No.17 of1982 with funds or capital wholly or partly provided bythe Government by way of grant, loan or otherwise ;

University means a university established under theUniversities Act, No.16 of 1978.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Interpretation

15Sri Lanka Institute of Local GovernanceAct, No.31 of 1999

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign),Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.