SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
yo (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 41 OF 1988 _

™

[Certified on 24th November, 1988

F Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic .
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 25, 1988

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT .OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA .

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMEO

Price : 90 cents | ' "  . .. Postage: 75 cents


‘

Urban Development Authority (Amendment)
Act, No. 41 of 1988

[Certified 0 on 24th November, 1988)
L. D. _o. 18/87.

An ACT TO AMEND THE Uspan DEvELOPMENT AuTHoRITY Law,
No. 41 or 1978

BE it enacted by the Democratic Socialist Republic of

Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Urban Development |

Authority (An nendment) Act, No. 41 Ge 1988.

2.. Section SL of the Urban Development Authority Law,
No. 41 of i278 (inserted by Act No. 49 of 1987) (hereinafter
referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended as follows:—... |

(1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for all

the words from “ Where any building is construct- ©

ed” to “in reszect of such construction; and”, of the
folowing — _

f «(1) Where any building, being a building

comprised in a property development project

approved under section -22 (B) of the Inland

Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, is constructed in a

development area under, and in accordance, with

a permit issued. under section 8J, then, notwith-

% standing anything in the Municipal Councils Or-
dinance and the Urban Councils Ordinance—

‘ *-(a) a remission of eighty per centum of the rates

i fin assessed: on such building, under any such

Ordinance shall be allowed by the Municipal

Council or the Urban Council, as the case

_ may be, for a period of five years calculated

from the date of first . assessment of such
building ; and”; and

(2) in subsection “) of that section,. by the substitu-

tion, for the words “ any building is redeveloped”, .
of the words “any building being affected property
within the meaning of. the Rehabilitation of —

Persons, Properties and LadUstnes Act, No. 29 of
1987, is redeveloped ea

2—101483—8,810 (08/88)

Short
title.

Amendment
of section

8L of Law
No. 41 of 178.


2 - Urban Development Authority (Amendment)
| ‘Act, No. 41 of 1988.

knserticn 3.. The following new Part is hereby inserted imme-.
v ie diately after Part V and shall have effect as Part VA of the
principal — principal enactment :—
enactment.

‘PART VA

RECOVERY OF PossEssion or Houses, Fiats.

AND ANY OTHER BUILDINGS CONSTRUCTED IN’

_PURSUANCE OF A JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENT

. WITH THE AUTHORITY FOR THE PURPOSE OF |

CARRYING OUT A DEVELOPMENT PROJECT OR
SCHEME APPROVED BY THE GOVERNMENT

Houses, 19a. This Part shall apply. to every house,
flats or i : .

aiher . or unit of a registered condominium pro-
buildings to perty (within the meaning of the Apart-
whichthis -

Partapplies. ™ent Offinership Law, No. 11 of 1973) or

other building or portion thereof (herein-
after in this Part referred ® as “buildings ”’),
constructed—

(a) in pursuance of a joint venture
agreement, referred: to in section
8(e), for the .purpose of carrying

| out a development project or
scheme approved by the = Govern-
ment ;

(b) and made available for occupation at
any time on or after the coming into
operation of this Law to any person,
whether such occupation is for

- business or residential purposes, and
whether on payment of rent or

otherwise.
Interpre- -. 198. Where a building constructed in
ae pursuance of a joint venture agreement is
sions made available for occupation as aforesaid
saengera to any person, then with reference to that

“ occupier ”. building, the expression “landlord” in this
-Part means the Chief Executive of the Joint
venture company, and the expression “ Occu-.

pier” in this Part means that person.


Urban Development Authority (Amendment) 3

Obligation
to vacate .
building
to which
this Part
applies.

Application ~

to Court

for recovery -

of possession
and service
of order
nisi.

Act, No. 41 of 1988

19c. (1) The occupier of any building to
which this Part applies, and his dependants
and every other person occupying such
building shal] not be entitled to occupy such
building (or portion thereof) after the date

of the lawful termination of the occupation
_by the occupier of such building; and

accordingly the occupier shall on that date
vacate the building, deliver possession
thereof to his landlord, and depart from the
land or premises in which such building is
situated together with his dependants and
every other person occupying such land or
premises. a,

(2) Where any building to which this Part
applies is made available by the landlord for
occupation to any person in the employment |
of that landlord that person’s occupation of |
such buiiding shall be deemed, for the
purposes of this Part, to be lawfully termi-
nated on the date of the termination of the

‘employment of that person.

(3) Where in any case referred to in

’ subsection (2) the employment of the occu-

pier is terminated without notice the

reference in that subsection to the date of

‘the termination of his employment shall be
- deemed to be a reference to the date fourteen

days after the actual] date of termination..

19p. (1) In any case where the occupier of
any building to which this Part applies fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection
(1) of section 19c, it shall be lawful for the

‘landlord to file, in the Magistrate’s Court of

the division:in which the building is situated
an application praying for the recovery of
possession of the building, and for the eject-
ment from the land or premises on which
the building is situated of the occupier, his
dependants and every other person occupying


4 Urban Development Author iy (Amendment) |

. Adjourn-
ment of
hearing.

Act, No. 41 of 1988

such land or premises or any portion thereot ;
and every such application shall ‘be sup-

ported by an affidavit setting forth the time

and. manner of the termination of the occu-
pation of the occupier.

(2) On receipt of an application under

~ subsection (1), the court shall cause to be

served on the occupier a copy of the appli-
cation. and affidavit “ang an order nisi
requiring him—

(a) to appear on a date specified in such
order, being a date not later than
one calendar month: after the date
of service one the order ; and

() to ‘show cause why he should not
_ deliver possession of the building as

' required. by section -18c and depart
from the land or premises on which

it. is situated together with his
dependants and every other person
occupying such land or premises or

any portion thereof. ,

(3) An order nisi under subsection (2)
shall be deemed to have been served on the
occupier if it is delivered to him by the
Fiscal or by any person authorized by the
Fiscal, or where it cannot be so delivered, if
it is pasted by the Fiscal, or person autho-
rised as aforesaid, on some conspicuous part
of the building to which the order relates.

19e. (1) If any occupier upon whom an
order nisi is served under this Part appears
before the court on the date specified in the
order and, by affidavit or by statement on

_ oath or affirmation raises any defence, which
~. in the opinion of the court necessitates an

adjournment of the hearing, the court shall.
immediately settle and record the issue or
issues raised and shall, have regard to the
‘circumstances of the case, appoint as early

-adate as possible for the hearing of evi-

dence ; and in such case the Registrar of the


Urban Development Authority (amendment) 5

Issue and
execution

- of writ for
Celiverv of .

‘possession.

Act, No. 41 of 1988

- court shall thereupon issue a summons to

every such witness as may be required by
the parties commanding his attendance at
the time.and place specified in the summons.

(2) Where any date is. appointed under
subsection (1) for the hearing of any case,
the hearing shall not again be adjourned for
any later date— :

(a) unless all the parties to the case
| consent to such adjournment ; or

(b) unless “thé ‘court is satisfied, upon
evidence furnished on oath or affir-
‘mation or. by affidavit that such
adjournment is necessary by reason
' of the absence, otherwise than by
collusion, of the occupier or of a
witness who knows and is able to
“prove facts material to the case.

(8) On the date appointed under sa:

section (1) for the hearing of the case or on
.such other date, if any, to which such hear-

ing may be adjourned under subsection (2),
the court shall hear and determine the issues
raised and give judgment thereon, not with-
standing anything to the contrary in any

” written law other than the Constitution.

19r. (1) If any occupier upon whom’ an
order nisi has been served under this Part,
does not appear on the date specified in such
order or on such other date, if any, to which
the hearing may be adjourned under this
Part or, having appeared fails to show good

‘and valid cause why he should not deliver
. possession as required by section 19c of the
‘. building specified in the order and depart
‘from the land or premises on which it is
“situated together with his dependants and

every other person occupying such land or
premises or any portion thereof; or where
the Court has given judgement under section
19F (3) against the occupier the order nisi

Shall be made absolute, and the court shall
-forthwith issue,. and if need be reissue, a


6

Urban Development Authority (Amendment)

Act, No. 41 of 1988

writ of possession to the Fiscal requiring

and authorising him before a date specified
in the writ not earlier than two calendar

months and not later than two calendar

months from the date of the issue of such

writ, to deliver possession of the building to

the landlord or toany other person

appointed in writing by the landlord for the

purpose and to eject from the land or pre-

mises no which the building is situated’ the

occupier, his dependants andevery other ,
person occupying such land or premises or
any portion thereof :

Provided, however, that where the court
is satisfied that it is expedient for any rea-
sonable cause as hereinafter defined that the
issue of the writ should be postponed, the
court may direct that such writ shall not be
issued unless the occupier fails to deliver
possession of the building and to depart from
such land or premises together with his
dependants and every other person occupy-
ing such land or premises or any portion
thereof before a date specified in that pele
by the court.

(2) In the preceding provision, “ reasona-
ble cause” means—

(a) the illness of the occupier or any of his
dependants ; or

(b) the failure of the landlord in any case
referred to in subsection (2) of
section 19c to pay any wages law-
fully due to the occupier or to grant
him any benefits or privileges to
which he is entitled under any other
written law to receive from the
landlord in his capacity as an
employer ; or

(c) the failure of the landlord in that
capacity to issue to the occupier any .
discharge certificate or identification
certificate which should properly be
given to him; or


Urban Development Authority (Amendment) 7

Recovery
of rent.

a
ve

Act, No. 41 of 1988

(d) the failure of the landlord in any case:
where the building is made available
for occupation on terms enabling the
occupier to become the owner after
making a certain number of specified
payments, to repay to the occupier
any sum for the repayment of which
provision is made in the event of
the termination of his occpation in
the agreement entered into between
the landlord and the occupier.

19g. (1) Where the occupier makes de-
fault in the payment of rent or other pay-
ment payable in respect of the building, the
landlord may issue a certificate stating the
amount due as rent or other payment and
the name and place of residence of the occu- —
pier, to the Magistrate having jurisdiction in
the division in which the building is situate.
The Magistrate shall, thereupon, ‘summon
the occupier before him to show cause why
further proceedings for the recovery of the
amount due as rent or other payment should
not be taken against him.and in default of
sufficient cause being shown, the amount due
‘as rent or other payment shall be deemed to
be a fine imposed by a sentence of the Magis-.
trate on such occupier for an offence punish-
able with fine only and not punishable with

“imprisonment and the provisions of subsec-

tion (1) of section 291 (except paragraph
(a), (d) and (i) thereof) of the Code .of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, re-
lating to default of payment of a fine impos-

. ed for such an offence shall thereupon apply

and the Magistrate may make any direction
which by the provisions of that subsection,
he could have made at the time of imposing
such sentence. ©

(2) The landlord’s certificate shall be
prima facie evidence that the amount speci-

fied therein is due as rent or other payment
for the building.


8

Appeal. :.

Urban Development Authority (Ameadment)

Act, No. 41 of 1988

(3) Every sum recovered by court under ©

’ this section shall be paid to the landlord.

(4) Nothing in subsections (2) to (5) of
section, 291 of the Code of ‘Criminal Proce-
dure Act,.No. 15 of 1979, shall apply to any
case referred to in subsection U) of this sec-

‘tion.

(5) 1 In any case seferned to in subsection

' (1) -in which the occupier is sentenced to

imprisonment in default of payment of the |
fine deemed by that section to have been im-

posed on him, the Magistrate may allow time
for the payment of the amount of that fine or
direct payment of that amount to be made in

instalments.

(6) Where a Magistrate directs under sub-
section (5) that a payment be made in ins-

~ talments and default is made in the payment
‘of any one instalment, proceedings may be

taken as if default had been made in pay-

“ment of all the instalments then remaining

unpaid.

(7) ‘Proceedings for the recovery of any
amount due as tent or other payment may be

‘instituted by the landlord or any person
""< authorized in that behalf by the landlord and.

the landlord or such person may, notwith-
standing anything to the contrary in any

’ other written law, conduct such roceedings.
pr

19H, a Bs person Sihio is dissatisfied

‘with an order under section 192 (3) or:

19r (1) by a Magistrate’s Court may before
the expiry of a period of fourteen days from.
the date of such order, appeal to the Court
of Appeal against such order.

(2) Sections 321, 322 (1), 322 (2), 324, 325,

"326, 328 (c), 329 and 330 of the Code of Cri-

minal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to the presenting ~

. and hearing of an appeal under this section.


Urban Developmeit Authority (Amendment) 9

Provisions.
. of this
Act to
apply ©
exclusi-
vely in

all sec-
tions for
ejectment
from buil-

Part
applies.

Stamp’
duties.

}

Certificate
by the
Chairman
of the
‘Authority.

Act, No. 41 of 1988

7 19s. No. action for the recovery of possess-
ion of any building to which this Part ap-

plies or for the ejectment of the occupier
from the land or premises in which the buil-

ding is situated, shall be taken except under

the provisions of this Part.

19k. For the purpose of the application of
the provisions of the Stamp Duty Act, No. 43
of 1982, in respect of proceedings under this
Part and of the provisions of the Civil Pro-
cedure Code in respect of costs and charges,
proceedings under this Part shall be deemed
to be a money case of the value of. fifty

rupees, and an application under section 19p °*

shall be deemed to be a Civil proceeding for
the recovery of a debt of that value. |

4

19. A certificate under the hand of the .:
_ Chairman of the Authority to the effect that
_ the Authority has entered into a joint ven-

ture agreement with the person referred to
in the certificate for the purpose of carrying
out a development project or scheme, ap-
proved by the Government, and that the

c building referred to in the certificate was

constructed by such person in pursuance. of
such agreement and stating the name of the

Chief Executive of such joint venture, shall .

be admissible in evidence in any legal ‘pro-
ceedings under this Part and shall be prima
facie evidence of the facts stated therein.”

4. The amendment made to the principal enactment by
section 2 of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to
have come into operation on November 12, 1979.

‘Retrospective

effect.


Annual subscription of Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 177 (Local),

Rs, 236 (Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS -

EUREAY, ContomsBo.1, before 15th December each yeas | in respect of the year
following.
