PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 22, 2021

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN, YOUNG PERSONSAND CHILDREN (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 2 OF 2021

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th of January, 2021]

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 20211

L.D.O. 33/2018

AN ACT TO AMEND THE EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN, YOUNG PERSONS

AND CHILDREN ACT, NO. 47 OF 1956

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Employment of Women,Young Persons and Children (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of2021.

2.Section 3 of the Employment of Women, YoungPersons and Children Act, No. 47 of 1956 (hereinafter referredto as the principal enactment) is hereby amended asfollows:-

(1)in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution for thewords male young persons who have attained theage of sixteen years but are under the age of eighteenyears of the words male young persons;

(2)in subsection (4) thereof, by the substitution for thewords persons between the ages of sixteen andeighteen years of the words young persons; and

(3)in subsection (5) thereof, by the substitution for thewords persons between the ages of sixteen andeighteen years of the words young persons,.

3.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords a person who has attained the age of sixteen yearsbut is under the age of eighteen years of the words a youngperson.

Short title

Amendment ofsection 3 of Act,No. 47 of 1956

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment

[Certified on 18th of January, 2021]

2Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2021

4.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-.

(1)in subsection (1) of that section-

(a) in paragraph (a) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words fifteen years of the wordssixteen years; and

(b) in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words fifteen years of the wordssixteen years;

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words fifteen years of thewords sixteen years; and

(3) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section.

5.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

6.Section 20 of the principal enactment is amended asfollows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords No child or young person who has notattained the age of 16 years of the words Nochild;

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords No person who has attained the age offourteen years but is under the age of eighteen yearsof the words No young person; and

(3)in subsection (4) thereof, by the substitution for thewords a person who has attained the age of sixteenyears but is under the age of eighteen years of thewords a young person.

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment

Repeal ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 20213

7.Section 34 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-(1)in subsection (1) thereof-

(a)by the substitution for the definition of theexpression child of the following definition:-

child means a person who is under the ageof sixteen years;;

(b)in paragraph (c) of the definition of theexpression industrial undertaking by thesubstitution for the words fourteen years ofthe words sixteen years;

(c)by the substitution for the definition of theexpression night of the following definition:-

night

(a)with reference to the employment ofwomen, means atleast elevenconsecutive hours including the periodbetween 10 p.m. and 5 a.m.; and

(b)with reference to the employment ofpersons under the age of eighteen years,means at least twelve consecutive hourswhich shall end not later than 6 a.m.and which-

(i) in the case of such of thosepersons as have attained the ageof sixteen years, shall, subjectto the provisions of sub-paragraph (ii), include atleastseven consecutive hours fallingbetween 10 p.m. and 6 a.m.; and

Amendment ofsection 34 of theprincipalenactment

4Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2021

(ii)in the case of such of thosepersons as have attained the ageof sixteen years and areundergoing vocational trainingin the baking industry or areapprentices in that industry,shall, if work during the nightin that industry prohibited forall workers, include the sevenconsecutive hours fallingbetween 9 p.m. and 4 a.m.,instead of the period of atleastseven consecutive hours referredto in sub-paragraph (i) if theMinister by Order published inthe Gazette so directs;;

(d)by the substitution for the definition of theexpression young person of the followingdefinition:-

young person means a person who hasattained the age of sixteen yearsbut is under the age of eighteenyears.; and

(2)in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words fourteen years of thewords sixteen years.

8.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Employment of Women, Young Persons andChildren (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 20215

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.