PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CHAMBER OF CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY OFSRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 23 OF 2019

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th of November, 2019]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 16.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 22, 2019

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

[Certified on 18th of November, 2019]

L.D.O. (Inc.) 01/2015

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CHAMBER OF CONSTRUCTIONINDUSTRY OF SRI LANKA

WHEREAS a Chamber called and known as the Chamberof Construction Industry of Sri Lanka has heretofore beenregistered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 for thepurpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transactingall matters connected with the said Chamber according tothe rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Chamber has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Chamber of ConstructionIndustry of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theChamber of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka (hereinafterreferred to as the Chamber) and shall hereafter be admittedas members of the body corporate hereby constituted shallhave perpetual succession under the name and style of theChamber of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka(hereinafter referred to as the body corporate) and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authority tohave, and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

Incorporation ofthe Chamber ofConstructionIndustry ofSri Lanka.

Short title.

Preamble.

Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 20192

3.The general objects for which the body corporate isconstituted are hereby declared to be

(a)to act as a representative body, to promote andprotect the interests of those engaged in constructionactivities;

(b)to assist the relevant authorities to stimulate thedevelopment of national construction industry;

(c)to study issues of national significance and to makerecommendations;

(d)to establish panels of professionals in such areas inprojects relating to its members and to evaluateand issue reports and certificates on such projects;

(e)to act as a centre for recruitment of staff for memberfirms in the national construction industry on therequest of such firms;

(f)to secure contracts within and outside Sri Lanka forthe members of the body corporate upon receipt ofthe registration of the Construction IndustryDevelopment Authority and subject to theprovisions of the Construction IndustryDevelopment Authority Act, No. 33 of 2014 andstandards and guidelines of the ConstructionIndustry Development Authority;

(g)to award scholarships and fellowships for thefurtherance and development of the localconstruction industry;

(h)to conduct training courses and issue certificateswith the approval of the Tertiary and VocationalEducation Commission established under section2 of the Tertiary and Vocational Education Act,No. 20 of 1990; and

General objectsof the bodyCorporate.

3Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

(i)to act as trustees, custodians or managers to fundssubscribed or donated for the upliftment of theconstruction industry.

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout in such manner so as not to create any conflict betweenthe work of the body corporate and any work being carriedout simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, themanagement and administration of the affairs of the bodycorporate shall be carried out by a Board of Managementconsisting of such number of office bearers as may bespecified by the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The members of the Board of Management of theChamber that holds office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act shall function as anInterim Committee of the body corporate until the first Boardof Management is appointed or elected in the mannerprovided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The Interim Committee shall have the power to makerules for the interim administration of the body corporateand for election or appointment of the members of the firstBoard of Management of the body corporate.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Committee shall be takenby the majority of its members present at such Committeemeeting.

(d) The first Board of Management of the body corporateshall be appointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board of Managementincluding the patrons and advisors, shall be appointed orelected for a period of three years and any such office bearer,

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Departmentof the Govern-ment orProvincialCouncil.Management ofaffairs of thebody corporate.

Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 20194

patron or advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment orre-election after lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board of Management shall, having regard to therules of the body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fillsuch vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the body corporate or any one of them, including thepower

(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate andotherwise obtain lands or buildings which may berequired for the purposes of the body corporate andto deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemedexpedient with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(b) enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the body corporate, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of thebody corporate;

(c) to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Provided that, the Board of Management shallobtain the prior written approval of the Department

Powers of thebody corporate.

5Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

of Externeal Resources of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject of Finance, in respectof all foreign grants, gifts or donations made to thebody corporate;

(d) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(e) to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate, in suchmanner as the Board of Management maydetermine;

(f) to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corproate;

(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the body corporate andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities asmay be determined by the body corporate;

(h) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of the bodycorporate;

(i) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of thebody corporate;

(j) to train personnel within and outside Sri Lanka forthe purposes of the body corporate;

(k) to establish, print and publish newspapers, tradedirectories, journals, magazines or periodicalsrelating to the activities of the body corporate or

Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 20196

matters pertaining to the construcion industry andto disseminate such information in any manner asthe Board of Management may decide; and

(l) to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the body corporate.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board ofManagement or vacation of or removal from officeof office bearers and the powers, duties and functionsof the office bearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Board ofManagement or any sub-committee thereof, noticesand agenda of such meetings, the quorum and theconduct of business thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to becomea member of the Board of Management and thebody corporate;

Rules of thebody corporate.

7Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be publishedin the Gazette.

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The Board of Management shall maintain a registerof members in which name, address and other essential detailsof the members shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and onaccount of the body corporate shall be deposited in one ormore banks approved by the Board of Management to thecredit of the body corporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by thebody corporate in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

Register ofmembers.

Fund of thebody corporate.

Accounts andAuditing.

Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 20198

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditorappointed by the Auditor General in terms of provisions ofArticle 154 of the Constitution.

(4) For the purpose of this section qualified auditormeans

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiseas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11.(1) The Board of Management shall prepare a reportof the activities of the body corporate for each financial yearand submit such report together with the audited statementof accounts to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Construction Industry and to theRegistrar of Voluntary Social Services Organizationsappointed under the Voluntary Social Services Organization(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31of 1980 beforethe expiration of six months of the year succeeding the yearto which such report relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and localmoneys received by the body corporate during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

Annual Report.

9Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

12.All debts and liabilities of the Chamber existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Chamber on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13.All movable and immovable properties of theChamber existing on the day preceeding the date ofcommencement of this Act for all purposes shall be vestedin the body corporate hereby consituted, subject to any trust,condition or provision of any written law affecting suchproperties.

14.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the bodycorporate shall be able and capable in law to take and holdany property, movable or immovable, which may becomevested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the body corporate for the purpose of thisAct and subject to the rules of the body corporate madeunder section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

15.The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived, shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of divident, bonus or profit to the membersof the body corporate.

16.(1) The seal of the body corporate shall not beaffixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presenceof two members of the Board of Management who shallsign their names to the instrument in token of their presenceand such signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

Property vestedin the Chamber.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Debts due byand payable tothe Chamber.

Seal of the bodycorporate.

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 201910

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Board of Management as may bedecided by the Board of Management.

17.(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporatethere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the body corporate,but shall be given or transferred to any other institutionhaving objects similar to those of the body corporate, andwhich is by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributingany income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members ofthe body corporate immediately before the dissolution ata general meeting by the majority of votes of themembers present.

18.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

19.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

11Chamber of Construction Industry ofSri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.