PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 24, 2016.

[Certified on 23rd March, 2016]

Printed on the Order of Government

NATIONAL MINIMUM WAGE OFWORKERS ACT, No. 3 OF 2016

National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

1

2PL 0097452,950 (02/2016)

Short title andthe date ofoperation.

CompetentAuthority.

[Certified on 23rd March, 2016]

L.D.O. 51/2015.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT OF NATIONAL MINIMUM WAGE

BY EMPLOYERS TO WORKERS AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH

OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the National MinimumWage of Workers Act, No. 3 of 2016.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall be deemed, for allpurposes to have come into operation on January 1, 2016.

2.(1) The Commissioner-General shall be the competentauthority for the purposes of this Act.

(2) The competent authority may delegate to any officerof the Department of Labour any power, function or dutyconferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such authority bythis Act.

3.(1) The national minimum monthly wage for allworkers in any industry or service shall be ten thousandrupees and the national minimum daily wage of a workershall be four hundred rupees.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other writtenlaw, no employer in any industry or service shall pay to anyworker employed by him a wage which is less than thenational minimum monthly or daily wage specified insubsection (1), as the case may be.

Nationalminimum wage.

2National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

4. Every worker who has been employed by anyemployer shall, subject to the provisions of section 3, for solong as he continues to be a worker of such employer,continue to be so employed on such terms and conditionsrelating to wages or salary, allowances or other payments inmoney by whatsoever name or designation as are not lessfavourable than those which such worker had enjoyed onthe day immediately prior to the date of the coming intooperation of this Act.

5.(1) The employer of a worker in any industry orservice shall from and after the date of coming into operationof this Act, maintain and keep in the premises in which thatindustry or service is carried on, a register setting out-

(a)the name of each worker employed by him;

(b)the class of work performed by each workeremployed by him; and

(c)the amount paid to each such worker as wages.

(2) Every register maintained under subsection (1), shallbe preserved for a period of six years by the employer.

6.The competent authority shall have power-

(a)to enter into and inspect at all reasonable hoursof the day or night, any place in which workersin any industry or service are employed, for thepurpose of inspection of any register or forascertaining whether the provisions of this Actare being complied with;

(b)where no such register is available forexamination when he inspects such place, torequire the production of such register on aspecified later date for examination at such placeor at the office of such authority;

Specialprovisionsregardingcontinuation ofemployment.

Duty of theemployer tomaintain aregister.

Powers ofcompetentauthority.

National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

3

(c)to take copies of the whole or any part of anysuch register;

(d)to question any person whom he finds in suchplace and has reasonable cause to believe is theemployer of workers employed in any industryor service carried on in such place; or

(e)to direct, in writing, any employer of workersemployed in any industry or service to furnishhim on or before a specified date, with-

(i)a return, relating to all workers employedby any such employer in any specifiedclass or description of such workers andcontaining such other particulars as hemay require for the purposes of this Act;

(ii)such information or explanation as he mayrequire in respect of particulars stated inany return furnished by any suchemployer; or

(iii)a true copy of the whole or any part of anyregister maintained by any such employer.

7.(1) Every employer shall, when required by theCommissioner-General, produce the register for inspectionor furnish a true copy thereof or permit a copy of such registerto be taken.

(2) Where an employer of any worker in any industry orservice -

(a)has failed to maintain and keep the register requiredto be kept under subsection (1) of section 5; or

(b)fails to produce for inspection when required to doso under section 6,

Duty to producethe register.

4National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

the Commissioner-General shall assess the wage or the shortpayment thereof, as the case may be, payable to such workerunder this Act on the basis of all the evidence both oral anddocumentary, available to him and the provisions of section8 shall apply where default is made in the payment of anysuch wage or part thereof.

8.(1) Where any employer fails to pay the nationalminimum monthly or daily wage payable to any worker orworkers under this Act, the Commissioner-General shall, aftersuch investigation as he may deem necessary, if he is satisfiedthat the employer has defaulted payment of the nationalminimum monthly or daily wage to such worker or workers,by notice issued to such employer, require the employer todeposit with him the amount of such part of the nationalminimum monthly or daily wage that is defaulted in respectof such worker or workers for the period the amount is due,within the date specified in such notice.

(2) The employer shall, upon receipt of such notice undersubsection (1) deposit with the Commissioner-General theamount indicated in the notice on or before the date specifiedin the notice and any payment of any part of the wage indefault to the worker or workers concerned made by theemployer after receipt of such notice shall not be deemed tobe a valid payment of such amount in default.

(3) Where an employer fails to make the payment of anysum he is liable to pay as the national minimum monthly ordaily wage under this Act and contravenes subsection (2),the Commissioner-General shall issue a certificate containingparticulars of the sum so due and the name and place ofresidence of the defaulting employer to the Magistratehaving jurisdiction in the division in which the place ofemployment of the worker or workers in respect of whomdefault is made is situate.The Magistrate shall, thereuponsummon such employer to appear before him to show causewhy further proceedings for the recovery of the sum dueunder this Act should not be taken against him and if such

Action againstdefault ofpayment of thenationalminimum wage.

National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

5

employer fails to appear before court on the day specified insuch summons or sufficient cause is not shown, as the casemay be, such sum shall be deemed to be a fine imposed by asentence of the Magistrate on such employer for an offencepunishable with imprisonment and the provisions ofsubsection (1) of section 291 [except paragraphs (a), (d) and(i)] of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979relating to the default of payment of a fine imposed for suchan offence shall thereupon apply and the Magistrate maymake any direction which by the provisions of thatsubsection he could have made at the time of imposing suchsentence.

(4) The correctness of any statement in a certificate issuedby the Commissioner-General for the purpose of this sectionshall not be called in question or examined by the Court inany proceedings under this section, and accordingly anystatement in such certificate shall be sufficient evidence tothe facts that the amount due under this Act from thedefaulting employer has been duly calculated and that suchamount is in default.

(5) In any proceedings against any employer under thissection for failure to pay any sum which he is liable to payunder this Act, the burden of proving that the sum was paidshall lie on the employer.

(6) The provisions of the Prescription Ordinance (Chapter68) shall not apply to any action brought under subsection(3).

9.(1) Any employer in any industry or service whocontravenes the provisions of section 3 or section 4 or section8 of this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liableon conviction by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twentyfive thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either descriptionfor a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

Offences andpenalties.

6National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

(2) Any person who-

(a)fails to furnish the competent authority with suchassistance as is necessary for any entry orinspection or for the exercise of his powers undersection 6;

(b)hinders or obstructs such authority in the exerciseof the powers conferred by that section;

(c)refuses to produce any register or furnish anyinformation which such authority requires himto produce or furnish;

(d)makes or causes to be made in any register, anyfalse statement or makes or causes or knowinglypermits to be produced, any register containinga false statement to such authority, knowing thesame to be false;

(e)furnishes any information to such authorityacting under the powers conferred by thatsection, knowing the same to be false; or

(f)fails to comply with any directions given bysuch authority under section 6, or who, whencalled upon to furnish a return under that section,knowingly makes or furnishes, or causes to bemade or furnished, a return containing any falsestatement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on convictionby a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousandrupees or to imprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

7

10.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons then

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everyperson who at the time of the commission of theoffence was a director, general manager, agent,secretary or officer holding similar office of thatbody;

(b)if that body of persons is a firm, every partner ofthat firm; or

(c)if that body of persons is not a body corporate,every person who at the time of the commission ofthe offence was a member of that body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he provesthat the offence was committed without his consent orconnivance and that he exercised all such diligence so as toprevent the commission of that offence as he ought to haveexercised having regard to the nature of his functions andthe related circumstances.

11.No prosecution for any offence committed underthis Act shall be instituted except by, or with the previouswritten sanction of, the Commissioner-General.

12.The provisions of this Act shall be in addition toand not in derogation of the provisions of any other writtenlaw:

Provided however, that in the event of any conflict orinconsistency between the provisions of this Act and anyother written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

Liability of thedirectors andcertain officersfor offencescommitted by abody of persons.

Conditionsnecessary for theprosecution foroffences underthis Act.

Construction ofthe Act.

8National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

13.Where there remains, as on the date of coming intooperation of this Act, any unpaid amount of the nationalminimum monthly or daily wage payable by any employerto any worker under section 3 of this Act for the periodcommencing on January 1, 2016 and ending on the date onwhich this Act comes into operation, and where suchemployer pays to such worker such arrears in equal monthlyinstalments or higher monthly installments within a periodof six months commencing from the date on which this Actcomes into operation, such employer shall for all purposesbe deemed to have complied with the provisions of section3 of this Act.

14.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

Commissioner-General means the person for the timebeing holding the office of Commissioner-Generalof Labour and includes any person for the time beingholding office as an Additional Commissioner-General, a Commissioner of Labour, a DeputyCommissioner of Labour, an AssistantCommissioner of Labour or a Labour officer;

employer means any person who employs or on whosebehalf any other person employs, any worker andincludes a body of employers (whether such bodyis a firm, company, local authority or trade union),and any person who on behalf of any other personemploys any worker including a competentauthority of a business undertaking vested in theGovernment under any written law, the legal heir,successor in law, executor or administrator andliquidator of a company and in the case of anunincorporated body the president or secretary ofsuch body, and in the case of a partnership themanaging partner or manager;

Interpretation.

Retrospectiveeffect.

National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

9

industry or service includes

(a)any trade, business, manufacture and agriculture,any undertaking or occupation by way of trade,business, manufacture or agriculture and anybranch or section of trade, business, manufactureor agriculture;

(b)work or labour of any description whatsoeverperformed by persons in the employment of alocal authority, or of a corporation establishedby or under any written law for carrying on anundertaking whether for purposes of trade orotherwise;

(c)every occupation, calling or service of workers,and

(d)every undertaking of employers,

but does not include any industry, business orundertaking which is carried on by any corporation,board or other body which was or is established by orunder any written law where the Government holds amajority of the share capital with funds or capitalwholly or partly provided by the Government by wayof grant, loan or otherwise; or any registered societywithin the meaning of the Co-operative Societies Law,No. 5 of 1972 or any religious institution or anycharitable institution within the meaning of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 10 of 2006;

national minimum wage means -

(a)the contractual wage or salary of the worker orthe wage prescribed under the Wages BoardsOrdinance (Chapter 136) for the industry orservice to which the worker belongs; and

10National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

(b)wages or basic salary together with the cost ofliving allowance, special living allowance orany other similar allowance;

worker means, any person who has entered into or worksunder a contract with an employer in any capacity,whether the contract is expressed or implied, oralor in writing and whether it is a contract of serviceor of apprenticeship excluding a contract ofapprenticeship covered under the Tertiary andVocational Education Act, No. 20 of 1990 and theEmployment of Trainees (Private Sector) Act, No. 8of 1978, or a contract personally to execute anywork or labour and includes any person ordinarilyemployed under any such contract whether suchperson is or is not in employment at any particulartime and includes any person whose services havebeen terminated but does not include a domesticservant.

15. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

National Minimum Wage of WorkersAct, No. 3 of 2016

11

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.