PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

NATIONAL AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA
ACT, No. 53 OF 1998

(Certified on 25 th November, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part Il of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of November 27, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANEA

"TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO I

Price:Rs. 14.75 Postage :Rs. 5.25


National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

[Certified on 25th November, 1998]
L.D.—0.29197.

‘AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL
AQUACULTURE DevELoPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA, TO
DEVELOP AQUATIC RESOURCES AND THE AQUACULTURE
INDUSTRY ; AND TO MAKE PROVISION FOR MATTERS CONNECTED.
‘THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1, This Act may be cited as the National Aquaculture
Development Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998
and shall come into operation on such date as the Minister
may appoint by Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter
referred to as the “appointed date”).

PARTI

ESTABLISHMENT AND CONSTITUTION OF THE NATIONAL,
AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA

2. (1) There shall be established an authority which shall
be called the National Aquaculture Development Authority
Of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Authority”).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal, and may sue and be sued in all courts.

3. The administration, management and control of the
affairs of the Authority shall be vested in a Board of Directors
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of :—

(@) eight Directors who shall be appointed by the Minister
from among persons who have had wide experience
and shown capacity, in fisheries and aquaculture,
science and technology, industry, commerce, finance
or administration or law (a Director appointed under
this paragraph is hereinafter referred to as an
“appointed Director”) ; and

-D 049759 8,550 (07/98)

Short title and
date of operation.

Establishment of,
‘the National ~
‘Aquaculture
Development
Authority of Sri
Lanka.

Board of
Directors.


2 National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

() the following ex-officio Directors :-—

@ an officer of the Department of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources Development, nominated by
the Minister in charge of the subject of Fisheries
and Aquatic Resources Development ;

i)_an officer of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Irrigation, nominated by that
Minister ;

Gii)_ an officer of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Mahaweli Development,
nominated by that Minister ;

(iv) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Agriculture, nominated by that
Minister ;

(¥)_an officer of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Wild Life Conservation,
nominated by that Minister ;

(vi) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Environment, nominated by that
Minister ; and

(vii) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subjeet of Finance, nominated by that
Minister.

Qualification for 4. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed

mnie ofthe or continuing as a Director of the Board, if he—

(@) is or becomes a member of Parliament or member of
a Provincial Council or a member of any local
authority ; or

(®) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country, found or declared to be of unsound mind

(©) isaperson who having being declared an insolvent or
bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any
other country, is a undischarged insolvent oF
bankrupt ; or


National Aquaculture Development Authority © 3
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

(@) is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonment
imposed by any court in Sri Lanka of any other
country.

5. (1) An appointed Director may resign from office by
a letter in that behalf addressed tothe Minister and such
resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted by the
Minister in writing.

(2) The Minister may remove any appointed Director from
office without assigning any reason therefor.

(3) Where an appointed Director is temporarily unable to
perform the duties of his office due to ill health, absence
from Sri Lanka or other cause, the Minister may, having regard
to the provisions of section 3, appoint another peison to act,
in his place.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2),
the term of office of an appointed Director shall be three years.

(S) An appointed Director who vacates office by effluxion
of time, shall be eligible for reappointment.

(6) Where an appointed Director vacates office by death,
resignation or removal, the Minister may, having regard to
the provisions of section 3, appoint another Director in his
Place and the Director so appointed shall hold office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of the Director whom
he succeeds.

(7) The Minister shall appoint the Chairman of the Board
from among the Directors of the Board.

(8) The Chairman of the Board may resign from the office
of Chairman by letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister
and such resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted
by the Minister in writing.

(9) The Minister may at any time remove the Chairman

of the Board from the office of Chairman, without assigning

any reason therefor.

Provision relating.
to appointed
Directors and the
Chairman,


Meetings of the
Board,

Disclosure of
interest,

Remuneration
of Directors.

Vacancies not
to invalidate
proceedings.

Seal of the
Authority,

4 National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

(10) Where the Chairman of the Board is temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office due to illhealth,
absence from Sri Lanka or other cause, the Minister may
appoint any other Director to act in his place.

(11) Subject to the provisions of subsections (8) and (9),
the term of office of the Chairman of the Board shall be his
period of membership of the Board,

6. (1) The Board shall meet at least once every month.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be
five members.

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2),
the Board may regulate the procedure in regard to its meetings
and the transaction of business at such meetings.

7. A Director who is directly or indirectly interested,
financialy or otherwise, in any project, undertaking or contract,
undertaken or made, or proposed to be undertaken or made,
by the Board shall disclose his interest at a meeting of the
Board, at the earliest possible opportunity, and such disclosure
shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board ; and such
Director shall not thereafter take part in any deliberation or
decision of the Board with regard to such project, undertaking
or contract, unless the Board otherwise directs.

8. The Directors of the Board may be remunerated at
such rates as may be determined by the Minister with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

9. Noact or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed to
be invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy
among its Directors or any defect in the appointment of a
Director.

10. (1) The Authority shall have a common seal which
shall be in the custody of such person as the Board may decide
from time to time.


National Aquaculture Development Authority = 5
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

(2) The seal of the Authority may be altered in such manner
as may be determined by the Board.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except in the presence of two
Directors of the Board, both of whom shall sign the instrument
‘or document in token of their presence.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instruments
and documents to which the seal of the Authority has been
affixed

11. The functions of the Authority shall be—

(@) to develop aquatic resources and the aquaculture
industry, with a view to increasing fish production in
the country ;

(6) to promote the creation of employment opportunities
through the development of freshwater aquaculture,
coastal aquaculture and sea farming ;

(©) to promote the farming of high valued fish species
including ornamental fish, for export ;

(@) to promote the optimum utilization of aquatic
resources through environmental friendly aquaculture
Programmes ;

(©) topromote and develop small, medium and large scale
Private sector investment in aquaculture ;

(to manage, conserve, and develop, aquatic resources,
and the aquaculture ipdustry ;

(g) to carry on business as an importer, exporter, seller,
supplier and distributor, of aquatic resources ;

(h) to prepare and implement plans and programmes for
the management and development of aquaculture and
aquatic resources ;

(i) to conserve bio-diversity.

‘The functions of
the Authority.


6 National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

Trepowersofthe 12. For the purposes of discharging its functions, the
nity. Authority may exercise all or any of the following powers—

(@) initiate and conduct researches, and resource surveys
to ascertain the development potential in water and
land resources, for aquaculture ;

(6) undertake the collection and dissemination of
information on aquatic resources and aquaculture ;

(©) establish and manage aquaculture centres ;

(@) assist enterpreneurs, technically, financially or
otherwise, engaged in aquaculture and aquatic
resource development and provide financial or
technical or managerial assistance to inland fishermen
and fish farmers ;

(e) acquire and hold, take or give on lease, mortgage or
hire, or sell or otherwise dispose of, any movable or
immovable property :

Provided that no immovable property of the
Authority shall be sold without the prior approval in
writing of the Minister ;

(D levy and charge fees or any other charges for services
rendered, or for facilities and equipment provided, by
the Authority ;

(@) enter into, perform and carry out, whether directly or
through any officer or agent authorized in that behalf,
or by way of joint venture with any person in or outside
Sri Lanka, all such contracts or agreements as may be
necessary for the discharge of the functions of the
Authority ;

(A) formulate rules, procedures and schemes, in respect
of —

iestion of the affairs of the



National Aquaculture Development Authority 7
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

Gi) appointments, promotions, terms and conditions
of service, and disciplinary control, of officers
and servants of the Authority ;

ii) withdrawal or disbursement of moneys out of the
Fund by the Authority ;

(@ establish and regulate provident funds, or schemes,
or pension schemes, for the benefit of the officers and
servants of the Authority and make contributions to
any such funds or schemes ;

@ establish such departments, divisions and regional
offices as may be necessary for the proper discharge
of its functions ;

(4) delegate to the Chairman or to any Director or to any
officer of the Authority, such of the powers of the
Authority as the Board may consider necessary to
delegate for the efficient discharge of the functions of
the Authority ;

(D accept gifts, grants, donations or subsidies, whether
in cash or otherwise, and to apply them for discharging
the functions of the Authority ;

(m) invest the monies of the Authority in such manner as
may from time to time be determined by the Board ;

(n) accept stocks or shares or debentures, or other
securities of any company, society or undertaking, in
Payment or part payment for any service rendered by
the Authority to such company, society or undertaking
or for any sale made to, or debt owing from, any such
company, society or undertaking, by or to the
Authority, and which is likely to promote or advance
the objects of the Authority ; and

(©) todo all such other things which, in the opinion of the
Board, are necessary for the efficient discharge of the
functions of the Authority ; *


Director-General
of the Authority

Other Staff of the
Authority.

Appointment of
Public officers to
the staff of the
Authority.

8 National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

PART IL
‘STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

13. (1) The Board shall appoint a Director-General of
the Authority,

(2) The Director-General shall be responsible for the
implementation of the decisions of the Board and shall,
perform such other duties as may be assigned or delegated to
him by the Board,

14, (1) The Board may subject to the other provisions of
this Act appoint to the Staff of the Authority such officers and
servants as the Board may deem necessary for the efficient
discharge of the functions of the Authority.

(2) The Director-General of the Authority and the officers
and servants appointed under subsection (1) shall be subject
to such conditions of service and shall be paid remuneration
at such rates as may be determined by the Board.

15. (1) At the request of the Board, any officer in the
Public service may with the consent of that officer, the
Secretary to the Ministry under which that officer is employed
and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of
the subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed
to the Staff of the Authority for such period as may be
determined by the Board with like consent, or with like consent
be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation, to him.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation, to him.


National Aquaculture Development Authority 9
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

(4) Where the Authority employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Govenment by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service with the Authority by that person shall be
Tegarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such contract.

16. (a) Every public officer of the Aquaculture
Development Division of the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources (in this Part of this Act referred to as “the Division”)
not being any such officer in a transferable service of the
Government shall, after the date on which this Act is passed
by Parliament but before the appointed date, give notice in
writing to the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Fisheries and Acquatic Resources
Development that such officer intends, on the appointed
date—

(i) to retire from the public service and become an
employee of the Authority if, being a pensionable
officer of the Division, he would on that date have
had not less than ten years pensionable service ; or

Gil) to leave the public service and become an employee
of the Authority if, being a pensionable officer of the
Division, he would on that date have less than ten years
Pensionable service ;

Gi) to leave the public service and become an employee
of the Authority if he is a contributor to the Public
Service Provident Fund established under the Public
Service Provident Fund Ordinance ; or

(iv) to both retire or leave the public service and not.
become an employee of the Authority.

(®) A notice given to the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of the Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources Development before the appointed date by a public
officer of the Division under paragraph (a), shall be final.

Notice required to
be given by public
officers of the
‘Aquaculture
Development
Division of the
Ministry of
Fisheries and
‘Aquatic
Resources.


Effect of not
giving notice
under
section 16,

Effect of a notice
given under
section 16,

10 National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

17. Any public officer of the Divison who does not give
the notice required under sub-paragraphs (i), (ii, (iii) or (iv),
of paragraph (a) of section 16 before the appointed date, shall
cease to continue in office as a public officer of the Division
on or after that date.

18. -(1) Any public officer of the Division who gives
notice under sub-paragraph (i) or (ii) or (iii) or (iv) of
paragraph (a) of section 16 before the appointed date shall—

(a) where such notice is given by him under sub-paragraph
i) of that paragraph, become an employee of the
Authority from and after the appointed date and shall,
subject to the provisions of section 19, be eligible for
such a pension under the Minutes on Pensions as
would have been awarded to him had he retired from
the public service on the ground of abolition of office
on that date ; or

(6) where such notice is give by him under sub-paragraph
(ii) of that paragraph, become an employee of the
Authority from and after the appointed date and shall,
subject to the provisions of section 19, be deemed to
have left the public service on that date and shall be
eligible for such an award under the Minutes on
Pensions as would have been awarded to him if he
had left the public service on the ground of abolition
of office on that date ; or

(c) where such notice is given by him under sub-paragraph
(ii) of that paragraph, become an employee of the
Authority from and after the appointed date and shall
be deemed for the purposes of the Public Service
Provident Fund to have left the service of the
‘Government upon the determination of a contract with
the consent of the Government otherwise than by
dismissal on that date ; or


National Aquaculture Development Authority 11
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

(@) where such notice is given by him under sub-paragraph
(iv) of that paragraph, and—

(® ifhe is a public officer of the class or description
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of that paragraph,
be deemed to have retired from the public service
on the appointed date and shall be eligible for
such pension under the Minutes on Pensions as
would have been awarded to him had he retired
from the public service on the ground of abolition
of office on that date ;

(ii) if he is a public officer of the class of description
referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) ofthat paragraph,
be deemed to have left the public service on the
appointed date and shall be eligible for such an
award under the Minutes on Pensions as would
have been awarded to him if he had left the public
service on the ground of abolition of office on
that date ; or

ii) if he is a public officer of the class or description
referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of that paragraph,
be deemed for the purposes of the Public Service
Provident Fund Ordinance to have left the service
of the Government otherwise than by dismissal
on that date, .

(2) In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between
the provisions of subsection (1) of this section and any other
Provisions of this Act, the provisions of that subséction shall
to the extent of such conflict or inconsistency prevail over
Such other provisions.

19. The following provisions shall apply to and in elation Special provisions
to any employee of the Authority who became such an Sppteable "
employee on the appointed date by virtue of the operation of bs pape noc.

the provisions of section 18—

(@) such employee shall be employed by the Authority
‘on:such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon
by such employee and the Board :


12

@

National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

Provided however, that such terms and conditions
shall not be less favourable than the terms and
conditions on which such employee was previously
employed in the Division;

if on the appointed date, such employee was a public
officer of the Division holding a post declared to be
pensionable and who had less than ten and not less
than eight years pensionable service, then—

(i) he shall be deemed, for the purposes only of the
Minutes on Pensions, to be holding the post in
the Division that he held on the appointed date
until such period of time as, when added to his
pensionable service under the Government,
makes an aggregate of ten years pensionable
service (service under the Authority being
counted as pensionable service under the
Government for the computation of such
aggregate) ;

in respect of him the Authority shall pay out of
the funds of the Authority to the Deputy Secretary
to the Treasury to be credited to the Consolidated
Fund for every complete month of the period of
service during which he is deemed for the
purposes of the Minutes on Pensions to be holding
the post in the Division that he held on the
appointed date, such sum as may be determined
by the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance ; and

at the end of the period referred to in sub-
paragraph (i) he shall be deemed to have retired
from the public service and shall be eligible for
such pension under the Minutes on Pensions as
would have been awarded to him had he retired
from the Public service on the ground of abolition
of office on the termination of such period


National Aquaculture Development Authority 13
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

PART II
FINANCE,

20. (1) The Authority shall have its own Fund. There shall
bbe paid into the Fund of the Authority—

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time to
time by Parliament for the use of the Authority ;

(6) all such sums as were lying to the credit of the
Aquaculture Development Division of the Ministry
of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources on the day
Preceding the appointed date ;

(©) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority in the exercise and discharge of its powers,
and functions under this Act ;

(@) all such sums of money as may be received by the .

Authority by way of fees and charges ;

(e) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority by way of loans, donations, subsidies, gifts
or grants from any source whatsoever ;

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authoritiy
all such sums as are required to defray any expenditure
incurred by the Authority in the exercise, and discharge of its
Powers, and functions under this Act.

21. The initial capital of the Authority shall be fifty
million rupees. The amount of the initial capital shall be paid
to the Authority out of the Consolidated Fund in such
instalments as the Minister in: charge of the subject. of Finance
‘may in consultation with the Minister determine.

Fund of the
Authority.

Initial capital.


Authority to
exempt from
payment of taxes
&e.

14 National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

22. (1) Notwithstariding anything to the contrary in any
other law, the Authority shall be exempt from the payment
of—

(@) any tax on the income or profits or other receipts of
the Authority ; and

(6) any stamp duty on any instrument executed by or on
behalf, or in favour, of the Authority where, but for
this exemption, the Authority would be liable to pay
the stamp duty chargeable in respect’of such
instrument.

(2) The Minister with the concurrence of the Minister it
Charge of the subject of Finance may exempt the Authority
from the payment of any customs duty on any goods purchased
or imported out of its funds by the Authority. if the import of
such goods is considered to be conducive for the advancement
of the objects of the Authority.

(3) In the case of any instrument containing any agreement
between the Authority and any other person providing for
Payment to the Authority for services rendered or to be
rendered by the Authority, or otherwise in support of the
Authority's work, both the Authority and such other person
shall be exempt from the payment of any stamp duty on such
instrument.

(4) Any person making a payment to the Authority for
services rendered by the Authority or as a contribution to the
Fund of the Authority may claim the amount of such payment
as a deduction from income in the year in which such payment
is actually made for the purpose of computing liability for
income tax of such person.

(5) The provisions of this section shall have effect not with
standing anything to the contrary in the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 28 of 1979.


National Aquaculture Development Authority 15
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

23. ‘The Board may, with the consent of the Minister or
in accordance with the terms of any general authority given
by him, borrow temporarily by way of overdraft or otherwise,
such sums as the Board may require for meeting the
obligations of the Authority in discharging the powers,
functions and duties of the Authority under this Act :

Provided that the aggregate of the amounts outstanding in
respect of any temporary loans raised by the Board under this
section shall not at any time exceed such sum as may be
determined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance.

24, The financial year of the Authority shall be the
calendar year,

25. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts
tobe kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Authority.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating
to the audit of the accounts of public corporations shall apply
to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.

26. For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared that

the provisions of the, Finance Act, No: 38 of 1971 shall apply
to the Authority.

PARTIV

GENERAL

27. The Board shall furnish to the Minister such
information as he may call for, from time to time, in respect
fall or any of the activities and the financial position, of the
“Authority.” ":

P=

Borrowing power
of the Authority.

Financial year of
the Authority.

‘Audit of accounts
of the Authority.

“Application of the
Finance Act,
No, 38 of 1971.

Fumishing of
information to the
Minister.


Directions of the
Minister.

Power of Minister
toorder
investigation into
activities of the
Authority.

Transfer of
Property and
contracts of State
{0 the Authority.

16 National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

28. The Minister may give the Board general directions,
and after consultation with the Board, give the Board special
directions, as to the exercise of the powers and the discharge
of the functions of the Authority, and such directions shall be
carried out by such Board.

29. The Minister may from time to time, order all or any
of the activities of the Authority to be investigated and reported
"upon by such person or persons as he may specify, and upon
such order being made, the'Board shall afford all such facilities
and furnish all such information, as may be necessary to give
effect to such order.

30. (1) The Minister may, by Order published in the
Gazette, transfer to the Authority—

(a) any movable or immovable property of the State
required by the Authority for the discharge of its
functions under this Act ; and

(®) any contract or liability of the State connected with
any of the functions of the Authority.

(2) No movable property, contract or liability of the State
shall be transferred to the Authority under subsection (1)
without the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance.

(3) Noimmovable property of the State shall be transferred

. to the Authority under subsection (1) without the concurrence
of the Minister to whom the subject of State Lands has been
assigned.

(4) Upon the publication of an Order under subsection (1)
in the Gazette—

(@) the properties specified in such Order shall vest in,
and be the properties of, the Authority ;

(©) the contracts specified in that Order shall be deemed
to be the contracts of the Authority and all subsisting
rights and obligations of the State under such contracts,
shall be deemed to be the rights and obligations of the
Authority ;


National Aquaculture Development Authority 17
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

(©) the liabilities specified in that Order shall be deemed
to be the liabilities of the Authority,

with effect from the date of such Order.

31. (1) The Board may, subject to such conditions as may
be specified in writing, delegate to the Chairman ora Director
of the Board or to any officer of the Authority, any power, or
function conferred on or assigned to the Authority.

(2) Notwithstanding any such delegation, the Board may
exercise, or discharge any such power, or function.

32, (1) The Board or any officer of the Authority, duly
authorized in writing in that behalf by the Board may by notice
in writing, require any person to furnish to the Board or to
that officer within such time as. ‘may be specified in that notice,
all such information within the knowledge of that person and
Telating to, any matters specified in that notice as may be
necessary to enable the Board to éxercise and discharge the
Powers and functions of the Authority under this Act.

(2) Any person who—

(@) willfully fails to comply with the requirements of a
Rotice given under subsection (1) ; or

(6) furnishes any information, which to his knowledge is
false, when required to furnish any information by a
Notice given under subsection (1) ; or

(©) willfully omits any matter from any information
furnished by him in compliance with the requirements
of a notice given under subsection (1),

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees.

Delegation of
powers of
‘Authority.

Power of the
Authority to call
for information.


Acquisitions of
immovable
Property under the
Land Acquisitions
Act, for the
Authority,

‘Authority deemed
tobea scheduled
institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Directors, officers
and servants of the
‘Authority deemed
to be public
servants,

Protection of
action taken under
this Act or on the
direction of the
Board.

18 National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

33. (1) Where any immovable property is required to be
acquired for any purpose of the Authority and the Minister
by Order published in the Gazette, approves of the proposed
acquisition, that property shall be deemed to be required for
a public purpose and may accordingly be acquired under the
Land Acquisition Act, and be transferred to the Authority.

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immovable
Property under the Land Acquisition Act, for the Authority
shall be paid by the Authority.

34. The Authority shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

35. All Directors of the Board, officers and servants of
the Authority shall be deemed to be public servants with in
the meaning, and for the purposes, of the Penal Code.

36. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie—

(@) against the Authority for any act which in good faith
is done or purported to be done by the Authority under
this Act ; or

() against any Director of the Board, or any officer,
servant, or agent of the Authority for any act which in
good faith is done or purported to be done by him
under this Act, or on the direction of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Authority in any suit or
prosecution bought by or against the Authority before any
court shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority and any


National Aquaculture Development Authority 19
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

Costs paid to, or recovered by, the Authority in any such suit
F prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referred
toin paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution
brought against him before any court in respect of any act
which is done or is purported to be done by him under this
Act or on the direction of the Board shall, if the court holds
that such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund
of the Authority, unless such expense is recovered by him in
such suit or prosecution.

37. (1) The Minister may make regulation in respect of— Regulations.

(@) the management aquaculture ;
(6) the management of aquatic resources ;

(c) all matters in respect of which regulations are
authorized or required to be made by this Act.

(2) Every regulation, made under subsection (1) shall be
Published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
Specified in such regulation.

(G) Every such regulation shall as soon as it is convenient
after its publication in the Gazette, be brought before
Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of
disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously done
thereunder, .

(4) Notification of the date on which any such regulation
is deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.


Amendment of
section 18 of the
‘State Lands
(Recovery of
Possession) Act,
No. 7 of 1979.

‘Transitional
Provision.

20 National Aquaculture Development Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

38. Section 18 of the State Lands (Recovery of
Possession) Act, No. 7 of 1979 is hereby amended as
follows :—

(a) in the definition of “Competent Authority” by the
insertion immediately after item (f) thereof, of the
following item :—

“(f) the Chairman of the National Aquaculture
Development Authority of Sri Lanka, where
such land is under the control of the National
Aquaculture Development Authority of
Sri Lanka ;

(©) in the definition of “State Land” by the substitution,
for the words and figures “Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation Act, No. 28 of 1961, as the case may be",
of the words and figures “Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation Act, No. 28 of 1961 or the National
Aquaculture Development Authority of Sri Lanka,
established by the National Aquaculture Development
Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998, as the
case may be ;”.

39. (1) All movable and immovable property used, on
the day preceding the appointed date, for the purposes of the
Aquaculture Development Division of the Ministry of
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (in this section referred to
as “the Division”) shall vest, with effect from the appointed
date, in the Authority, free from all encumbrances.

(2) All contracts entered into by or with the State, for or
on behalf of the Division and all lease agreements entered
into by the Secretary, o the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
Development relating to any property movable or immovable
used by the Inland Fisheries Development Division of the
Ministry and subsisting on the day preceding the appointed
date, shall be deemed, with effect from the appointed date, 10
be contracts and lease agreements entered into by or with the
Authority.


National Aquaculture Development Authority 21
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998

(3) Allactions and proceeding instituted by or against the
‘Attorney-General, as representing the Division and pending,
‘on the day preceding the appointed date, shall be deemed,
with effect from the appointed date to be actions and
Proceedings instituted by or against the Authority, as the case
may be, and may be continued and completed accordingly.

(4) All judgements and orders made in favour of or against,
the Attorney-General as representing the Division and
Temaining unsatisfied on the day preceding the appointed date,
shall be deemed, with effect from the appointed date, to be
Judgements and orders made in favour of or against the
Authority, as the case may be, and may be enforced
accordingly.

40. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act the Sinhala text shall prevail.

41. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—

“aquaculture”, “aquaculture enterprises”, “aquatic
resources”, “fish”, “fishing boat”, shall have the
Fespective meanings assigned to them by the Fisheries
and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 199

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council
established by Chapter XVII a of the Constitution.

‘Sinhala text 0
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.


‘Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts ofthe Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180¢Foreign),
‘Payable to the SurexinrexDent, GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKS House,
‘Lotus Roa, CoLomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
