PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON ~
2nd Session 1957 He fs

DEG '

State Industrial Corporations Act,

No. 49 of 1957 is

Date of Assent: November 1, 1957

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press, Cryton. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo. 12

Price : 40 cents. Postage : 10 cents.


State Industrial Corporations Act, 3.
No. 49 of 1957 ,

L. D.—O. 87/57.

AN AcT TO ENABLE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF COR-
-PORATIONS WITH CAPITAL PROVIDED BY THE
GOVERNMENT FOR SETTING UP AND CARRYING ON
‘INDUSTRIAL UNDERTAKINGS, OR TAKING OVER AND
CARRYING ON INDUSTRIAL - UNDERTAKINGS PRE-
VIOUSLY CARRIED ON BY CORPORATIONS ESTABLISHED
UNDER THE GOVERNMENT SPONSORED Cor-
PORATIONS AcT, No. 19 oF 1955; To REGULATE THE
POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CORPORATIONS
ESTABLISHED UNDER THIS ACT; AND TO MAKE PRO-
VISION FOR PURPOSES CONSEQUENTIAL TO ‘HE
AFORESAID MATTERS.

[Date of Assent: November 1, 1957]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

“™® This Act may be cited as the State Industrial
. Corporations Act, No. 49 of 1957. ,

’2.° (1) Where the Government considers it neces-
sary that a corporation should be established for the
purpose of— | 3

(a) setting up and carrying on any industrial
undertaking, or
(b) taking over and carrying on any industrial
-. undertaking previously carried on by any
corporation which was established under
the Government Sponsored Corporations
Act, No. 19 off 1955, and was subsequently
dissolved, /- iis Se
the Minister, with the approval of the Government,
may by Order (hereinafter referred to as the Incor-
poration Order) published in the Gazette—
(i) specify the industrial undertaking (hereinafter
referred to as the ‘‘ Specified Industrial

_ Undertaking ’’) to which the Order relates;

-~.. (ii) declare that a corporation shal] be established
for the purpose of setting up and carrying
on, or taking over and carrying on, as the
case may be, the Specified Industrial
| Undertaking ; »
_ (iii) assign a corporate name to the corporation;
2——J . N. R 19097—8,025 (9/57)

Short title.

Incorporation
Order for
establishment
of a State
industrial
corporation,


Objects of :

the Corporation. .

Principal
lace of

Corporation,

Powers
of the
Corporation.

4 State Industrial Corporations Act,
No. 49 of 1957

ay) specify the initial capital of the corporation
which shall not exceed such amount as shall
have been approved by the House of

- Representatives;

(v) state the principal place of business of the
corporation ;

2 7) fix the number of members of the Board of

-..., Directors of the corporation, the number
so fixed being not less than three and not
more than seven; -

. (vii) appoint as the first. members of such Board
any persons who, under this Act, are
qualified for being such members; and

(viii) appoint one of the members of such Board as
the Chairman of such Board.

(2) Upon the publication of the Incorporation Order
in the Gazette, a corporation (hereinafter referred to
as the Corporation) consisting of the persons who are
for the time being members thereof by virtue of section
9, with the corporate name specified in such Order,
and with perpetual succession n shall be deemed to have
been established.

(3) The Corporation uuay sue and be sued in ite
corporate name. |

3. (1) The purposes constituting the Specified
Industrial Undertaking according to the description
of that Undertaking in the Incorporation Order shall
be the objects of the Corporation.

_ (2) The Minister may, with the aaprovel of the
Government, alter the objects of the Corporation by
amending, by Order published in the Gazette, the
description of the Specified Industrial Under taking
-contained in the Incorporation Order.

q

4. The principal lace .of business of the

Corporation shall be t at specified in the Incor-
porasion Order.

(1) The Carparation shall have the power to
ae and hold and to take on hire or lease any.
movable or immovable property and to give on hire™
or lease or to sell or otherwise dispose of any of its
properties:

Provided that no immovable property of the Cor-
poration shall be sold without the prior approval of
the Minister..

ad


State Industrial Corporations Act, 5
No. 49 of 1957

(2) The Corporation shall have the power to do any-
thing necessary for, or conducive or incidental to, the
carrying out of its objects, including the power to
borrow money for carrying out its objects and to secure
the payment of any sum of money by the mortgage
of any of its properties:

Provided that the Corporation shall not borrow or |

‘secure the payment of any sum of money exceeding
such amount as may be determined from time to time

by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister »

of Finance.

6. The liability of the Corporation shall be limited
to the capital of the Corporation. _ r

sy 1. (1) The Corporation shall have a common seal
which shall be in the custody of the Board of Directors.

(2) The seal of the Corporation may be altered in
‘such manner as may be determined by the Board of
Directors. 7

(3) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
sto any instrument or document except in the presence
of two members of the Board of Directors both of
whom shall sign the instrument or document in token
of their presence. .

(4) The Board of Directors shall maintain a register

of the instruments or documents to which the seal ©

of the Corporation is affixed. . .

8. Subject to the other provisions of this Act,—

(a) the general control of the affairs of the Cor-
poration shall be vested in .a Board of
Divectors constituted as hereinafter pro-
vided, and gk i :

(b) such Board may exercise the powers of the
Corporation for the purpose of carrying
out the objects of the Corporation.

_< 9. The persons holding office for the time being as

members of the Board of Directors shall be the mem-
bers of the Corporation.

10. The Board of Directors shall consist of such
pummel of directors as is fixed by the Incorporation
‘Order.

Liability of the
Corporation
limited to

its capital. ~

Seal of the
Corporation.

General control
of the affairs,
and the exercise
of the powers,
of the
Corporation.

Members
of the
Corporation,

Number of
directors.


Disqualifica-

tion for being ~

a director.

Appointment
of directors,

Appointment
of Chairman
of the bs
Board of
Directors.

Managing ~~
Director - ~
of the
Corporation.

Term of. -
office of
directors
other than
Managing
Director.

Appointment
of acting
directors.

Resignation of
directors

other than
Managing
Director.

ee

6 ' State Industrial Corporations Act,

No. 49 of. 1957

- 44, A Senator or a Member of Parliament shall

‘not be qualified to be a director. |

42. The Minister shall appoint the directors from

! among persons (including officers in the public service) ,

who appear to the Minister to have had experience of *
and shown capacity in industrial, administrative,
commercial, financial or legal matters, applied sciences,

or the organization of workers.

“48. The Minister shall appoint one of the

directors as the Chairman of the Board of Directors.

44. (1) The Minister may at any time appoint one

. of the directors as the Managing Director of the Cor-
_ poration.

; The Chairman of the Board of Directors
shall be eligible for appointment as the Managing

Director.

(2) The Managing Director of the Corporation shall
be eligible for appointment as the Chairman of the

Board of Directors. .

(3) The terms and conditions of the appointment of
the Managing Director of the Corporation shall be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance. —

(4) The Managing Director’s term of office, his
remuneration, his resignation or removal from or
vacation of office, and ‘his eligibility for re-appoint-
ment on vacation of office shall be in accordance with
the terms and conditions of his appointment.

15. ° Every director, other than the Managing
Director, shall hold office for a period of three years,
unless he vacates or is removed from office earlier.

46. If any director is temporarily unable to
discharge the duties of his office on account of ill-
health, absence from Ceylon, or any other cause, the_
Minister may appoint some other person to act as 9-

‘director in his place. - ok

47. <A director, other than the Managing Director,
may resign office by letter addressed to the Minister.

*


State Industrial Corporations Act, 7
No. 49 of 1957

18. The Minister may, if he thinks it expedient
to do so, remove a director, other than the Managing
Director, from office.

19. A director, other than the Managing
Director, who vacates office by effluxion of time shall
‘be eligible for re-appointment. | oe

20. The directors, ether than ihe Managing
Director, may be remunerated out of the funds of the
Corporation 1 in such manner and at such rates as the
Minister, with the concurrence of the Minister of
Finance, may determine.

i. 24, ‘The first directors ‘shall = the persons
_ appointed as such directors by the Incorporation
‘Order, and their term of office shall commence on the
ont of ft deeper of suet Order i in the Gazette.

The first Chairman of the Board of Directors
il be the person appointed as such Chairman by the
_ Incorporation Order.

_ 28. (1) The initial capital of the Corporation
shall be that specified in the Incorporation Order.

(2) The capital of the Corporation may be increased
from time to time by such amount as may be authorised
by resolution of the House of Representatives to be

paid to the Corporation for the purpose of Pancteasing
such capital. |

__ 24. The quorum for any meeting of the Board of
_. Directors shall, until it is prescribed by regulation,
“he three members. _

25. (1) The Minister may, subject to the provi-
sions of sub-section (2) and sub-section (3), by Order
poe sued in the Gazette transfer to the Corporation—

(a) any movable or immovable property of the
: Crown required for the purposes of the
_ Corporation, and

(by any contracts and ‘liabilities of the Crown
connected with such purposes.

Removal of
directors,
other than
Managing
Director,
from office.

Eligibility of
directors,
other than
Managing
Director,

for re-
appointment.

Remuneration
of directors,
other than
the Managing
Director.

The first
directors.

The first
Chairman of
the Board of
Directors.

Capita}
of the
Corporation.

Quorum for
meetings of
Board of
Directors.

Transfer of
Crown
property

and certain
contracts and
Na bilities

to the
Corporation.


Appointment ~

of public
officers to
the staff

of the
Corporation,

8 State Industrial Corporations Act,
No. 49 of 1957 7

» (2) No movable property, and no contract. or
liability, of the Crown shall be transferred to the

Corporation under sub-section (1) without the

concurrence of the Minister of Finance.

(3) No immovable property of the Crown shall be
‘transferred to the Corporation under sub-section (1)
without the concurrence of the Minister of Finance
and the Minister to whom the subject of Crown lands
is for the time being assigned.

(4) Upon the publication of an Order under

‘sub-section (1) in the Gazette—

\, (a) the properties specified in that. Order shall

vest in and be the. properties of the
Corporation,

“1-8 (6) the contracts specified in that Order shall
2 3" «be deemed to be the contracts of the
‘Corporation and all subsisting rights and
- obligations of the Crown under such con-
tracts shall be deemed to be the rights and

obligations of the Corporation, and

(c) the liabilities specified in that Order shall be
deemed to be the liabilities of the
Corporation,

26. (1) At the request of the Board of Directors,
any officer in the public service may, with the consent
of that officer and of the Secretary to the Treasury,
be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Corpora-
tion for such period as may be determined by such

Board with like consent or be permanently appointed
to such staff.

(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply to
the appointment as the Managing Director of the

Corporation of any such member of the Board of:

Directors as is an officer in the public service.

(3) Where an officer in the public service is
temporarily appointed to the staff of . the
Corporation ,— | | a cee,

(a) he shall be subject to the same disciplinary
control as any other member of such staff;

(b) if, at the time of his temporary appointment
to the staff of the Corporation, his substan-
tive post in the public service was a post

declared to be pensionable under the
Minutes on Pensions,—

bane


State Industrial Corporations Act, 9
No. 49 of 1957

«) he shall, while in the employ of the
Corporation, be deemed to have
been seconded to an office to which
pension rights are not attached,
and accordingly section 24 of those
Minutes shall apply to him, and

Gi) in respect of him the Board of
Directors shall pay out of the funds
. . of the Corporation to the Deputy
,.. °... Seeretary to the Treasury to be
a E | credited to the Consolidated Fund
of Ceylon for every complete month
during which he is in the employ
-of the Corporation such sum not
exceeding twenty-five per centum
of the salary payable to him in his
ny - substantive post in the public
ed Padedie cis service as may be determined by the
' Minister of Finance; and

© if, at tire time of his temporary appointment
to the staff of the Corporation, he was a
oe contributor to the Public Service Provident
We Bhs Fund established under the Public Service
ae Git EP ote Provident Fund Ordinance, No. 18 of 1942,
| his service to the Corporation shall, for
the purposes of that Ordinance, be deemed
to be service to the Government, and
accordingly he shall, while he is in the
employ of the Corporation, continue to pay
to the Public Service Provident Fund
- such contributions as he was liable under
that Ordinance to pay, and in respect of
~ him the Board of Directors shall pay at
the close of each financial year out of the
funds of the Corporation to the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury to be credited
to the officer’s account in the Public Service
Provident Fund a sum equivalent to such
contribution as the Government is liable
to pay to the Public Service Erovident

Fund in respect of him.

- (4) Where an ‘officer in the public service ‘is
‘permanently appointed to the staff of the Corpora-
tion, —

(a). he shall be deemed to have lett the public
service ;


10 State Industrial Corporations. Act,
No. 49 of 1957

(b) if, at the time of his permanent appointment
- to the staff of the Corporation, his
» < substantive post in the public service was
a post declared to be pensionable under
-- the Minutes on Pensions,—

‘(i) he shall be eligible for such an award*~

2 under those Minutes as might have
_.. been made to him if he had been
‘retired from the public service on
the ground of ill-health on the date
of his permanent appointment to

' the staff of the Corporation,
(ii) the amount of any such award made
... . under those Minutes shall not be
».', paid to him unless his employment
:. in the Corporation is terminated
.. by retirement on account of age or
~ ill-health or by the abolition of the
- post held by him in the Corporation
or on any other ground approved by

HAIG 5 ‘the Minister of Finance, and
"~~" (iii); in the event of his death while in the
“ss employ of the Corporation, such am.
award as might have been made in
respect of him under those Minutes
if he had died immediately before
his permanent appointment to the
staff of the Corporation may be

made in respect of him ; and

_ (c) if, at the time of his permanent appointment

“as ." to the staff of the Corporation, he was a

contributor to the Public Service Provident

Fund established under the Public Service

Provident Fund Ordinance, No. 18 of

' 1942, he shall, for the purposes of that

Ordinance, be deemed to have left the

service of the Government upon the

determination of contract with the consent

. of the Government otherwise than by
dismissal.: ,

(5) Where the Corporation employs any person. .
who has entered into a contract with the Government
by which he has agreed to serve the: Government for
a specified period, any period of service to the
Corporation by that person shall be regarded as
‘service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such contract.


State Industrial Corporations Act, 11
No. 49 of 1957

*: 27. Out of the profits of the Corporation im each
year the Board of Directors shall, with the approval
of the Minister, pay to general or specific reserves of
the Cor poration such sums of money as may be
determined by such Board with such approval, and
the balance, if any, of such profits shall, with the
‘approval of the Minister of Finance, be paid to the
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury to be credited to
' the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

28. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall
end on the thirty-first day of March.

(2) The Board of Directors shall cause the accounts
of the Corporation to be kept in the same manner
and form as the accounts of a company under the
Companies Ordinance, No. 51 of 1938.

(3) The books of accounts of the Corporation shall
be kept at’ the principal place of business of the
Corporation.

29. (1) The accounts of the Corporation shall be
audited annually by an auditor (hereinafter referred
to as the auditor) appointed by the Minister on the
advice of the Auditor-General. The auditor so
appointed shall be registered under the Companies
Ordinance, No. 51 of 1938. The auditor shall receive
such remuneration from the funds of the Corporation
as the Minister may determine with the concurrence
of the Minister of Finance.

(2) The Auditor-General shall have power—

(a) to direct the manner in which the Corpora-
tion’s accounts shall be audited by the
auditor and to give the auditor instruc-
tions in regard to any matter relating to
the performance of his functions as the
auditor, and

(0) to conduct a supplementary or test audit
of the Corporation’s accounts by such

_ person or persons as the Auditor-General
may authorise in that behalf, and for the
purpose of such audit, to require infor-

mation or additional information to. be:

furnished. to any person or persons so

authorised, on such matters, by such

person or .persons,; and in such form, as
, the Auditor-General may, by general. or:
i special order, direct... .

Disposition
of profits

of the
Corporation,

Accounts
of the
Corporation.

Audit,


12 State Industrial Corporations Act,
No. 49 of 1957

(3) The auditor shall examine the accounts of the
Corporation and furnish a report stating—

-. . (i) whether he has or has not obtained all the
; | information and explanations required by
him, and .

(ii) whether the balance sheet and accounts
, referred to in the report are properly

drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair. -

view of the affairs of the Corporation.

: (4) The auditor shall submit a copy of his audit
report to the Auditor-General who shall have the
right to comment upon, or supplement, the auditor’s

report in such manner as the Auditor-General may
think fit.. 9) i

(5) The Auditor-General shall transmit the audit
report together with his comments upon, or his
supplement to, such report to the Board of Directors.

Doonmieate: fo 80. (1) The Board of Directors shall, on receipt of —
Minister and the auditor’s report in each year, transmit to the
data, peters Minister— |

ouse oO : me

Representatives. (a) a- copy of such report together with the
“+ Auditor-General’s comments (if any) upon,
and his supplement (if any) to, such report,

(b) a copy of the profit and loss account,
(c) a copy of the balance sheet, and

(d) areport by such Board on the work of the Cor-
poration for the period for which the profit
_ and loss account and the balance sheet have

_ been made up. .

(2) The Minister shall cause copies of all the docu-
ments specified in sub-section (1) to be laid before
the House of Representatives for approval. |

Directions 81. (1) The Minister may, from time to time, give

. aales af -the Board of Directors general directions, and, after
ibe pneeancs consultation with such Board, give such Board special |
Minister. directions, as to the exercise of the powers and the dis-

. charge of the duties of such Board, and such directions
shall be carried out by such Board.

(2) The Minister may, when he considers it neces-
sary to do so, direct any person to hold an inquiry into
the work and financial position of the Corporation.

wt


State Industrial Corporations Act, 13
No. 49 of 1957 —

(8) When such inquiry as is referred to in sub-
section (2) is held, any director or any ‘member of the
staff of the Corporation shall, upon being requested
to do so by the person holding the inquiry, furnish such
information within his knowledge with regard to the
- affairs of the Corporation and produce such books of
accounts or documents in his custody as that person
may require. he a
32. The Corporation shall be liable to pay tax on Payment of

its income or profits. | on gros

of the
Corporation. - ~~

33. The Minister may by Order published in the Compulsory
Gazette approve of the proposed acquisition of any race
land, or any interest in any land, other than Crown an interest
land, for any purpose of the Corporation, and where 72, °4J, #4
such an Order is so published, the land or the interest Corporation.
in any land specified in the Order shall be deemed to 7
be required for a public purpose and may be acquired
under the Land Acquisition Act, No. 9 of 1950, and,
when so acquired, shall be transferred to the Cor-
poranion under the Crown Lands Ordinance, No. 8 of

47. | i.

ia |

34. (1) The Minister may by regulation made under aepplicatse fol
this Act provide for the application to the Cor- fompeny °*
poration, with or without any modification, of any Corporation.

provision of the Companies Ordinance, No. 51 of 1938.

(2) The provisions of the Companies Ordinance,
No. 51 of 1938, other than the provisions of that Ordi-
nance which are made applicable to the Corporation

by regulations made under this Act, shall not apply to
the Corporation. :

35. The Board of Directors shall, subject to the Staff.
provisions of sections 14 and 26, have power to appoint
such officers and servants as may be necessary for the
purposes of the Corporation, and to exercise disci-
. plinary control over and dismiss any officer or servant
of the Corporation:
Provided that the Board of Directors shall not, with-
out the approval of the Minister, dismiss any such
* officer or servant of the Corporation as was appointed
to the staff of the Corporation in accordance with the
' provisions of section 26.
» 86. The Board of Directors may establish and Pension :
regulate a pension scheme or provident fund for the scheme,
payment of pensions, gratuities or retiring allowances


Validity of
acts and
proceedings
of the Board

of Directors.- °°

Power : to
exempt the .
Corporation -
from the
provisions
of certain
Ordinances.

Regulations.

Interpretation.

14 State Industrial Corporations Act,
No. 49 of 1957

to members of the staff of the Corporation and a
widows’ and orphans’ pension fund or scheme for
providing pensions to the widows and orphans of
deceased members of the staff, and may require contri-
butions to be made to any such scheme or fund by
members of the staff of the Corporation and may deduct
such contributions from the salaries or wages of such
members and may make contributions to any such:
scheme or fund from the revenues of the Corporation.

37. No act or proceeding of the Board of Directors
shall'be invalidated by reason only of the existence of
any vacancy among its members or any defect in the
appointment of a member thereof.

88. (1) The Minister who for the time being is in
charge of the subject of Crown lands may, by Order
published in the Gazette, exempt the Corporation from
any such provisions of any of the following Ordinances
as may be specified in the Order :—

Crown Lands Encroachments Ordinance.
Crown Lands Ordinance, No. 8 of 1947.
Definition of Boundaries Ordinance.
Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance.
Forest Ordinance.

Land Development Ordinance.

(2) An Order made and published under sub-section
(1) shall have the force of law. — :

39. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the princi-
ples and provisions of this Act and in respect of all
matters for which regulations are authorised or
required by this Act to be made.

(2) No pepination made by the Minister under sub-
section (1) shall take effect unless it is approved by the
Senate and the House of Representatives and is pub-

lished in the Gazette together with a notice of such -
approval. |

40. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires ,—

‘‘ Board of Directors’? means the Board of
Directors of the Corporation; and

af director ’> means a member of the Board of
Directors.
