PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 14.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 25, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th of March, 2022]

LAND DEVELOPMENT (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 11 OF 2022

Land Development (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 20221

[Certified on 19th of March, 2022]

L.D.O. 25/2005

AN ACT TO AMEND THE LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 464)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Land Development(Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2022.

2.The Land Development Ordinance (Chapter 464)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended by the substitution for the words LandCommissioner wherever those words occur in the principalenactment or in any written law, notice, notification, contract,communication or other document, of the wordsCommissioner-General of Lands.

3.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefore:-

5. There may be appointed one or moreAdditional Land Commissioners, Deputy LandCommissioners, Assistant LandCommissioners and such other officers as may,from time to time, be required for the purposesof this Ordinance..

4.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (6)of that section, of the following new subsection:-

(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph(b) of subsection (6), the approval of the DivisionalSecretary shall not be required when mortgaging suchholding to a licenced commercial bank, the StateMortgage and Investment Bank, the DevelopmentFinance Corporation of Ceylon, the National

Short title

Amendment ofLandDevelopmentOrdinance(Chapter 464)

Replacement ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment

Appointmentof AdditionalLandCommissionersand otherofficers

2Land Development (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2022

Development Bank of Sri Lanka, the National HousingDevelopment Authority, the Housing DevelopmentFinance Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka, any registeredsociety or other prescribed institution..

5.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 27 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 28 of that enactment:-

28. State Land which has not been surveyedby the Surveyor-General shall not be alienatedby a grant..

6.Section 30 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefore:-

30. The land alienated on any grant shall bedescribed with reference to a plan prepared byor under the authority of the Surveyor-Generaland kept in his charge. The plan prepared by orunder the authority of the Surveyor-Generalshall be attached to each grant..

7.Section 104 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefore:-

104. The President may make ordercancelling the grant of a holding where thePresident is satisfied that-

(a) there has been a failure of successionthereto either because of there is noperson lawfully entitled to succeed orbecause no person so entitled is willingto succeed; or

(b) the grant has been obtained fraudulentlyon false information or the grant has beenissued to a person other than thelegitimate occupant..

Grant not toissue forunsurveyedland

Insertion ofsection 28 in theprincipalenactment

Replacement ofsection 30 of theprincipalenactmentPlan to beattached togrant

ThePresidentmay cancelthe grant

Replacement ofsection 104 ofthe principalenactment

Land Development (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 20223

8. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 104 of the principal enactmentwhich shall have effect as sections 104A, 104B, 104C and104D:-

104A. (1) If it appears to the Commissioner-General of Lands on the information as may beavailable or received from a person having aninterest to the title of the holding under theprovisions of this Act, as the case may be, thatthe owner of a holding has deliberately givenfalse information in order to obtain a grant orthe grant has been issued to a person other thanthe legitimate occupant, the Commissioner-General of Lands shall issue a notice to the owneror occupier of a holding in the prescribed form.

(2) Such notice shall specify that the grantissued in respect of such holding may becancelled for reasons shown unless sufficientcause to the contrary is shown by the owner tothe Commissioner-General of Lands on a dateand at a time and place specified in such notice.

(3) The Commissioner-General of Landsmay, on the information as may be availablealso cause a copy of such notice to be servedon a person having an interest to the title of theholding under the provisions of this Act.

104B. The date specified in a notice issuedunder section 104A shall not be less than thirtydays from the date of the issue of such noticeon the owner.

Notice toowner ofholding whoobtainedgrant on falseinformation

Insertion ofsections 104A,104B, 104C, and104D to theprincipalenactment

Period

allowed for

showing

cause

4Land Development (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2022

104C. (1) The notice shall be served on theowner of the holding through registered postand a copy of the notice shall be affixed in aconspicuous place on the holding.

(2) Where

(a) an owner who has been served with anotice under subsection (1) cannot befound by the exercise of due diligence,the notice shall be deemed to be dulyserved on that owner if a copy thereofis left with some member of the familyof such owner or with a person residingwith such owner; or

(b) there is no member of the family of thatowner on whom the notice can be soserved, the notice shall be deemed tobe duly served on that owner if a copythereof is affixed to some conspicuouspart of the house or home in which theowner ordinarily resides.

104D. (1)Where a person who has beenserved a notice, fails to appear on the date andat the time and place specified in a notice orappears and states that he has no cause to showwhy the grant should not be cancelled, theCommissioner-General of Lands may, if theCommissioner-General of Lands is satisfiedthat there has been due service of such noticeand that the grant has been obtainedfraudulently, make recommendations togetherwith the reasons for such recommendations tothe Minister to whom the subject of Lands isassigned on the cancellation of such grant.

(2) The Minister may, where necessary callfor further clarifications from theCommissioner-General of Lands in respect ofsuch recommendations.

Cancellationof a grant

Notice to beposted onland andserved oninterestedparties

Land Development (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 20225

(3)Where the Minister is satisfied thatthere has been reasons to cancel the grant, theMinister shall forward the recommendationsmade by the Commissioner-General of Landsto the President.

(4)The President may, having consideredthe recommendations of the Commissioner-General of Lands make order whether or not tocancel the grant.

(5)Upon the receipt of the order of thePresident, the Commissioner-General of Landsshall inform such order to the relevant personsreferred to in section 104C and take necessaryaction to comply with the order of thePresident..

9.Section 156 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after paragraph (h)thereof, of the following new paragraph:-

(ha) the procedure to be followed by the owner of theholding when disposing or mortgaging theholding under this Act;.

10.The Third Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby repealed and the following Schedule is substitutedtherefore:-

THIRD SCHEDULE [ Sections 51 and 72]Rules

1. (a) The group of relatives from which a successor may benominated for the purposes of section 51 shall be as set out in thesubjoined table.

Amendment ofsection 156 ofthe principalenactment

Replacement ofthe ThirdSchedule to theprincipalenactment

6Land Development (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2022

(b) The title of a holding or the land for the purposes of section72, shall devolve on one only of the group of relatives of the permitholder or owner in the order of priority in which they are respectivelymentioned in the subjoined table. The older being preferred to theyounger where there are more relatives than one in any group.

(c) Where in any group of relatives mentioned in the subjoinedtable there are two or more persons of the same age equally entitledand willing to succeed to the title to the holding or the land, the titleto the holding or the land shall devolve on such persons as may bedetermined by the Divisional Secretary of the relevant DivisionalSecretarys Division where the land is situated.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c)above-

(i) where any person in the order of priority in which they arerespectively mentioned in the subjoined table developed suchland, the title to the holding or the land shall not devolve onthe older person referred to in paragraph (b) but on theperson who developed such land; or

(ii) where there are two or more persons in the order of priority inwhich they are respectively mentioned in the subjoined tabledeveloped the land, the title to the holding or the land shalldevolve on such persons who developed such land.

2. If any relative on whom the title to a holding or land devolvesunder the provisions of these rules is unwilling to succeed to suchholding or land, the title thereto shall devolve upon the relative whois next entitled to succeed subject to the provisions of rule 1.

3. The Divisional Secretary shall, on being satisfied of the materialfacts before him and for reasons specified by him, determine suchperson or persons referred to in rule 1 according to the by laws, rulesand regulations pertaining to the unit of subdivision or the minimumfraction specified by the relevant local authority, the provisions ofthe Agrarian Development Act, No. 46 of 2000 and the IrrigationOrdinance (Chapter 453).

Table

(i) Children(iv) Siblings

(ii) Grand Children(v) Uncles and Aunts

(iii) Parents(vi) Nephews and Nieces

Land Development (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 20227

In this rule

Children includes a child adopted according to law; and

relative means a relative by blood or adoption accordingto law and shall not include a relative by marriage..

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

8Land Development (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.