PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ath Session 1968-69

Civil Procedure Code
(Amendment) Act,
No. 23 of 1969

Date of Assent: June 25, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government and published as a Supplement to
Ceylon Government Gazette, Part II of July 4, 1969

Printed at the DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PusiicaTions Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
icsued before the date of payment will not be supplied


Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 23°
of 1969

L. D.—O. 12/64.
An ACT TO AMEND THE CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE.

[Date of Assent: June 25, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present

Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Civil Procedure
Code (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 1969.

' 2, Section 84 of the Civil Procedure Code is hereby
amended as follows :—

(a) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the substitu
tion, for all the words from ‘‘ unless the
plaintiff ’’ to the end of that sub-section, of
the following :—

“unless the plaintiff shall have previ-
ously applied to the court by way of motion
supported by affidavit to have such decree
set aside.’’; and

b) by the repeal of sub-section (2) of that section
and the substitution therefor of the following
new sub-section :—

‘* (2) Upon such application being duly
made, the court shall, after giving the
defendant due notice, hear such applica-
tion, and if, after such hearing, at which
both the plaintiff and the defendant shall
have been given an opportunity of being
heard, the court—

(a) is satisfied that there was good cause
for the non-appearance of the
plaintiff, the court shall set aside
the decree nist upon such terms and
conditions as to costs or otherwise
as it thinks fit and shall appoint a
day for proceeding with the action
as from the stage at which the decree
nist was entered; or

(b) is not so satisfied, the:court shall

make such decree absolute.’’.
B 60365—65,728 (6/69)

Short title.

Amendment of
section 84 of
Chapter 101.


Amendment of
First Schedule
to Chapter 101.

2 Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 28
of 1969

8. Form No. 21 in the First Schedule to the Civil
Procedure Code is hereby amended by the substitution,
for all the words from ‘‘ unless sufficient ’’ to ‘‘ the
date hereof.’’, of the following :—

‘“ unless an application by way of motion sup-*
ported by affidavit to have this decree set aside
is made before the expiration of a period of four-
teen days from the date hereof, and after the
hearing of such application, at which both the
plaintiff and the defendant shall have been given
an opportunity of being heard, whether before or
after the expiration of that period, this decree
is set aside.’’.
