PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 26th of February 2020]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 16.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 28, 2020

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTALPROFESSIONALS, SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 1 OF 2020

Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20201

[Certified on 26th of February, 2020]

L.D.O. (INC) 10/ 2015

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTALPROFESSIONALS, SRI LANKA

WHEREAS an Institute called and known as theInstitute of Environmental Professionals, Sri Lanka hasheretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose ofeffectually carrying out its objects and transacting all mattersconnected with the said Institute according to the rules agreedto by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Institute ofEnvironmental Professionals, Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act,No. 1 of 2020.

2.From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the Instituteof Environmental Professionals, Sri Lanka (hereinafter referredto as the Institute) and shall hereafter be admitted as membersof the body corporate hereby constituted shall have perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the Institute ofEnvironmental Professionals, Sri Lanka (hereinafter referredto as the body corporate), and by that name may sue and besued with full power and authority to have, and use a commonseal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporationof Institute ofEnvironmentalProfessionals,Sri Lanka.

2Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2020

3.The general objects for which the body corporate isconstituted are hereby declared to be

(a) to raise and uphold the dignity and reputation ofenvironmental professionals in Sri Lanka;

(b) to disseminate environmental knowledge among thepublic;

(c) to foster communication between environmentalprofessionals;

(d) to encourage and promote interdisciplinary researchwith a view of increasing scientific understanding ofenvironmental issues;

(e) to provide an enabling platform to discussenvironmental and development related issues;

(f) to encourage and to publish environmentalpublications; and

(g) to assist any, Ministry or Department of theGovernment or any Provincial Council pursuant to awritten request made by such, Ministry or Departmentof the Government or any Provincial Council

(i)to conserve and enhance the natural andphysical environment of Sri Lanka;

(ii)to facilitate training programmes forenvironmental scientists and personsengaged in the conservation of theenvironment.

General objectsof the bodycorporate.

Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20203

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout in such manner so as not to create any conflict betweenthe work of the body corporate and any work being carriedout simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, themanagement and administration of the affairs of the bodycorporate shall be carried out by a Governing Council(hereinafter referred to as the Council) consisting of suchnumber of office bearers as may be specified by the rulesmade under section 7.

(2) (a) The Council of the Institute that holds office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act shall function as an Interim Council of the bodycorporate until the first Council is appointed or elected inthe manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the InterimCouncil shall have the power to make rules for the interimadministration of the body corporate and for election orappointment of the members of the first Council of the bodycorporate, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act orany written law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Council shall be taken bythe majority of its members present at any meeting.

(d) The first Council of the body corporate shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Council including thepatrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of one year and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter the lapse of the said period of one year.

Body corporate toensure no conflictwith work ofMinistry orDepartment of theGovernment orProvince.

Management ofaffairs of thebody corporate.

4Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2020

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Council shall having regard to the rules of thebody corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts as are necessary to achievethe objects of the body corporate, including the power -

(a)to purchase, rent, construct and renovate lands orbuildings which may be required for the purposesof the body corporate and to deal with or dispose ofthe same as may be deemed expedient with a viewto promoting the objects of the body corporate;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the body corporate, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers of thebody corporate;

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Provided that, the Council shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

Powers of thebody corporate.

Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20205

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the body corporate, insuch manner as the Council may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the body corporate andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the body corporate;

(h)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of the bodycorporate;

(i)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the boby corporate; and

(j)to train officers and servants of the body corporatein Sri Lanka or abroad for the purposes of the bodycorporate.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members

Rules of thebody corporate.

6Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2020

present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Council orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, andservants of the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Council, noticesand agenda of such meetings, the quorum and theconduct of business thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Council and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate; and

(g)generally the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,altered, added to or rescinde at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20207

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be publishedin the Gazette within three months and shall come into effecton the date thereof.

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Council shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and on accountof the body corporate shall be deposited in one or morebanks approved by the Council to the credit of the bodycorporate subject to the provisions of section 6 (c).

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe body corporate in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedanually by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditorappointed by the Auditor - General in terms of provisions ofArticle 154 of the Constitution.

Register ofmembers.

Fund of the bodycorporate.

Accounts andAuditing.

8Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2020

(4) For the purposes of this section qualified auditormeans

(a)an individual who being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant issued by the Councilof such Institute.

11.(1) The Council shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the body corporate for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountsto the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister to whom thesubject of Environment is assigned in terms of Articles 43and 44 of the Constitution and to the Registrar of VoluntarySocial Services Organizations appointed under theVoluntary Social Services Organizations (Registration andSupervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration ofsix months of the year succeeding the year to which suchreport relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign andlocal moneys received by the body corporate during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Institute on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

Annual Report.

Debts due byand payable tothe Institute.

Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 20209

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the bodycorporate shall be able and capable in law to take and holdany property, movable or immovable, which may becomevested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such propertyshall be held by the body corporate for the purpose of thisAct and subject to the rules of the body corporate madeunder section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange, or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit to the membersof the body corporate.

15.(1) The seal of the body corporate shall not beaffixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presenceof two members of the Council who shall sign their namesto the instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as awitness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Council as may be decided by theCouncil.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporatethere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the body corporate,but shall be given or transferred to any other institutionhaving objects similar to those of the body corporate, andwhich is by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributingany income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Application ofmoneys andproperty.

Seal of the bodycorporate.

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

10Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2020

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

Saving of therights of theRepublic.

Institute of Environmental Professionals,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 202011

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.