PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
. nt
3rd Session’1958-59 Bm
EY .
KEL}, - ‘
Sex :
S| 3}
(a S)
Profane Publications Act, No. 41
of 1958 .
Date of Assent : November 3, 1958 4
Printed on the Orders of Government
Printed at the Government Press, CEYLON. To be purchased
Frinte at the Covent cenione. Bunba, COLONES
annual Subscription (inciting Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
‘Annual Subseripton octonen, Govensnrze® PunicsTIoNS
advance 10 the Ses oe af, Secretariat, Colombo
‘ Price : 10 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


y
Profane Publications Act, No. 41 of 1958 3

~L. D.—O, 58/56. .

;

An AcT 10 PREVENT THE WRITING, PRODUCTION,

S PRINTING, PUBLICATION, SALE, DISTRIBUTION OR

| EXHIBITION OF ANY PROFANE PUBLICATION.

} [Date of Assent: November 8, 1958]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
jin this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows:—

4. This Act may be cited as the Profane shortsive.
Publications Act, No. 41 of 1958.

2. Any person who writes, produces, prints, Writing
publishes, sells, distributes or exhibits any profane cae”
publication shail be guilty of an offence and shall, on pabliation,
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, batioo or”
be liable to imprisonment of either description for a exhibition
term not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceeding fubiicition
two thousand rupees or to both such imprisonment, and fhe’
such fine: tron!

Provided that it shall not be an offence under the
preceding provisions of this section to write, print.
publish, sell, distribute or exhibit any fair comments
on, or any fair criticism of, any religion or religious
belief.

3. Except with the sanction of the [Attorney- Sanction of
General, no person shall be prosecuted for an offence {fe AHoreer-
under section 2. | rete fo

4. (1) A police officer of any rank not below that overs. of
of an Inspector may, with or without any Assistants, {n° Feu
enter and search any premises where he teasonably 1, prfave
suspects that any profane publication is written, pro- Pon
duced, printed, published, sold, distributed or
exhibited, and any police officer may seize! any such
Publication found with any person or in any place.

(2) All profane publications seized under sub-section
(1), together with a list thereof, shall be taken forth-
with before the Magistrate’s Court having jurisdiction
in the place of seizure and shall be dealt with in such
Manner as that Court may order.

Sikwenade Seb


, ,
4 Profane Publications Act, No. 41 of 1958
Taterpretation. 5. In this Act, “ profane publication *” means atiy
newspaper, book, picture, film or other visible
representation containing— a
(a) any insult to—
‘ (i) the founder of any religion,
. + ii) any deity, saint or person, whether alive
or dead, venerated by the followers.
: of any religion, or 2
- + Gi) any religion-or religious belief, or +!
(b) any ridicule of any figure, picture, emblem”
device or other thing associated with, or
' sacred to the followers of, any religion,
