PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

2nd Session 1957-538 Es
16] >| se,

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control
of Fragmentation) Act, No. 2

of 1958

Date of Assent: February 1, 1958

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press, CErEYLton. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post OrriceE Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

_ Price: 40 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


. ¢
Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of 3
Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

<b, D.—OF. 1/57.

Bhi

AN Act TO CONTROL THE FRAGMENTATION OF TEA AND
|: RUBBER ESTATES AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

a [Date of Assent: February 1, 1958]

* BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows :—

“4, This Act may be cited as the Tea and Rubber
Estates (Control of Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of
1958.

» 2, (1) This Act shall come into operation on the
eleventh day of December, 1957.

(2) The day specified in sub-section (1) is hereafter
in this Act referred to as the appointed day.

3. (1) The transfer of ownership of a tea or rubber
estate on or after the appointed day shall, subject to
the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), be null and
void unless—

(a) a certificate of consent of the Board to such
transfer has been previously obtained by
the transferor, and

(b) such transfer is effected in accofdance with
the conditions, if any, subje¢t to which
such consent has been granted.

: (2) Where not less than ten per cent of the con-
sideration for the transfer of ownership |of a tea or
rubber estate has passed before the appointed day,
and such transfer is effected or is to be effected on or
after the appointed day, then, if the parties to such
transfer notify in writing to the Land Commissioner
oe - before the fifteenth day after the enactment of
Is Act—

(a) a description of such estate specifying its
: name, boundaries, extent and situation,
“,  (b) the name and address of the person who is
4 or is to be the transferor or the name and

address of each of the persons who are or

are to be the transferors,
J.N. R 20847—285 (1/58)

Short title.

Date of
operation.

Transfer of
ownership of a
tea or rubber
estate to be
null and void
in certain
circumstances.


4 ‘Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of
Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

(c) the name and address of the person who is
or is to be the transferee or the name and
address of each of the persons who are or
are to be the transferees,

(2) the consideration for such transfer,

(e) the portion of such consideration that has
passed and the date on which such portion
so passed, and

(f) whether such transfer has been or is to be
effected, it

the Land Commissioner shall prepare two copies of
a certificate of exemption of such transfer from the
provisions of sub-section (1). The Land Commissioner
shall sign each such copy and shall transmit one such
copy to the person who is or is to be the transferee
or, where there are two or more persons who are or
are to be the transferees, to such one of them as 1s
mentioned first in such notification and shall transmit
the other copy to the Secretary of the Board to be
filed of record in the Board’s office.

(3) A transfer of ownership of a tea or rubber estate
effected on or after the appointed day shall not be
null and void by reason only of the absence of prior
consent of the Board to such transfer if a certificate
of exemption is issued under sub-section (2) by the
Land Commissioner in respect of such transfer.

(4) Where a certificate of consent to the transfer of
ownership of a tea or rubber estate is issued by the
Board, such certificate shall be attached to the deed
by which such transfer is effected, and the notary
attesting such deed shall in his attestation state that
such certificate has been issued in respect of su
transfer and specify the number, if any, and the date
of Sue of such certificate. |

(5) A notary who attests a deed effecting a transfer
of ownership of a tea or rubber estate on or after the
appointed day shall deliver or transmit a copy of such
deed to the Secretary of the Board on or before the
fifteenth day of the month next succeeding that 1
which such deed is attested by him or, if the said
fifteenth day is before the date of enactment of this

Act. on or before the fifteenth day after the date of
enactment of this Act.


4 Lea and Rubber Estates (Control of 5

Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

gi. (1) The partition of a tea or rubber estate
effected on or after the appointed day by deed by agree-
ment of the co-owners of such estate shall, subject to
the provisions of sub-section (2), be null and void
‘unless—

(a) a certificate of the consent of the Board to
such partition has been previously obtained
by such co-owners, and

(b) such partition is effected in accordance with
the conditions, if any, subject to which
such consent has been granted.

con

' (2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply
to the partition of a tea or rubber estate effected by
deed by agreement of the co-owners of such estate if
the right, title and interest of such co-owners to or
in such estate have devolved on them under the
law of intestate succession or under a testamentary
disposition.

_ (3) Where a certificate of consent is issued by the
Board in respect of the partition by deed of a tea or
rubber estate, such certificate shall be attached to such
deed, and the notary attesting such deed shall in his
attestation state that such certificate has been issued
in respect of such partition and specify the number,
if any, and the date of issue of such certificate.

(4) A notary who attests a deed effecting the parti-
tion of a tea or rubber estate on or after the appointed
day shall deliver or transmit a copy of such deed to

| the Secretary of the Board on or before the fifteenth
'day of the month next succeeding that in which such
deed is attested by him. °

|
5. If a notary fails to comply with the provisions
of sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) of section 3 or)sub-
Section (3) or sub-section (4) of section 4, he shalll be
guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine
not exceeding two hundred rupees.

|
t

6. (1) On or after the appointed day—

(2) no person shall institute a partition action in
respect of a tea or rubber estate unless a
certificate of consent of the Board to the

be institution of such action has been
previously obtained by him,

Partition by
deed of a tea
or rubber

estate to be
pull and void
in certain

circumstances

Punishment for
bon-compliance
with provisions
of sections

3 (4), 3 (5),

4 (3) and 4 (4).

Control of
institution and
entertainment
of partition
action in
respect of 3
tea or rubber
estate.


6 Tea and. Rubber Estates (Control of
Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

(6) no court shall entertain such action unless the:

‘ court is satisfied that such certificate has;

been issued, and :

(c) no such action shall be maintainable if it ig:

instituted in contravention of this sub-;
section.

(2) A decree in a partition action instituted with the.
consent of the Board shall not contravene or be in
conflict with the conditions, if any, subject to which
such consent has been granted, and if such decree con-
travenes or is in conflict with any such condition, such
decree shall be null and void.

Mortgage of 7. A mortgage of a part of a tea or rubber estate

dd ee as a divided lot shall, if it is effected on or after the

patatoae appointed day, be null and void notwithstanding any-.

i becaull thing to the contrary in any other law.

and void.

Circumstances 8. (1) The Board shall grant its consent—

in which the

et ee (a) to the transfer of ownership of a tea or rubber

fo tier trapatet estate which does not involve the division

of ownership or of such estate into a number of lots;

the partition by

cage oa (b) to the transfer of ownership of a tea or rubber.

of a partition estate which involves the division of such

enim estate into a number of lots, or to the parti-.

a tea or tion by deed of a tea or rubber estate, or
P aatbihon ieee to the institution of a partition action in

respect of a tea or rubber estate,—

(1) 1f all the lots into which such estate is
to be divided or partitioned, or all
those lots except such one of them
as is not less than 100 acres in ex-
tent, are to be used for an object
which is declared to be a housing
object by section 2 of the National
Housing Act, No. 37 of 1954, or for
| any industrial purpose, or for the
| development of any town, or for any
other prescribed purpose, or are to
be merged with an adjoining tea or
rubber estate and the Board is of
opinion that such merger will] result
in the more efficient and economic
management of the lands that are
merged ;

i
!


Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

(ii) if, in the opinion of the Board, the agri-
cultural condition of such estate is
already so unsatisfactory that its
division or partition into lots is not
likely to affect such condition
adversely; or ;

(iii) if each of the lots into which such
estate is to be divided or partitioned
is not less than 500 acres in extent
in the case of tea and 250 acres in
extent in the case of rubber, and such
division or partition will not, in the
opinion of the Board, adversely
affect the agricultural condition or
the efficiency of management of the

property.

(2) The Board may subject any consent granted
under sub-section (1) to such conditions as the Board
may determine.

9. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in the Tea Control Act, No. 28 of 1949, an estate of
less than 500 acres in extent, or a small holding, con-
stituted by the division of a tea estate into lots on or
after the appointed day shall not be registered under
such Act unless such division has been made in conse-
quence of a transfer of ownership or a partition of such
tea estate with the prior consent of the Board and in
accordance with the conditions, if any, subject to which
such consent has been granted. In this sub-section
the expression ‘‘ small holding ’’ shall have the same
meaning as in the Tea Control Act, No. 28 of 1949.

(2) N otwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
abv Control Act, No. 11 of 1956, an estate of less
than 250 acres in extent, or a small holding, constituted
by the|division of a rubber estate into lots on or after
the appointed day shall not be registered under such
Act unless such division has been made in consequence
of a transfer of ownership or a partition of such rubber
estate with the prior consent of the Board and in
accordance with the conditions, if any, subject to which
such consent has been granted. In this sub-section
the expression ‘‘ small holding ”’ shall have the same
Meaning as in the Rubber Control Act, No. 11 of 1956.

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of a

Prohibition

of registration
of certain
entates and
small holdings
under the Tea
Control Act,
No. 28 of 1949,
and the Rubber
Control Act,
No. 11 of 1956


Tes and Rubber
Estates (Control
of Fragmenta-
tion) Board.

Applications
to the Board.

t

8 Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of
Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

10. (1) For the purposes of this Act there shall be
established a Board which shall be called the Tea and
Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation) Board and
which shall consist of —

(a) the Land Commissioner,

(b) the Director of Agriculture,
(c) the Tea Controller,

(zd) the Rubber Controller,

(e) an officer of the General Treasury nominated
by the Minister of Finance, and

(f) three persons, not being public officers,
appointed by the Minister to represent the
interests of the tea and rubber plantations
and hereafter in this section referred to
as the unofficial members of the Board.

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the members
of the Board to be the Chairman of the Board.

(3) Every unofficial member of the Board shall,
unless he earlier resigns office or is removed therefrom
by the Minister, hold office for a period of three years.
Any unofiicial member of the Board who vacates office
by effluxion of time shall be eligible for reappoint-
ment. ,

(4) The Minister may, if he thinks it expedient to
do so, remove from office, by Order published in the
Gazette, any unofficial member of the Board, and such
member shall vacate office on the date of publication of;
such Order in the Gazette.

(5) The unofficial members of the Board may be
remunerated for attendance at meetings of the Board
at such rates as may be prescribed.

11. Every aapittatton for the consent of the Board
to the transfer of ownership or the partition by deed
of, or to the institution of a partition action in respect
of, a tea or rubber estate shall—

(2) be made in writing by the proprietor or any
one of the proprietors of such estate or by
the authorised agent of such proprietor o
proprietors; .

- (b) be addressed to the Chairman of the Board
and transmitted to or delivered at the office
of the Board;


Tea and Rubber: Estates (Control of 9
Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

:. (¢) state the name and address of such proprietor

or each of such proprietors;

(2) specify the situation and extent of such estate,
the plantations thereon, the area covered
by each such plantation, and the yield of
each such plantation in each of the three
calendar years preceding that in which the
application is made;

(e) describe the principal buildings on such
estate;

(f) where the application is for the consent of the
Board to the transfer of ownership of such
estate, state—

(i) the name and address of the person or
_ the names and addresses of the per-
sons to whom it is proposed to
transfer the ownership of such estate
or any portion thereof, and the
extent in respect of which ownership
is to be transferred to such person
or persons, if this information is
available at the time the application

is made, and

(ii) the consideration to be paid by such
person or persons, if such consider-
ation has been decided upon at the
time the application is made;

(g) where the application is for the consent of the
Board to a partition by deed of such estate,
state theinames and addresses of the per-
sons among whom such estate is to be
partitioned, and the extent of the portion
to be allotted to each such person; and

(2) contain such other particulars as may be
prescribed.

12. (1) The Board shall appoint a Secretary of
the Board and may appoint such other officers and
aus as may beirequired for the purposes of this
Act.

‘- (2) The Secretary of the Board shall, under the
direction of the Chairman of the Board, convene
meetings of the Board for the consideration of appli-
cations made to the Board. .

Staff and
meetings of
the Board.


Communication
of decisions
of the Board.

Certificates
of consent.

10 Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of
Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall.
be three members of the Board.

(4) The Chairman of the Board shall, if present, |
preside at every nipcshaee of the Board, and, in his |
absence, the members of the Board present at such
meeting shall elect from among themselves a person to
preside at such meeting.

(5) All questions arising at any meeting of the
Board shall be decided by a majority of the mem-
bers of the Board present and voting at such meet-
ing. Where the votes of the members of the Board’
present at a meeting of the Board are equally divided
on any question, the person presiding at such meet-
ing shall, in addition to his vote as a member of the
Board, have a casting vote.

(6) A member of the Board who is interested in
the subject matter of any application made to the
Board shall not participate in any meeting of the
Board at which such application is considered.

(7) The Secretary of the Board shall maintain a
record of the proceedings and decisions of every
meeting of the Board.

(8) The Board may make rules relating to the
procedure for the conduct of its business.

13. (1) The decision of the Board on any applica-
tion made to the Board shall, within three months
after the receipt of the application, be communicated
in writing to the applicant. Where for any reason
the Board is unable to communicate its decision to
the applicant within the aforesaid three months, the
Board shall so inform the applicant and shall specify
the period within which its decision . will be com-
municated to him. |

(2) Where an application to the Board is rejected
by the Board, the Secretary of the Board shall con-
vey the Board’s decision to the applicant within
three days after the date of such decision.

14. Where on an application made to the Board
it is decided by the Board to consent to the transfer of
ownership of the tea or rubber estate to which such
application relates, or the partition by deed of such
estate, or the institution of a partition action in
respect of such estate, the Secretary of the Board shall
prepare four copies of the Board’s certificate of


Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of ~ 11
Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

such consent, and, if the Board has determined any
conditions to which such consent is to be subject,
gtate those conditions in such certificate. Each such
copy shall be signed by the Secretary of the Board
and by one of the members of the Board present at
the meeting of the Board at which the decision was
made to grant such consent. Of such copies the
Secretary of the Board shall transmit three to the
erson who made the application for such consent
and shall file of record the fourth in the Board’s

office.

45. (1) Where the Board disallows an application
made to the Board, the applicant may, within
twenty-eight days after’ the communication to him
of the Board’s decision on such application, make a
written appeal from such decision to the Minister.
Such appeal shall state the grounds of appeal.

(2) Where any appeal is made under sub-section
(1), the Minister may either affirm the Board's
decision from which the appeal is made or, having
regard to the provisions of section 8, allow the
application to which the Board’s decision relates by
consenting, as the case may be, to the transfer of
ownership of the tea or rubber estate specified in such
application, or to the partition by deed of such
estate, or to the institution of a partition action in
respect of such estate. The Minister’s consent may
be subject to such conditions as he may specify. The
decision of the Minister shall be final and conclu-
sive and shall not be called in question in any court.

(3) Where on any appeal made under sub-section
(1) the Minister decides to affirm the Board’s deci-
sion, the Permanent Secretary shall in writing in-
form the appellant and the Secretary of the Board
that the Minister has affirmed the Board’s decision.

(4) Where the Minister allows any appeal made
under sub-section (1) and consents to the transfer of
ownership of the tea or rubber estate to which the
appeal relates, or to the partition by deed of such
estate, or to the institution of a partition action in
Tespect of such estate, the Permanent Secretary shall
prepare four copies of the certificate of the Min-
Ister’s consent and, if the Minister has made such
consent subject to any conditions, specify those con-
tions in such certificate. Each such copy shall he
Signed by the Permanent Secretary. Of such copies

Appeals from
decisions of
the Board.


12 : Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of
Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

the Permanent Secretary shall transmit three to the:
appellant and the fourth to the Secretary of the Board:
to be filed of record in the Board’s office. jt

(5) For the purposes of section 3 and section 4, the
Minister’s consent under the preceding provisions of
this section shall be deemed to be the consent of the
Board, and any conditions to which the Minister has’
made his consent subject shall be deemed to be con-.
‘ditions imposed by the Board. Si

Enysstigetions 16. The Board may,—
and reports. ;

(a) with the concurrence of the Tea Controller,
engage any officer of the Tea Control
Department for the purpose of investi-
gating or reporting on any matter con-
nected with any such application made to
the Board as relates to a tea estate, and

(b) with the concurrence of the Rubber Con-
troller, engage any officer of the Rubber
Control Department for the purpose of
investigating or reporting on any matter
connected with any such application made
to the Board as relates to a rubber estate,

and the officer so engaged shall carry out such investi-
gation or make such report.

Ste 47. (1) All expenses incurred in connection with
connection any meeting of the Board or any investigation or report

with meetings carried out or made under section 16 shall—
of the Board ;

and investiga-

tions and (2) where such meeting, investigation or report
ane varaits ot | is concerned with an application made to
staff. the Board relating solely to a tea estate, be

defraved from the moneys of the Tea Con-
| trol Fund notwithstanding anything to the
| contrary in the Tea Control Act, No. 28
of 1949,

(6) where such meeting, investigation or report
is concerned with an application made to
the Board relating solely to a rubber estate,
be defrayed from the moneys of the Rubber -
Control Fund notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in the Rubber Control Act,
No. 11 of 1956, and


Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of 13
Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

(c) where such meeting, investigation or report is
concerned partly with an application made
to the Board relating to a tea estate and
partly with an application made to the
Board relating to a rubber estate, be
defrayed partly from the moneys of the Tea
Control Fund and partly from the moneys
of the Rubber Control Fund notwithstand-
ing anything to the contrary in the two
aforesaid Acts.

(2) One half of the total amount of the emoluments
of the Secretary and other officers and servants
appointed by the Board shall be paid out of the Tea
Control Fund and the other half of such amount shall
be paid out of the Rubber Control Fund, notwithstand-
ing anything to the contrary in the Tea Control Act,
No. = of 1949. and the Rubber Control Act, No. 11
of 1956. 7

48. (1) The Chairman of the Board may, by written
notice, direct any person who has made an application
to the Board or any person who is reasonably believed
by the Board to have a knowledge of the necessary
facts relating to the tea or rubber estate in respect of
which such application has been made—

(2) to furnish, within the time specified in the
notice, such information relating to the
subject matter of the application as may
be so specified, or

(b) to produce or cause to be produced, within the
time specified in the notice, such documen-
tary or other evidence for the consideration
of the application as may be so specified.

(2) A person to whom a, notice under sub-section (1)
is sent shall comply with such notice within the time
specified therein.

19. (1) The Chairman of the Board or any person
authorised by him in writing may, at any time
between sunrise and sunset, enter any tea or rubber
_ estate to which an application made to the Board re-
- lates for the purpose of carrying out any inspection or
: Making any survey plan, and may request the pro-
- duction of, and make copies of any entries in, any
.. Tecord maintained in respect of such estate.

Furnishing of
information
and production
of evidence
required by the
Board for the
consideration
of applications.

Inspection of a
tea or rubber

estate to which
an application

relates, &c.


Punishment for
contravention of
section 18 (2) or
section 19 (2).

Acquisition of
a@ tea or rubber
estate under
the Land
Acquisition
Act, No. 9 of
1950.

14 . Lea and Rubber Estates (Control of

Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

(2) The person for the time being in charge of any
tea or rubber estate shall admit thereto any person who
is empowered by sub-section (1) to enter such estate
and shall, if requested to do so, produce to the person
so empowered any record maintained in respect of
such estate and permit him to make a copy of any
entries in such record.

20. Any person who contravenes the provisions of
section 18 (2) or section 19 (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall, on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding
one thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either des-
cription for a period not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and such imprisonment.

24. (1) Where an application made to the Board
is rejected by the Board and it is the opinion of the
Board that substantial hardship is likely to be caused
to the applicant by the rejection of the application,
the Board may, with the consent of the applicant,
recommend to the Minister that the tea or rubber estate
to which the application relates shall be acquired by
the Crown.

(2) Upon a recommendation made under sub-
section (1), the Minister may determine that the tea
or rubber estate to which the recommendation relates
shall be acquired by the Crown, and where the
Minister so determines, the determination shall be
published in the Gazette.

(3) Where a determination under sub-section (2) in
respect of a tea or rubber estate is published in the
Gazette, such estate shall, for the purposes of the Land
Acquisition Act, No. 9 of 1950, be deemed to be a
land needed for a public purpose and the provisions of
such Act, subject to the exceptions and modifications
specified in the Schedule to this Act, shall apply for
the purposes of the acquisition of such estate. —

(4), Where an Order under section 36 of the Land
Acquisition Act, No. 9 of 1950, is made in respect of
a tea or rubber estate which is deemed under sub-section
(3) to be a land needed for a public purpose, and before
possession of such estate is taken for and on behalf of
Her Majesty in pursuance of such Order the applicant
with whose consent the Board had recommended the
acquisition of such estate by the Crown makes a writ-
ten request to the acquiring officer to abandon the
acqu..sition proceedings in respect of such estate, the
acquisition proceedings shall be abandoned and such

“‘Wrder shall be revoked by an Order made and published


1 Led Gnd Muvver Lstules (Uuntrue oF 1S
pe Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

Rin the Gazette under section 36a of such Act, and such
‘Ygpplicant shall not be entitled to the payment of any
Igosts incurred by him in the acquisition proceedings in
“tcourt or before the Board of Review constituted under
 fguch Act.

92. All tea or rubber estates acquired in accordance

- with the provisions of section 21 shall be administered

by the Land Commissioner until other arrangements
for the administration of such estates are made by or
under any written law that may hereafter be enacted.

93. No prosecution for an offence under this Act

shall be instituted except with the written sanction of
the Board.

24. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the

urpose of giving effect to the principles and
‘provisions of this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the
powers conferred by sub-section (1), the Minister may
make regulations in respect of the following
matters : —

(2) matters stated or required by this Act to be
prescribed ;

(b) the procedure to be observed in the hearing of
appeals made to the Minister under this
Act.

(3) No regulation made by the Minister shall have
effect until it is approved by the Senate and the House
of Representatives and notification of such approval
is published in the Gazette.

25. In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires— :

‘‘ partition action !? means an action under the
Partition Act, No. 16 of 1951;

‘‘ rubber estate ’’ means a rubber estate of not
less than one hundred acres in extent
which, undér the Rubber Control <Act,
No. 11 of 1956, is or is deemed to be an
estate registered under that Act;

‘* tea estate ’’ means a tea estate of not less than
one hundred' acres in extent which, under
the Tea Control Act, No. 28 of 1949, is or
is deemed to be an estate registered under
that Act;

‘“‘ the Board ’’ means the Tea and Rubber Estates
(Control of Fragmentation) Board
established under this Act; and

Administration
of tea or rubber
estates acquired
by the Crown
in accordance
with the
provisions of
section 21.
Sanction of
the Board
required for
prosecutions

for offences
under this Aes.

Regulations.

Interpretation,


16 Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of
Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958

‘transfer of ownership ’’, with reference to any
tea or rubber estate, means the transfer of
ownership of such estate or any portion
thereof by sale, exchange or gift other thay
a gift by a testamentary disposition.

SCHEDULE.
Provisions of the
nd siti
ae are Exceptions and Modifications.
1950. |
Sections 2, 3 and 4. Shall not apply.
Section 5. Section 5 shall have effect as if, for sub.

section (1) and sub-section (2) of that
section, the following sub-sections were
substituted : —

‘“(1) Where a determination under
section 21 (2) of the Tea and Rubber
Estates (Control of Fragmentation)
Act of 1958 in respect of a tea or
rubber estate is published in the
Gazette, the Minister shall make s
written declaration that such estate is
needed for a public purpose and will be
acquired under this Act, and_ shall
direct the acquiring officer of the pro-
vince or district in which such estate
is situated to cause such declaration
in the Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages to be published in the
Gazette and exhibited in some cons-
picuous places on or near such
estate.

(2) A declaration made under sub-
section (1) in respeet of any tea or
rubber estate shall be conclusive
evidence that such estate is Jand
needed for a public purpose.”’
