PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC -OF
SRI LANKA

PARLIAMENTARY COMMISSIONER FOR
ADMINISTRATION (AMENDMENT)
~ ACT, No. 26 OF 1994

{Certified cn 30th December, 1994]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 30, 1994

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 7

Price: 60 cents. Postage: Re. 1.08


Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration
(Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1994

(Certified on 30th December, 1994]

L-D.—O. 52/94

An ACT TO AMEND THE PARLIAMENTARY COMMISSIONER FOR
ADMINISTRATION Act, No. 17 oF 1981

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Parliamentary Commis-
sioner for Administration (Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1994
and shall come into operation on such date as the Minister
may appoint, by Order puklished in the Gazette.

2. Section 10 of the Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration Act, No. 17 of 1981 (hereinafter referred fo
as “the principal enactment”) is hereby amended as
follows :—

(1) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section of the following new subsection :—

‘“ (2) A complaint or allegation of the infringe-
ment of a fundamental right or other injustice by
a public officer or an officer of a public corpora-
tion, local authority or other like institution may
be made to the Ombudsman, by a communication
in writing, addressed to the Ombudsman. ” ;

(2) by the insertion imniediately after subsection (2) of
that section, of the following subsections :—
“(3) Where the Ombudsman is of the view that
a complaint or allegation received by him under
subsection (1) or subsection (2) discloses an
infringement of a fundamental right or other
injustice by a public officer or an officer of a
public corporation, local authority or other
like institution, he shalt investigate and report on
sucn complaint or allegation, in sccordance with,
and subject to. the provisions of this Act, and
shall notify the Public Petitions Committee, of
the commenrement of such investigations.

(4) Where the Ombudsman is of the view that
a complaint or allegation received by him under
subsection (1) er subsection (2) does not disclose
an infringement cf a fundamental right or other
injustice by a public o%icer or an officer of a
public corporation, local authority or other like
wstitu!ion, he shall reftise to investigate such
complaint or allegation and sha!l inform the Public

Short title
and date of
operation.

Amendment
of section 10
of Act No, 17
of 1981.


Amendment
of section 13
of the
principal
2nactment.

Amendment
oY section 14
of the
principal
enactment.

Replacement
ot section 17
of the
principal
enactment.

2 Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration
(Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1994

Petitions Committee and the person making
the complaint or allegation of his decision not to
investigate such comrlaint or alJegation, within
thirty days of h‘s making such decision.” ; and

(3) by the renumbering of subsections (2) and (3) of that
section as subsections (5) and (6) respectively of
that section.

3. Section 13 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
ed in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution, for
the words “ the Public Petitions Committee of his decision ”,
of the words “the Public Vetitions Committee and the
person making the complaint or aJlegation which was the
subject-matter of the investigation, of his decision”.

4. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
ed by the substitution, for the words and figures “ by virtue
of the provisions of section 11”, of the words and figures
*by virtue of the provisions of subsection (3) of section 10
or section J1”,

5. Section 17 of the princival enactment is hereby re-
pealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

“ Determina-
tion of
Ombudsman.

17. (1) Upon the conclusion of his investi-
gation, the Ombudsman shall determine
whether there has been, or is likely to be—

(a) any infringement of a fundamental
right ; or

(b) any other injustice, including the
question as to whether any decision,
recommendation, act or omission
which was the subject-matter of the
investigation—

{i) was contrary to law;

{ii) was based wholly or partly on a
mistake of fact or of law;

(iii) was unreasonable, unjust, op-
presive or impreperly discrimi-
natory or otherwise wrong ;

(iv) was in accordance with a prac-
tice that is, or may be, unrea-
sonable, unjust, oppresive or
improperly discriminatory ; or

——


Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration 3
(Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1994

(v) was made or done in the exercise
of a discretion—

(A) which has been exercised
for an improper purpose
or on irrelevant grounds
or by reference to irre-
levant considerations, or
by failing to take ac-
count of material consi-
derations ; or

(B) without giving reasons,
although reasons ought,
in the opinion of the
Ombudsman, to have
been given; or

(vi) was occasioned by unreasonable
delay, apathy or indifference.

(2) The Ombudsman shall report his deter-
mination, together with his reasons therefor,
to the head of the institution concerned, and
the Minister to whom the department, public
corporation, local authority or other institu-
tion concernca has Leen assigned and also to
the Public Fetition: Committee.

(3) (a) In any case where the Ombudsman
determines, that there has been or his likely
to be an infringement of a fundamental right
or any other injustice, the Ombudsman may
in his report make such recommendations as
he thinks fit, and in such event, may require
the head of the institution to notify within
a specified time, the steps, if any which
he proposes to take to give effect to his
recommendations.

®

(b) Without prejudice to the generality
of the foregoing provisions of this subsection,
the Ombudsman may recommend that—

(i) the matter be reconsidered ;

(ii) the omission he rectified ;

(iii) the decision be cancelled or varied ;


Sinhala
text to

prevail in

case of

inconsistency.

4

Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration
(Amendment) Act, No. 26 of 1994

(iv) the practice on which such decision,
recommendation, act or omission was
based, be altered ;

(v) reasons be given for such decision,
recommendation, act or omission.

(c) If within the time so specified no
action is taken which appears to the Ombuds-
man to be adequate or appropriate, the
Ombudsman shall after considering the
observations, if any, made by the Head of
the Institution, forward a copy of his report
to the President and to Parliament. The
Ombudsman shall attach to such report, a
copy of the observations, if any, made by the
head of the institution concerned.

(d) If, within the time so specified, action
is taken which appears to the Ombudsman
to be adequate or appropriate, the Ombuds-
man may forward a copy of his report to the
President and to Parliament together with a
statement of the action taken. ”.

6. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local).

Rs, 1,180 (Foreign), payable to the SupeRINTENDENT GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

Bureau, No. 255, Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 7, before 15th December each
Year in respect of the year following.
