PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 22, 2021

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th of January, 2021]

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 8 OF 2021

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 20211

[Certified on 18th of January, 2021]

L.D.O. 11/2016

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTYACT, NO.36 OF 2003

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Intellectual Property(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2021.

2.Section 5 of the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of2003 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) ishereby amended as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately before the definitionof the expression audiovisual work, of thefollowing definition:

accessible format means a copy of a work in analternative form or manner which gives abeneficiary person access to such work,including to permit such person to have accessas feasibly and comfortably as a personwithout any disability which a beneficiaryperson has. The accessible format copy shallbe used exclusively by beneficiary personsand shall respect the intergrity of the originalwork, taking into consideration of the changesneeded to make the work accessible in thealternative format and of the accessibilityneeds of the beneficiary person;.

Short title

Amendment ofsection 5 of Act,No. 36 of 2003

2Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2021

(2)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression author of the followingdefinition:

beneficiary person means any person who

(a) is blind;

(b) has a visual impairment or a perceptualor reading disability which cannot beimproved to give visual functionsubstantially equivalent to a person whohas no such impairment or disability andis unable to read printed works tosubstantially the same degree as a personwithout any such impairment ordisability; or

(c) is otherwise unable, through physicaldisability to hold or manipulate a bookor to focus or move eyes to the extent thatis acceptable for reading,

regardless of any other disability;.

3. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 12 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 12A of that enactment:

12A. (1)(a) Notwithstanding anythingcontained in this Part, any authorized entitymay adapt, reproduce and issue of copies ofany work in an accessible format for the benefitof a beneficiary person in order to facilitate suchbeneficiary person to access such workincluding the sharing with any otherbeneficiary person of such work where the

Insertion of newsection 12A inthe principalenactment

Fair use of awork by anyauthorizedentity tofacilitate abeneficiaryperson

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 20213

reproduction is made exclusively for the ownuse of the beneficiary person, his educationalpurpose or research and where the originalformat of such work prevents the enjoymentthereof by such person. Such adaptation,reproduction and issue of copies of any workby the authorized entity shall not be aninfringement of copyright.

(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) shallapply for any work only where such work is notcommercially available in such accessibleformat under reasonable terms. In such event,the Minister shall deposit a notification withthe Director-General of the World IntellectualProperty Organization declaring the limitationsor exceptions, as the case may be, to such work.

(2) An authorized entity shall

(a) be such persons or organizations asshall be prescribed by the Ministerin consultation with the Director-General of Intellectual Property;

(b) make available to any beneficiaryperson copies of any work inaccessible format on non-profit basisrecovering only the cost of theproduction of such work in anaccessible format;

(c) ensure that copies of any work inaccessible format are used only by abeneficiary person and takereasonable steps to prevent its entryinto ordinary channels of business;

4Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 2021

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

(d) limit the supply of copies of anywork in accessible format only toadapt, reproduce and issue of copiesof such work to the beneficiarypersons or any other persons actingon behalf of the beneficiary person;

(e) discourage the reproduction,distribution and making availableof unauthorized copies of any workin acccessible format; and

(f) maintain due care in, and records ofits handling of copies of any workin accessible format whilerespecting the privacy of abeneficiary person..

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Intellectual Property (Amendment)Act, No. 8 of 20215

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.