PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

—

SURCHARGE ON WEALTH TAX |
ACT, No. 8 OF 1989
{Certified on 11th May, 1989]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part I] of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 12, 1989

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

To BE PURCIIASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUELICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price : 60 cents. | 7 Postage : 75 cents


- Surcharge on Wealth Tax Act, No. 8 of 1989

[Certified on 1]th May, 1989]
L.D.—O. 11/89

_ An Act TO IMPOSE A SURCHARGE ON EVERY PERSON LIABLE TO
PAY WEALTH TAX FOR THE YEARS OF ASSESSMFNT COMMEN-
CING RESPECTIVELY ON April 1, 1989, AND on Apriz 1, 1990,
BY REFFRENCE TO THE WEALTH TA% PAYABLE BY SUCH PERSON
FOR EACH OF SUCH YEARS OF ASSESSMENT; AND TO PROVIDE
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Soria:
list Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.. This Act may be cited as the Surcharge on Wealth
Tax Act, No. 8 of 1989.

-

“2. Every person who, under the Inland Revenue Act, is
chargeable: with wealth tax for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 1989, but ending not later
than March 31, 1991, (hereafter tn this Act referred to as
“a relevant year”) shall, notwithstanding anything contain-
.ed in any written law, be liable.to pay a surcharge on the
wealth tax payable by him for a relevant year (hereafter in

‘this Act referred to as “the surcharge”) at the rate of .

fifteen per centum of the wealth tax payable by such
person for that relevant year.

3. Every person who is liable to pay the surcharge under
this Act shall, notwithstanding that no assessment has been
made on him, pay to the Commissioner-General—

(i) (a) not less than fifty per centum on or before
August 15, 1989 ; and

(b) the balance on or hefore November 15, 1989,

‘of the amount of the surcharge payable by him for the
relevant year commencing on April 1, 1989; and

" (ii) (a) not less than fifty per centum, on or before
August 15, 1990 ; and

(bd) the balance.on or before November 15, 1990.

of the amount of the surcharge payable by him for the
relevant year commencing on April 1, 1990.

4. (1) Where an instalment of the surcharge or a part
of such instalment is not paid on or before the dates specifi-
ed in section 3 for the payment of that instalment, such
instalment of the surcharge or part thereof, shall be deemed
to be in default and the person by whom the surcharge is
payable shall be deemed to be a defaulter for the purposes

of this Act.

Short title,

Imposition
of

surcharge
on wealth
tax.

Dates for
payment
of the
surcharge.

Levy in
default
and sums
added
theretc.


me

2 Surcharge on Wealth Tax Act, No. 8 of 1989

(2) Where any surcharge payable by any person is in
default, the defaulter shall, in addition to the surcharge in
default, pay as a penalty—

(a) a sum equal to five per centum of the amount in de-
fault ; and

(b) where any amount in default is not paid before the
expiry of thirty days after it has begun to be in
default, a further sum equivalent to five per centum
of the amount in default in respect of each further
period of three months or part of such period during
which it is in default :

Provided that—

(i) the total amount payable as a penaity under the
preceding provisions of this section shall in no
_ case exceed fifty per centum of the surcharge

in default ;

(ii) where any person who is liable to pay the
surcharge under this Act pays as such.
surcharge—

(aa) for the relevant year commencing on
April 1, 1989—
(i) not less than 74 per cent on or
before August 15, 1990; and

(ii) not less than 74 per cent on or
_before November 15, 1989,

of the wealth tax payable by nim under the .
Inland Revenue Act, for the year as assess-
ment commencing on April 1, 1988; and
(5b) for the relevant year commencing on
April 1, 1990—
(i) not ‘less than 7% per cent on or
before August 15, 1990 ; and

(ii) not less than 73 per cent on or
before November 15, 1990,

of the wealth tax payable by him under the
Inland Revenue Act for the year of assess-
- ment commencing on April 1, 1989.

_ such person shall not be liable to any penalty
under this section, ir. respect of the payments
he is required to make under section 3 if he
pays the excess of the surcharge payable by
him for that relevant year over the amount .
paid by him, on or before— -


Surcharge on Wealth Tax Act, No. 8 of 1989 3

(i) November 30, 1990, in the case of the relevant year
commencing on April 1, 1989, and

(ii) November 30, 1991, in the case of the relevant year
commencing on April 1, 1990.

(3) The Commissioner-General may reduce or waive any
penalty payable under this section if it appears to him that
such reduction or waiver is just and equitable in all the
circumstances of the case.

5. The provisions of Chapter XIII and Chapters XVI
to XIX and Chapters XXI te XXVI of the Inland Revenue
Act, relating to the furnishing of returns relating to wealth
tax payable under that Act, assessment, appeals against
assessment, payment, recovery and refund of such tax shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to the furnishing of returns relating
‘to the surcharge payable under this Act, and the assessment,
appeals against assessment, payment, recovery and refunds,
of such surcharge subject to the following modifications :—-

(a) the requirement imposed by this Act on any person
to furnish a return of the surcharge payable by him
under this Act, for any relevant year shall be deem-
ed to have been sufficiently complied with if such
person furnishes a return of his wealth for that

year under section 92(1) or section 92(2) of the
Inland Revenue Act ;

(b) where an Assessor makes an assessment or an addi-
tional assessment on any person, of the wealth tax
payable hy such person under the Inland Revenue
Act for any relevant year, the Assessor may, at the
same time and in the same form, make an assess-
ment or additional assessment, as the case may be,
of the surcharge payable by such person for that
year under, this Act. The assessments or additional
assessments, as the case may be, shall be deemed to
be separate assessments issued under the respective
Acts ;

(c) where a notice of assessment is given to any person
under section 116 of the Inland Revenue Act stating
the amount of welth tax charged on such person
under the Inland Revenue Act, for any relevant
year, such notice may also include the amount of
the ‘surcharge charged on such person under this
Act, for that year. The notices shall be deemed to

- be separate notices jssued under the respective

‘Acts ;

Certain
provisions
of the
Inland
Revenue Axt
to apply.


Sinhala

text to
prevail

in the

event of
inconsistency.

Interpretation

- Surcharge on Wealth Tax Act, No. 8 of 1989

(@) where an appeal is made against an assessment of
wealth tax payable under the Inland Revenue Act
for any relevant year, such appeal shall be deemed
to include an appeal against the surcharge payable
under this Act, for that year and shall be determin- |
ed accordingly ; and

(e) where under Chapter XXI of the Inland Revenue

et, a certificate is issued to a Magistrate or a

notice, statement or certificate is issued to any

person, such notice, statement or certificate as the

case may be, may also include the particulars of any

surcharge in default under this Act. The notices,

statements or certificates, as the case may be, shall

be deemed to be separate notices, statements or
certificates issued under the respective Acts.

6. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. :

7. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—_

“Assessor”, “Commissioner-General”, “person”? and
-. “year of assessment” have the respective meanings
assigned to them in the Inland Revenue Act ;

“Inland Revenue Act” means: the Inland Revenue Act,

No. 28 of 1979 ; and

“wealth tax” means the welth tax charged and levied
under the Inland Revenue Act.
