PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 80.00Postage : Rs. 45.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May13, 2021

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 13th of May, 2021]

ACT, No. 10 OF 2021INLAND REVENUE (AMENDMENT)

1Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

[Certified on 13th of May, 2021]

L.D.O. 10/2020

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INLAND REVENUE ACT, NO. 24 OF 2017

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue(Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 2021.

(2) The provisions of this Act (other than the provisionsof sections referred to in Table A and Table B set out inthis Amendment Act) shall commence on the date on whichthe certificate of the Speaker is endorsed thereon.

(3) The provisions of sections referred to in Table A setout in this Amendment Act shall be deemed to have comeinto operation on April 1, 2021.

(4) The provisions of sections referred to in Table B setout in this Amendment Act shall be deemed to have comeinto operation on the respective dates specified in that Table.

2.Section 5 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section as follows: -

(1)in paragraph (c) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words on equal terms; of thewords in the same grade of the service, on equalterms;;

(2)in paragraph (f) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words provident or savingsfund or savings society of the words provident,gratuity or savings fund or savings society.

Short title andthe date ofoperation

Amendment ofsection 5 of Act,No. 24 of 2017

2Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

3.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (d) of subsection (2) of that section,by the substitution for the words the Second or FourthSchedule to this Act, of the words the Fourth Schedule tothis Act.

4. Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words commencement of this Act. of the words andfigures, commencement of this Act or for any projectsapproved under the Strategic Development Projects Act,No. 14 of 2008..

5.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subparagraph (v) of paragraph (b) of subsection(1) of that section, by the substitution for the wordsprovident or savings fund of the words provident, gratuityor savings fund.

6.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (3)of that section, of the following new subsection: -

(4) For the purpose of this section, cost of fundsof the financial institution incurred on the loansprovided for new businesses commenced on or afterApril 1, 2021 by any individual after successfulcompletion of vocational education from anyVocational Education Institution which is standardizedunder Technical and Vocational Education andTraining concept (TVET concept) and regulated bythe Tertiary and Vocational Education Commission,shall be deemed to be incurred in the production ofincome of such financial institution..

7.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (2) of that section-

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment

3Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(a)by the substitution for the words and thefigure The deductions referred to insubsection (1) granted for a year ofassessment, of the words and figures Thedeductions of improvements referred to insubsection (1) granted for any year ofassessment commencing from April 1, 2021;and

(b)in subparagraph (i) of paragraph (a) of thatsubsection, by the substitution for the wordsin the case of repair or improvement to, ofthe words in the case of improvement to;

(2)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figure (paragraph (3) of theFourth Schedule), of the words and figure(paragraph 3 of the Fourth Schedule);

(3)by the addition immediately after subsection (3) ofthat section, of the following new subsection: -

(4) In this section, improvement meansthe expenditure incurred by a person to makeadditions or alterations to a depreciable assetwhich enhances the value of such asset, butexcludes the expenditure incurred to maintainor repair a depreciable asset whichtemporarily enhances the value of such asset..

8.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 15 of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as section 15A of that enactment: -

15A. (1) For any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2021, incalculating a persons income from a business,marketing and communication expensesincurred by such person in the production of

Insertion of newsection 15A inthe principalenactment

Marketingandcommunicationexpenses

4Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

income during the year of assessment shall bededucted irrespective of whether they are of acapital nature or not.

(2) In this section, marketing andcommunication expenses means, anyexpenses incurred by any person in-

(a)carrying out a market research bysuch person or any institution in SriLanka on his behalf;

(b)the development or production ofmarketing, advertising andcommunication campaign to theextent that such development orproduction is carried out in SriLanka;

(c)advertising on mainstream media orsocial media including television,radio, print or as outdoor advertising;

(d)product launches or campaignactivation carried out by such personor by any local institution on hisbehalf;

(e)development and printing of point-of-sale material by such person orby any local institution on hisbehalf..

9.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1) in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section,by the substitution for the words the Second or

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment

5Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

Fourth Schedule to this Act. of the words theSecond, Fourth or Sixth Schedule to this Act.;

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (4) of that section,by the substitution for the words the Second orFourth Schedule to this Act. of the words theFourth Schedule to this Act..

10.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) and subsection (2)of that section, and the substitution therefor of the followingsubsections: -

(1) The amount of financial costs deducted incalculating the income of a company (other than afinancial institution) which is incorporated in oroutside Sri Lanka and having an issued share capitalas at the date on which the year of assessment ends,from conducting a business or investment for a year ofassessment commencing from April l, 2021, shall notexceed the limit referred to in subsection (2).

(2) The limit shall be computed according to thefollowing formula: -

A--XCB

Where:

A = financial cost of the year;

B = value of financial instruments on which thefinancial cost incurred during the year; and

C= 4 x total of the issued share capital andreserves of the company as at the end of theyear..

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment

6Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

11.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words in calculating exempt amounts., of thefollowing: -

in calculating exempt amounts.

For the purpose of this subsection, where any companyhas an unrelieved loss from business to deduct in thecurrent year of assessment from a period during whichthat company had operated as a small and mediumenterprise and, if-

(a)the unrelieved loss was a profit in the year ofassessment in which that unrelieved loss wasincurred and which would have been taxed at areduced rate; and

(b)the current year business income is not taxableat the same reduced rate as in the year referred toin the paragraph (a),

that unrelieved loss shall, (subject to paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1)), be deemed to be a loss (if it would havebeen a taxable profit) taxed at the same rate of the currentyear..

12.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, andthe substitution therefor, of the followingsubsection: -

(2) Where a trust or company is unable tosubmit the accounts for the period of twelvemonths of the year of assessment as providedin subsection (1), such trust or company mayapply to the Commissioner-Generalrequesting that the accounts based on analternative period of twelve months be usedto compute the income tax payable for a given

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment

7Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

year of assessment. The Commissioner-General may approve such request on suchterms and conditions as he thinks fit. TheCommissioner-General may revoke suchapproval if the trust or company fails tocomply with terms and conditions attachedto the approval..

(2)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words A change in a trust or companysyear of assessment shall, of the words and the figureA change approved under subsection (2) shall not;

(3)by the substitution for the marginal note of thatsection, of the following marginal note: -

Year of assessment.

13.Section 36 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (4)of that section, of the following new subsection: -

(5) Where, in any year of assessment commencingfrom April 1, 2021, an asset owned by a person is usedin the production of different gains and profits frombusiness (including losses) taxable at different taxrates, the cost of, and consideration received for theasset shall be apportioned among such gains andprofits, according to the market value of the parts ofthe assets used to produce respective gains andprofits..

14.Section 38 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)of that section, of the following new subsection: -

(1A) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary insubsection (1), the consideration received for therealisation of an investment asset of a person shall bethe amount received or receivable by the person in

Amendment ofsection 36 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 38 of theprincipalenactment

8Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

respect of such asset or the assessed value at the timeof realisation, whichever is higher:

Provided, however, a tax official may determinethe consideration received for an asset in terms ofsubsection (1), if such tax official is of the opinionthat the assessed value is not indicative of the marketvalue of such asset.

For the purpose of this subsection, assessed valuemeans the value at the time of the realisation, certifiedby a professionally qualified valuer in a valuationreport..

15.Section 53 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words a partnership, of the words andfigures prior to January 1, 2020, a partnership;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection: -

(1A) Every partnership shall be liable to payincome tax with effect from January 1, 2020 at therate provided for in paragraph 2 of the First Scheduleto this Act, separately from its partners.;

(3)in subsection (9) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words The precedent partner, of the wordsand figures Prior to January 1, 2020, the precedentpartner;

(4)by the addition immediately after subsection (9) ofthat section, of the following new subsection: -

(10) Each partner in a partnership shall beresponsible for performing any duty or obligation

Amendment ofsection 53 of theprincipalenactment

9Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

imposed by this Act on the partnership in relationto its income tax payable..

16.Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words as paid by them. of the words as paid bythem without any right to a refund (but with a right to carryforward to the next succeeding year to deduct as a tax creditin that year) of any excess of such share of tax attributable tosuch partner..

17.Section 60 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words a single company business., of the words asingle company business, unless different tax rates areapplicable to the different activities and sources of income,in which case each such different activity and source shallbe treated as distinct businesses and sources..

18.Section 62 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words making such remittances. of the following: -

making such remittances:

Provided however, if a non-resident personretained the total income earned in any year ofassessment commencing on or after April 1, 2021in Sri Lanka for a minimum period of three yearscommencing from the first day of the immediatelysucceeding year of assessment in which the incomeis earned and invested the same in Sri Lanka toexpand its business or to acquire shares or securitiesfrom the Colombo Stock Exchange licensed by theSecurities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lankaor to acquire any treasury bill, treasury bond or SriLanka International Sovereign Bond issued onbehalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, the tax rateon remittances of such retained income investedshall be zero percent..

Amendment ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 60 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 62 of theprincipalenactment

10Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

19.Section 66 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words are complied with., of thefollowing:-

are complied with:

Provided that, where the previouslyallowed specific provision for a debt claim asa deduction has been reversed, reduced orpaid during the year in full or part, the amountso reversed, reduced or paid shall be includedin calculating such persons income.;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section andthe substitution therefor, of the followingsubsection: -

(3) A person conducting a banking businessshall, in addition to the records, accounts or anyother document required to be prepared as referredto in any other provision of this Act, prepare andretain the records in respect of specific provisionfor a debt claim, in such form as may be specifiedby the Commissioner-General.;

(3)by the addition immediately after subsection (3) ofthat section, of the following new subsection: -

(4) In this section-

(a)banking business means the bankingbusiness of a financial institution;

(b)debt claim does not include the rightto receive a payment on deposits,debentures, stocks, treasury bills,

Amendment ofsection 66 of theprincipalenactment

11Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

promissory notes, bills of exchange andbonds;

(c)directives made by the Central Bankof Sri Lanka means any directivesissued to make specific provisionsrelating to bad and doubtful debtsunder subsection (1) of section 76J ofthe Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 orunder subsection (1) of section 12 ofthe Finance Business Act, No. 42 of2011 or under subsection (1) of section9 of the Finance Companies Act, No.78 of 1988 by the Central Bank of SriLanka and applicable to the relevantyear of assessment, but excludes anydirectives issued in relation to theadaptation of Sri Lanka AccountingStandards..

20.Section 68 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words additional tax of three percent on amountsof the words additional tax on three percent of amounts.

21. Section 70 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures paragraph (c) of subsection (1) ofsection 69, of the words and figures paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 69,.

22.Section 75 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:-

Amendment ofsection 68 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 70 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 75 of theprincipalenactment

12Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(1) (a) Where Parliament by resolutionapproves any double taxation agreement ormutual administrative assistance agreemententered into between the Government of SriLanka and the Government of any other territory,or such agreement entered into by theGovernment of Sri Lanka with the Governmentsof any other territories, such agreement shall,notwithstanding anything in any other writtenlaw, have the force of law in Sri Lanka. Everysuch resolution which is so approved byParliament, shall be published in the Gazette.

(b) Every agreement entered into between theGovernment of Sri Lanka and the Governmentof any other territory and having the force of lawin Sri Lanka by virtue of the provisions of section70 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 4 of 1963, orsection 82 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of1979, or section 92 of the Inland Revenue Act,No. 38 of 2000, or section 97 of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 shall be deemedfor all purposes to be an agreement approved byParliament under paragraph (a) of thissubsection.;

(2)in subsection (5) of that section, in the definitionof the expression double taxation agreement, bythe substitution for the words internationalagreement relating to the avoidance of doubletaxation and the prevention of the wordsinternational agreement for the purpose ofaffording relief from double taxation in relation toincome tax under Sri Lanka law and any taxes of asimilar character imposed by the laws of the otherterritory, and the prevention.

23. Section 76 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (2) of that section-

Amendment ofsection 76 of theprincipalenactment

13Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (b) of thatsubsection, and the substitution therefor ofthe following paragraph: -

(b) permanent establishment, in relationto a country with which an agreementhas been entered into on avoidance ofdouble taxation means, a permanentestablishment defined in an agreementfor the relief of double taxation wherean agreement is in force between theGovernment of Sri Lanka and theGovernment of any territory in whichany person and their agencies, branchesor establishments in Sri Lanka isresident;;

(b) in paragraph (c) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words in Sri Lanka, inwhich case of the words in Sri Lanka orelsewhere, in which case;

(2)in subsection (3) of that section-

(a)in paragraph (f) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words and figures paragraph(a) or (b) of subsection (2), of the words and thefigure paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (3);

(b)in paragraph (g) of that subsection-

(i)by the substitution for the wordsreduce or enhance the arms lengthprice of the words reduce, enhance orannul the arms length price;

(ii)by the repeal of items (i) and (ii) of thatparagraph, and the substitution therefor,of the following items: -

14Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(i)a final order, where all themembers of the Committee are inagreement; or

(ii)an interim order, where themajority of the members of theCommittee are in agreement.;

(c)in paragraph (j) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words Where person orpartner of a partnership has not, of the wordsWhere a person has not;

(d)in paragraph (l) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words Such person orpartner of a partnership who is of the wordsSuch person who is;

(3)in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figure under subsection (2) has,of the words and the figure under subsection (3)has.

24. Section 77 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (2) of that section-

(a)by the repeal of item (ii) of paragraph (f) ofthat subsection, and the substitution thereforof the following item: -

(ii)an interim order in any othercircumstances where the majority ofthe members of the Committee arein agreement.;

(b)in paragraph (g) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words may be to such

Amendment ofsection 77 of theprincipalenactment

15Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

person or partner of such partnership. of thewords may be to such person.;

(2)in paragraph (e) of subsection (5) of that section, bythe substitution for the words where a connectedtransaction of the words where a controlledtransaction.

25.Section 78 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words made by the Transfer Pricing Officer orAssistant Commissioner may, of the words made by theTechnical Review Committee may.

26.Section 83 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words shall withhold tax, of the words and figuresshall withhold tax prior to January 1, 2020.

27.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 83 of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as section 83A of that enactment: -

83A. (1) An employer shall deduct anAdvance Personal Income Tax with effect fromApril 1, 2020 on any payment which falls undersection 5 made to his employee, if suchemployee -

(a)is a non-resident or non-citizen of SriLanka; or

(b)is a resident and citizen of Sri Lankawho gives his consent,

as specified by the Commissioner-General.

(2) The obligation of an employer towithhold tax under subsection (1) shall not bereduced or extinguished when

Amendment ofsection 78 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 83 of theprincipalenactment

Insertion of newsection 83A inthe principalenactment

AdvancePersonalIncome Tax

16Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(a)the employer has a right or is under anobligation to deduct and withhold anyother amount from the payment; or

(b)any other law provides that anemployees income from employmentshall not be reduced or subject toattachment.

(3) The provisions applicable to thewithholding tax under this Act shall, mutatismutandis, be applicable to the AdvancePersonal Income Tax and every reference tothe term withholding, withholding tax ortax payable by withholding in any suchprovisions of this Act shall, subject to suchmodification, be deemed to be a reference tothe Advance Personal Income Tax..

28. Section 84 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section asfollows: -

(1)in subparagraph (i) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words retirement payment orpays amounts as winnings from a lottery, reward,betting or gambling; or of the following: -

retirement payment, prior to January 1, 2020;or;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subparagraph (i)of that paragraph, of the following newsubparagraph: -

(ii)pays amounts as winnings from a lottery,reward, betting or gambling; or;;

(3)by the re-numbering of subparagraph (ii) of thatparagraph, as subparagraph (iii) of that paragraph;and

Amendment ofsection 84 of theprincipalenactment

17Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(4)in the re-numbered subparagraph (iii) of thatparagraph, by the substitution for the words hasbeen allocated; and, of the words and figures hasbeen allocated prior to January 1, 2020; and.

29. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 84 of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as section 84A of that enactment: -

84A. (1) Subject to section 83A andsubsection (3) of section 84, with effect fromApril 1, 2020, the taxpayer who is resident inSri Lanka may make a request to thewithholding agent to deduct Advance IncomeTax from the payment of dividend, interest,discount, charge, natural resource payment,rent, royalty, premium or similar periodicpayment that the payment or allocation has asource in Sri Lanka. On the receipt of suchrequest, a withholding agent shall deductadvance income tax as specified by theCommissioner-General.

(2) The provisions applicable to thewithholding tax under this Act shall, mutatismutandis, be applicable to the Advance IncomeTax, and every reference to the termwithholding, withholding tax or taxpayable by withholding in any such provisionsof this Act shall, subject to such modification,be deemed to be a reference to the AdvanceIncome Tax..

30. Section 85 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words shall withhold tax, of the words andfigures shall, prior to January 1, 2020, withholdtax;

Insertion of newsection 84A inthe principalenactment

AdvanceIncome Tax

Amendment ofsection 85 of theprincipalenactment

18Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection: -

(1A) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), aperson shall withhold tax at the rate providedfor in paragraph 10 of the First Schedule to thisAct, where such person pays a dividend, interest,discount, charge, natural resource payment, rent,royalty, premium, service fee or an insurancepremium with a source in Sri Lanka to a non-resident person.; and

(3)in the marginal note of that section, by thesubstitution for the words fees and contractpayments., of the words fees, contract paymentsand payments to non-residents..

31.Section 87 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (b) of subsection (4) of that section,by the substitution for the words of that year, of the wordsof the subsequent year.

32.Section 88 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (1) of that section-

(a)by the substitution for the words thefollowing shall be the final, of the wordsand figures the following shall, prior toJanuary 1, 2020, be the final;

(b)in paragraph (d) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words and figuresparagraph (b) of subsection (2) of section84, of the words and figures paragraph (b)of subsection (3) of section 84;

Amendment ofsection 87 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 88 of theprincipalenactment

19Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection: -

(1A) For the purposes of this Act, the followingshall, on or after January 1, 2020, be the finalwithholding payments: -

(a)amounts paid as winnings from a lottery,reward, betting or gambling, other thanamounts received in conducting a businessconsisting of betting and gaming;

(b)payments made to a non-resident person whois not a citizen of Sri Lanka or to a non-resident entity that is subject to withholdingunder this Division, other than paymentsderived through a Sri Lankan PermanentEstablishment; and

(c)interest paid to or treated as being derived bya non-resident individual who is a citizen ofSri Lanka:

Provided however, the following interestamounts shall not be deemed as finalwithholding payments to such non-residentindividual who is a citizen of Sri Lanka: -

(i)such amount of interest paid and fallingwithin the relief threshold in paragraph2(a) of the Fifth Schedule to this Act;or

(ii)such amount calculated by deductingthe total of other sources of assessableincome (total assessable income otherthan interest) from the relief thresholdif the total of assessable income fromother sources does not exceed the reliefthreshold.;

20Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(3)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures paragraph (b) ofsubsection (2) of section 84, of the words andfigures paragraph (b) or (d) of subsection (3) ofsection 84.

33. Section 90 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section,by the substitution for the words a business orinvestment; or, of the words a business,investment or other income; or;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor, of the followingsubsection: -

(2) An instalment payer shall pay instalmentsof tax for the year of assessment on or before thefifteenth day respectively of August, November andFebruary in that year of assessment and the fifteenthday of May of the next succeeding year ofassessment.;

(3)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words payment of the instalment., of thefollowing: -

payment of the instalment:

Provided however, in calculating the estimatedtax payable by an instalment payer, the AdvancePersonal Income Tax deducted by an employer orto be deducted by an employer for the year ofassessment may be deducted prior to applying theformula given in this subsection.;

(4)in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words instalment for the year. of thefollowing: -

Amendment ofsection 90 of theprincipalenactment

21Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

instalment for the year. Notwithstandinganything to the contrary in section 55 (but withoutany right to a refund), a partner in a partnershipshall be entitled to a tax credit in calculating theamount of current instalment of tax payable for suchshare of tax credit amount treated as being paid bythe partner, but subject to the payment of the sameinstalment due by the partnership..

34. Section 93 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subparagraph (i) of paragraph (a) of subsection(2) of that section, by the substitution for the wordsbusiness and investment, of the words business,investment and other income;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection: -

(3) Every person with taxable income consistingof a gain from the realisation of an investment assetshall file with the Commissioner-General a capitalgains tax return within thirty days after the end ofthe relevant calendar month in which the realisationoccurred..

35. Section 94 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of subsection(1) of that section, by the substitution for the words andfigures subject to withholding under section 83; or, of thewords and figures subject to withholding under section 83prior to April 1, 2019; or.

36. Section 95 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words self-assessment.,of the following: -

Amendment ofsection 93 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 94 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 95 of theprincipalenactment

22Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

self-assessment:

Provided however, capital gains tax returnsfiled in relation to any gains from the realisationof an investment asset received or derived duringa year of assessment by a self-assessmenttaxpayer who is required to file a return of incomeunder subsection (1) of section 93 for the sameyear of assessment, shall not result in a self-assessment..

37. Section 103 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words this Act., of the words this Act and in all taxrelated source documents or underlying documents of thetaxpayer..

38. Section 113 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section,by the substitution for the words the filing, of thewords and figure subject to subsection (1A), thefiling;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection: -

(1A) A company which is incorporated in oroutside Sri Lanka or a public corporation shall onlyfile its tax returns electronically through the use ofa computer system or mobile electronic device..

39. Section 120 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)of that section, of the following new subsection: -

(1A) With effect from the year of assessmentcommencing from April 1, 2021, where any personis engaged in business or investment activity andthe income tax payable shall be calculated byapplying different tax rates for such part of taxable

Amendment ofsection 103 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 113 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 120 ofthe principalenactment

23Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

income from any gains and profits from business orinvestment activity or may have exempted amountsas the case may be, such person shall maintain andprepare the financial statements to separatelyidentify such part of taxable income from gainsand profits in applying each income tax rate toeach part of the taxable income or to identify theexempted gains and profits..

40.Section 126 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (5) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the following subsection:

(5) Where a return or part of a return was prepared for apayment by any person, including by an approvedaccountant, such person shall certify separately specifyingthe extent to which he was involved in the preparation ofsuch return and specify the documents examined by himand the information relied upon by him. Such certificationshall be submitted along with the return and the saidcertification shall be deemed to be part and parcel of thesaid return..

41.Section 129 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)by the substitution for the words returns shall applyto a person required under this Act to file a return ofinformation related, of the words returns,assessments, objections and appeals shall apply toa person required under this Act to file a return ofinformation or annual statement related;

(2)by the substitution for the marginal note to thatsection, of the following marginal note: -

Information returns andannual statements..

42.Section 139 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

Amendment ofsection 126 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 129 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 139 ofthe principalenactment

24Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(1)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection: -

(3) Where the request for review is an objectionagainst an assessment which has been made in theabsence of a return or annual statement required tobe furnished, such request shall be sent togetherwith a duly filled return or annual statement, as thecase may be.;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (5) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection: -

(5) (a) On receipt and acknowledgement of atax payers request for review under subsection (4),Commissioner-General shall review the assessmentor other decision and notify the taxpayer in writingof the Commissioner-General's decision and thereasons for the decision.

(b) The tax payers request for review shall beconsidered by a tax official other than the taxofficial who made the assessment or otherdecision.;

(3)in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words in accordance with this Act, of thewords and figures in accordance with this Act, butnotwithstanding the time limits specified insubsections (2) and (3) of section 135,.

43. Section 140 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures administrative reviewunder section 139 may appeal against the decisionto, of the words and figures administrative reviewof an assessment under section 139 may appealagainst that decision of review to;

Amendment ofsection 140 ofthe principalenactment

25Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section,by the substitution for the words ninety days havelapsed, of the words seven months have lapsed;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (5) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection: -

(5) A petition of appeal under this section shallbe filed in writing to the Tax Appeals Commissionwith a copy to the Commissioner-General withinthirty days from the date of receipt of the decisionof the Commissioner-General or within thirty daysfrom the date on which the period of seven monthslapsed since the request for administrative reviewwas made under section 139.;

(4) by the repeal of subsection (6) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection: -

(6) Notwithstanding anything to the contraryin subsection (5), the appellant may appeal againstan assessment upon satisfying the Tax AppealsCommission that owing to absence from Sri Lanka,sickness, or other reasonable cause the appellantwas prevented from filing a petition of appeal asrequired under subsection (2), and that there hasbeen no unreasonable delay on the appellantspart..

44. Section 157 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures an extension of time)under section 151 to the date, of the words andfigures an extension of time under section 151) tothe date;

(2)by the substitution for the marginal note to thatsection, of the following marginal note: -

Interest on under-payments andlate payments..

Amendment ofsection 157 ofthe principalenactment

26Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

45.Section 158 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection: -

(1) Where the Commissioner-General is requiredto refund a refundable amount under this Act to ataxpayer, an interest shall be paid on suchrefundable amount to the taxpayer from the date ofthe refund claim filed until the date on which therefundable amount is paid.;

(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words within sixty days of, of the wordswithin six months of.

46.Section 159 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsections (1) and (2) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words compounded monthly of thewords computed monthly respectively.

47.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 190 of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as section 190A of that enactment:-

190A. Any person who fraudulently

(a)prepares any document ofinformation; or

(b)certifies a document,

to be furnished to the Commissioner-Generalof Inland Revenue, commits an offence underthis Act, and on conviction after summary trial

Amendment ofsection 158 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 159 ofthe principalenactment

Insertion of newsection 190A ofthe principalenactment

Punitiveprovisionforfraudulentlyprepared orcertifieddocuments

27Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine notexceeding One Million Rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding six months..

48. Section 195 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)by the substitution for the words and the figure (1)In this Act, of that section, of the words In thisAct,;

(2)by the substitution for the definition of theexpression agricultural business of that section,of the following definitions:-

agricultural business means the businessof agro farming or agro processing, butexcludes farming of, or processing ofliquor or tobacco produces or products,as the case may be;

agro farming means-

(a)the tillage of the soil andcultivation of land with plants ofany description, cultivation ingreen house, bee-keeping, rearingof fish, shrimp farming or animalhusbandry, poultry farms, hatchery,veterinary or artificial inseminationservices;

(b)the cleaning, sizing, sorting,grading, cutting or chilling of anyproduce produced out of anyactivity referred to in paragraph (a)by any person who is engaged in

Amendment ofsection 195 ofthe principalenactment

28Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

any such activity, in preparation ofsuch produce for the market butexcludes the agro or foodprocessing;

agro processing means the processing of anylocally produced agricultural, fishing,or animal product and includes anundertaking for the dehydrating,milling, packaging, canning for thepurpose of changing the form, contouror physical appearance of such productin preparation for the market butexcludes an undertaking of deep-seafishing or manufacturing;;

(3)in paragraph (a) of the definition of the expressiondividend of that section, by the substitution forthe words share buy-back, of the words sharebuy-back;

(4)in the definition of the expression entertainmentof that section, by the substitution for the wordsperson of food, beverages, tobacco, of the wordsperson of liquor, tobacco;

(5)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression manager of that section, of thefollowing new definition: -

manufacture means a change in a non-livingphysical object, article or thing-

(a)resulting in transformation of suchobject, article or thing into a new anddistinct object, article or thing havinga different name, character or use; or

29Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(b)bringing into existence of a new anddistinct object, article or thing with adifferent chemical composition orintegral structure;;

(6)in the definition of the expression Small andMedium Enterprise of that section

(a)by the substitution for paragraph (b) of thatdefinition, of the following paragraph:

(b)subject to paragraph (d), the person doesnot have an associate that is an entity;;

(b)by the addition immediately after paragraph(c) of that definition, of the following newparagraph:

(d)the persons or his associates aggregateannual gross turnover is less thanRs. 500,000,000, if such associate is anentity or entities;;

(7)in the definition of the expression specifiedundertaking of that section, by the additionimmediately after paragraph (k) of that definition,of the following new paragraphs: -

(l) sale of goods manufactured in Sri Lanka byan export-oriented company which hasentered into an agreement with the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka under section 17 ofthe Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law,No. 4 of 1978, to-

(i)any company which has entered intoan agreement with the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka under section

30Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

17 of the Board of Investment ofSri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 includinga company enjoying tax holidays underthe Strategic Development Projects Act,No. 14 of 2008 and which is permittedto import project related goods or rawmaterials on duty free basis under theprovisions of such agreement, duringthe project implementation period; or

(ii)any person eligible to import specificgoods on duty free basis under anyGovernment Authority,

but, up to the quantity approved by the Boardof Investment of Sri Lanka as importreplacement within the three years periodcommencing on April 1, 2021;

(m)bunkering services provided for the supplyof marine fuel, including the supply of marinefuel to local bunker suppliers within aspecified port premises;;

(8)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionSri Lankan permanent establishment of thatsection, and the substitution therefor of thefollowing definition: -

Sri Lankan permanent establishment meansany business connection or fixed place ofbusiness through which the business of theenterprise is wholly or partly carried out,irrespective of the number of days of suchbusiness being carried out in Sri Lanka;;

(9)in the definition of the expression tax return ofthat section, by the substitution for the wordsmeans a return, of the words means a return orannual statement,;

(10)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression taxpayer of that section, of thefollowing new definition: -

31Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

Tertiary and Vocational Education Commissionmeans the Tertiary and Vocational EducationCommission established under the Tertiary andVocational Education Act, No 20. of 1990;.

49.Section 201 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section,by the substitution for the words five years of the wordsseven years.

50.Section 203 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures on or after 1 April 2017,, of thewords and figures on or after April 1, 2018,.

51.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows: -

(1)in paragraph 1 of that Schedule-

(a)in subparagraph (1) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words for a year ofassessment shall, of the words and figuresfor a year of assessment commencing on orafter April 1, 2018 but for the period prior toJanuary 1, 2020 shall;

(b)by the insertion immediately aftersubparagraph (1) of that paragraph, of thefollowing new subparagraph: -

(1A) subject to the provisions ofsubparagraph (2), the taxable income of aresident or non-resident individualcommencing from January 1, 2020 shallbe taxed at the following rates: -

Amendment ofsection 201 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 203 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

32Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(c)in subparagraph (2) of that paragraph-

(i)in item (b)(i) of that subparagraph, by thesubstitution for the words where the period, ofthe words and figures prior to January 1, 2020,where the period;

(ii)in item (b)(ii) of that subparagraph, by thesubstitution for the words where the period, ofthe words and figures prior to January 1, 2020,where the period;

(iii)by the addition immediately after item (b)(ii) ofthat subparagraph, of the following new item: -

(iii) on or after January 1, 2020:

Taxable income for ayear of assessment

Not exceeding Rs. 3million

Exceeding Rs. 3million but notexceeding Rs. 6million

Exceeding Rs. 6 million

Tax payable

6% of theamount inexcess of Rs.0

Rs. 180,000plus 12% of theamount inexcess of Rs. 3million

Rs. 540,000plus 18% of theamount inexcess of Rs. 6million;

33Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(d)in subparagraph (3) of that paragraph-

(i)by the substitution for the words and the figurereferred to in subparagraph (2) shall be-, ofthe words and the figure referred to in item (b)of subparagraph (2) shall be-;

(ii)in item (c) of that subparagraph, by thesubstitution for the words by the employer;of the words by the employer; and;

(iii) by the repeal of items (d) and (e) of thatsubparagraph; and

(iv)by the re-lettering of item (f) of thatsubparagraph, as item (d) thereof;

(e)in subparagraph (4) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words liquor or tobacco., of

Total income fromemployment referredto in subparagraph(3) for a year ofassessment

Not exceeding Rs.10,000,000

ExceedingRs. 10,000,000 butnot exceedingRs. 20,000,000

ExceedingRs. 20,000,000

Tax payable

0% of the amountin excess of Rs.0

6% of the amountin excess ofRs.10,000,000

Rs. 600,000 plus12% of the amountin excess ofRs. 20,000,000;

34Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

the words manufacture and sale or import and saleof any liquor or tobacco product.;

(f)by the addition immediately after subparagraph (4)of that paragraph, of the following newsubparagraph: -

(5) Notwithstanding anything to the contraryin the provisions of subparagraph (1A), anindividuals following gains and profits shall betaxed at the maximum rate of 14% with effect fromApril 1, 2021:

(a)consideration received in respect ofgems and jewellery;

(b)amounts received on the supply ofelectricity to national grid generatedby using renewable energy resourcesby any individual.;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph 2 of that Schedule andthe substitution therefor, of the followingparagraph: -

2. Tax rate for partnerships.

(1)Subject to the provisions ofsubparagraph (2), the taxable income of apartnership shall be taxed at the following rateswith effect from January 1, 2020: -

Taxable income for ayear of assessment

Not exceedingRs. 1,000,000

ExceedingRs. 1,000,000

Tax payable

0% of theamount inexcess of Rs.0

6% of theamount inexcess ofRs.1,000,000

35Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(2)Where a partnerships taxable incomeincludes gains from the realisation ofinvestment assets, then-

(a)those gains shall be taxed to thepartnership at the rate of 10%; and

(b)only the remainder of thepartnerships taxable incomeshall be taxed at the rate referredto in subparagraph (1).;

(3)in subparagraph (1) of paragraph 3 of that Schedule,by the substitution for the words and figures taxedat the rate of [24%.], of the words and figurestaxed at the rate of 24% prior to January 1, 2020and 18% with effect from January 1, 2020.;

(4) in paragraph 4 of that Schedule-

(a)by the repeal of subparagraph (1) of thatparagraph and the substitution therefor, ofthe following: -

(1) Subject to subparagraphs (2), (2A)and (3), the taxable income of a companyfor a year of assessment-

(a)prior to January 1, 2020 shall betaxed at the rate of 28%;

(b)with effect from January 1, 2020shall be taxed at the rate of 24%.;

(b)in subparagraph (2) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words for a year ofassessment, of the words and figures for ayear of assessment prior to January 1, 2020;

(c)by the insertion immediately aftersubparagraph (2) of that paragraph, of thefollowing new subparagraph: -

(2A) Such part of the gains and profits of acompany for a year of assessment shall be taxedat the following rates with effect from January1, 2020:-

36Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(a)gains and profits from the business of aSmall and Medium Enterprise,excluding such gains and profits froma business of betting and gaming orfrom the sale of liquor (in the case ofliquor, other than those gains and profitsfrom a business which is merelyincidental to another business)- 14%;

(b)gains and profits from conducting abusiness of sale of goods ormerchandise including export of goods,where the payment for such sale orexport is received in foreign currencyand remitted through a bank to SriLanka-14%;

(c)gains and profits of a specifiedundertaking-14%;

(d)gains and profits from providingeducational services-14%;

(e)gains and profits of an undertaking forthe promotion of tourism-14%;

(f)gains and profits from providingconstruction services-14%;

(g)gains and profits from agro processing-14%;

(h)gains and profits from providing healthcare services-14%;

(i)gains and profits from dividendsreceived from a resident company-14%;

37Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(j)gains and profits derived by any exportcompany which is registered with theBoard of Investments of Sri Lankaestablished by the Board of Investmentof Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 fromthe consideration received in respectof health protective equipment andsimilar products supplied to theMinistry of Health, Department ofHealth Services, Sri Lanka Army, SriLanka Navy, Sri Lanka Airforce, SriLanka Police and COVID Center- 14%;

(k)gains and profits of any company (eventhough a higher rate of income tax isapplicable as provided under this Actor under any other written law) whichlists its shares on or after January, 12021, but prior to December 31, 2021,in the Colombo Stock Exchangelicensed by the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka, for three yearsof assessment commencing from April1, 2022 -14%;

(l)gains and profits from the considerationreceived in respect of gems andjewellery 14%;

(ll)with effect from April 1, 2021, gainsand profits from the supply ofelectricity to national grid generatedusing renewable energy resources by acompany 14%;

(m)subject to item (a), (b), (c), (j) or (k) ofthis subparagraph, gains and profitsfrom manufacturing-18%;

(n)gains and profits from conductingbetting and gaming-40%;

(o)gains and profits from the manufactureand sale or import and sale of any liquoror tobacco product-40%.;

38Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(d)by the addition immediately after subparagraph(4) of that paragraph, of the following newsubparagraph: -

(5) The income tax payable by a company,calculated in accordance with subparagraphs (1),(2A), (3) and (4) of paragraph 4 of this Scheduleshall be reduced as follows: -

(a)aggregate income tax payable byany company (including incometax payable calculated on thebasis and tax rate provided in anyagreement with the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka undersection 17 of the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law, No.4 of 1978, but other than on gainsfrom the realisation of investmentasset) which lists its shares on orafter January 1, 2021, but prior toDecember 31, 2021, in theColombo Stock Exchangelicensed by the Securities andExchange Commission of SriLanka, shall be reduced by fiftyper centum for the year ofassessment commencing fromApril 1, 2021;

(b)such part of income tax payableon gains and profits fromdividends by any multi-nationalcompany shall be reduced bytwenty-five per centum for the yearof assessment commencing fromApril 1, 2021 and fifty per centumfor the two years of assessmentimmediately succeeding that year

39Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

of assessment, subject to thecondition that there shall be-

(i)an increase in exports (otherthan specified undertakings)by thirty per centum in theyear of assessmentcommencing from April 1,2021, compared to theimmediately preceding yearof assessment (hereinafterreferred to as the first year);or

(ii)an increase in exports (otherthan specified undertakings)by fifty per centum in theyear of assessmentcommencing from April 1,2022, compared to the firstyear and maintains suchstatus in the subsequent yearof assessment.;

(5) in paragraph 5 of that Schedule-

(a) in subparagraph (1) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words and figures taxed atthe rate of [28%]., of the words and figures taxedat the rate of 28% prior to January 1, 2020 and24% with effect from January 1, 2020.;

(b) in subparagraph (2) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words realisation of capitalassets, of the words realisation of investmentassets;

(6)in paragraph 7 of that Schedule-

40Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(a)in subparagraph (1) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words and figures taxed atthe rate of [28%]., of the words and figurestaxed at the rate of 28% prior to January 1,2020 and 24% with effect from January 1, 2020.;

(b)in subparagraph (3) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words and figures taxed atthe rate of [28%]., of the words and figurestaxed at the rate of 28% prior to January 1,2020 and 24% with effect from January 1, 2020.;

(7)in the heading of paragraph 8 of that Schedule, bythe substitution for the words Provident or PensionFunds of the words Provident, Pension or GratuityFunds;

(8)in subparagraph (1) of paragraph 10 of thatSchedule-

(a) in item (c)(ii) of that subparagraph, by thesubstitution for the words and figures 14%;and, of the figures 14%;;

(b) in item (c)(iii) of that subparagraph, by thesubstitution for the figures 14%., of the wordand figures 14%; and;

(c) by the addition immediately after item (c)(iii) ofthat subparagraph, of the following new item: -

(iv)in the case of payments referred to insection 85(1A)-

(iva)interest or discount paid-5%;

(ivb)all other payments- 14%.;

(9)by the addition immediately after paragraph 10 ofthat Schedule, of the following new paragraphs: -

41Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

11. Tax rate for persons who engage in agrofarming together with agro processing ormanufacturing.

Where a person utilizes agro farming produceproduced by him for his agro processing ormanufacturing business activity in Sri Lanka, suchportion of the tax payable in respect of such agroprocessing or manufacturing business activity thatcorresponds to the proportion of the farmingproduce produced by him to the total farmingproduce utilized in such agro processing ormanufacturing, shall be reduced by twenty-five percentum, for the period of five years of assessmentcommencing on April 1, 2021.

12. Application of tax rates for differentgains and profits.

Where a persons taxable income consists ofdifferent sources of income or gains and profits fromdifferent business activities, the income tax ratesapplicable to each such source of income or suchgains and profits from such different businessactivities shall be applied to such source of incomeor such gains and profits..

52.The Second Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows: -

(1)in paragraph 1 of that Schedule-

(a) in subparagraph (2), subparagraph (3) andsubparagraph (4) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words total expensesincurred by that person during that year, ofthe words total investment made by thatperson respectively;

Amendment ofthe SecondSchedule to theprincipalenactment

42Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(b)in subparagraph (6) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words shall be deferred, ofthe words shall not be deferred;

(c)by the repeal of subparagraph (9) of that paragraph,and the substitution therefor, of the followingsubparagraph: -

Improvements on Leasehold Lands

(9) Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other provision of this Act,for the purpose of this Schedule, any building,structure, or similar work of a permanentnature constructed or made in a leaseholdland by the person who made the investmentshall not be deemed as an intangible assetbut deemed as a depreciable asset.;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph 2 of that Schedule, andthe substitution therefor, of the followingparagraph: -

Exemption of Certain Dividends fromWithholding Tax

2. Notwithstanding anything in theFirst Schedule, the rate of tax to be applied ona dividend paid by a company to a non-resident member prior to January 1, 2020 shallbe zero, if the company paying the dividendhas incurred more than USD 250 million ondepreciable assets (other than intangibleassets) in Sri Lanka, for the period in whichthat payment is made out of profits shelteredby enhanced capital allowances under thisSchedule.;

(3)by the repeal of paragraph 3 of that Schedule, andthe substitution therefor of the followingparagraph: -

43Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

Exemption of Employment Income

3. Notwithstanding anything in theFirst Schedule, the rate of tax to be applied onemployment income of an expatriate employeeshall be zero, if the company making thepayment has incurred more than USD 250million on depreciable assets (other thanintangible assets) in Sri Lanka, for the periodin which that payment is made out of profitssheltered by enhanced capital allowancesunder this Schedule, or for five years from thecommencement of commercial operations,whichever is higher, where the number ofexpatriate employees at any time during thatperiod does not exceed twenty..

53.The Third Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows:-

(1)in subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (d) of thatSchedule, by the substitution for the words by theCommissioner-General;, of the words by theCommissioner-General or a regulated providentfund;;

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (h) ofthat Schedule, of the following new paragraph: -

(hh) a gain made by a person on or after April 1,2021 from the realisation of land or buildingwhich was sold, exchanged or transferred toa real estate investment trust listed in theColombo Stock Exchange and licensed bythe Securities and Exchange Commissionof Sri Lanka;;

(3)by the repeal of paragraph (i) of that Schedule andthe substitution therefor, of the following: -

(i) the interest accruing to or derived by-

Amendment ofthe ThirdSchedule to theprincipalenactment

44Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(i)a charitable institution, where it is proved tothe satisfaction of the Commissioner-Generalthat such interest is applied solely for thepurpose of providing care to children, theelderly or the disabled in a home maintainedby such charitable institution;

(ii)any person outside Sri Lanka on any loangranted to any person in Sri Lanka or to theGovernment of Sri Lanka by such person;

(iii)any person on moneys lying to his credit inforeign currency in any foreign currencyaccount opened by him or on his behalf, inany commercial bank or in any specializedbank, with the approval of the Central Bankof Sri Lanka, on or after January 1, 2020;

(iv)any person from a term deposit account titledas Special Deposit Account opened andmaintained with an authorized dealer in SriLanka as prescribed by regulations made bythe Minister under section 29 read withsection 7 of the Foreign Exchange Act, No.12 of 2017, (excluding the subsequentlyrenewed accounts), either in any designatedforeign currency or in Sri Lanka Rupees onor after April 8, 2020;

(v)any welfare society, on or after April 1, 2021;

In this subparagraph, welfare society meansa fund or a society which has been set upor formed for the welfare of its members ortheir respective families and contributionsare made by its members, includingbenevolent fund which promotes thesavings of members, but other than anycompany which is incorporated orregistered under any law in force in SriLanka or elsewhere and a partnership;

45Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(vi)any multi-national company on any depositopened and maintained in foreign currencyin any domestic bank, if such deposit ismaintained to cover its import expenditurefor that year of assessment, on or after April 1,2021;

In this subparagraph, multi-nationalcompany means a company that is partof a group of associated companies, withbusiness establishments in two or morecountries;;

(4)by the repeal of paragraphs (k) and (l) of thatSchedule, and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:

(k) any sum received by-

(i) any person from the Presidents Fundestablished by the Presidents FundAct, No. 7 of 1978 or the NationalDefence Fund established by theNational Defence Fund Act, No. 9 of1985;

(ii) any Public Corporation out of thefunds voted by Parliament from theConsolidated Fund or out of any loanarranged through the Government;

(l) any income earned by-

(i) any non-resident person other than aSri Lankan permanent establishment byway of interest, discount or realizationof any gain on any sovereign bonddenominated in local or foreigncurrency:

46Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(ii)any person by way of interest or discountpaid or allowed, as the case may be, on anysovereign bond denominated in foreigncurrency, including Sri Lanka DevelopmentBonds,

issued by or on behalf of the Government of SriLanka;;

(5)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (l) ofthat Schedule, of the following new paragraphs: -

(ll)a gain from the realisation of Sri Lankainternational sovereign bonds issuedby or on behalf of the Government ofSri Lanka and received or derived by acommercial bank or authorized dealerwho made an aggregate investment notless than USD 100 million in such bondson or after April 1, 2021;

(lll)interest or discount accrued or derivedon or after April 1, 2021 by anySamurdhi community-based banksestablished under the Department ofSamurdhi Development from securityor treasury bonds under the RegisteredStocks and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420) or treasury bills underthe Local Treasury Bills Ordinance(Chapter 417);;

(6)in paragraph (o) of that Schedule, by the substitutionfor the words a dividend paid, of the words andfigures prior to January 1, 2020, a dividend paid;

(7)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (o) ofthat Schedule, of the following new paragraph: -

(oo)on or after January 1, 2020, a dividendpaid by a resident company-

47Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(i)to a member to the extent that suchdividend payment is attributable to, orderived from, gains and profits fromdividend received by that residentcompany;

(in this paragraph, gains and profitsfrom dividend means the dividendreceived by that company after thededuction of expenses or losses, if any,subject to the provisions of this Act andincome tax paid or payable on suchdividend received by that company);

(ii)to a member who is a non-residentperson;

(iii)which is engaged in any one or more ofthe following businesses in accordancewith the provisions of Part IV of theFinance Act, No. 12 of 2012 and whichhas entered into an agreement with theBoard of Investment of Sri Lankaestablished under the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of1978: -

(iiia)entrepot trade involving import,minor processing and re-export;

(iiib)offshore business where goodscan be procured from onecountry or manufactured in onecountry and shipped to anothercountry without bringing thesame into Sri Lanka;

(iiic)providing front-end services toclients abroad;

48Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(iiid)headquarters operations ofleading buyers for managementof financial supply chain andbilling operations;

(iiie)logistics services includingbonded warehouse or multi-country consolidation in SriLanka;;

(8)in paragraph (r) of that Schedule, by the substitutionfor the words by a resident company, of the wordsby any person;

(9)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (r) ofthat Schedule, of the following new paragraph: -

(rr) dividends and gains on the realisation ofunits or amounts derived as gains from therealisation of capital assets of a business orinvestment by a unit holder, from real estateinvestment trust listed in the ColomboStock Exchange and licensed by theSecurities and Exchange Commission ofSri Lanka;;

(10)by the addition immediately after paragraph (s) ofthat Schedule, of the following new paragraphs: -

(t)any amount derived on or after April 1, 2018,by any non-resident person as any paymentfor air craft, software licences or as for otherrelated services from the Sri Lankan AirlinesLimited;

(u)the gains and profits earned or derived by anyperson from-

(i)the sale of produce from agro farming ofsuch person within the period of fiveyears of assessment commencing fromApril 1, 2019:

49Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

Provided that in relation to anundertaking which consists of theproduction of agro farming produces andutilizing such produce to agro processingor manufacture of any product, suchproduce shall be deemed to have beensold for the agro processor ormanufacturer at the market priceprevailing at the time of such deemedsale, and the gains and profits computedon the basis of such deemed sale inrelation to the agro farming shall beconsidered as exempt gains and profitswithin the period of five years ofassessment commencing on April 1, 2019;

(ii)providing information technology andenabled services on or after January 1,2020, as may be prescribed;

(iii)any service rendered in or outside SriLanka to any person to be utilizedoutside Sri Lanka, where the paymentfor such services is received in foreigncurrency and remitted through a bankto Sri Lanka on or after January 1, 2020;

(iv)any foreign source (other than gainsand profits referred to in subparagraph(iii)) where such gains and profits areearned or derived in foreign currencyand remitted through a bank to SriLanka on or after January 1, 2020;

(v)any vocational education programmesof any Vocational Education Institutionwhich is standardized under Technicaland Vocational Education and Trainingconcept (TVET concept) and regulatedby the Tertiary and VocationalEducation Commission-

50Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(a)if such institution hasdoubled its student intakeof the vocational educationprogrammes for such yearof assessment compared tothe student intake of suchprogrammes in the year ofassessment immediatelypreceding that year ofassessment;

(b)for a period of five yearscommencing on April 1, 2021:

Provided however, for the purpose ofparagraph (a), any institution whichdoubled the student intake of thevocational education programmes asprovided for in the first year andmaintained the same student intake of suchprogrammes of the first year for the nextfour years shall be deemed as an institutionwhich fulfilled the requirement in suchyears;

(vi)any business of export of gold, gems orjewellery or from the business of cuttingand polishing of gems which are broughtto Sri Lanka and exported after suchcutting and polishing, where such gainsand profits earned in foreign currency areremitted through a bank to Sri Lanka, witheffect from April 1, 2021;

(v)any amount derived on or after January 1,2020 by-

(i)any non-resident person from laboratoryservices or standards certificationservices;

51Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(ii)any religious institution which isregistered with the Ministry in charge ofthe subject of religious affairs, by way ofgrants or donations;

(w)gains and profits received or derived frombusiness (other than any gains from therealisation of capital assets and liabilities ofthe business as calculated under Chapter IV ofthis Act) by a person from following any newundertaking (which is not formed by splitting-up or re-construction of an existingundertaking) commenced on or after April 1,2021, for that period, subject to the conditionscontained herein: -

(i)an undertaking which is involved in thesale of construction materials recycledin a selected separate site established inSri Lanka to recycle the materials whichwere already used in the constructionindustry, (a person who is involved inthe provision of construction servicesusing construction materials recycled byhim from a site with the same conditions,in the provision of such servicesprovided by him shall be deemed to havesold such materials for the constructionservice at a market price prevailing atthe time of such deemed sale), for aperiod of ten years;

(ii)any business commenced on or afterApril 1, 2021 by an individual aftersuccessful completion of vocationaleducation from any VocationalEducation Institution which isstandardized under Technical andVocational Education and Trainingconcept (TVET concept) and regulatedby the Tertiary and Vocational EducationCommission, for a period of five years;

52Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(iii)an undertaking commenced by a residentperson for the purpose of manufacturingof boats or ships in Sri Lanka and receivedor derived any gains and profits from thesupply of such boats or ships, for a periodof seven years;

(iv)any renewable energy project establishedwith a capacity to produce not less thanone hundred Mega Watts of solar or windpower and supplied such power to thenational grid, for a period of seven years;

(v)an undertaking commenced on or afterJanuary 1, 2021 by any resident person whoconstructs and installs communicationtowers and related appliances using locallabour and local raw materials in Sri Lankaor provides required technical services forsuch construction or installation, for a periodof five years;

(vi)an undertaking for letting bondedwarehouses or warehouses related to theoffshore business in the Colombo andHambanthota Ports, if such person hasinvested on such undertaking on or afterApril 1, 2021;

Tax exemption periods provided in the abovesubparagraphs (other than in subparagraph (vi)) shallbe reckoned from the year of assessment in which theundertaking commences to make profits (assessableincome from such business) from transactions enteredinto in that year of assessment or from thecommencement of the year of assessment immediatelysucceeding the year of assessment in which theundertaking completes a period of two years reckonedfrom the date on which the undertaking commencesto carry on commercial operations, whichever occursearlier..

53Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

54. The Fourth Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows: -

(1)in the table in subparagraph (1) of paragraph 1 ofthat Schedule, by the addition, immediately afterClass 5, of the following new Class:-

6milking machines with latest technology,used to manufacture local liquid milkrelated products.;

(2) in paragraph 2 of that Schedule-

(a) in the table in subparagraph (3) of thatparagraph, by the addition, immediately afterClass 5, of the following new Class:-

62.;

(b) in subparagraph (4) of that paragraph-

(i) in item (c) of that subparagraph, by thesubstitution for the words vehicle; or,of the words vehicle;;

(ii) in item (d) of that subparagraph, by thesubstitution for the words trailer., ofthe words trailer; or;

(iii) by the addition immediately after item(d) of that subparagraph, of thefollowing new item:-

(e) a motor cycle.;

(3) by the addition immediately after subparagraph (3)of paragraph 4 of that Schedule, of the followingnew subparagraph:-

(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary insubparagraph (1), where a depreciable asset of a

Amendment ofthe FourthSchedule to theprincipalenactment

54Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

person which was subject to deduction of theenhanced capital allowances calculated inaccordance with the provisions of the Second orSixth Schedule to this Act is realized by thatperson, an assessable charge included incalculating the persons income for the year shallbe equal to the consideration received by theperson during the year of assessment for suchasset, or no balancing allowance shall be grantedto the person for the year for such asset..

55. The Fifth Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows: -

(1)in paragraph 1 of that Schedule-

(a)in subparagraph (c) of that paragraph, bythe substitution for the words profitsremitted to the Presidents Fund, of thewords any sum paid to the ConsolidatedFund or to the Presidents Fund;

(b)by the insertion immediately aftersubparagraph (c) of that paragraph, of thefollowing new subparagraphs: -

(d) with effect from April 1, 2021,contribution made by a residentindividual in money or otherwise toestablish a shop for a femaleindividual who is from a Samurdhibeneficiary family as recommendedand confirmed by the Department ofSamurdhi Development;

(e) with effect from April 1, 2021,expenditure incurred by any financialinstitution by way of cost ofacquisition or merger of any otherfinancial institution where such costis ascertained by considering all the

Amendment ofthe FifthSchedule to theprincipalenactment

55Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

facts on case-by-case basis and asconfirmed by the Central Bank ofSri Lanka. Such deductibleexpenditure shall be apportioned inequal amounts over a period of threeyears of assessment and be deductiblefrom the assessable income of thatfinancial institution in each such yearof assessment commencing from theyear of assessment where theexpenditure is incurred:

Provided however, any amountwhich was not deducted during thethree years period, by reason of thetotal assessable income in a year hasnot exceeded the above permitteddeduction, shall be deducted in theyear of assessment immediately afterthe three years period and so on;

(f) expenditure incurred on or after April1, 2021, by any person-

(i) in the production of a film at acost of (including promotionalexpenditure of such film) notless than five million rupees;

(ii) in the construction andequipping of a new cinema at acost of not exceeding twenty-five million rupees;

(iii) in the upgrading of a cinema ata cost of not exceeding tenmillion rupees:

Provided that, the deduction underthis subparagraph shall be restrictedto one third of the taxable income ofthe year of assessment, and any amount

56Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

which is not deducted in current yearmay be carried forward and deductedin the next succeeding year and soon, subject to the same restriction.

For the purpose of thissubparagraph-

film means any audio-visualpresentation of the moving imageproduced on any form or formatwhatsoever and which is intendedprimarily to be exhibited byprojection on a screen in a cinema;and

the expenditure on construction andequipping or upgrading a cinema shallbe certified by the National FilmCorporation of Sri Lanka establishedby the National Film Corporation ofSri Lanka Act, No. 47 of 1971 as beingequipped with digital technology,Digital Theatre Systems and DolbySound Systems.;

(2) in paragraph 2 of that Schedule-

(a) by the repeal of subparagraph (a) of thatparagraph and the substitution therefor, of thefollowing subparagraph: -

(a) (i) Rs. 500,000, for each year ofassessment prior to January 1, 2020;and

(ii) Rs. 3,000,000, for each year ofassessment commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2020,

except that an individual who is a trustee,receiver, executor or liquidator shall not be

57Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

entitled to deduct this personal relief as suchtrustee, receiver, executor or liquidator, andthe relief shall not be deducted against gainsfrom the realisation of investment assets;;

(b) in subparagraph (b) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words year of assessment,of the words and figures year of assessment,but prior to January 1, 2020,;

(c) in subparagraph (d) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words for the year;, ofthe words and figures for the year up toDecember 31, 2019;;

(d) in subparagraph (e) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words for the year., ofthe words and figures for the year up toDecember 31, 2019;;

(e) by the addition immediately after subparagraph(e) of that paragraph, of the following newsubparagraphs:-

(f) in the case of a resident individual,following expenditure up to a total sumof Rs. 1,200,000, incurred for a year ofassessment on or after January 1, 2020: -

(i)health expenditure includingcontributions to medical insurance;

(ii)vocational education or othereducational expenditure incurredlocally by such individual or onbehalf of such individuals children;

(iii)interest paid on housing loans;

58Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(iv)contributions made to any localpension scheme, other than for ascheme under the employer or onbehalf of the employer, by anemployee;

(v)expenditure incurred for thepurchase of shares or any otherfinancial instrument listed in theColombo Stock Exchange andlicensed by the Securities andExchange Commission of Sri Lankaor treasury bonds under theRegistered Stocks and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420) or treasurybills under the Local Treasury BillsOrdinance (Chapter 417);

(g)in the case of a resident individual whohas acquired solar panels to fix on hispremises and connected to the nationalgrid, Rs. 600,000 for each year ofassessment, upto the total expenditure onsuch solar panels or upto the amounts paidto a bank in respect of any loan obtainedto acquire such solar panels..

56.The Sixth Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows: -

(1)by the repeal of paragraph 2 of that Schedule;

(2)in paragraph 3 of that Schedule, by the substitutionfor the words three years, of the words six years;

(3)in paragraph 8 of that Schedule, by the substitutionfor the words and figures section 15, for threeyears, of the words and figures section 15, duringthe period of five years;

(4)by the insertion immediately after paragraph 8 ofthat Schedule, of the following new paragraphs:-

Rate of Interest

9. Notwithstanding anything to the contraryin subsection (1) of section 159, the rate of

Amendment ofthe SixthSchedule to theprincipalenactment

59Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

interest for any payment due and payable duringthe period from March 1, 2020 to September 30,2020 under this Act, shall be zero percent.

Marketing and Communication Expenses

10. (1) Subject to subparagraph (2), a personshall be entitled to an additional deduction whencalculating his income from business for a yearof assessment, equal to 100% of the total amountof marketing and communication expensesdeducted under section 15A during the threeyears of assessment commencing from April 1,2021.

(2) The additional deduction undersubparagraph (1) shall be made subject to thefollowing conditions: -

(a) the payment shall be made to a personwho is not an associated person of the taxpayer;

(b) internal marketing expenses, salaries ofmarketing staff, expenditure onmaintaining an internal marketingdepartment, expenditure on corporatesocial responsibility initiatives and foreigntravel expenses shall not be considered forthe purpose of the additional deductionunder subparagraph (1);

(c) expenditure shall be attributable to goodsand services with 65% of local valueaddition, the mode of calculation ofwhich shall be as specified by theCommissioner-General;

60Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(d) the total additional deduction undersubparagraph (1) shall not exceedRs. 500,000,000 in any year of assessment;

(e) the Commissioner-General shall specifythe requirements to maintain records,source documents and underlyingdocuments for the purpose ofsubparagraph (1), in addition to therequirements of other sections of this Act.

Financial Cost

11. Subject to the provisions of this Act,financial cost incurred (other than such amounts,of which deductions is denied in previous years)during the year of assessment commencing onApril 1, 2021, shall be deducted irrespective ofthe limit referred to in subsection (2) of section18. That year of assessment shall not berecognized for the purpose of six years periodreferred to in subsection (3) of section 18..

57.Subject to the provisions of this Act, theCommissioner-General may, for the effectiveimplementation of the provisions of this Act, issue guidelinesas may be necessary for the purpose of calculating the incometax payable for the year of assessment ending March 31,2020, specifying the computation of assessable income (orlosses) from each source, deductions of qualifying paymentsand reliefs, computation of taxable income, applicable taxrates and tax credits in which to apply the pro-rata basis oractual basis only for the required circumstances as the casemay be, for over the two periods of the year of assessment asfor the first period from April 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019and for the second period from January 1, 2020 to March 31,2020.

Power of theCommissioner-General to issueguidelines forspecific periods

61Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

58.(1) The Commissioner-General shall write off anyincome tax arrears payable by any Small and MediumEnterprise as defined in section 195 of the principalenactment for the year of assessment commencing on April1, 2019, if such arrears arise due to any assessment made(other than the assessments made for tax payments as per thereturns but including any penalty) up to the year ofassessment ending March 31, 2019 which is outstanding asat June 26, 2020, in the records of the Commissioner-General-

(a)if such assessment was made as per the provisionsof this Act or the provisions of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 10 of 2006 or the provisions of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 38 of 2000 or the provisions ofthe Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979; but

(b)subject to the deduction of any refunds duly claimedby such person as provided in any tax Actadministered by the Commissioner-General fromsuch income tax arrears.

(2) Subject to section 136 of the principal enactment,the Assistant Commissioner shall not amend the self-assessment under the provisions of section 135 of thatenactment for the year of assessment ending on March 31,2020, where the Assistant Commissioner is satisfied thatthere is no fraud or willful neglect involved in the disclosureof income or any deduction or relief by such Small andMedium Enterprise and paid the tax declared in the return.

(3) The Commissioner-General shall not impose anypenalty or initiate criminal proceedings under Chapter XVIIIof the principal enactment against a person who-

(a)files his return of income for the year of assessmentcommencing on April 1, 2019, before June 30, 2021;and

Tax reliefmeasures tofacilitate post-Covid-19economicrecovery

62Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

(b)makes the payment of tax payable on assessmentreferred to in subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (c) ofsubsection (2) of section 82 of the principalenactment, for the year of assessment commencingon April 1, 2019, before June 30, 2021.

59. The amendments made to the principal enactment bythe sections specified in Column I of Table Bset out in thisAmendment Act, to the corresponding sections specified inColumn II of that Table shall be deemed, for all purposes, tohave come into operation on such dates as are specified inthe corresponding entries in Column III of that Table.

60. Any person who has collected the income tax asprovided for in this Amendment Act during the periodcommencing from such dates as are specified in Column IIIof Table B set out in this Amendment Act and ending onthe date of commencement of this Amendment Act, shall bedeemed to have acted with due authority and such collectionshall be deemed, for all purposes, to have been, and to be,validly made and such person is hereby indemnified againstall actions civil or criminal in respect of such collection.

61. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Retrospectiveeffect

Validation

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

63Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

Table A

Column IColumn II

Section numberSection number of the principal enactmentof this Actwhich is amended

611

714

815A

1018

1119

1336

1438

1760

1862

19(2)66(3)

34(2)93(3)

3695

37103

38113

39120

40126

42(2) and139(5)

42(3)and 139(6)

43140

45(2)158(2)

47190A

48(4), (7) and195

(10)

51(1)(f)subparagraph (5) of paragraph 1 of the First

Schedule

(section 1)

64Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

51(4)(c)items (k), (l) and (ll) of subparagraph (2A) of

paragraph 4 of the First Schedule

51(4)(d)subparagraph (5) of paragraph 4 of the First

Schedule

51 (9)paragraph 11 of the First Schedule

52(1)(c)subparagraph (9) of paragraph 1 of the Second

Schedule

52(2)paragraph 2 of the Second Schedule

52(3)paragraph 3 of the Second Schedule

53(2)paragraph (hh) of the Third Schedule

53(3)subparagraph (v) and (vi) of paragraph (i) of the

Third Schedule

53(5)paragraphs (ll) and (lll) of the Third

Schedule

53(9)paragraph (rr) of the Third Schedule

53(10)subparagraphs (v) and (vi) of paragraph (u),

and paragraph (w) of the Third Schedule

54(1)the table in subparagraph (1) of paragraph 1 of

the Fourth Schedule

54(2)(a)the table in subparagraph (3) of paragraph 2 of

the Fourth Schedule

54(3)paragraph 4 of the Fourth Schedule

55(1)(b)subparagraphs (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph 1 of

the Fifth Schedule

55(2)(e)subparagraph (g) of paragraph 2 of the Fifth

Schedule

56(4)paragraphs 10 and 11 of the Sixth Schedule

Column IColumn II

Section numberSection number of the principal enactmentof this Actwhich is amended

65Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

Table B

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Section numberSection number of the principalDate ofof this Actenactment which is amendedoperation

2501.04.2018

3601.04.2018

4901.04.2018

51001.04.2018

91601.04.2018

122001.04.2018

155301.01.2020

165501.01.2020

19(1) and 19(3) 66(2) and 66(4)01.04.2018

206801.04.2018

217001.04.2018

227501.04.2018

237601.04.2018

247701.04.2018

257801.04.2018

268301.01.2020

2783A01.04.2020

288401.01.2020

2984A01.04.2020

308501.01.2020

318701.04.2018

(section 59)

66Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

32(1)(b) and88(1)(d) and 88(3)01.04.2018

32(3)

32(1)(a) and88(1) and 88(1A)01.01.2020

32(2)

33(1) and90(1) and 90(2)01.04.2018

33(2)

33(3) and90(3) and 90(5)01.04.2020

33(4)

34(1)93(2)01.04.2018

359401.04.2019

4112901.04.2018

42(1)139(3)01.04.2018

4415701.04.2018

45(1)158(1)01.04.2018

46159(1) and 159(2)01.04.2018

48(1), (3), (8)19501.04.2018

and (9)

48(2)19501.04.2019

48(5)19501.01.2020

48(6)19501.04.2020

49201(2)(b)01.04.2018

5020301.04.2018

51(1)(a), (b),subparagraph (1), (1A), (2) and01.01.2020

(c) and (d)(3) respectively of paragraph 1

of the First Schedule

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Section numberSection number of the principalDate ofof this Actenactment which is amendedoperation

67Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

51(2)paragraph 2 of the First Schedule

51(3)subparagraph (1) of paragraph 301.01.2020

of the First Schedule

51(4)(a)subparagraph (1) of paragraph 401.01.2020

of the First Schedule

51(4)(b)subparagraph (2) of paragraph 401.01.2020

of the First Schedule

51(4)(c)subparagraph 2A of paragraph 4,01.01.2020

other than items (k), (l) and (ll) of

the First Schedule

51(5)(a)subparagraph (1) of paragraph 501.01.2020

of the First Schedule

51(6)subparagraph (1) and (3) of01.01.2020

paragraph 7 of the First Schedule

51(8)subparagraph (1) paragraph 1001.01.2020

of the First Schedule

51(1)(e)subparagraph (4) of paragraph 101.04.2019

of the First Schedule

51(5)(b)subparagraph (2) of paragraph 501.04.2018

of the First Schedule

51(7)paragraph 8 of the First Schedule01.04.2018

51(9)paragraph 12 of the First01.04.2020

Schedule

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Section numberSection number of the principalDate ofof this Actenactment which is amendedoperation

01.01.2020

68Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

52(1)(a)subparagraphs (2), (3), (4) and (6)01.04.2018

and (b)of paragraph 1 of the Second

Schedule

53(1)paragraph (d) of the Third01.04.2018

Schedule

53(3)subparagraph (i) and (ii) of01.04.2018

paragraph (i) of the Third Schedule

53(4)paragraphs (k) and (l) of the Third01.04.2018

Schedule

53(8)paragraph (r) of the01.04.2018

Third Schedule

53(10)paragraph (t) of the Third Schedule01.04.2018

53(3)subparagraph (iii) of paragraph (i)01.01.2020

of the Third Schedule

53(6)paragraph (o) of the Third Schedule01.01.2020

53(7)paragraph (oo) of the Third Schedule01.01.2020

53(10)subparagraph (ii), (iii) and (iv) of01.01.2020

paragraph (u) of the Third Schedule

53(10)paragraph (v) of the Third Schedule01.01.2020

53(3)subparagraph (iv) of paragraph (i)08.04.2020

of the Third Schedule

53(10)subparagraph (i) of paragraph (u)01.04.2019

of the Third Schedule

54(2)(b)subparagraph (4) of paragraph 201.04.2018

of the Fourth Schedule

55(1)(a)subparagraph (c) of paragraph 101.04.2019

of the Fifth Schedule

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Section numberSection number of the principalDate ofof this Actenactment which is amendedoperation

69Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

55(2)paragraph 2, other than01.01.2020

subparagraph (g), of the Fifth

Schedule

56(1), (2)paragraphs (2), (3) and (8) of the01.04.2018

and (3)Sixth Schedule

56(4)paragraph 4 of the Sixth Schedule01.03.2020

57new section01.04.2019

58new section26.06.2020

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Section numberSection number of the principalDate ofof this Actenactment which is amendedoperation

70Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2021

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.