PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ELECTIONS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, No. 14 OF 2004

Printed on the Order of Government

[ Certified on 18th November, 2004 ]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 9.50Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 19, 2004

1Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004

[Certified on 18th November, 2004]

L.D.O. 23/2004.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REQUIREMENT THAT A VOTER PRODUCES A VALID

IDENTITY DOCUMENT IN PROOF OF IDENTITY ; AND TO AMEND THEPARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS ACT, NO. 1 OF 1981, THE PRESIDENTIALELECTIONS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1981, THE PROVINCIAL COUNCILSELECTIONS ACT, NO. 2 OF 1988, THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONSORDINANCE (CHAPTER 262), AND THE REFERENDUM ACT, NO. 7 OF1981 ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Elections (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004 and shall subject to theprovisions of section 2, come into operation at the expiry ofa period of one year from the date of Certification of this Actas an Act of Parliament in terms of the provisions of theConstitution.

PART I

GENERAL

2.(1) The Election Commission shall, prior to theprovisions of this Act coming into operation, satisfy itselfthat all the administrative arrangements have been made inrespect of the issue of identity cards under section 14 of theRegistration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 in order to ensurethat all persons entitled to vote are not precluded fromobtaining identity cards and exercising their franchise, andcertify such fact and publish such certification in the Gazette :

Provided however, the Election Commission shall priorto such certification, give due consideration to the views ofthe representatives of the political parties represented inParliament in respect of the administrative arrangements thathave been made for the issue of identity cards.

(2) Prior to the publication of the certification undersubsection (1), the Election Commission shall require theCommissioner for the Registration of Persons, appointed

Short title anddate ofoperation.

2H 0228295,650 (08/2004)

Certification byElectionCommission.

2Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004

under section 3 of the Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of1968, to confirm to the Commission by the issue of aCertificate, the fact that the administrative arrangementsenvisaged in terms of this section have been made. TheCertificate of the Commissioner for the Registration ofPersons shall be based on reports received by him in relationto all electoral districts stating that the administrativearrangements envisaged in terms of this section have beenmade.

3.Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law tothe contrary, every person qualified to be

(a)an elector at any election held for the election ofmembers to Parliament under the ParliamentaryElections Act, No. 1 of 1981 ; or

(b)an elector at any election held for the election ofmembers to Provincial Councils under the,Provincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988 ;or

(c)an elector at any election held for the election ofmembers to the respective Local Authorities underthe Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter262) ; or

(d)an elector at any election held for the election of aPresident under the Presidential Elections Act,No. 15 of 1981 ; or

(e)a voter at a Referendum held under the ReferendumAct, No. 7 of 1981,

shall, from and after the date of the coming into operation ofthis Act, be required to produce a valid identity document tothe presiding officer of the relevant polling station or a personacting under his authority for inspection, before a ballot paperis delivered to such voter.

Requirement toproduce a valididentitydocument.

3Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004

4.For the purpose of section 3, valid identity documentmeans any document issued by the Government of Sri Lankain pursuance of any law for whatever purpose, withwhich the identity of the holder may be ascertained, andshall include a photograph of a person who does not possessany other identity document, duly certified to be that of suchperson by the Grama Niladhari or the Estate Superintendentas the case may be, and authenticated by the DivisionalSecretary of the respective Divisional SecretarysDivision within which such person resides or by an officerauthorized in writing in that behalf by the ElectionCommission.

The time of implementation of this provision shall bedetermined by the Election Commission in consultation withthe necessary and relevant individuals after the appointmentof such Commission.

5.Any person

(a)who does not possess any other identitydocument and who makes a request for an identitydocument on the basis of information which is false ;and

(b)who certifies or authenticates a photograph on arequest made by a person who does not possess anidentity document, which certification orauthentication is false,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction aftersummary trial be liable to a fine not less than fifty thousandrupees and not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a period not less thanone month and not exceeding one year, or to both such fineand imprisonment.

Interpretation.

Offences.

4Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004

PART II

AMENDMENTS TO THE PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONSACT, NO. 1 OF 1981

6.Section 37 of the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1of 1981 (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended in subsection (2) of thatsection by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) ofthat subsection, of the following new paragraph :

(aa)a valid identity document of the voter shall beinspected and the name and identity ascertained ;.

7.Section 38 of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(a)in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words inspection ; or, ofthe words inspection of the mark or valid identitydocument ; or ; and

(b)in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words that such voter hasalready been marked with the appropriate mark ;or, of the words that either such voter has alreadybeen marked with the appropriate mark or factsgiving rise to suspicion over the identity of thevoter ; or.

8.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in Form D of that Schedule, by the additionunder the Column with the heading Reason for notdelivering ballot paper in that Form, of a new Column headedNo valid identity document or identity not established.

Amendment ofsection 38 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofForm D of theFirst Schedule tothe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 37 ofAct, No. 1 of1981.

5Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004

PART III

AMENDMENTS TO THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONSACT, NO. 15 OF 1981

9.Section 35 of the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of1981 (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended in subsection (2) of thatsection by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) ofthat subsection, of the following new paragraph :

(aa)a valid identity document of the voter shallbe inspected and the name and identityascertained ;.

10.Section 36 of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(a)in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words inspection ; or, ofthe words inspection of the mark or valid identitydocument ; or ; and

(b)in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words that such voter hasalready been marked with the appropriate mark ;or, of the words that either such voter has alreadybeen marked with the appropriate mark or factsgiving rise to suspicion over the identity of thevoter ; or.

11.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in Form C of that Schedule, by theaddition under the Column with the heading Reason fornot delivering ballot paper in that Form, of a new Columnheaded No valid identity document or identity notestablished.

Amendment ofForm C of theFirst Schedule tothe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 35 ofAct, No. 15 of1981.

Amendment ofsection 36 of theprincipalenactment.

6Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004

PART IV

AMENDMENTS TO THE PROVINCIAL COUNCILS ELECTIONSACT, NO. 2 OF 1988

12.Section 35 of the Provincial Councils Elections Act,No. 2 of 1988 (hereinafter in this Part referred to as theprincipal enactment) is hereby amended in subsection (2)of that section by the insertion immediately after paragraph(a) of that subsection, of the following new paragraph :

(aa)a valid identity document of the voter shall beinspected and the name and identity ascertained ;.

13.Section 36 of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(a)in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words inspection ; or, ofthe words inspection of the mark or valid identitydocument ; or ; and

(b)in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words that such voter hasalready been marked with the appropriate mark ;or, of the words that either such voter has alreadybeen marked with the appropriate mark or factsgiving rise to suspicion over the identity of thevoter ; or.

14.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in Form D of that Schedule, by the additionunder the Column with the heading Reason for notdelivering ballot paper in that Form, of a new Columnheaded No valid identity document or identity notestablished.

Amendment ofsection 35 ofAct, No. 2 of1988.

Amendment ofsection 36 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofForm D of theFirst Schedule tothe principalenactment.

7Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004

PART V

AMENDMENTS TO THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 262)

15.Section 52 of the Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Chapter 262) (hereinafter in this Part referred toas the principal enactment) is hereby amended :

(a) by the insertion immediately after subsection(1) of that section, of the followingsubsection :

(1A) The presiding officer of a polling stationor a person acting under his authority shall requireany voter, before the ballot paper is delivered to thevoter, to produce a valid identity document toascertain his name and identity.;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (a) of subsection(2) of that section, for the words refuses to makeany such declaration,, of the words refuses to makeany such declaration or produce a valid identitydocument,; and

(c)by the substitution in the marginal note to thatsection, for the words make declaration., of thewords make declaration and produce a valididentity document..

16.Section 53A of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(a)in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section, bythe substitution for the words inspection ; or , ofthe words inspection of the mark or valid identitydocument ; or; and

Amendment ofSection 52 of(Chapter 262).

Amendment ofsection 53A ofthe principalenactment.

8Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004

(b)in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words that such voter hasalready been marked with the appropriate mark ;or, of the words that either such voter has alreadybeen marked with the appropriate mark or factsgiving rise to suspicion over the identity of thevoter ; or.

17.The Seventh Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended by the addition under the Column with theheading Reason for not delivering ballot paper in thatSchedule, of a new Column headed No valid identitydocument or identity not established.

PART VI

AMENDMENTS TO THE REFERENDUM ACT, NO. 7 OF 1981

18.Section 20 of the Referendum Act, No. 7 of 1981(hereinafter in this Part referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended in subsection (2) of thatsection by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) ofthat subsection, of the following new paragraph, :

(aa)a valid identity document of the voter shall beinspected and the name and identity ascertained ;.

19.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(a)in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words inspection ; or, ofthe words inspection of the mark or valid identitydocument ; or; and

(b)in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section bythe substitution for the words that such voter hasalready been marked with the appropriate mark ;or, of the words that either such voter has already

Amendment ofSeventhSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 20 ofAct, No. 7 of1981

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

9Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004

been marked with the appropriate mark or factsgiving rise to suspicion over the identity of thevoter ; or.

20.The Third Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in Form B of that Schedule, by the additionunder the Column with the heading Reason for notdelivering ballot paper in that Form, of a new Column headedNo valid identity document or identity not established.

21.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Amendment ofForm B of theThird scheduleto the principalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

10Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 14 of 2004

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.