PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA ~

AIR FORGE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 9 OF 1993

[Certified on 12th March, 1993]

(Printed on the Orders of Government)

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 12, 1993

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT! THE GOVERNMENS PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 7

Price: 45 cents. - . a Postage: 1.06


Air Force (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 1993
[Certified on 12th March, 1993]

L. D.—O. 10/91
An ACT TO AMEND THE AiR Force Act

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :— °

1. This Act may be cited as the Air Force (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 1993.

2. Section 27 of the Air Force Act (hereinafter referred
to as the “ principal enactment ”) is hereby amended by the
addition immediately after paragraph (aa) of that section,
of the following new paragraph :—

“ (aaa) (i) in respect of any period during which he is
suspended from the exercise of his office
pending the conclusion of judicial or
disciplinary proceedings instituted against

- him in respect of a prescribed offence, all
pay and allowances, and

(ii) in respect of each month of any period during
which he is suspended from the exercise

of his office pending the conclusion of
judicial or _ disciplinary proceedings
instituted against him in respect of any
other offence, such part of his pay and
allowances for that month as may be
prescribed ;”.

3. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereoy
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :—

(1) by the addition, immediately after paragraph (aa)
of that subsection, of the following new para-
graph :—

“(aaa) (i) in respect of any period during which
he is suspended from his duties pend-
ing the conclusion of judicial or
disciplinary proceedings instituted
against him in respect of a prescribed
offence, all pay and allowances, and

Short title.

Amendment
of section

27 of
Chapter 359.

Amendment
of section

28 of the
principa]
enactment.


2  Air-Force (Amendment) Act, No, 9 of 1993

(ii) in respect of each month of any period
during which he is suspended from
his duties pending the conclusion of
judicial or disciplinary proceedings
instituted against him in respect of
any other offence, such part of his pay

- and allowances for that month as
-may be prescribed ;” ; and

(2) in proviso (i) of that subsection, by the substitution —
for the words “ the total amount of such deductions ”,
of the words “the total amount of such deductions,
authorised by paragraphs (a), (aa), (aaa) (ii), (b);
(c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of this subsection ”.

Sunala 4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhale
peers and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall

inconsistency. prevail.
