PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ist Session 1956-57

Tax Reserve Cartificates Act,
No. 22 of 1957

Date of Assent : April 13, 1957

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveERNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orric—E ‘Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 20 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Tax Reserve Certificates Act, No. 22 of 1957 3
L. D.—O. 28/56.

An ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE ISSUE OF Tax
RESERVE CERTIFICATES FOR THE PURPOSE OF
FACILITATING PAYMENT OF SUMS DUE AS INCOME
Tax oR ProFits Tax AND FOR MATTERS INCIDENTAL
TO THE PURPOSE AFORESAID.

[Date of Assent: April 13, 1957]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty; by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon in
this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows :—

14. This Act may be cited as the Tax Reserve
Certificates Act, No. 22 of 1957.

2. (1) The Central Bank of Ceylon is hereby
authorised to issue, in accordance with the provisions
of this Act, Tax Reserve Certificates (hereafter in
this Act referred to as Certificates) up to such amount
and of such denomination or denominations as the
Minister of Finance may from time to time specify by
Order published in the Gazette.

-4.(2) The Superintendent of Public Debt in the
Central Bank of Ceylon (hereafter in this Act
referred to as the Superintendent) shall be respon-
sible for the issue of Certificates, the maintenance of
books of issue, the redemption or cancellation of Certi-
ficates, and all other matters pertaining to the issue
of, and repayments in respect of, Certificates.

8. (1) Every application for a Certificate shall be
made to the Superintendent.

(2) No Certificate shall be issued to any applicant
therefor unless payment of an amount equal to the
denominational value of the Certificate has been made
to the Superintendent by the applicant in such manner
as may be approved by the Superintendent.

(8) The principal moneys and interest represented
or secured by any Certificates issued under this Act
are hereby charged upon and shall be payable out of
the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

4 4 (1) The Superintendent shall maintain a
register setting out the serial number and denomina-
tional value of each Certificate issued by him, the full
name and address of the person to whom it is issued
and such other particulars as the Superintendent may
consider necessary for the purposes of this Act.

J. N. R 0667-3,075 (2/57)

Short title.

Central Bank
of Ceylon to
issue Tax
Reserve
Certificates.

Application
for and

_ issue of

Certificates.

Register of
Certificate
Holders.


Surrender of
Certificates
in payment
of mcome
tax or
profits tax.

Surrender
value of
Certificates,

Provisions
applicable
upon ,
surrender of
Certificate.

4 Taw Reserve Certificates Act, No. 22 of 1957

(2) The registered holder of a Certificate issued
under this Act is hereafter in this Act referred to as
a ‘* Certificate Holder ’’.

5. A Certificate Holder shall be entitled to
surrender the Certificate to the Commissioner of
Income Tax in payment or part payment, with the -
surrender value of the Certificate under section 6, of ©
any sum that may be due from the Certificate Holder
as income tax or profits tax (hereafter in this Act.
sometimes referred to as the tax). |

6. The surrender value of any Certificate surrend-
ered under section 5 shall be the aggregate of the
denominational value of the Certificate and interest
on such denominational value calculated, at a rate of
interest of one per centum per annum, in respect of
each completed period of one month from the date of
the Certificate to the date on which the tax is due.

‘7%, (1) Where the surrender value of a Certificate
which is surrendered is more than the tax: due, there
shall be applied in payment of the tax such portion
of the denominational value of the Certificate as with.
interest on that portion is equal to the amount of the

tax, and the Superintendent shall— _
_ (a) pay to the Certificate Holder a sum equal to
the balance of the denominational value of

the Certificate without interest, or

(b) if the Certificate Holder so requests, issue to:
him a new Certificate or Certificates of .a
denominational value equal to such balance
or, if it is impracticable to do so, issue to
him a new Certificate or Certificates of a
denominational value equal to a part of such
balance and pay to him the remainder of such
balance in money. . |

(2) Where any amount is payable to the Certificate.
Holder under sub-section (1), the Commissioner of
Income Tax shall deliver to him a written statement
setting out—

(a) the number and denominational value of each
Certificate surrendered: by him and the date,
of issue of such Certificate ;

(0) the date.of surrender; and ve '

(c) the sum in payment of which the Certificat
was surrendered and the date on which such
sum fell due for payment. .


Tax Reserve Certificates Act, No. 22 of 1957 5

(3) No Certificate Holder shall be entitled. to
recover any payment or to receive any new Certificates
under sub-section (1), except upon production to the
Superintendent of the statement delivered to the
Certificate Holder under sub-section (2).

(4) Every new Certificate issued under this section
‘-shall be dated as of the date of issue of the original
Certificate upon the surrender of which the new Certi-
ficate is issued and shall be deemed for the purpose of -
this Act to have been issued on that date.

(5) The amount of any interest forming part of the
surrender value of any Certificate shall be exempt from
Income tax and profits tax. ad

8. The sum represented by the denominational yale, OF
value of every unexpired Certificate held by any he treated
Certificate Holder carrying on any business to which 2s capital
the Profits Tax Act, No. 5 of 1948, applies, shall be of profits
treated for the purposes of that Act as capital 2

: } certain
employed in that business.

cases.
Provided, however, that where the sum represented
by the denominational value of any unexpired Certi-
.ficate or of all the unexpired Certificates held on any
date by a Certificate Holder carrying on any such busi-
ness exceeds such amount as may, in the opinion of
the Commissioner of Income Tax, reasonably be esti-
mated to be payable, during the period of two years
immediately succeeding that date, as income tax and
profits tax on the profits of such business, the Com-
missioner of Income Tax may direct that such part
only of the sum represented by the denominational
value of the Certificate or Certificates as is equal to the
amount aforesaid shall be treated as capital for the
purposes of the Profits Tax Act, No. 5 of 1948.:.

9. (1) A. Certificate may, in leu of being sur- Cancellation
rendered to the Commissioner of Income Tax under %,°erhacate
the preceding provisions of this Act, be at any time surrendered

in payment

delivered by the Certificate Holder to the Superinten- of tax.
dent for cancellation. ,

4 (2) The Certificate Holder shall, upon the delivery
of the Certificate for cancellation under sub-section (1),
be entitled to receive from the Superintendent repay-
ment of a sum equal to the denominational value of
the Certificate and shall not be entitled to receive any
interest on such denominational value.


Certificates
not to be
transferable.

Restriction of
seizure of
Certificates.

Cap. 82.

Surrender or
delivery of
Certificates
on death of
holder.

6 Tax Reserve Certificates Act, No. 22 of 1957

10. The right, title and interest of a Certificate
Holder to or in the Certificate shall not be assigned,
donated, hypothecated, sold, transferred or otherwise
disposed of, and any such assignment, donation,
hypothecation, sale, transfer or disposition shall for
all purposes be null and void: .

' Provided, however, that nothing in the preceding
provisions of this section shall affect or prejudice, or

- be deemed to affect or prejudice, the operation of any

provision of section 12 or of section 13.

' 41. No Certificate and no right, title and interest
to or in a Certificate or any sum represented thereby
shall at any time be seized, attached or sequestered in
execution of any decree, or der or process of any court:

Provided, however, that nothing in the preceding
provisions of this section shall prevent, or be deemed
or construed to prevent, the seizure, attachment or
sequestration of any Certificate, in proceedings under
the Insolvency Ordinance, in pursuance of the adjudi-
cation as insolvent of the Certificate Holder.

ie Where any Certificate Holder dies—

. (a) the executor of the last will or the adminis:
trator of the estate of the deceased, or,

(b) if no letters of administration are by any law

- for the time being in force required.to be

taken out for the due administration of the

estate of the deceased, any person being in

‘ possession of the Certificate and proved to the

satisfaction of the Superintendent to be an
heir-at-law of the deceased,

shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to be the
Certificate Holder :

Provided, however, that such executor, adminis-
trator or person— -

(i) shall not be entitled to surrender the Cer ti-
ficate otherwise than in payment or part pay-
ment of any sum due as tax from the deceased

‘Certificate Holder or from the executor or,

administrator in his ‘capacity as such, and

(ii) shall not be entitled to deliver the Certificate
to the Superintendent for cancellation unless
‘payment has been made to the Commissioner

of Income Tax of all sums so due.

-


Tax Reserve Certificates Act, No. 22 of 1957 7
13. Where the Certificate Holder has been adjudi- Surrender or

cated insolvent by any court, the assignee of the estate pallvery ot
of such Certificate Holder shall be deemed for the bs ansol feney

purposes of this Act to be the Certificate Holder:

Provided, however, that such assignee— __

(i) shall not be entitled to surrender the Certifi-
cate otherwise than in payment or part pay-
ment of any sum due as tax from the insolvent,
and

(ii) shall not be entitled to deliver the Certificate
to the Superintendent for cancellation unless
payment has been made to the Commissioner
of Income Tax of all sums so due.

14. (1) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of Issue of
the Superintendent that a Certificate has been lost, duplicate
stolen, or destroyed, he may, on payment.of a fee of ,
two rupees for the purpose, issue a duplicate Certifi-
cate in the name of the Holder of the Certificate so
lost, stolen or destroyed.

(2) The Superintendent may, as a condition prece-
dent to the issue of a duplicate Certificate in the name
of the Certificate Holder, require him to execute a bond

undertaking to indemnify the Government against any
claim whatsoever made in respect of the Certificate
alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
