PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 20, 2010

[Certified on 17th August, 2010]

Printed on the Order of Government

WIDOWS AND ORPHANS PENSION FUND(AMENDMENT) ACT, NO. 8 OF 2010

1Widows and Orphans Pension Fund

(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2010

2PL 0050434,140 (07/2010)

[Certified on 17th August, 2010]

L. D. O. 6/2006.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE WIDOWS AND ORPHANS PENSION FUND

ORDINANCE

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1. This Act may be cited as the Widows and OrphansPension Fund (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2010.

2.Section 7 of the Widows and Orphans Pension FundOrdinance (Chapter 431) (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactment) is hereby repealed and the followingsection substituted therefor:

7. (1) The Minister may make regulationsin respect of all matters required by this Act tobe prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare authorized to be made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Ministershall be published in the Gazette and shall comeinto operation on the date of such publicationor on such later date as may be specified therein.

(3) Every regulation shall, as soon asconvenient after the publication in the Gazette,be brought before Parliament for approval. Anyregulation which is not so approved shalldeemed to be rescinded from the date of suchdisapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date in which anyregulation made by the Minister is deemed tobe rescinded shall be published in theGazette..

Short title.

Minister tomakeregulations.

Replacement ofsection 7 ofChapter 431.

Widows and Orphans Pension Fund

(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20102

3.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words contributor under this Ordinance, of thefollowing:

contributor under this Ordinance:

Provided however any person who became acontributor under this Ordinance on or after therelevant date and who has completed ten years ofservice prior to the retirement or removal orotherwise leaves the public service without apension in the manner referred to in subsection (1),shall be eligible to the benefits undersubsection (1)..

4.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 27 of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as section 27A and 27B of thatenactment :

27A. (1) Where any public officer who is acontributor to the Fund dies before reachinghis age of retirement due to an act whichconstitutes an offence under any EmergencyRegulation for the time being in force, or dueto any natural disaster, the widow and thechildren of such officer shall notwithstandingany other provisions of this Ordinance beentitled

(a)from the date of such death, to receivea pension calculated in accordancewith the provisions of this Ordinance,based on the salary such officer wasdrawing at the time of his death, tillthe date on which, had he lived, hewould have reached his age ofretirement; and

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsections 27A and27B in theprincipalenactment.

Payment ofpension topublicofficers &c,.who die dueto acts whichconstitute anoffenceunder theemergencyregulations&c,.

3Widows and Orphans Pension Fund

(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2010

(b)from and after the date on which hewould have reached his age ofretirement, to receive a pensioncalculated in accordance with theprovisions of this Ordinance based onthe revised salary with all theincrements to which, had he lived, hewould have been entitled to receivetill he reached his age of retirement.

(2) In calculating the pension for the purposeof subsection (1), the age of retirement shall bedetermined by the Director-General of Pensions,taking into consideration the circumstances ofthe death of the officer concerned, his periodof service and any other material particularsapplicable to each individual case.

(3) Where any person who is a male andwho holds a temporary or casual post in thepublic service dies while in service, due to anact which constitutes an offence under theEmergency Regulations or due to any naturaldisaster, before being made permanent in hispost, such person shall, notwithstanding anyother provisions of this Ordinance be deemedto be an officer to whom the provision ofsection 27 of this Ordinance applies from thedate of his death and, the widow and, childrenof such person shall, notwithstanding any otherprovisions of this Ordinance be entitled

(a)from the date of such death, to receive apension calculated in accordance withthe provisions of this Ordinance, basedon the salary such person was drawingat the time of his death, till the date onwhich had he lived, he would reach fifty-five years of age;

Widows and Orphans Pension Fund

(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20104

(b)from and after the date on which hewould have reached fifty-five years ofage, to receive a pension with all theincrements, to which had he lived hewould have been entitled to receive tillhe reached fifty-five years of age.

(4) Any person to whom the provision ofsubsection (3) applies shall be deemed to be acontributor under the Ordinance as from thedate he joined the public service.

(5) Notwithstanding any other provisionsof this Ordinance for the purpose of grantingpension under this section, the officers referredto in subsection (1) and the persons referred toin subsection (3), of this section shall bedeemed to have paid the contributions due tothe Fund in full as at the date of their death.

(6) For the purpose of this section

emergency regulations means any

regulation made by the Presidentunder section 5 of the Public SecurityOrdinance (Chapter 40);

natural disaster shall have the same

meaning as in the Sri Lanka DisasterManagement Act, No. 13 of 2005.

27B. Notwithstanding the provisions ofsection 27, a widow of any officer

(a)who is specified in the Schedule GQ ofthe Minutes on Pensions; and

(b)who is entitled to a pension on thecompletion of five years of service,

Payment ofpension towidow ofofficerspecified inSchedule GQof Minuteson Pensions.

5Widows and Orphans Pension Fund

(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2010

shall be entitled, on the demise of such officer,to receive a pension computed on the salarydrawn by such officer on retirement inaccordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.The amount of the contributions shall becomputed on the basis of the salary drawn bysuch officer on his retirement and shall be madeto the Fund with interest, for the total period offive years and unless and until such contributionsare paid with interest accrued on suchcontributions, the payment of pension under thissection shall not commence..

5.Section 29 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words or an unmarriedfemale orphan of the words or a female orphan.

6.Section 34 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section is substitutedtherefor :

34. (1) The widow of a contributor shall, onher remarriage, receive as pension after the dateof such subsequent marriage

(a)half the amount of the pension whichshe was receiving at the time of suchsubsequent marriage; or

(b)where she was entitled to receive apension but was not in actual receiptof the same, half the amounts she wasto receive in her capacity as a widowprior to such subsequent marriage.

(2) The children of the first marriage of thewidow shall receive the remaining portion of

Amendmentof section 29of theprincipalenactment.

Replacementof section 34of theprincipalenactment.Provisionsin case ofwidowremarrying.

Widows and Orphans Pension Fund

(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20106

the pension received by the widow after thepayment to the widow is made in terms ofparagraphs (a) or (b) above.

(3) Where the spouse of such subsequentmarriage is also a contributor to the Fund andwhere such widow becomes entitled to receivea pension upon the death of such spouse inrespect of the contributions made to the Fundby such spouse, the payment of such amountas she was receiving as pension in terms ofparagraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) shallbe terminated with effect from the date of deathof such spouse of such subsequent marriage:

Provided that, where the payment of thepension is terminated as provided above, thechildren of the first marriage of the widow shall,as from the date of death of the spouse of theirmothers subsequent marriage, be entitled toreceive the shares they were receiving in termsof subsection (2) and the amount which theirmother was receiving in terms of subsection(1), prior to such termination:

Provided further that in the event of thedissolution of such subsequent marriage, thewidow shall be entitled to receive as pensionthe half share she received in terms ofsubsection (1) and the entitlement of thechildren under subsection (2) remainsunchanged..

7.Section 43 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by renumbering that section as subsection (1)thereof;

Amendment ofsection 43 ofthe principalenactment

7Widows and Orphans Pension Fund

(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2010

(2)by the addition of the following new subsectionimmediately after the renumbered subsection (1),thereof:

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection(1), a public officer who has retired from publicservice before the date of his optional or compulsoryretirement on abolition of posts and who has ceasedto make contributions to the Fund may continue tomake contributions to the Fund commencing fromthe date on which he retired until he reaches fifty-five years of age in respect of a marriage contractedby such officer after the date of such retirement..

8.Section 51A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

51A. Where a public officer

(a)who becomes contributor on or afterthe relevant date; and

(b)who is not a bachelor,

leaves the public service, he shall not be granteda refund of the entirety or part of hiscontributions if he is not eligible for a pensionunder the Minutes on Pensions. However if hehad completed ten or more years of such servicebefore leaving the service, his widow or orphansshall upon his death be entitled to a pensionon the basis of the contributions made by himcalculated in accordance with the provisionsof this Ordinance.

9.(1) The provisions of subsection (1) of section 27Ashall mutatis mutandis apply to the widow and children ofany public officer who had been a contributor to the Fundand had died before the date of coming into operation ofthis Act, under the circumstances specified in the aforesaidsubsection.

Replacement ofsection 51A ofthe principalenactment.Specialprovisionsapplicable tomarriedpublicofficers whobecomecontributorson or afterthe relevantdate andleave thepublicservicewithoutpension.

Application ofthe provisionsof section 27Aof the principalenactment topersons whohad died beforethe date ofoperation of thisAct.

Widows and Orphans Pension Fund

(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20108

(2) The provisions of subsection (3) of section 27A shallmutatis mutandis apply to the widow and children of anyperson who is a male and had held a temporary or casualpost in the public service and had died while in service,before the date of coming into operation of this Act underthe circumstances specified in the aforesaid subsection.

(3) Any person to whom the provisions of subsection (2)of this section applies, shall be deemed to be a contributorunder the principal enactment.

(4) For the purpose of granting a pension undersubsections (1) and (2) of this section, the officers referred toin subsection (1) and the persons referred to in subsection(2) of this section shall be deemed to have paid allcontributions due to the Fund from them, in full, as at thedate of death of each such person.

10.Any widow or any child or children of any officer orperson referred to in section 9 of this Act shall, on or beforethe date to be appointed by the Minister by Order publishedin the Gazette shall forward their claims to the Director-General in such form as may be prescribed and issued by theDirector-General.

11.The provisions of sections 6, 7 and 8 of this Actshall be deemed to have come into effect as from the date onwhich the principal enactment came into operation.

12.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinahla and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Claims to beforwarded to theDirector-General.

Retrospectiveeffect.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

9Widows and Orphans Pension Fund

(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2010

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.