PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

ENERGY SUPPLY (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS)
ACT, No. 2 OF 2002

[Certified on 21st March, 2002]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of March 22, 2002

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO OI.

Price : Rs. 13.75 Postage : Rs. 5.25


Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 2002

[Certified on 21st March, 2002]
L.D.—O0. 16/2002.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE CONSTITUTION OF AN ENERGY SUPPLY
CommITtté j TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXERCISE BY SUCH COMMITTEE,
OF POWERS UNDER CERTAIN OTHER LAWS ; AND FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sti Luka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Energy Supply
(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 2 of 2002 and shall come
into operation on such date as thé Minister may appoint by
Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the
“appoitited date’).

PART I
CHAPTER I

CONSTITUTION OF THE ENERGY SUPPLY COMMITTEE

2. (1) There shall be established a Committee to be called
the Energy Supply Committee (hereinafter referred to as the
“Committee”).

(2) The Committee shall consist of the following :—
(a) ex-officio members—

(i) the Secretary to the Treasury, who shal! be the
Chairman ;

(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Power and Energy ;

(iii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Enterprise
Development, Industrial Policy and Investment
Promotion ;

Short title and
date of operation.

Constitution of the

Energy Supply
Committee.


Objects of the
Committee.

Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vil)

(viii)

Act, No. 2 of 2002

the Chairman of the Ceylon Electricity
Board established by the Ceylon Electricity
Board Act;

the Chairman of the Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation established by the Petroleum
Corporation Act ;

the Director-General of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka established by the Sri
Lanka Board of Investment Law ;

the Chairman of the National Energy Council ;

the Energy Regulator appointed under section
8 ; and

(b) a representative of the Ministry of the Minister in

charge of the subject of Policy Development and
Implementation, nominated by the Minister of Policy
Development and Implementation and appointed by
the Minister.

(3) Amember appointed under paragraph (b) of subsection
(2), shall hold office for the period of two years from the date
of his appointment, unless he resigns his office by letter
addressed to the Minister or, is removed from office by the
Minister, in consultation with the Minister in charge of the
subject of Policy Development and Implementation, for
reasons assigned.

(4) The quorum for any meeting of the Committee shall
be six members and the Committee may regulate the
procedure, in regard to the meetings of the Committee and
the transaction of business at such meetings.

Cuapter II

OBJECTS, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMITTEE

3. The objects of the Committee shall be—

(a) to ensure an adequate supply of electrical energy,

petroleum and other energy requirements ;


Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions) 3
Act, No. 2 of 2002

(b) to regulate the provision of electrical energy, the
petroleum supply and the utilisation of other energy
resources,

4, The Coititiittce shall exercise the following
powets to—

(a) purchase or otherwise deal with—
(i) electricity ;
(ii) all forms of petroleum products ;

(b) deal in any manner with all forms of renewable
energy resources ;

(c) purchase or otherwise deal with ancillary equipment
such as electricity meters and prepare schemes for
the purchase of such equipment by the private
sector ;

(d) efisure the cost effectiveness of all aspects of the
operations of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation and
the Ceylon Electricity Board ;

(e) conserve energy arid promote other energy
resources ;

(f) take such measures as may be necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this Act.

5. For the purpose of attainment of its objects, the
Coimmiltce, may discharge the following functions :—

(a) the preparation of a national plan to ensure an
adequate supply of energy ;

(b) the preparation of a detailed statement on the
availability of electrical energy and petroleum, and
a programme for the use of such electrical energy
and petroleum ;

Powers of the
Committee.

Functions of the
Committee.


Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 2002

(c) the discharge of functions in respect of licensing,
regulatory and inspection measures provided for
under this Act ;

(d) tendering advise to the Government on all matters
concerning the—

(i) generation, transmission, distribution, supply
and use of electrical energy ;

(ii) importation, exportation, storage, distribution
and supply of petroleum and petroleum
products ;

(e) the collection and recording of information
concerning the generation, transmission, distribution,
supply and use of electrical energy and the
distribution, supply and use of petroleum and
petroleum products ;

(f) the supervision and issue of directives to—

(i) the Ceylon Electricity Board or such
other authority that may be designated
by law to control the generation,
transmission, distribution, supply and usc of
electricity ;

(ii) the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation or such
other authority that may be designated by law
to control the importation, exportation, storage,
distribution and supply of petroleum and
petroleum products ;

(g) the regulation the activities of persons of engaged in
the—

(i) generation, transmission, distribution, supply
and use of electricity ;


Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions) 5
Act, No. 2 of 2002

(ii) importation, exportation, storage, distribution
and supply of petroleum and petroleum
products ;

(A) taking such measures as may be necessary to ensure
as far as possible the—

(i) uninterrupted generation, transmission,
distribution and supply of electricity ;

(ii) uninterrupted importation, exportation,
storage, distribution and supply of petroleum
and petroleum products;

(i) regulating and fixing tariffs and other charges from
time to time for the supply of electricity;

(j) protecting the interests of consumers in relation to
the supply of—

(i) electricity, by promoting efficiency, economy
and satety, by persons engaged in activities
connected with the generation, transmission,
distribution and supply of electricity;

(ii) petroleum and petroleum products, by
promoting efficiency, economy and safety, by
persons engaged in activities connected with
the importation, exportation, storage,
distribution and supply of petroleum and
petroleum products;

(kK) securing and ensuring that persons engaged in
commercial organizations connected with the—

(i) generation, transmission, distribution
and supply of electricity shall efficiently
finance the operation and conduct such
activities;


Committee to
exercise its
powers subject to
the directions of
the Minister.

6 Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 2002

(ii) the importation, exportation, storage,
distribution and supply of petroleum and
petroleum products shall efficiently finance the
operation and conduct such activities;

(1) taking such measures as may be necessary to
protect the public from the dangers arising from
the —

(i) generation, transmission, distribution and
supply of electricity;

(ii) importation, exportation, storage, distribution
and supply of petroleum and petroleum
products;

(m) promoting the efficient use and conservation of
electricity and pctroleum and petroleum
products ;

(n) promoting the introduction and use of alternate and
economical resources and methods of generation and
producing electricity and other forms of electrical
energy;

(0) the undertaking of any other activity referred to the
Committee by the Cabinet of Ministers as may be
necessary for or conducive to, the attainment of the
objects of the Committee;

(p) the undertaking of all such incidental and ancillary
activities as the Committee may consider necessary,
and appropriate for the effective discharge of any of
its functions under this Act.

6. In the exercise of its powers and the discharge of its
functions, the Committee shall comply with any special or
general direction issued to it by the Minister in relation to the
implementation of the energy policy of the Government.


Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions) 7
Act, No. 2 of 2002

7. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
Law, it shall be the duty of the Ceylon Electricity Board and
the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation, as the case may be, to
implement the plans and programmes drawn up by the
Committee, for the purpose of attainment of the objects of
the Committee.

Cuapter IIT
STAFF OF THE COMMITTEE

8. (1) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the
Committce, appoint a person as the Energy Regulator of the
Committec, who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the
Committec.

(2) The Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the
qualifications that any person to be appointed as the Energy
Regulator should possess, and the terms and conditions subject
of which, such person may be appointed and the salary and
other allowances that may be paid to such Energy Regulator.

(3) The Committee shall, delegate to the Energy Regulator
such powers as it considers necessary.

(4) The Energy Regulator may, with the approval of the
Committee, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate to any person, whose services have been obtained
under section 10 of this Act, any power, function or duty
conferred or imposed on or assigned to him by this Act, and
such person shall exercise, discharge and perform such power,
function or duty, subject to the general or special directions
of the Energy Regulator.

9. (1) The Cabinet of Ministers shall—

(a) determine the qualifications and formulate a
scheme of recruitment;

The Ceylon
Electricity Board
and the Ceylon
Petroleum
Corporation to
implement plans
and programmes
drawn up by the
Commnittec.

Energy Regulator.

Other staff of the
Committee.


Services of the
officers and
servants of the
Ceylon Electricity
Board or the
Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation, as
the case may be,
to be made
available to the
Committee.

Requisition of
movable property.

8 Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 2002

(b) specify the terms and conditions,

of persons to be appointed as officers and servants of the
Committee.

(2) The Committee shall for the implementation of the
provisions of this Act, appoint such officers and servants as
may be necessary, to the staff of the Committee, and the
disciplinary control of such officers and servants shall vest in
the Committee.

10. Atthe request of the Committee, the services of any
officer or servant of the Ceylon Electricity Board or the Ceylon
Petroleum Corporation, as the case may be, may, with the
consent of such officer or servant, be made available to the
Committee, for such period as may be determined by the
Committee, on such terms and conditions, including those
relating to pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreed
upon by the Committee and such officer or servant.

CHAPTER IV
GENERAL

11. (1) Where any movable property is required for the
purposes of this Act, the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, may, by an Order
(hereinafter referred to as a “Requisition Order’), requisition
with effect, from such date as is specified in such Order, the
movable property specified in the Order.

(2) A Requisition Order made under subsection (1), shall
have the effect of authorizing the Secretary, to take possession
of the property specified in the Order, and hand over such
property to the Committee, to be used for the purposes of the
Act.

(3) Any property requisitioned by the Secretary under
subsection (1), may be derequisitioned by an Order (hereinafter
referred to as an “Derequisition Order’) by such Secretary with
effect from such date as shall be specified in such Order.


Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions) 9
Act, No. 2 of 2002

(4) (a) Compensation in respect of any movable property
requisitioned under subsection (1) shall be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund ;

(b) The assessment of the amount of compensation payable
and the manner of awarding such compensation in terms of
the provisions of paragraph (a), shall be as prescribed.

12. Where any immovable property of the State is
required for any purpose of the Committee, such purpose shall
be deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or lease
of such property may be made under section 6 of the State
Lands Ordinance, and accordingly the provisions of that
Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of such
property to the Committee,

13. No prosecution shall lie against any member, officer
or servant of the Committee for any act or omission, which in
good faith is done by him, under this Act or on the directions
of the Committee.

14, (1) The Energy Regulator shall enter into contracts,
for and on behalf of the Committee, in the exercise and
discharge of the Committee’s powers and functions and such
contracts, shall be performed by the Committee, as if it were
a body corporate.

(2) All actions in relations to the exercise of its powers or
discharge of its functions, shall be brought by or against the
Committee, as it were a body corporate.

15. The Committee shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

16. The Minister may, from time to time direct the
Committee to furnish to him in such form as he may require,
returns, accounts and other information with respect to the
work of the Committee and the Committee shall comply with
every such direction.

17. Any person who contravenes any provision of this
Act or any regulation made thereunder or fails to comply with
any direction issued thereunder, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.

Immovable
property of the
State to be made
available to the
Committee.

Protection for
action taken under
this Act or on the
direction of the
Committec.

Contracts and
actions.

Committee
deemed to be a
Scheduled
Institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Furnishing of

information to the
Minister,

Offence,


Penalty for
offence.

Regulations.

10 Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 2002

18. (1) Any person found guilty of an offence under this
Act, shall be liable, on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate, to imprisonment of cither description for a period
not exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding ten million
rupees or to both such imprisonment and fine.

(2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons then—

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director and officer of that body corporate ;

(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of
that firm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence :

Provided that a director or an officer of such body corporate
or a partner of such firm shall not be deemed to be guilty of
such offence, if the director, officer or partner proves that
such offence was not committed with the knowledge of the
director, officer or partner, or that the director, officer or partner
exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.

19, (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
matters required by this Act to be prescribed, or in respect of
which regulations are authorized to be made.

(2) Without prejudice to the gencrality of the powers
conferred by subscction (1), regulations may be made in
respect of any or all of the following matters :—

(a) the provision of an adequate and uninterrupted
supply of electrical energy, petroleum and other
energy resources that are essential to the life of the
community ;

(b) the conditions to be observed for the safety of
engergy projects ;

(c) the measures necessary for the conservation and use
of electrical energy.


Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions) I
Act, No, 2 of 2002

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation,

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenicnt after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
decmed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

20. (1) The Committee shall, as soon as possible, after
the end of cach financial year of the Committec, make
available to the Minister a report, on the exercise and
performance by the Committee, of its powers and functions
during that year and on its plans and programmes. Such report
shall set out any direction given by the Minister to the
Committee during that year.

(2) The Committee shall, transmit the report to the
Minister and the Minister shall cause such report to be laid
before Parliament.

(3) The Committee shall cause the report to be printed at
the expense of the Committee and to be made availabe for
purchase by the public, at such price as shall be determined
by the Commitice.

21. (1) The Committec shall prior to granting approval
for any project relating to the—

(i) generation, transmission, distribution or supply of
clectrical energy ;

(ii) importation, exportation, storage, distribution or

supply of petroleum and petroleum products,

Report of the
Committee to be
sent to the
Minister and laid
before Parliament,
and copies of such
report to be made
available for
purchase by the
public.

Minister to obtain
report from the
Central
Environmental
Authority prior to
approval of new
energy projects.


Anything done
under the
provisions of this
Act to prevail over
certain laws.

Committee to
exercise powers
under Part V of
the Ceylon
Electricity Board.

Committee to
exercise powers
under sections 2
to 11 of the
Electricity Act.

12 Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 2002

obtain a report from the Central Environmental Authority
established under the National Environmental Act as to the
environmental impacts of the proposed project.

(2) The Committee shall, after consulting the Minister and
having given due consideration to the matters contained in
the report of the Central Environmental Authority, grant
approval for any project referred to in subsection (1).

22. Subject to the provisions of section 21, anything done
under the provisions of this Act shall have effect,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Nuisances
Ordinance, the National Environmental Act, section 261 of
the Penal Code and section 98 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act and accodingly in the event of any conflict or
inconsistency between the provisions of this Act and the
aforesaid laws, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

PART II
EXERCISE OF POWER UNDER OTHER LAWS

23. The powers relating to tariffs and other charges
specified in Part V of the Ceylon Electricity Board Act. as
amended from time to time, shall, from and after the appointed
date and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Ceylon Electricity Board Act, be exercised by the Committee
in accordance with the provisions of such Part and the Ceylon
Electricity Board shall not exercise any power under that Part
for so long as this Act is in operation and any reference to the
“Board” in that Part or any regulation or Order made under
that Part, shall unless the context otherwise requires, be read
and construcd as a reference to the “Committee”.

24. (1) The powers relating to licensing in respect of the
supply of electrical energy under section 2 to section 1! of
the Electricity Act, as amended from time to time, shall, from
and after the appointed date and notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in the said Act, be exercised by the Commitec
in accordance with the provisions of the said sections and the


Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions) 13
Act, No. 2 of 2002

Minister shall not exercise any power under such sections, so
long as this Act is in operation and any reference to the
“Minister” in such sections or any regulation made thereunder
shall unless the context otherwise requires be read and
construed as a reference to the “Committee”.

(2) The Committee shall, in the exercise of its powers under
subsection (1), be subject to the special or general directions
of the Minister.

25. The powers and functions of the Competent Authority
under the Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control of
Supplies) Act, shall from and after the appointed date, and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the said Petroleum
Products (Regulation and Control and Supplies) Act, be
exercised by the Committee in accordance with the provisions
of that Act and the Competent Authority shall not exercise
any powers under that Act so long as this Act is in operation
and any reference to the “Competent Authority” in that Act
or any regulation made thereunder shall unless the context
otherwise requircs, be read and construed as a reference to
the “Committee”.

26. From and after the appointed date, the Committee
may where it considers it necessary and expedient so to do in
the due discharge of its functions—

(a) exercise one or more of the rights vested in the
Petroleum Corporation established by the Ceylon
Petroleum Corporation Act, under sections 5B, Sc,
Sp, and 34a ; or

(b) exercise any one or more of the powers or special
powers conferred on the Minister or the Board of
Directors as the case may be, under sections 5p, SE,
5r, 5G, 5H, 51 and 42 of the aforesaid Act,

and where the Committee exercises such rights or powers,
the Corporation, the Minister or the Board of Directors as the
case may be, shall not exercise any power under those

Commnittee to
exercise powers of
the Competent
Authority under
Petroleum
Products
(Regulation and
Control of
Supplies) Act.

Committee to
exercise rights and
powers exercised
by the Ceylon
Petroleum
Corporation, the
Minister or the
Board of Directors
as the case may be
under sections Sp
to Si, 34a and 42
of the Ceylon
Petroleum
Corporation Act.


Power to issue
special directions.

14 Energy Supply (Temporary. Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 2002

sections so long as this Act is in operation and any reference
to the “Corporation”, “Board of Director's” of the “Minister”,
as the case may be in such sections shall unless the context
otherwise requires, be read atid construed as a referéhce to
the “Committee”.

27. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Ceylon Electricity Board Act, the Electricity Act, the
Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Act, and the Petroleum
Products (Regulation and Control of Supplies) Act, the
Committee shall have the power, with the concurrence of the
Minister, to issue special directions as may be necessary for
the purpose of exercising the powers conferred on the
Committee under sections, 23, 24, 25 or 26 as the case may
be, to—

(a) the Ceylon Electricity Board, established
by section 2 of the Ceylon Electricity
Board Act and to any officer or servant of such
Board ;

(b) the holder of any license issued under section 2 of
the Ceylon Electricity Act ;

(c) tothe Competent Authority appointed under section
2 of the Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control
of Supplies) Act, and the Petroleum Controller or
any Deputy Petroleum Controller or any Assistant
Petroleum Controller appointed under that section ;
and

(d) to the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation established
by section 2 of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation
Act, and to any officer and servant of such
Corporation.

(2) It shall be the duty of every person, to whom any
direction has been issued under subsection (1), to comply with
such direction.


Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions) 15
Act, No. 2 of 2002

28. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Ceylon Electricity Board Act or in any contract or agreement
entered into under the provisions of the aforesaid Act, the
Committee shall have power to adopt special procedure in
the imposition of tarriffs or other charges in the interests of
national economy and in view of the necessity to take
expeditious measures for the effective exercise of the powers
and rights of the Committee.

(2) Special procedure may be adopted for the imposition
of tarriffs or other charges as shall be prescribed.

29. The provisions of this Act shall be in operation for a
period of two years from the appointed date.

30. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

31. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—

“Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law” means the Board
of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 ;

“Ceylon Electricity Act” means the Ccylon Electricity Act,
(Chapter 205) ;

“Ceylon Electricity Board Act” means the Ceylon
Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969 ;

“Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Act” means the Ceylon
Petroleum Corporation Act, No. 28 of 1961 ;

“Code of Criminal Procedure Act” means the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 ;

“electrical energy” means cnergy which is generated,
transmitted, supplied or used for any purpose other
than the transmission of a message ;

“National Environmental Act” means the National
Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980;

Special procedure
to be followed by
the Committec.

Duration of this
Act.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

Interpretation.


16

Energy Supply (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 2002

“Nuisances Ordinance” means the Nuisances Ordinance
(Chapter 230) ;

“Penal Code” means the Penal Code (Chapter 19) ;

“person” includes any body of persons, corporate or
unincorporate ;

“petroleum” means petroleum and includes any product,
or by-product which may be derived, purchased,
prepared, developed, compounded, made, or
manufactured, from hydro-carbons or hydio-carbon
compounds, and any inorganic and natural or
synthetic organic compound or mixture which has
been used or is being used or is intended to be used
as agricultural chemicals of whatever description for
the purpose of destroying, inhibiting or controlling
the action of plant or animal pest and fungus growth
and to increase the productivity and quality of plant
life ;

“petroleum product” means petrol, kerosene, auto diesel,
heavy diesel, furnace oil, liquid petroleum gas or
aviation turbine fuel ;

“Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control of Supplics)
Act” means Petroleum Products (Regulation and
Control of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979.

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of
Power and Energy.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Loca!). Rs. 1.180(Foreign),
payable to the SuPerINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PusLications Burau, No. 32, Transworks House.
Lotus Roap, CoLomso 0! before 15th December cach year in respect of the year following.
