PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 12, 2009

[Certified on 12th June, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF LANDSCAPEARCHITECTS ACT, NO. 33 OF 2009

1Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 2009

Short title.

[Certified on 12th June, 2009]

L. D. O. 75/2006

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA INSTITUTE

OF LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH

OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Institute ofLandscape Architects Act, No. 33 2009.

2. (1) There shall be established an Institute which shallbe called the Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architect(hereinafter referred to as the Institute).

(2) The Institute shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue or be sued insuch name.

3.The general objects for which the Institute isconstituted are hereby declared to be

(a)to develop the profession of landscape architecturein Sri Lanka to internationally accepted standards;

(b)to provide leadership and guidance to the professionand to facilitate the profession in fulfilling its vitalrole in the process of sustainable development,conserving and improving the environment,integrating natural systems and applying relevantarts and sciences in service to society.

4.The functions of the Institute shall be

(a)to promote and advance the study of, practice andapplication of, and research in, landscapearchitecture and its related subjects and the artsand sciences connected therewith;

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaInstitute ofLandscapeArchitects.

General Objectsof the Institute.

Functions of theInstitute.

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 20092

(b)to promote, establish and maintain close relationswith the profession worldwide, including theinternational exchange of knowledge, skills andexperience in both educational and professionalspheres;

(c)to establish and maintain the highest possiblestandards of professional practice in planning,designing, development, management andconservation of the landscape, along with otherrelevant professionals and professional bodies;

(d)to organize, supervise and control the admissionand the professional education and training ofpersons desiring to qualify as landscape architects,to prescribe or approve courses of study for thequalifying examinations for membership of theInstitute and to conduct or provide for the conductof such courses and examinations;

(e)to protect and promote the interests, status, welfare,rights and privileges of the profession of landscapearchitects in Sri Lanka and the interests of the publicin relation to that profession, and of persons desiringto qualify as landscape architects; and

(f)to establish, regulate and maintain libraries andbenefit schemes for the benefit of members, officersand employees and their dependants.

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Institute shall have power to

(a)acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge, sell and exchange or otherwisedispose of any immovable or movable property ofthe Institute;

(b)enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in that

GeneralPowers of theInstitute.

3Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 2009

behalf by the Institute, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainmentof the objects or the exercise of the powers, of theInstitute;

(c)levy fees, subscriptions and contributions in respectof membership, admission to membership andadmission to courses and examinations conductedby the Institute;

(d)invest its funds and maintain current, deposit andsavings accounts in any bank or banks approvedby the Council of the Institute;

(e)advance, lend and borrow money for the purposesof the Institute in such manner and upon suchsecurity as the Institute may think fit;

(f)prescribe the qualifications and disqualificationsfor membership of the Institute and the standards ofprofessional conduct for members of the Institute,and secure the maintenance thereof;

(g)appoint, employ, transfer, dismiss and take otherdisciplinary action against officers and employeesand prescribe their terms and conditions of services;and

(h)generally, do all such acts and things as are necessaryfor or incidental or conducive to carrying out or theattainment of the objects of the Institute.

6.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 14 of thisAct, eligibility for each class of membership shall be specifiedby rules made under this Act,

(2) The following classes of membership shall be in theInstitute:

(a)Fellow;

Membership ofthe Institute.

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 20094

(b)Member; and

(c)Non-Corporate Member, the various classes of whichshall be specified by rules made under this Act.

(3) The classes of membership mentioned underparagraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) shall be referred toas Corporate Members.

(4) Every Corporate Member shall be eligible to beelected to the Council or any Committee of the Instituteand shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges.

(5) Every Non-Corporate Member shall be entitled topresent at the meetings of the Institute but shall not have theright to vote.

7.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 6, a personwho is eligible for membership of the Institute shall beenrolled as a member upon payment to the Institute of a feeas may be specified in the rules made under this Act.

(2) The enrolment of a person as a member of the Instituteshall be effective until the thirty-first day of December ofthe year of enrolment and such enrolment may be renewedannually upon payment of a fee specified by the rules.

8.(1) Any Corporate Member of the Institute shall beentitled to take and use the title Chartered LandscapeArchitect and to use the abbreviation F.I.L.A. (Sri Lanka)after his name to indicate that he is a Fellow of the Instituteand to use abbreviation M.I.L.A. (Sri Lanka) after his nameto indicate that he is a Member of the Institute.

(2) Any firm of Landscape Architects, each of the partnersof which is a Corporate Member of the Institute, shall beentitled to take and use the title Chartered LandscapeArchitects.

Fee formembership ofthe Institute.

Use of titles.

5Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 2009

(3) Where one or more of the partners of a firm areCorporate Members of the Institute, the Council may permitsuch firm to take and use the title Chartered LandscapeArchitect or Chartered Landscape Architects as the casemay be, as part of the description of such firm, provided thatthe remaining partners are members of other professions.

(4) Save as aforesaid, no person or body of persons shalltake or use the title Chartered Landscape Architect orChartered Landscape Architects or the initials F.I.L.A.(Sri Lanka), or M.I.L.A. (Sri Lanka), or use the same asthe name or part of the name in any book, journal or otherpublication dealing with landscape architecture or thepractice of landscape architecture or the profession oflandscape architecture.

(5) No member shall take or use any designation orabbreviated designation referred to in subsection (1) of thissection and which, under that subsection only a memberenrolled in any grade of the class of Corporate Membersmay take or use, unless such person is for the time beingenrolled as a member in that grade.

9.(1) There shall be a Council of the Institute,(hereinafter referred to the Council), which shall be vestedwith the administration and management of the affairs of theInstitute.

(2) The Council shall consist of the President, the Vice-President, the immediate Past president in the case of asuccessive Council, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the AssistantSecretary, the Assistant Treasurer and such other number ofmembers, not less than two and not more than eight, electedor appointed in accordance with the rules of the Institute.The Council may provide for the election or appointment,from among the Non-Corporate Members of the Institute, ofnot more than two other persons as members of the Council,to represent such Non-Corporate Members or any classthereof:

Constitution ofthe Council.

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 20096

Acts notinvalidated byreason of avacancy & c,.

Meetings of theCouncil.

Provided however, that until the Institute has existed longenough for there to be sufficient number of persons whomeet the requirements for Council membership and corporatemembership under the rules of the Institute, the Presidentand other members of the Council shall be members whohave successfully completed

(i)a comprehensive full-time postgraduate degreecourse in Landscape Architecture or LandscapeDesign at a recognized university or institution;and

(ii)at least six years subsequently experience in thepractice or teaching of Landscape Architecture.

(3) Every member of the Council shall, unless he vacatesoffice earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold officefor a period as specified in the rules of the Institute.

(4) A member of the Council shall vacate office byresignation therefrom or if he ceases to be a member of theInstitute.

(5) In the event of death or vacation of office by a memberof the Council, another person shall be elected in place ofsuch member and shall hold office during the remainingperiod of the term of office of such member.

(6) Any member of the Council who vacates office byeffluxion of time shall be eligible for re-election as a member.

10.No act or proceedings of the Council shall bedeemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of anyvacancy in the Council or defect in the appointment ofelection of any member of the Council.

11.The meetings of the Council shall be held in suchmanner as specified in the rules of the Institute.

7Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 2009

12.(1) The Council may, at any general meeting andby the votes of not less than two-thirds of the corporatemembers present and voting, make rules in respect of anymatter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect ofwhich rules are authorized or required by this Act to be made.Such rules when made, may, at a like meeting and in likemanner, be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by the provisions of subsection (1) of this section,the Council may make rules not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act and any other written law, in respect ofall or any of the following matters:

(a)the admission, registration and expulsion ofmembers; the qualifications and disqualificationsfor membership, the form and issue of certificatesof membership, the maintenance of a register ofmembers; the waiver or reduction and the effect ofnon-payment of membership fees and the rights,privileges and duties of members;

(b)the terms of office of the Council, eligibility forand the mode of election or appointment thereto,the resignation or vacation of office and the fillingof casual vacancies, the delegation of the powersand functions of the Council and the appointmentof committees, the annual report of the Council,and the adoption and use of the common seal;

(c)the rights, powers, functions and duties of theofficers of the Council;

(d)the summoning or holding of meetings of theCouncil, the annual general meeting, other generalmeetings and special general meetings of themembers of the Institute, the times, places, noticeand agenda of such meetings, the quorum thereofand the conduct of business thereat;

Powers to makerules.

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 20098

(e)the management of the property of the Institute andthe custody of its funds;

(f)the formulation of a Code of Professional Conduct;

(g)the procedure for disciplinary inquiries, includingthe appointment of Disciplinary Committees andthe provisions of legal assistance thereto, the formof complaints, the framing of charges, the furnishingof explanations in reply, the issue of notices, thesummoning of any person to give evidenceapplicable thereto, the maintenance of the recordof the proceedings thereat and the form and contentof the reports of Disciplinary Committees.

(h)the appointment of the staff of the Institute such asother officers and employees as may be necessaryfor the purposes of the Institute;

(i)the dismissal of and exercise of disciplinary controlover, such officers and employees;

(j)the fixing of wages or salaries or other remunerationof such officers and employees;

(k)the determination of the terms and conditions ofservice of such officers and employees; and

(l)the establishment and regulation of schemes forthe benefit of such officers and employees and themaking of contributions to any such fund orscheme.

(3) Every rule made under this Act, shall be published inthe Gazette.

(4)The members of the Institute shall be subject to therules for the time being of the Institute.

9Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 2009

(5) In the interpretation of any of the rules made inaccordance with subsection (2) and in any matter not providedfor therein, the decision of the Council shall be final.

13.(1) The Council may delegate to the President all orany of its powers relating to the appointment of other officersor employees to the staff of the Institute.

(2) The conditions of employment includingremuneration of any officer or employee appointed by thePresident under the powers delegated to him under thissection shall be determined by the Council, with theconcurrence of the President.

(3) Any person aggrieved by any decision taken underthis section may appeal therefrom in writing to the Counciland the decision of the Council on such appeal shall befinal.

(4) The dismissal by the President of any officer oremployee of the Institute shall not take effect unless suchdismissal is approved by the Council.

14.(1) No person shall be enrolled as a member of theInstitute

(a)if he has been adjudged by a competent court to beof unsound mind;

(b)if having been adjudged an insolvent or bankruptby a competent court, he has not been granted bysuch court, a certificate to the effect that hisinsolvency or bankruptcy has arisen wholly or partlyfrom unavoidable losses or misfortune;

(c)if he has been convicted by a competent court ofany offence involving moral turpitude andpunishable with imprisonment or similarpunishment and has not been granted a free pardon.

Delegation ofpowers of theCouncil.

GeneralDisqualifications.

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 200910

(2) The Council shall disenrol any person as a memberof the Institute, if he becomes subject to any disqualificationmentioned in subsection (1) of this section:

Provided, however, that such disenrolment shall notprevent the Council form subsequently re-enrolling suchperson if satisfied that he is fit to be enrolled.

15.(1) The Institute shall have its own fund.

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund of the Institute

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by Parliament;

(b)all such sums of money received by the Institute inthe exercise and discharge of its powers andfunctions under this Act; and

(c)all such sums of money received by the Institute asloans, grants and donations from sources within oroutside Sri Lanka.

(3) All sums of money required to defray any expenditureincurred by the Institute in the exercise and discharge of itspowers and functions shall be charged on the Fund of theInstitute.

16.The financial year of the Institute shall be thecalendar year.

17.The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionshall apply in relation to the audit of the accounts of theInstitute.

18.The seal of the Institute shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever except by the authority of a resolutionof the Council and in the presence of two members of theCouncil or, of the secretary and such other person as the

Fund of theInstitute.

Financial year ofInstitute.

Audit ofaccounts.

Seal of theInstitute.

11Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 2009

Council shall authorize for the purpose, who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

19.All members of the Council and officers andemployees of the Institute shall be deemed to be publicservants within the meaning and for the purposes of thePenal Code. (Chapter 19).

20. The Institute shall be deemed to be a scheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter26) and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

21.No member of the Council or officer or employee ofthe Institute shall disclose to any person, except for thepurpose of discharging his functions under this Act or whenrequired to do so by a court under any law, any informationacquired by him in the discharge of his functions under thisAct.

22.Any expense incurred by any person in any suit orprosecution brought against him before any court in respectof any act which is done by him under this Act or on thedirection of the Council shall, if the court holds that the actwas done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of theInstitute.

23.No writ against person or property shall be issuedagainst a member of the Council in any action broughtagainst the Institute.

Members,officers andemployees ofthe Institute tobe deemedpublic servants.

Institute deemedto be ScheduledInstitutionwithin themeaning of theBribery Act,(Chapter 26)

Prohibition ofdisclosure ofinformation.

Expenseincurred by anyperson to bepaid by theInstitute.

Prohibition ofissue of a writ.

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 200912

Offences andpenalties.24.Any person who contravenes the provisions of theAct shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on convictionafter summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable toimprisonment or to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupeesor to both such fine and imprisonment.

25.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

13Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape ArchitectsAct, No. 33 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.