PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

TEA SMALL HOLDINGS DEVELOPMENT
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 21 OF 1997

[Certified on 12th August, 1997]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 15,1997

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

+ TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price : Rs. 3.40 : Postage : Rs, 2.50


Tea Small Holdings Development (Amendment)
Act, No. 21 of 1997

[Certified on 12th August, 1997]
L.D.—O. 49/96,

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TEA SMALL HoLpincs DEVELOPMENT
Law, No. 35 oF 1975

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Tea Small Holdings
Development (Amendment) Act, No. 21 of 1997.

2. Section 14 of the Tea Small Holdings Development
Law, No. 35 of 1975 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended as follows :—

(a) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (c) of
that section of the following new paragraph :—

“(cc) to register and regulate Tea Small Holding
Development Societies and to provide
assistance to the members of such Societies
registered with the Authority. ” ;

(b

—

in paragraph (d) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “the produce of such lands.”, of the word “the
produce of such lands including the payment of
Statutory dues and remuneration to such persons
engaged in the production or the processing of the
produce of such lands.”.

3. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (kk) of subsection (2) of that section
by the substitution, for the words “and appeals from orders of
cancellation ;”, of the words “appeals from orders of
cancellation, liquidation after cancellation of registration,
powers of a liquidator and enforcement of orders made by a
liquidator ;”.

2—D 043295—8,550 (97/04)

Short title.

Amendment of
section 14 of Law,
No. 35 of 1975.

Amendment of
section 15 of the
principal
enactment.


Insertion of a new
section 17a in the
principal
enactment.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

2 Tea Small Holdings Development (Amendment)

Act, No. 21 of 1997

4. The following new section is inserted immediately
after section 17 of the principal enactment and shall have effect
as section 17a of that enactment :—

‘Societies to
be
registered.

17a. (1) A Society may apply to the Authority
for registration under the Law, in the manner
prescribed by rules together with the fee
prescribed therefor.

(2) A Society registered under subsection (1)
(hereinafter referred to as the “Registered
Society”) shall, by the name under which it is
registered under subsection (1), be a body
corporate and shall have perpetual succession and
may sue and be sued in such name.

(3) Every Registered Society shall have a
common seal which shall be in the custody of
such person as such Society may decide.

(4) Upon registration of a Society under
subsection (1), the Authority shall cause to be
Published in the Gazette, a Notification stating
that a Society has been registered in the name
assigned to it in the register and the date with
effect from which the Society has been so
registered ; and upon the cancellation of the
registration of a Registered Society, the Authority
shall cause to be published in the Gazette, a
Notification stating that the registration of such
Society has been cancelled’.

5. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SupERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PusticaTions Bureau, No. 32, TRaNsworks House,
Lotus Roap, Coomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.


