PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
3rd Session 1958-59

S fae +.

Date of Assent: September 16, 1958

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOVERNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GoVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post OFFICE Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1t

Price: 30 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958 3

‘yp. 2/57.

‘AN ACT TO REGULATE THE SLAUGHTER OF ANIMALS ; TO

«: BNABLE THE RESTRICTION, CONTROL OR REGULATION
OF THE REMOVAL OF ANIMALS FROM ONE ADMINIS-
TRATIVE DISTRICT TO ANOTHER ; TO MAKE
PROVISION FOR THE BRANDING OF ANIMALS AND FOR
THE ISSUE OF VOUCHERS IN RESPECT OF ANIMALS
WHICH HAVE BEEN BRANDED AND TO REGULATE THE
SALE AND TRANSFER OF SUCH ANIMALS ; TO PROVIDE
FOR THE SEIZURE AND DETENTION OF ANIMALS
WHICH COMMIT TRESPASS AND FOR THE ASSESS-
MENT AND RECOVERY OF DAMAGES FOR SUCH
TRESPASS ; TO PROVIDE FOR MEASURES FOR THE
IMPROVEMENT OF THE BREED OF ANIMALS; TO
REPEAL THE BUFFALOES PROTECTION ORDINANCE,
THE CATTLE ORDINANCE AND THE CATTLE TRES-
PASS ORDINANCE ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWJTW OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

| Date of Assent: September 16, 19581

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice’ and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows: —
| PART I.

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Animals Act,
No. 29 of 1958.

(2) Parts I, IJ, 111, 1V and VI shall come into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint
by Order published in the Gazette, and Part V of this
Act shall come into operation, throughout Ceylon or
in each such part of Ceylon as the Minister may
determine by Order published in the Gazette, on
such later date as the Minister may appoint by Order

8 published. 7 |
: PART II.
SLAUGHTER AND REMOVAL OF ANIMALS.

2 (1) No person shall slaughter, or.cause. or per-
mit to be slaughtered, anv cow (other than a cow
Imported far slaughter) unless that cow is certified
iy the appropriate authority to be—

(z) not Jess than twelve years of age, or
(b) incapable of breeding, or

" (c) unfit to be used for any agricultural purpose,
and except in accordance with such regulations as
May be in force under this Act relating to the
‘laughter of cows.

SJ. NR 24347—3,554 (7/58)

Short title
and date of
operation.

j
Slaughtd: of
cows and cow.
calves j
prohibited.


Regulations.

Repeal of
Chapter 329.

Cattle shove
age ol
eighteen
months to
be branded.

Cap. 380.

Return of
description
and brand
marks ov
cattle to be
furnished to
the Divisional
Revenue
Ofticer by
owners.

4 Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958

In this sub-section, ‘‘ appropriate authority),
means a Government Veterinary Surgeon, a Veta.

‘nary Surgeon employed by any local authority, or ayy

other officer appointed by a local authority to isgit
certificates under this sub-section. Be

(2) No person shall slaughter, or cause or permitt, "
be slaughtered, any cow-calf. aod

b Peat

any of the following matters :— sieht

(1) the restriction, control or regulation of the.’
reinoval of animals from one Administra. <

tive District to another : and -

(2) the conditions subject to which the slaughter*
of animals may be permitted. ey"

4. The Buffaloes Protection Ordinance is hereby:
repealed. fee)
PART IT. BS

spby

BRANDING OF CATTLE. a

5. Every person who has any cattle over the age:
of eighteen months belonging to him shall, unless:
brand marks have been made on such cattle in:
accordance with the regulations in force under the:
Cattle Ordinance and such brand marks have not be.
come indistinct, cause such cattle to be branded in,
accordance with such regulations as may be in force,
under this Act relating to the branding of cattle. >.

6. Every person who has any cattle belonging to:
him shall furnish, not later than the thirty-first day of:
January in each year, to the Divisional Revenue Officer:
of the Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division 1n which .
such cattle are kept a return, in such form as may be:
prescribed, of the description of, and the brand marks:
on, each head of such cattle: i
_ Provided that where this Part of this Act is brought -
into operation in any Divisional Revenue Officer’s
Division on any day in any monthiother than December
of any year, a return relating to cattle in that Division.
shall be furnished in respect of that year before the
expiry of one month after such day, and that where
this Part of this Act is brought into operation in any’
Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division on any day
December of any year, a return relating to cattle 12.
that Division shall be furnished in respect of that yeat-
before the end of January of the immediately followime::
year.


+
Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958 5)

‘7, Every Divisional Revenue Officer shall— Sindee
~ (a) maintain, in such form as may be prescribed, ferenve |
a register of the description of, and the maintain a

brand marks on, cattle within his Division; 3. ana

and to issue
(b) issue, or cause to be issued, to the owner of cate

cattle branded in accordance with such

regulations as may be in force under this

Act relating to the branding of cattle a

voucher in the prescribed form in respect

of each head of such cattle.

—°g, (1) A voucher issued in respect of a head of
cattle under the regulations in force under the Cattle
Qrdinance shall, unless the brand marks specified in
‘that voucher as those on that head of cattle have become
‘indistinct, be deemed to be in force as if it were a
-youcher issued under section 7.
| (2) Where in any legal proceedings any question
arises as to the ownership of any animal, the voucher
‘issued or cleemed to be issued under section 7 shall be
‘admissible in evidence and shall be sufficient prima
facie evidence of any fact stated therein as to the
ownership of that animal.

Power of

9. The Divisional Revenue Officer of any Divisional ("$9 .0".
Revenue Officer’s Division may, if he considers it Revenue
necessary, direct the owner of any animal tohave that 9ftcer fo
animal branded, within such time as he may specify, of an
with such other marks as he may require so as to indi- ppimel to
cate the locality in which that animal is kept and such _ marks to

, rr ‘nants indicate
owner shall carry out such direction. iecdlite,

10. There may be appointed for each Administra- Appointment
. of branding .

live District such number of branding officers as may officers.
be necessary for that District. '

11. Reeulations may be made in respect of all or
any of the following matters :—+
(2) all matters stated or required by this Part to
be prescribed ; |
(b) the procedure to be observed in the branding
of cattle; | 7
(c) the imposition and recovery of fees for the
pening of cattle and the disposal of such
ees; |
(2) the procedure to be observed in the sale and
transfer of animals which have been
branded; and
(e) all matters necessary for the identification of
animals and for the verification of their
ownership.

Cattle
vouchers.

Regulations.


Repeal of
Chapter 330.

Offence of

permitting .

animals to
trespass.

Power of the
owner or
occupier of
aby cultivated
private land
to seize and
detain any
animal tres-
passing on
such land.

Power of a
Government
Agent or a
person
authorised by
him to seize
apd detain
animals tres.
passing on
irrigation
works,
aerodromes,
salterns,
nines of
railway or
land apper-
iaining
thereto,
public roads,
‘public parks

or Crown lands.

Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958

42. The Cattle Ordinance is hereby repealed,

PART IV.
TRESPASS BY ANIMALS.

43. (1) No person who is the owner, or who is jy
charge, of any animal shall permit that animal {9
commit trespass on any private land which is under:
cultivation, or any irrigation work, aerodrome?
saltern, line of railway or land appertaining thereto:
public road, public park or Crown land, other than
jungle or a land set apart for the grazing of animals;

(2) For the purposes of this section and the succeed.

ing sections of this Part,

ce

irrigation work ”’ shal]

have the same meaning as in the Irrigation Ordinaneg,
No. 32 of 1946. sai

“af.

44. It shall be lawful for the owner or occupier
of any private land which is under cultivation to seize
any animal trespassing on that land and to tie up and.

detain that animal until—

t

(a) the full amount of the damages, if any, occa.

sioned by the trespass and assessed in the.
prescribed manner, and

'

(b) the fair expenses of maintenance of that |

animal during detention after seizure, |

are paid to him hy the owner or the person in charge
of that animal or are recovered as hereinafter provided.
from such owner or person and paid to him.

15.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Government Agent

of any Administrative District or any person autho
rised in that behalf by snch Government Agent to seiz.
any animal trespassing, within that District, on any
irrigation work. aerodrome, saltern. line of railway:
or land appertaining thereto, public road, public park,
or Crown land, other than'a jungle or a land set apatt.
for the grazing of animals, and to-tie up and defal

it until—

| :

(a) the full amount of damages, if any. occasioned.

by the trespass and assessed in the pres,
cribed manner, and ;

(b) the fair expenses of maintenance of that ant

mal during detention after seizure,

are paid to him by the owner or person in charge of.
that animal, or are recovered as hereinafter provided.
from such owner or person. 4


Animals Act, No. 29' of 1958 7

‘46. Every person authorised by a Government pecan by

WAgent to seize, tie up and detain any animal com- a Government
Fy . : he u - Ag selz
_jmitting such trespass as Is referred to in section 15 recnaciha .

‘shall, when acting or purporting to act in pursuance animals to be
‘of the provisions of that section, be deemed to he a STR aereanea

47. Every person authorised by a Government cates

‘Agent to seize, tie up and detain any animal com- authorised by
mitting such trespass as is referred to in section 15 4 cen to seize

‘shall be remunerated at such rates as may be pres- _ trespassing
cribed apimals,

18. (1) Where any animal is seized under  Parment of
‘ penalty by the

section 15 by any person authorised thereto by a — owner or person

’ . a : . 1 : : in charge of an |
Gove nment Agent, the owner or person In charge ee ernichse
of that animal shal] pay, in addition to the sums - seized by a

referred to in that section, a penalty not exceeding Fiinorisea

five rupees. hy the
Government
Agent.

(2) The amount of any penalty referred to in sub-
section (1) shall, when paid, be credited to the
Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

Wher pete seed dtc pak eal Liability of
19. Where any animal trespasses on any private {Uys Garson

land and the owner or occupier of that land or any _ in charge of
other person duly authorised by such owner or *2@

occupier is unable to seize, tie up and detain that trespass “

animal, but is able to prove the trespass by that tesa”
animal and in whose ownership or charge that

animal was at the time of the trespass, the owner or

person in charge of that animal shall be liable to pay

to the owner or occupier jof that land the same

damages and expenses as he would he liable to pay

under this Part if that animal were seized, tied up

and detained.

20. Any person who removes any animal from the Ent esderetice

seed

lawful custody of any person authorised to seize and Sf animate.
detain it under the provisions of this Part shall be

guilty of an offence. ss


Driving of
animals by
persons into
private lands,
irrigation works,
aerodromes,
salterns, lines of
railway or land
appertaining
thereto, public
roads, public
parks or Crown
lands and not
taking steps to
prevent damage,
an offence.

Seizure and
shooting of
animals which
are in the
habit of
trespassing,

Destroction
of stray pigs.

Disposal of
the carcasses
of animals
which are
destroyed.

8 * Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958

ey

21. Any person who without any lawful right
9

(z) drives any animal into or upon any lan@’é.
the occupation of, or cultivated jie

another person and who does not tag.

steps to prevent that animal from feeding.

upon or damaging any growing crop -gp;
produce of that land; or We

(6) drives any animal into or upon any irrigatj mn
work, aerodrome, saltern, line of railway:

or land appertaining thereto, public road?
public park or Crown land and who dogg’
not take steps to prevent that animal:
damaging such work, aerodrome, saltern;'
line of railway or land appertaining:
thereto, road, park or Crown land,
shall be guilty of an offence. -
22. If it is shown to the satisfaction of the ™
Government Agent of any Administrative District’”
that any animal is in the habit of trespassing, within °
that District, on any private land, or any irrigation:
work, aerodrome, saltern, line of railway or land.’
appertaining thereto, public road, public park or
Crown land and that such animal cannot be seized or |
identified, he—

(2) may authorise any person to seize such animal
while so trespassing or to identify it, and —

(5) may, if such person finds after reasonable
exertion that it is impracticable to seize or
. identify such animal, in writing permit
/ such person to shoot such animal within |
such specified area within thirty days after
the grant of such permission.

23. It shall be lawful for the owner or occupier
of any cultivated private land, or for any person duly
authorised by such owner or occupier, to shoot or
otherwise destroy any pig trespassing on such land,
if a notice warning the owners of pigs not to allow
such animals to stray on such land is exhibited in a
conspicuous place on such land.

24. The owner of every animal shot or otherwise
destroyed under the provisions of section 22 or
section 23 shall be entitled to remove the carcass of:
the animal, and if no claim to the carcass is made by
any person entitled. to remove it, the carcass shall be


Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958 9

gold by public auction by the Village Headman of
‘the Willage Headman’s Division in which the
“animal was shot or otherwise destroyed and the
“roceeds of such sale shall be credited to the Consoli-
“dated Fund of Ceylon.
3! 95. (1) Any person who fails to pay any sum due
“from him as damages or expenses under section 14
“br section 15, or as a penalty under section 18 shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to a fine not
exceeding twenty rupees. .
* (2) On the conviction of any person for an offence
nde sub-section (1), the Court shall, if satisfied that
ayment of any sum clue as damages or expenses under
section 14 or section 15 or as a penalty under section 18
has not been made, make order that such sum shall, in
addition to any fine that may be imposed on him under
sub-section (1), be paid by him within the time speci-
fied in the order, and, if such sum is not so paid, it
shall be recovered upon an order of the Court as if it
were a fine imposed by the Court.

. 26. Regulations may be made in respect of all or
any of the following matters :—

(a) all matters stated or required under this
Part to be prescribed;

(b) the giving of notice of the seizure or destruc-
tion of any animal causing trespass and
the person or persons to whom such notice
should be given; and

(c) all matters relating to the seizure and
destruction of animals committing
trespass.

27, The Cattle Trespass Ordinance is_ hereby:
Tepealed.

PART V.
CASTRATION AND BREEDING. '

. 28. No person shai] have in his possession any’
male animal over the age of one year and three
months unless such animal—
(az) has been castrated within three months after
attaining the age of one year; or
.(b) has been certified by a Veterinary Surgeon
or an authorised officer to be fit for
breeding. |

Failure to pay
damages,
expenses or
penalty an
offence, and
recovery of
damages,
expenses or
penalty.

Regulations.

Repeal of
Chapter 331.

Prohibition 3f
the possession
of certain

male animals,


Issue of
certificates
by Veterinary
Surgeons or
authorised
officers.

Tags io be
attached to
animals in
respect of
which certi-
ficales are
issued,

Issue of
false certi-
ficates by
Veterinary
Surgeons or
authorised
officers.

Canceilation
of certificates
issued by
Veterinary
Surgeons or
authorised
efficers.

Power of
Veterinary
Surgeon or
authorised
oicer to
order the
castration of
any animal
which is
unfit for
breeding.

{U Animals Act, No. #9 of 1988

29. (1) A Veterinary Surgeon or an authorised
officer shall, upon a request made by the owner of ay
male animal above the age of one yearor by any,
other person on behalf of such owner, if he 1s satigy’
fied that such animal is fit for breeding, issue to such!
owner or other person a certificate to the effect tha’

the animal is fit for breeding. We

(2) A certificate issued under sub-section (1) shall
contain the prescribed particulars relating to the:
identity and the description of the animal in respect;
of which the certificate is issued. ct

(3) Every person in possession of a certificate:
issued under sub-section (1) shall upon demand made.
therefor by any Veterinary Surgeon or authorised:

v « .
‘é

officer produce the certificate for inspection. &

(+) For the purposes of the certificate to be issued”
under sub-section (1) in respect of any animal, a:
Veterinary Surgeon or an authorised officer may fix:
the age of that animal after inspection if the owner:
thereof is unable to establish the age of that animal:

80. The owner of every animal in respect of which*
a certificate is issued under section 29 shall attach to
the lower hind part of each ear of that animal a metal.
tag of such pattern as may be approved by the:
Director.

31. A Veterinary Surgeon or any authorised officer’
who certifies that any male animal which is unfit for
breeding is fit for that purpose shall be guilty of am
offence. s

32. <A certificate issued under section 29 may be.
cancelled if the Veterinary Surgeon or authorised off;
cer by whom such certificate was issued is of the .
opinion that the animal in respect of which it was:

issued—
(a) is no longer fit for breeding by reason of senl-.
_ lity or other infirmity, or #

(b) is suffering from any contagious or iniectious :
clisease. ‘4

33. (1) Where any Veterinary Surgeon or autho:
vised officer is of the Opinion that any male anima:
over the age of one year is unfit for breeding, thal.
Veterinary Surgeon or authorised officer may direct the.
owner of, or the person in possession of, that anim:
by notice in writing addressed to such owner or persol:
to castrate that animal, ard such owner or person sha
carry out such direction. .


Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958 1]

_ (2) The castration of any male animal in pursuance
‘of a notice issued under sub-section (1) may—

(ay at the request of the owner or person in charge
of that animal be performed. or cause to
be performed, free of any charge by the
Veterinary Surgeon or authorised officer
who issued that notice, or

(6) at the expense of such owner or person be per-
formed by any other person to the satis-
faction of the Veterinary Surgeon or autho-
rised officer who issued that notice.

' $4. Regulations may be made in respect of all or
‘any of the following matters :—

(x) all matters stated or required under this Part
to be prescribed ;

(») a scheme for the grading of animals and the
use by the public of the stud and artificial
insemination services provided by the

(covernment.
PART VI.
GENERAL.

35. (1) The Minister may make regulations for
all matters for which regulations are required or autho-
rised to be made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation
on such date as may be specified in the regulation or,
if no such date is so specified, on the date of such publi-
cation. i

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
brought before the Senate and the House of Repre-
sentatives as soon as may be after the publication
thereof by a motion that ane regulation be approved.

(4) Any regulation which the Senate or the House
of Representatives refuses to approve shall be deemed
to be rescinded, but without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done thereunder. The date on
Which a regulation shall be deemed to be so rescinded
shall be the date on which the Senate or the House of
Representatives refuses to approve such regulation.

-. (5) Notification of the date on which any regulation
‘Wade by the Minister is deemed to be rescinded shall

be published in the Gazette.

Reguiatious.

Power of
Minister to
make
regulations.


12. Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958

Contraventions 36. Any person who contravenes any provision of.

SE ite this Act or of any regulation made under this Act shay?’

of the Act or be guilty of an offence. one
regulations na

made '\ t

thereunder, ; ‘ ee

General 37. Any person who commits an offence under thigs

penalty. Act shall, where no punishment is expressly provideg=

for such offence, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty”

rupees or to simple imprisonment for a term not ex’

z ceeding one month, and for a second or subsequent’:

offence to a fine not exceeding one hundred rupees or“

to simple imprisonment for a term not exceeding two.

months. iN

r ‘

“Interpretation. 88. In this Act unless the context otherwise -

requires— oA

~

te "e
““ animal ** means an ox or a buffalo and in Part:
1V includes a sheep, goat or pig:

>

‘* authorised officer ’? means any officer generally ©

or specially authorised in writing by the,

Director; os

“brand ’’ includes ear-tagging or ear tatooing:

and the marking of distinguishing letters .:

or numbers with chemicals; “be

‘“* Director ’? means the Director of Agriculture...

or any Deputy Director of Agriculture; ..°

‘* Jocal authority ’’? means any Municipal Coun;..

cil. Urban Council. Town Council or:

Village Committee: and Ny

‘* Veterinary Surgeon ’* means a qualified Veteri-..

nary Surgeon recognised as such for the...
purposes of this Act by the Directbr by:

«

! notice published in the Gazette.
