PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SECURED TRANSACTIONS (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 17 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 01st of April, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 96.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 05, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 20241

Short title anddate ofoperation

L. D. - O. 47/2015

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR AN INSTITUTIONALFRAMEWORK FOR THE REGULATION OF SECUREDTRANSACTIONS IN MOVABLE PROPERTY BY THEESTABLISHMENT OF THE SECURED TRANSACTIONSREGISTRATION AUTHORITY; TO SET OUTTHE POWERS , DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF SUCHAUTHORITY; TO PROVIDE FOR THE DETERMININGOF PRIORITIES AMONGST CREDITORS HAVINGCOMPETING SECURITY RIGHTS IN THE MOVABLEPROPERTY OF THEIR DEBTORS; TO SET OUT THERIGHTS AND DUTIES OF PARTIES TOSECURITY AGREEMENTS; TO PROVIDE FOR THEESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OFA REGISTER OF SECURITY RIGHTS IN MOVABLEPROPERTY; TO REPEAL THE SECUREDTRANSACTIONS ACT, NO.49 OF 2009; ANDFOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH ORINCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Secured TransactionsAct, No. 17 of 2024.

(2) The provisions of this Act, other than the provisionsof this section, shall come into operation on such date as theMinister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette (inthis Act referred to as the appointed date).

(3) The provisions of this section shall come into operationon the date on which the Bill becomes an Act of Parliament.

[Certified on 01st of April, 2024]

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 20242

PART I

PRELIMINARY

2. Subject to the provisions of section 3, the provisions ofthis Act shall apply-

(a)in respect of every transaction that insubstance creates a security right,irrespective of its form and without havingregard to the type of asset or the personwho has the title to the collateral that isthe subject of such security right,including but without limiting to,-

(i) chattel mortgage, conditional sale,debenture, fixed charge, floatingcharge, pledge, trust indenture or trustreceipt; and

(ii) an assignment, consignment, lease ortransfer of chattel paper, wherepayment or performance of anobligation is secured;

(b)to a transfer of an account or chattel paper,even where such transfer may not securepayment or performance of an obligation;and

(c)to a lease for a term over one year, evenwhere such lease may not secure paymentor performance of an obligation.

3. (1) Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, theprovisions of this Act shall not apply to-

(a)any lien granted by or under any lawunless otherwise provided, and to any non-consensual lien that is recognized bycourts;

Application ofthe Act

Exemption fromthe applicationof the Act

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 20243

(b)the transfer of an interest or claim in or under acontract of annuity or a policy of insurance, otherthan the transfer of a right to money or other valuepayable under a policy of insurance as indemnityor compensation, for loss or damage caused to acollateral;

(c)the assignment or transfer of an interest in thepresent or future wages, salary, emolument orcommission or any other form of payment for anywork undertaken or services rendered, theassignment or transfer of which is prohibited bylaw;

(d)the transfer of an unearned right to a paymentunder a contract, to a transferee who is to performthe transferors obligations under the contract;

(e)the creation or the transfer of an interest in anyimmovable property, including a mortgage, chargeor lease of any such property, other than-

(i)an interest in a fixture; or

(ii)an assignment of a right to payment under amortgage, charge or lease, where theassignment does not convey or transfer theassignors interest in the immovable property;

(f)the sale of accounts, chattel papers or goods aspart of a sale of the business out of which theyarose, except where the seller remains in control ofthe business after the sale;

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 20244

(g)the transfer of accounts made solely forthe purpose of facilitating the collection ofaccounts for the transferor;

(h)intermediated securities;

(i)a transaction that is subject to thePawnbrokers Ordinance (Chapter 90);

(j)the payments arising from or underfinancial contracts governed by anyagreement pertaining to the settlement ofsuch payment, other than any receivablesowed on the termination of all outstandingtransactions; and

(k)the transfer of an interest in goods held bya debtor where the goods are registeredunder the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),the Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51of 1979, the Merchant Shipping Act, No.52 of 1971 and the Civil Aviation Authorityof Sri Lanka Act, No. 34 of 2002.

(2) For the purpose of paragraph (h) of subsection (1),intermediated securities means securities credited to asecurities account and rights or interests in securitiesresulting from the credit of securities to a securities account.

4. A security right shall be considered to have beenperfected, when-

(a)it has been validly created in terms of PartIII of this Act; and

(b)all measures required to attain perfectionas provided for by this Act, have beencompleted.

5. (1) An unperfected security right in collateral, shallbe subordinate to-

Attainingperfection

Subordination ofunperfectedsecurity rights

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 20245

(a) the interest of a perfected security right;

(b)the interest of a creditor who has registereda notice of judgment with the Registrar,where such right was unperfected at thetime such notice was registered; and

(c)the right of any person under any law,whether statutory or otherwise, toparticipate in a distribution of movableproperty, subject to the interest of a creditorreferred to in paragraph (b).

(2) An unperfected security right in-

(a)collateral, shall not be effective against-

(i)an assignee in any insolvencyproceedings, if the security right isunperfected at the time of thebankruptcy; or

(ii) a liquidator appointed under theCompanies Act, No. 07 of 2007, ifthe security interest is unperfectedwhen the winding up order is made;

(b)chattel paper, documents of title or goodsshall not be effective against a transfereethereof, if the transferee-

(i)acquires the interest in the collateralunder a transaction that does notsecure payment or performance ofan obligation;

(ii)gives value; and

(iii)receives delivery of the collateralwithout knowledge of the securityright; and

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 20246

(c)tangibles other than accounts shall not beeffective against a transferee thereof, if thetransferee-

(i) acquires the interest in the collateralunder a transaction that does notsecure payment or performance of anobligation; and

(ii) gives value without knowledge of thesecurity right.

PART II

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SECUREDTRANSACTIONS REGISTRATION AUTHORITY

6. (1) There shall be established an authority called theSecured Transactions Registration Authority (in this Actreferred to as the Authority).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued inits corporate name.

7. The object of the Authority shall be to promote theinterests of the national economy by facilitating andparticipating in the regulation of secured transactions inmovable property, in compliance with the provisions of thisAct.

Establishmentof the SecuredT r a n s a c t i o n sR e g i s t r a t i o nAuthority

Object of theAuthority

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 20247

8. The duties and functions of the Authority shall be-

(a)to register security rights of movableproperty under Part VI of this Act;

(b) to register the rights of judgment creditors;

(c)to determine the policies related to theregistration system maintained by theBureau;

(d)subject to the provisions of this Act, todetermine the fees or any other charges tobe levied for services rendered by theAuthority; and

(e)to perform and discharge such duties andfunctions that are specifically assigned tothe Authority by or under this Act.

9. The Authority shall exercise such powers as may becomenecessary or appropriate in order to achieve its object and forthe effective performance and discharge of the duties andfunctions assigned to it by section 8 of this Act.

10. (1) The administration and management of the affairs ofthe Authority shall be vested in a Board of Directors (in thisAct referred to as the Board), consisting of the followingmembers:-

(a)the Governor of the Central Bank of SriLanka, or a person nominated by him as hisrepresentative, who shall be the Chairpersonof the Board;

(b)the Secretary to the Treasury or a personnominated by him as his representative;

Dutiesand functionsof theAuthority

Powersof theAuthority

Boardof Directorsof theAuthority

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 20248

(c)the Chairman and a Director of the Bureauor persons nominated by them as theirrepresentatives; and

(d)the Registrar of the Authority appointedunder section 16 of this Act.

(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of administeringand managing the affairs of the Authority, exercise, performand discharge the powers, duties and functions conferredon, assigned to or imposed on, the Authority by this Act.

(3) The Registrar of the Authority shall be the Secretaryto the Board and shall be responsible for maintaining a recordof the minutes of all meetings of the Board.

11. (1) The Board shall meet at least once in every quarterand the Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board.In the absence of the Chairman from any meeting of the Board,the members present shall elect a member from amongthemselves, to preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall bethree members and the Board shall regulate the procedure forthe conduct of its meetings and the transaction of businessat such meetings.

(3) All questions for decision at any meeting of theBoard shall be decided by the majority vote of the memberspresent at such meeting. In the case of an equality of votes,the Chairman or the member presiding at the meeting, shall, inaddition to his vote, have a casting vote.

(4) Any act, proceeding or decision of the Board shallnot be invalidated by reason only of the existence of anyvacancy among its membership or any defect in thenomination of any person who is nominated to represent amember of the Board.

12. (1) The seal of the Authority shall be as determined bythe Board and may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by it.

Meetings of theBoard

Seal of theAuthority

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 20249

(2) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary to the Board.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document, except with the sanction of the Boardand in the presence of the Chairman and one other member ofthe Board, who shall sign such instrument or document intoken of their presence.

(4) The Secretary to the Board shall maintain a registerof all the instruments and documents to which the seal of theAuthority has been affixed.

13. (1) The Authority shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority-

(a)all such sums of money as may be votedfrom time to time by Parliament for the useof the Authority;

(b)all such sums of money received as fees orcharges imposed in respect of servicesrendered by the Authority; and

(c)all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Authority by way of loans,donations, gifts and grants from anysource whatsoever.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authorityall such sums of money required to defray the expenditureincurred by the Authority in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

14. (1) The financial year of the Authority shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts tobe kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other financial transactions of the Authority.

Fundof theAuthority

Financial yearand the audit ofaccounts

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 202410

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations, shallapply to and in respect of the audit of accounts of theAuthority.

15. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of1971 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of thefinancial control and maintenance of accounts of theAuthority.

16. (1) The Minister shall appoint a person having suchqualifications as may be prescribed, to be the Registrar of theAuthority for the purposes of this Act (in this Act referred toas the Registrar), who shall be the Chief Executive Officerof the Authority.

(2) The Registrar shall be responsible for the generalsupervision of all matters connected with the registrationsrequired to be carried out under this Act and for the execrcise,performance and discharge of all the powers, duties andfunctions assigned to him by and under this Act. He shallalso be responsible for the administrative control of the officersand employees of the Authority.

(3) The Registrar shall not be liable for anything doneby him in good faith, in the exercise, performance or dischargeof any power, duty or function assigned to him by or underthis Act.

(4) The Minister may, for reasons assigned therefor, removefrom office the Registrar appointed under subsection (1).

(5) The Registrar may, with the written approval of theBoard and whenever he considers it necessary to do so,delegate in writing to any officer of the Authority, any power,duty or function assigned to him by or under this Act andsuch officer shall exercise, perform or discharge such power,duty or function, subject to the general or special directionand control of the Registrar.

Application ofPart II of theFinance Act, No.38 of 1971

The Registrar

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 202411

17. (1) The Authority may appoint such officers andemployees as it considers necessary for the efficient exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functionsas may be assigned by or under this Act.

(2) At the request of the Authority, any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and theSecretary to the Ministry under which that officer is employedand the Public Service Commission, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Authority for such period as may bedetermined by the Authority, or with like consent, bepermanently appointed to such staff.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsection 14(2) of the National Transport Commission Act, No.37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation tosuch officer.

(4) Where any officer in the public service ispermanently appointed to the staff of the Authority, theprovisions of section 14(3) of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, applyto and in relation to such officer.

(5) Where the Authority employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which he hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service with the Authority by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

(6) At the request of the Authority, any officer ofProvincial Public Service may, with the consent of that officerand the relevant Provincial Public Service Commission, betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority for suchperiod as may be determined by the Authority, or with likeconsent, be permanently appointed to such staff.

Staffof theAuthority

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 202412

18. The Registrar and all other officers and employees ofthe Authority shall be paid such remuneration and otherallowances, in such manner and at such rates as may bedetermined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister assigned the subject of Finance and shall be subjectto such terms and conditions of service, as may be determinedby the Board, by rules made in that behalf.

PART III

CREATION OF SECURITY RIGHTS AND RIGHTS OFPARTIES

19. (1) Except as otherwise provided for in this Act or inany other law, a security agreement shall be effectiveaccording to its terms between the parties to the agreementand against a third party.

(2) A perfected security right in proceeds shall beenforceable against a third party, irrespective of whether ornot the security agreement contains a description of theproceeds.

(3) Where a security agreement is in writing, the securedparty shall deliver a copy of the written agreement to thedebtor within ten days of its execution and if the securedparty fails to deliver a copy after a request is made by thedebtor, a Magistrate's Court shall have the power, upon anapplication made in that behalf by the debtor, to make anorder for the delivery of such copy to the debtor.

20. (1) A security right including a security right in thenature of a floating charge,attaches when-

(a)the value is given;

(b)the debtor has rights in the collateral or thepower to transfer rights in the collateral toa third party; and

Remunerationsto be paid to the Registrarand officersand employeesof theAuthority

Freedomof contract

Creationof a securityright

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 202413

(c)(i) the debtor has signed an agreement thatcontains a description of the collateralsufficient to enable it to be identified;or

(ii) the collateral is in the possession ofthe secured party or any other personon behalf of the secured party.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),where the parties to the security agreement have specificallyagreed to postpone the time of creation, the security rightshall attach at the agreed time.

(3) A security right shall not be enforceable against athird party, unless it has attached in the manner provided forin subsection (1).

21. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), a securityagreement may cover any property acquired after enteringinto such agreement:

Provided that a security right in property acquired afterentering into an agreement shall not become an enforceablesecurity right, until the debtor acquires a right to suchproperty.

(2) A security right shall not be created under a clausein a security agreement covering any property acquired afterentering into such agreement-

(a)in respect of crops that become such cropsmore than one year after the securityagreement has been entered into, exceptthat a security right in crops that is givenin conjunction with a lease, purchase ormortgage of immovable property may becreated, if so agreed, in crops grown in theproperty concerned during the term of suchlease, purchase or mortgage, as the casemay be; or

Security rightinmovablepropertyacquired afterthe agreement

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 202414

(b)in respect of consumer goods other thanaccessions, unless-

(i) the debtor acquires rights in themwithin ten days of the secured partygiving value; or

(ii) the debtor grants a security right in hispersonal assets to secure a personalguarantee, for a non-consumertransaction.

22. A security agreement may contain a provision to securefuture advances, provided that a maximum amount of moneythat may be so advanced is specified in the securityagreement.

23. An agreement by a debtor not to assert against anassignee any claim or defence that such debtor has againstthe debtors seller or lessor, shall be enforceable by theassignee who takes such assignment for value in good faithand without notice, except as to any defences that may beasserted against the holder in due course of a negotibleinstrument under the Bills of Exchange Ordinance(Chapter 82).

24. Where a seller retains an acquisition security right inany goods sold-

(a)the law relating to contracts of saleincluding the Sale of Goods Ordinance(Chapter 84) shall govern the sale and anydisclaimer, limitation or modification of thesellers conditions and warranties; and

(b)except as provided for in section 23, theconditions and warranties in a saleagreement shall not be affected by anysecurity agreement.

Agreement not toassert defenceagainst an assignee

Application ofthe Sale of GoodsOrdinance

Future advances

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 202415

25. Where a security agreement provides for a securedparty to accelerate payment or performance in the event thatthe secured party considers that the collateral is in jeopardyor that the secured party is insecure, the security agreementshall be construed to mean that the secured party has theright to do so, only in the event that the secured party ingood faith believes and has reasonable grounds to believe,that the prospect of payment or performance is or is about tobe impaired or that the collateral is or is about to be placed injeopardy.

26. (1) A secured party shall exercise reasonable care in thecustody and preservation of any collateral in the securedpartys possession and unless otherwise agreed upon, in thecase of a chattel paper or an instrument, reasonable care shallinclude taking necessary steps to preserve the rights againstprior parties.

(2) Unless otherwise agreed upon, if a collateral is inthe possession of a secured party-

(a)reasonable expenses, including the cost ofinsurance and payment of taxes or othercharges incurred in obtaining andmaintaining possession of the collateraland its preservation, shall be chargeableto the debtor and shall be secured by thecollateral;

(b)any risk, loss or damage, except if causeddue to the negligence of the secured party,shall be on the debtor, to the extent of anydeficiency in any insurance coverage;

(c)the secured party may hold as additionalsecurity any increase or profits, exceptmoney received from the collateral, and anymoney so received unless remitted to thedebtor, shall be applied forthwith in thereduction of the obligation secured; and

A c c e l e r a t i o nclauses

Custody andpreservation ofcollateral by asecured party

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 202416

(d)the secured party shall keep the collateralin a manner that it can be identifiable,however, fungible collateral may be co-mingled.

(3) A secured party shall be liable for any loss ordamage caused by such partys

(a)failure to meet any obligation imposed bysubsection (1) or subsection (2), but shallnot lose the security right in the collateral;and

(b)use of the collateral otherwise than asauthorized by subsection (4).

(4) A secured party may use the collateral-

(a) in the manner and to the extent providedfor in the security agreement;

(b) for the purpose of preserving the collateralor its value; or

(c) in accordance with any order made bya court.

27. (1) The debtor or an authorized representative of thedebtor may, by notice in writing given to the secured party,require such secured party to furnish to such person-

(a)a statement in writing of the amount of theindebtedness and the terms of paymentthereof, as of the date specified in thenotice;

(b)a statement in writing approving orcorrecting as of the date specified in thenotice, a statement of the collateral or partthereof as specified in a list attached tosuch notice;

Obtaininginformationabout thesecurityagreement

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 202417

(c)a statement in writing approving orcorrecting as of the date specified in thenotice, a statement of the amount ofindebtedness and of the terms of paymentthereof; or

(d)a true copy of the security agreement.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not applywhere the secured party is the trustee under a trust indenture.

(3) If the secured party claims a security right in all ofthe collateral or in all of a particular type of collateral ownedby the debtor, the secured party may indicate such fact, inlieu of approving or correcting the list of such collateralrequired to be attached to the notice under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1).

(4) Subject to the payment of any fee required undersubsection (6), the secured party shall respond to a noticeissued under subsection (1) within fifteen days of receivingthe same, and if the secured party without a reasonableexcuse-

(a)fails to respond within the fifteen daysperiod, the secured party shall be liable forany loss or damage caused thereby to anyperson who is entitled to receiveinformation under that subsection; or

(b)gives any response which is incompleteor incorrect, the secured party shall be liablefor any loss or damage caused thereby toany person who may reasonably beexpected to rely on such response.

(5) Where a person who receives a notice under sub-section (1) no longer has an interest in the obligation or prop-erty of the debtor that is the subject matter of the notice, suchperson shall, within fifteen days of the receipt of such notice,

Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 202418

disclose the name and address of the immediate successor insuch interest, and if known, the latest successor to such inter-est. If such person fails to make such disclosure without areasonable excuse, the person making the request shall, inaddition to any other remedy that may be provided for by thisAct, be entitled to apply to court under section 28, for anorder to comply with the request.

(6) A person to whom a request is made under thissection, may require the payment of a prescribed fee in ad-vance, for each request made, however, a debtor shall beentitled to a reply free of charge, once in every six months.

28. (1) On an application made in that behalf, a Magistrate'sCourt having jurisdiction shall have the power to make anorder-

(a)requiring the secured party or the personreceiving a notice under subsection (1) ofsection 27, to comply with the request madeby such notice;

(b)exempting the secured party either whollyor partly from complying with the noticegiven under subsection (1) of section 27;

(c) extending the time granted for complyingwith the notice issued under paragraph (a)of subsection (1) of section 27; or

(d)as it considers just in the circumstances.

(2) Any person who fails to comply with an ordermade by a Magistrate under subsection (1) commits an offenceunder this Act and shall on conviction be liable to a fine notexceeding rupees five hundred thousand or to imprisonmentfor a period not exceeding one year or to both such fine andimprisonment.

Power of court toissue an order ofcompliance

19Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

PART IV

PERFECTION

29. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 4 of this Act,possession of the collateral by the secured party or by anyother person on behalf of the secured party, shall perfect asecurity right in-

(a)a chattel paper;

(b)goods;

(c)an instrument;

(d)a certified security; and

(e)money.

(2) The registration of a security right under Part VI ofthis Act, shall perfect any type of collateral.

(3) For the purposes of subsection (1), the collateralshall be actually delivered into the possession and custodyof the secured party or his authorized representative, andcontinue to remain actually, ostensibly and bona fide in suchpossession, until such time as the secured party seeks toenforce its rights in respect of such collateral.

30. (1) A security right which is perfected by possessionin-

(a)an instrument or a certificate that a securedparty delivers to the debtor, for the purposeof-

(i)a sale or an exchange;

(ii) presentation, collection or renewal;or

(iii) registration of a transfer; or

(b)a negotiable document of title or goods heldby a bailee that is not covered by a

Perfection of asecurity right

Temporaryperfection

20Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

negotiable document of title, whichdocument of title or goods the securedparty makes available to the debtor, for thepurpose of-

(i)a sale or an exchange;

(ii) loading, unloading, storing,shipping or trans-shipping; or

(iii) manufacturing, processing,packaging or dealing with goods inany other manner, prior to their saleor exchange,

shall remain perfected, during the first ten days after thecollateral comes under the control of the debtor.

(2) On the expiry of the period of ten days referred toin subsection (1), the security right concerned shall becomesubject to the provisions of this Act that provide for theperfecting of a security right.

31. (1) Where dealing with a collateral gives rise toproceeds, the security right in such collateral-

(a)continues, unless the secured partyexpressly or impliedly authorizes thedealing with the collateral free of thesecurity right; and

(b)extends automatically to the proceeds,even though it may not be covered by thesecurity agreement.

(2) If a secured party enforces a security right againstboth the collateral and the proceeds, the amount secured bythe security right in the collateral and the proceeds shall belimited to the market value of the collateral at the date of thedealing.

(3) A security right in proceeds shall be a continuouslyperfected security right, if the interest in the collateral wasperfected when the proceeds arose.

Perfection as toproceeds

21Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

(4) Where a security right in the original collateral isperfected otherwise than by registration, the security right inthe proceeds becomes unperfected ten days after the debtoracquires an interest in the proceeds, unless the security rightin the proceeds is perfected under this Act.

32. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 4 of this Act, asecurity right in goods in the possession of a bailee who hasissued a negotiable document of title covering it, is perfectedby perfecting a security right in the document, and any securityright in such goods otherwise perfected while they are socovered, shall become subject to the perfected security rightin such negotiable document of title.

(2) A security right in collateral in the possession of aperson other than the debtor, the debtors agent or a baileereferred to in subsection (1), may be perfected by-

(a)the issuance of a document of title in thename of the secured party;

(b)the possession on behalf of the securedparty; or

(c)registration.

33. (1) Where a debtor sells or leases goods that are subjectto a security right, the security right reattaches to the goods,if-

(a)the buyer or lessee has taken the goodsfree of the security right, under paragraph(a) of subsection (1) of section 31orsubsection (1) or (2) of section 34; and

(b)the obligation secured remains unpaid orunperformed.

(2) Where a security right in goods reattaches in thecircumstances referred to in subsection (1), any question asto-

Perfectionwhere thegoods are heldby a bailee

Perfection andpriority ofreturned, seizedor repossessedgoods

22Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

(a)whether or not the security right in thegoods is perfected; and

(b)the time of its perfection or registration,

shall be determined as if the goods had not been sold orleased.

(3) Where a sale or lease of goods creates an accountor chattel paper and the account or chattel paper is transferredto a secured party and the goods are returned or repossessedby the seller or the lessor, the transferee of the account or thechattel paper shall have a security right in such goods.

(4) A security right in goods arising under subsection(3) is perfected if the security right in the account or thechattel paper was also perfected, but becomes unperfectedon the expiry of ten days after the return or repossession ofthe goods, unless the transferee registers a financingstatement in respect of the security right or takes possessionof the goods, before the expiry of that period.

(5) If a transferee of an account obtains a perfectedsecurity right in goods under subsections (3) and (4), for thepurpose of determining the transferees priority as to thegoods, the transferee shall be deemed to have perfected asecurity right in the goods at the time the transferees securityright in the account was perfected.

(6) Where a transferee of chattel paper obtains aperfected security right in goods under subsections (3) and(4), then as between-

(a)the transferee and the holder of a perfectedsecurity right that attached undersubsection (1), the person who had priorityto the chattel paper shall also have priorityto the goods; and

(b)the transferee and a person other than theholder of a perfected security right that

23Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

attached under subsection (1), for thepurpose of determining the transfereespriority as to the goods, the transferee shallbe deemed to have perfected a securityright in the goods at the time thetransferees security right in the chattelpaper was perfected.

34. (1) A buyer of goods from a seller who sells the goodsin the ordinary course of business, takes them free of anysecurity right therein given by the seller, even though it isperfected and the buyer knows of it, unless the buyer wasalso aware that the sale constituted a breach of the securityagreement.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall becomeapplicable, whether or not-

(a)the buyer took possession of the goods;

(b)the seller was in possession of the goodsat any time;

(c)the title to the goods passed to the buyer;or

(d)the seller took a security right in the goods.

(3) In a lease of goods by a lessor who leases goodsin the ordinary course of business, the lessee holds the goodsto the extent of the lessees rights under the lease free fromany security right therein given by the lessor, unless thelessee was also aware that the lease constituted a breach ofthe security agreement.

(4) The provisions of subsection (3) applies, whetheror not-

(a)the lessee took possession of the goods;or

Transactions inthe ordinarycourse ofbusiness

24Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

(b)the lessor was in possession of the goodsat any time.

(5) A purchaser of chattel paper who takes possessionof it in the ordinary course of business and gives new value,has priority over any security right in it that-

(a)was perfected by registration, if thepurchaser was not aware at the time oftaking possession that the chattel paperwas subject to a security right; or

(b)has attached to proceeds of an inventoryunder section 31, whatever the extent ofthe purchasers awareness.

(6) A purchaser of collateral that is an instrument ornegotiable document of title, has priority over any securityright therein perfected by registration or temporarily perfectedunder section 31 or 32, if the purchaser-

(a) gave value for the collateral purchased;

(b)purchased the collateral withoutknowledge that it was subject to a securityright; and

(c)has taken possession of the collateral.

35. The rights of a person who is

(a)a holder in due course of a bill, note orcheque within the meaning of the Bills ofExchange Ordinance (Chapter 82); or

(b)a transferee from the debtor of money,

shall not be affected by any provisions of this Act.

Negotiableinstruments, &c

25Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

PART V

PRIORITIES

36. (1) The following general rules of priority shall applyto security rights in the same collateral:-

(a)priority between security rights perfectedby registration shall be determined by thedate of registration, regardless of the dateof perfection;

(b)priority between a security right perfectedby registration and a security rightperfected by possession shall bedetermined by whether the financingstatement was registered beforepossession; and

(c)priority between unperfected securityrights shall be determined by the date ofthe creation of such security rights.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1)-

(a)a continuously perfected security rightshall be treated at all times as if perfectedby the method by which it was originallyperfected; and

(b)the time of registration, possession orperfection of a security right in the originalcollateral, shall be the time of suchregistration, possession or perfection of thesecurity right in its proceeds.

(3) The transferee of a security right shall acquire thesame priority with respect to the security right as the transferorhad, at the time of the transfer.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5), thepriority which a security right has under subsection (1) shallalso apply to all future advances.

General rulesgoverningpriority

26Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

(5) A perfected security right has priority over theinterest of a judgment creditor referred to in paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 5, only to the extent of-

(a)advances made before the judgmentcreditor registers the notice of judgmentreferred to in that paragraph;

(b)advances made before the secured partyhas knowledge of the registration of thenotice of judgment referred to in thatparagraph;

(c)advances made in accordance with astatutory requirement or a legally bindingobligation owing to a person other thanthe debtor, entered into by the securedparty before acquiring the knowledgereferred to in paragraph (b); and

(d)reasonable costs and expenses incurred bythe secured party for the protection,preservation, maintenance or repair of thecollateral.

37. (1) An acquisition security right in inventory or itsproceeds shall have priority over any other security right inthe same collateral given by the same debtor, if -

(a) the acquisition security right was perfectedat the time the debtor obtained possessionof the inventory or a third party at therequest of the debtor obtained or heldpossession of the inventory;

(b)before the debtor receives the possessionof the inventory, the secured party of theacquisition security right gives notice inwriting to every other secured party whohas, before the date of registration by thesecured party of the acquisition security

Priority ofacquisitionsecurity rights

27Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

right, registered a financing statement thatdescribes the collateral as or as including-

(i)items or types of inventory, all orsome of which are the same as theitems or types of inventory that willbe subject to the acquisition securityright;

(ii) inventory; or

(iii) accounts; and

(c)the notice referred to in paragraph (b) statesthat the person giving it has or expects toacquire an acquisition security right ininventory of the debtor, describing suchinventory by item or type.

(2) Except where the collateral or its proceeds is eitherinventory or its proceeds, an acquisition security right incollateral or its proceeds shall have priority over any othersecurity right in the same collateral given by the same debtor,if the acquisition security right-

(a)in the case of a collateral other than anintangible collateral, was perfected beforeor within ten days after the debtor obtainedpossession of the collateral as the debtor,or a third party at the request of the debtorobtained or held possession of thecollateral, whichever occurs earlier; or

(b)in the case of an intangible collateral, wasperfected before or within ten days afterthe creation of the acquisition securityright in the intangible collateral.

(3) If more than one acquisition security right is givenpriority due to the application of the provisions ofsubsections (1) and (2), the acquisition security right, if any,

28Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

of the seller, shall have priority over any other acquisitionsecurity right given by the same debtor.

38. A lien on goods that arises as a result of providing inthe ordinary course of business, materials or services inrespect of the goods, shall have priority over a perfected orunperfected security right in such goods, unless the lienarises under any law which provides that it shall not havesuch priority.

39. (1) A perfected security right in crops or their proceedsgiven not more than six months prior to such crops becominggrowing crops by planting or otherwise in order to enablethe debtor to produce the crops during the production season,shall have priority over an earlier perfected security right inthe same collateral, to the extent that the earlier interestsecures obligations that were due more than six months priorto the crops becoming growing crops by planting orotherwise, even though the person giving value had noticeof the earlier security right.

(2) Where more than one perfected security right isgiven priority due to the application of subsection (1), eachshall rank equally according to the ratio that the amountadvanced with respect to each bears to the total amountadvanced.

40. (1) A security right in goods that attached-

(a)before the goods became a fixture, shallhave priority as to such fixture, over theclaim of any person who has an interest inthe immovable property; or

(b)after the goods became a fixture, shall havepriority as to the fixture over the claim ofany person who subsequently acquired aninterest in the immovable property, but notover any person who had a registeredinterest in the immovable property at the

Priority of itemsfor materials andservices

Security right incrops

Security right infixtures

29Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

time the security right in the goods attachedand who has not consented in writing tothe security right or disclaimed an interestin the fixture.

(2) A security right referred to in subsection (1), shallbe subordinate to the interest of-

(a)a subsequent purchaser for value of aninterest in the immovable property; or

(b)a creditor with a prior encumbrance ofrecord on the immovable property, to theextent that the creditor makes subsequentadvances,

if the subsequent purchase or the subsequent advance undera prior encumbrance of record is made or contracted withoutthe knowledge of the security right and prior notice of it beingregistered in accordance with Chapter III of the Registrationof Documents Ordinance (Chapter 117).

(3) Where a secured party has an interest in a fixturethat has priority over the claim of a person having an interestin the immovable property, the secured party may, on defaultand subject to the provisions of this Act relating to default,remove the fixture from the immovable property if, unlessotherwise agreed, the secured party reimburses any personhaving an encumbrance or the owner of the immovableproperty who is not the debtor, for the cost of repairing anyphysical injury, excluding diminution in value of theimmovable property, caused by the absence of the fixture orby the necessity for replacement.

(4) A person who is entitled to any reimbursementunder subsection (3) may refuse permission for the removalof the fixture, until the secured party has given adequatesecurity for the reimbursement.

(5) A secured party who has the right to remove afixture from an immovable property shall serve on each personwhose name appears in the records maintained by the relevant

30Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

Land Registry Office as having an interest in such immovableproperty, a notice in writing of the secured partys intentionto remove the fixture. Such notice shall contain the followinginformation:-

(a) the name and address of the secured party;

(b)a description of the fixture to be removed,which is sufficient to enable it to beidentified;

(c)the amount required to satisfy theobligation secured by the security right ofthe secured party;

(d)a description of the immovable property towhich the fixture is affixed, which issufficient to enable the immovable propertyto be identified; and

(e)a statement of the intention to remove thefixture unless the amount secured is paidon or before a date specified in the notice,which date shall be not less than ten daysafter the service of the notice.

(6) The notice referred to in subsection (5) shall beserved, by sending the same by registered post, to the addressof the person to be notified as it appears in the records of theappropriate Registry, or in the case of a company, at itsregistered office or to the address of an attorney authorizedto accept any notice on its behalf.

(7) A person having an interest in any immovableproperty that is subject to a security right in a fixture may,before such fixture has been removed from such property bythe secured party in accordance with the provisions ofsubsection (3), retain the fixture, upon payment to the securedparty of the amount owing in respect of the security righthaving priority over such persons interest.

31Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

41. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and(3) and of section 42, a security right in goods that attached-

(a)before such goods became an accession,shall have priority as to the accession, overthe claim of any person in respect of thewhole; and

(b)after the goods became an accession, shallhave priority as to the accession, over theclaim of any person who subsequentlyacquired an interest in the whole, but notover the claim of any person who had aninterest in the whole of the goods on thedate the security right attached to theaccession, and who has not consented inwriting to the security right in the accessionor disclaimed an interest in the accession,as part of the whole.

(2) A security right referred to in subsection (1) shallbe-

(a)subordinate to the interest of-

(i) a subsequent buyer of an interest inthe whole of the goods; and

(ii) a creditor with a prior perfected securityright in the whole of the goods, to theextent that the creditor makessubsequent advances,

if the subsequent sale or the subsequentadvance under the prior perfected securityright, is made or contracted for, before thesecurity right is perfected; and

(b)subordinate to the interest of a creditor whoregisters a notice of judgment or notice ofclaim, before the security right is perfected.

Security right inaccession

32Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)of subsection (2), an acquisition security right in an accessionthat is perfected before or within ten days after the debtorobtains possession of the accession, shall have priority overthe interest of a creditor referred to in that paragraph.

(4) If a secured party has an interest in an accessionthat has priority over the claim of any person having aninterest in the whole, the secured party may, on default andsubject to the provisions of this Act relating to default, removethe accession from the whole, if, unless otherwise agreed,the secured party reimburses any person having anencumbrance or the owner of the whole of the goods who isnot the debtor, for the cost of repairing any physical injury,excluding diminution in value of the whole, caused by theabsence of the accession or by the necessity of replacement.

(5) A person entitled to any reimbursement undersubsection (4) may refuse permission to remove theaccession, until the secured party has given adequate securityfor the reimbursement.

(6) A secured party who has the right to remove anaccession from the whole, shall serve on each person knownto the secured party as having an interest in the balance ofthe goods and on any person with a security right in suchbalance, perfected by registration against the name of thedebtor through the serial identification number of suchbalance of the goods, if such number is required forregistration, a notice in writing of the secured partysintention to remove the accession, containing-

(a)the name and address of the secured party;

(b)a description of the accession to beremoved, sufficient to enable it to beidentified;

(c)the amount required to satisfy theobligation secured by the security right ofthe secured party;

33Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

(d)a description of the other goods sufficientto enable them to be identified; and

(e)a statement of the intention to remove theaccession from the whole, unless theamount secured is paid on or before a datespecified in the notice, which date shallnot be less than ten days after the serviceof the notice.

(7) The notice referred to in subsection (6) shall beserved by registered post, at least ten days before theaccession is removed.

(8) A person having an interest in the whole that issubject to a security right in the accession may, before theaccession has been removed by the secured party inaccordance with the provisions of subsection (4), retain theaccession upon payment to the secured party of the amountowing in respect of the security right having priority oversuch persons interest.

42. (1) A perfected security right in goods thatsubsequently become part of a product or mass of a product,continues in such product or mass, if-

(a)the goods are so manufactured,processed, assembled or co-mingled thattheir identity is lost in the product or in themass of the product; and

(b)more than one security right attaches tothe product or the mass of the product,

and the secured parties shall rank equally according to theratio that the cost of the goods to which each interestoriginally attached, bears to the cost of the total product orthe mass.

(2) Proceeds in the form of funds that become co-mingled with other funds, so that they are no longeridentifiable-

Security right inprocessed or co-mingled assets

34Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

(a)shall nevertheless be treated as identifiableproceeds; and

(b)if at any time after the co-mingling takesplace the total amount of the funds is foundto be less than the amount of the proceedsprior to co-mingling, then the competingclaimants shall share the co-mingled fundson a pro rata basis.

43. A security right in a right to payment under a lease ofimmovable property to which this Act applies, shall besubordinate to the interest of a person who acquires for valuethe lessors interest in the lease or in the immovable propertywhich is the subject matter of the lease, if the interest or thenotice thereof of the person is registered in the relevant LandRegistry Office before the interest or notice thereof of thesecured party is registered in such relevant Land RegistryOffice.

44. A security right in a payment under a mortgage orcharge of immovable property to which this Act applies, shallbe subordinate to the interest of a person who acquires forvalue the mortgagees or chargees interest in the mortgageor the charge, if the interest of the person is registered in therelevant Land Registry Office before a notice of the securityright is registered in such relevant Land Registry Office.

45. (1) A secured party may, by a security agreement or bya separate agreement entered into between the competingclaimants, subordinate the secured partys security right toany other interest and such subordination shall be effectiveaccording to its terms.

(2) A subordination shall be effective according to itsterms between the parties and may be enforced by a thirdparty, if the third party is the person or one of the class ofpersons for whose benefit the subordination was intended.

Right topayment under alease ofimmovableproperty

Right topayment under amortgage ofimmovableproperty

Voluntarysubordination

35Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

46. The rights of a debtor in collateral may be transferredvoluntarily or otherwise, notwithstanding any provision inthe security agreement prohibiting transfer or declaring atransfer to be a default, but no such transfer shall prejudicethe rights of the secured party under the security agreementor otherwise.

47. (1) Unless an account debtor has made an enforceableagreement not to assert defences or any claims arising out ofa contract between such account debtor and the assignor, anaccount debtor may set up by way of a defence against theassignee-

(a)all defences available to the account debtoragainst the assignor arising out of the termsof the contract or a related contract,including equitable set-off andmisrepresentation; and

(b)the right to set-off any debt owing to theaccount debtor by the assignor, that waspayable to the account debtor before thedebtor received notice of the assignment.

(2) A person obligated on an account or chattel papermay pay the assignor until the person receives noticereasonably identifying the relevant rights that the account orchattel paper has been assigned and, if requested by theaccount debtor, the assignee shall furnish proof within areasonable time that the assignment has been made and if theassignee does not do so, the person may pay the assignor.

(3) To the extent that the right to payment or partpayment under a contract which has been assigned has notbeen earned by performance and despite notice of theassignment, any modification of, or substitution for thecontract made in good faith and in accordance with reasonable

Assignment ofintangibles etc,and rights ofthird partyaccount debtors

Alienation of adebtors rightsin collateral

36Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

commercial standards and without material adverse effectupon the assignees rights under the contract or theassignors ability to perform the contract, shall be effectiveagainst the assignee, unless the person obligated on theaccount or chattel paper has otherwise agreed. However, theassignee shall acquire corresponding rights under themodified or substituted contract.

(4) A term in the contract between the account debtorand assignor that prohibits or restricts the assignment of, orthe giving of a security right in the whole of the account orchattel paper for money due or to become due, or that requiresthe account debtors consent to such assignment or suchgiving of a security right, shall be-

(a)binding on the assignor, only to the extentof making the assignor liable to theaccount debtor for breach of their contract;and

(b)unenforceable against third parties.

(5) For the purpose of this section, account debtormeans a person who is obligated on an account or on chattelpaper.

PART VI

REGISTRATION

48. (1) The powers, duties and functions pertaining tothe registration of security rights of movable property shallbe exercised, performed and discharged by the Authority.

Registration ofsecurity rightsand theestablishmentof the Register

37Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

(2) The Bureau shall, for the purpose of this Act,establish, maintain and operate a register to be called andknown as the Register of Security Rights in Movable Property(hereinafter referred to as the Register).

(3) The Register shall be maintained in such manneras to facilitate a search easily and promptly, using any one ormore of the criteria specified below:-

(a)by the unique identification number of thedebtor;

(b)by the financing statement number; or

(c)by any other additional criteria as may beprescribed.

49. (1) In order to perfect a security right by registrationunder this Act, a financing statement prepared in theprescribed form shall be required to be registered with theRegistrar.

(2) A person filing a financing statement is required toconfirm that the security agreement, to which it relates, hasbeen made or that the debtor consents to the filing of suchstatement.

(3) A financing statement-

(a)that is not in accordance with the formprescribed for the same and does notcomply with the requirements imposed bythe provisions of this Act or any relevantregulations made in that behalf;

(b)in respect of which the prescribed fee hasnot been paid or an arrangement for payingthe filing fee is not in place; or

(c)in which any mandatory fields required tobe filled when registering electronically,have not been duly completed,

Applicationforregistrationof securityrights

38Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

Financingstatement

When aregistrationbecomeseffective

may be rejected by the Registrar.

50. (1) A financing statement-

(a)may be filed before or after the securityagreement to which it relates is made,except where the collateral consists ofconsumer goods;

(b)may relate to more than one security rightcreated or provided for in more than onesecurity agreement between the parties,except where the collateral consists ofconsumer goods; and

(c)shall include the following information:-

(i)the name of the debtor;

(ii) the debtors unique identificationnumber;

(iii) the name and address of the securedparty or its agent;

(iv) a description of the collateral in theprescribed manner;

(v) the duration of the filing;

(vi) the maximum amount of obligationsecured; and

(vii) such other information as may beprescribed.

(2) A financing statement shall also disclose whetherthe secured party is a trustee.

51. (1) A financing statement that is filed shall become aregistered financing statement, when a date, time, and anumber (to be known as the financing statement numberare assigned to it by the Registrar.

39Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

Errors in thefinancingstatement

(2) A financing statement once registered shallcontinue to be effective-

(a)until it is discharged; or

(b)if the financing statement concernedspecifies a date on which its registrationceases to be effective and the registrationhas not by then been discharged, until thedate so specified.

52. (1) Upon the registration of a financing statement, theRegistrar shall deliver to the secured party named in thefinancing statement or its authorized agent, a verificationstatement in the prescribed form, using a prescribed methodof communication.

(2) A verification statement referred to in subsection(1) shall include the following:-

(a)the information contained in the financingstatement;

(b)the financing statement number; and

(c)the date and time of its registration.

53. (1) The registration of a financing statement shallbecome invalid if such statement contains an erroneousunique identification number which prevents the statementfrom being discovered. However, the validity of a financingstatement shall not otherwise be affected due to any defectfound therein, unless a reasonable person is likely to be misledmaterially by such defect.

(2) A failure to provide a description of any collateralin a financing statement shall not make the registrationineffective in relation to any other collateral described insuch financing statement.

(3) For the purpose of this section, a defect includesany irregularity, omission or error, other than an erroneousunique identification number.

Verificationstatement

40Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

54. (1) A registered financing statement may, at any timebefore it expires, be amended by the filing of an amendmentstatement.

(2) An amendment statement is registered when a date,time and a number are assigned to it by the Registrar.

55. (1) The registration of a financing statement may, atany time before it expires, be extended or discharged by thefiling of an amendment statement.

(2) A registration which is extended shall continue tohave effect until-

(a)the date specified in the amendmentstatement; or

(b)the date on which the registration isdischarged.

(3) For the purpose of determining priority, theeffective time and date for a registration that is extended,shall be the time and date of its initial registration.

56. (1) An amendment statement that does not meet therequirements imposed by this Act or any regulations madethereunder relating to the same may be rejected by theRegistrar.

(2) In addition to the provisions of subsection (1), anamendment statement may also be rejected by the Registrarfor any of the reasons specified in subsection (3) of section49.

57. (1) Where in relation to a security right the securedparty transfers an interest in the collateral, an amendmentstatement disclosing such transfer may be filed.

(2) The transferee of a security right or of receivables,which are subject of a transaction specified in section 2, shallnot be required to file an amendment statement in order forthe effectiveness of the registration to be continued against

Amendment of aregisteredfinancingstatement

Extension ordischarge ofregistration

Rejection ofanamendmentto a financingstatement

Notice oftransfer

41Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

an administrator or a liquidator or a person referred to insection 5.

(3) Where an amendment statement is filed undersubsection (1), but an interest in part of the collateral istransferred, the statement shall include a description of theinterest in part of the collateral which is transferred.

(4) An amendment statement disclosing a transfer of asecurity right may be filed before or after the transfer.

(5) Once an amendment statement is registered, thetransferee shall be regarded as the secured party for thepurposes of this Act.

(6) Where, in relation to an unperfected security rightthe secured party transfers an interest in the collateral, afinancing statement may be filed in which the transferee isdisclosed as the secured party.

58. (1) If a security right has been subordinated by thesecured party to the interest of another person, an amendmentstatement may be filed disclosing such subordination.

(2) An amendment statement referred to in subsection(1) may be filed before the registration of the financingstatement relating to the security right expires.

59. (1) Any person may search the Register subject to suchcondition or exception and in such manner as may beprescribed, including any requirement pertaining to thepayment of a fee.

(2) A search result that is certified by the Registrarmay be received in evidence in any court, as prima facieproof of the substance contained therein.

60. (1) Where a financing statement is registered and oneof the conditions set out in Column I of the Table set outbelow is satisfied, the debtor or any person with an interestin the property which falls within the description of thecollateral in the financing statement, may give a notice in

Notice ofsubordination

Searches

Debtor etc,may requireamendmentstatement

42Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

writing (hereinafter referred to as a requirement notice) tothe secured party named in the financing statement or itsauthorized agent.

(2) The requirement notice shall-

(a)specify the condition which is satisfied ;

(b)require the secured party to file anamendment statement, specifying theeffect as indicated in Column II of the Tableset out below, corresponding to thecondition set out in Column I of the Table;and

(c)inform the secured party that the failure tocomply with the requirement notice mayresult in the person who gives the notice,filing the appropriate amendmentstatement.

TABLE

Column IColumn IICondition Effect

That the obligation under allthe security agreements towhich the financingstatement relates has beenperformed.

That the secured party hasagreed to release part or allof the collateral described inthe financing statement.

To discharge the registration.

To amend or discharge theregistration so as to reflectthe terms of the securityagreement.

43Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

(3) Where the person giving a requirement notice isnot the sole debtor, he shall be required to give a copy of therequirement notice to every other debtor to whom thefinancing statement relates, within five working days of therequirement notice being issued to the secured party.

(4) Where the secured party fails, within fourteenworking days after a requirement notice is issued, to-

(a)comply with such notice; or

(b)(i)commence proceedings in any courthaving appropriate jurisdiction toobtain an order to maintain theregistration to which the requirementnotice relates;

(ii) notify the person who issued the notice;and

(iii) file in the prescribed form with theRegistrar, information about the casenumber and date of commencement ofthe proceedings,

That the description of thecollateral in the financingstatement includes an itemor a kind of property that isnot a collateral under asecurity agreement betweenthe secured party and thedebtor.

That no security agreementexists between the personsnamed in the financingstatement as the securedparty and the debtor.

To amend the description ofcollateral to exclude items orkinds of property that arenot collateral under thesecurity agreement betweenthe secured party and thedebtor.

To discharge theregistration or where thedebtor is not the sole debtor,to amend the registration.

44Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

Entitlementto damagesfor incorrectfiling

the person who issued the requirement notice may file anamendment statement as requested by such notice.

(5) Where the court does not give an order in anyproceeding commenced under subsection (4) within thirtyworking days or within such longer period as the court maydirect, the person who issued the requirement notice may filean amendment statement as requested by such notice.

(6) The provisions of subsections (4) and (5) shall notapply to a trust case, and in such a case, a court havingappropriate jurisdiction may, on application made in that behalfby a person issuing the requirement notice, direct that theregistration be amended or discharged, if-

(a)one or more of the conditions specified inthe requirement notice are satisfied; and

(b)the secured party does not comply withthe requirement notice for the purpose ofgiving effect to the order,

and the court may make such order as it deems appropriatefor the purpose of giving effect to the direction issuedby it.

(7) A requirement notice required to be issued underthis section, shall be issued in such manner as may beprescribed.

(8) For the purpose of this section, a trust casemeans a case in which the financing statement discloses thatthe secured party is a trustee.

61. (1) Where any person without a reasonable cause-

(a)files a financing statement confirming theexistence of a security right under anagreement, which in fact does not exist; or

(b)files a financing statement confirming thatthe debtor has consented to the filing ofsuch financing statement, when in fact thedebtor has not consented to such filing,

45Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

Requirementto notify theAuthorityabout theappointmentof areceiver, & c.,

the debtor shall have a right to recover damages from thatperson for any loss or damage caused to the debtor that wasreasonably foreseeable as likely to have resulted from suchfiling.

(2) Where a secured party fails to forward a copy of theverification statement to the debtor within ten working daysof receiving a copy of the same under subsection (2) of section52, the debtor shall have a right to recover damages fromsuch person for any loss or damage that was reasonablyforeseeable as likely to result from such failure.

62. (1) A person who-

(a)obtains an order for the appointment of areceiver or a receiver and manager of acompanys property; or

(b)appoints a receiver or a receiver and managerof a companys property under the powerscontained in an instrument,

shall be required to register such appointment with theRegistrar within seven days of making such appointment.

(2) A receiver or a receiver and manager of acompanys property appointed by virtue of an instrumentand who ceases to act as such, shall be required to file anamendment statement.

(3) A notice issued under this section shall be in theprescribed form and be issued in the prescribed manner.

(4) A person who fails to comply with therequirements imposed by this section commits an offenceand shall be liable on conviction before a Magistrates Courtto a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees.

63. (1) The filing of a financing statement or an amendmentstatement shall not constitute constructive notice or actualknowledge of its existence or contents, to any person.

Filing of afinancingstatement notto consitute anotice

46Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

(2) A purchaser who in the ordinary course of businesspurchases any collateral, shall not be required to inquire as towhether-

(a)the collateral has been charged or pledgedor in the case of receivables, sold; or

(b)the disposition constitutes a breach of theterms of the charge.

PART VII

GENERAL PROVISIONS

64. (1) Any legal or equitable principle governing the rightsand obligations arising under a security agreement shall,except in so far as they are inconsistent with any provision ofthis Act, continue to be applicable.

(2) All obligations arising under a security agreementunder this Act or under any other law shall be exercised anddischarged in good faith and in a commercially reasonablemanner.

65. If a person fails without a reasonable cause to dischargeany obligation imposed on such person by this Act, the personto whom such obligation is owed shall have a right to becompensated for any damage or loss caused to such person,which is reasonably foreseeable as likely to have resultedfrom such failure.

66. On an application made to a court having appropriatejurisdiction by a person having an interest in the collateral,such court shall have the power to make one or both of thefollowing orders:-

(a)an order determining a question relating tothe priority or entitlement to the collateral;

(b)an order extending or abridging,conditionally or otherwise, the time periods

Inconsistencywith theprovisions ofthis Act

Action fordamages

A court's powr todeterminepriorities andentitlements tocollateral

47Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

Service ofnotices

Members, theRegistrar andofficers andemployees,deemed to bepublicservants

granted under this Act for the compliancewith any requirements imposed by or underthis Act.

67. The serving of any notices required to be carried outunder the provisions of this Act, shall be carried out inaccordance with the relevant provisions pertaining to thesame contained in the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101).

68. (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided for in thisAct, in the event of any conflict between the provisions ofthis Act and any other law, the provisions of this Act shallprevail.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),in the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Actand the provisions of any other law providing for theprotection of consumers, the provisions of such other lawshall prevail.

69. The members of the Board and the Registrar and otherofficers and employees of the Authority shall be deemed tobe public servants, within the meaning and for the purposesof the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

70. The Authority shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning and for the purposes of theAnti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023 and the provisions of thatAct shall be construed accordingly.

71. (1) All expenses incurred by the Authority in any suitor proceeding brought by or against it before any court, shallbe paid out of the Fund of the Authority and any cost paid toor recovered by the Authority in any such suit or proceeding,shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

(2) Any expenses incurred by a Member of the Board,by the Registrar or any officer or employee of the Authority,in any suit or proceeding brought by or against such personbefore any court, in respect of any act which is done or

Conflicts withtheprovisions ofany other law

Authoritydeemed to bea ScheduledInstitution

Expenses tobe paid out ofthe Fund ofthe Authority

48Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

Rules

purported to be done by such person under this Act or onany direction issued by the Board, as the case may be, shall,if the court holds that such act was done in good faith, bepaid out of the Fund of the Authority, unless such expensesare recovered by that person in such suit or proceeding.

72. (1) The Minister may, from time to time, make regulationsin respect of any matter which are required by this Act to beprescribed or in respect of which regulations are authorizedto be made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, withinthree months after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval.

(4) Any regulation which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date of its disapproval,but without prejudice to anything duly done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulationmade by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette.

73. (1) The Authority may make rules in respect of mattersfor which rules are authorized or required to be made underthis Act or which it may consider necessary for the purposeof achieving its objectives.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Authoritymay make rules in respect of the following matters:-

(a)the manner and mode of application forregistration of security rights and ofjudgment creditors; and

Regulations

49Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

Repeals andsavings

(b)amount of fees or charges to be levied inrespect of services that are provided bythe Authority.

(3) All rules made by the Authority under subsection(1) shall be approved by the Minister and be publishedthereafter in the Gazette.

PART VIII

REPEALS AND SAVINGS

74. (1) The Secured Transactions Act, No.49 of 2009(hereinafter referred to as the repealed Act) is herebyrepealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the repealed Act-

(a)a security right that was registered underthe repealed Act and subsisting on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed dateshall continue to be a valid security right,for the purpose of satisfying therequirements specified in paragraph (b) ofsection 4 of this Act; and

(b)any civil or criminal proceeding institutedunder the repealed Act and pending on theday immediately preceding the appointeddate in relation to an instrument creating-

(i) a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale ofany movable property; or

(ii) (A) an interest in a fixture of anyimmovable property; or

(B)an assignment of a right topayment under a mortgage,charge or lease of anyimmovable property, where the

50Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

Interpretation

assignment does not convey ortransfer the assignors interestin the immovable property,

which has been registered under this Act interms of section 9 of the Registration ofDocuments (Amendment) Act, No. 18 of 2024shall be deemed to have been instituted underthis Act.

PART IX

INTERPRETATION

75. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -

accessions means goods that are installed in, oraffixed to, other goods;

account means a monetary obligation notevidenced by a chattel paper, a security oran instrument, whether or not theobligation has been earned byperformance;

acquisition security right means -

(a)a security right taken or reserved in acollateral to secure payment of all or partof its price;

(b) a security right taken in a collateral by aperson who gives value for the purposeof enabling the debtor to acquire rightsin the collateral, to the extent that thevalue is applied to acquire the rights;or

(c)the interest of a lessor of goods undera lease for a term over one year,

but does not include a transaction of saleby, and lease-back to, the seller;

51Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

amendment statement means a statement thatsatisfies the requirements imposed by thisAct and any regulations made thereunderand which is filed by the secured party orits agent, under section 54, 55, 57, 58 or 60of this Act;

Bureau means the Credit Information Bureau ofSri Lanka established by the CreditInformation Bureau of Sri Lanka Act, No.18 of 1990;

certified security means a security representedby a certificate that-

(a)provides that the person entitled to thesecurities is the person in possessionof the certificate; or

(b) identifies the person entitled to thesecurities;

chattel paper means a document in writing thatevidence, both a monetary obligation anda security right, in or in a lease of, specificgoods;

collateral means any movable property that issubject to a security right;

commercially reasonable means the adoption of aprocedure in the disposition of a collateralunder such conditions as may beconsidered reasonable according to theprevailing circumstances, calculated toobtain the best market price for the sameconsidering the prevailing circumstances;

consumer goods means goods that are used oracquired primarily for consumption or forany household purpose;

52Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

debtor means -

(a)a person who owes a payment or theperformance of an obligation that issecured, and who owns or has rights inthe collateral;

(b)a purchaser under a hire purchaseagreement or a lessee under a lease for aterm over one year;

(c)a purchaser who acquires goods subjectto a retention of title clause or under aconditional sale; and

(d)a transferor of an account or chattel paper,

and includes the transferee of a debtors interestin the collateral, where the context so permits;

default means-

(a)the failure to pay or otherwise perform theobligation secured when due; or

(b)the occurrence of any event or a set ofcircumstances whereupon, under the termsof the security agreement, the security rightbecomes enforceable;

diminution in value means the difference betweenbefore and after, of the value of any propertywhich has been damaged;

document of title means a writing issued by, oraddressed to a bailee, that -

(a)covers goods in the bailees possessionthat are identifiable or that are fungibleportions of an identifiable mass; and

(b)is in the ordinary course of business,treated as establishing that the person inpossession of it is entitled to receive, hold

53Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

and dispose of the document and thegoods it covers;

equipment means goods that are not an inventoryor consumer goods;

financing statement means a statement containingthe information required under paragraph(c) of subsection (1) of section 50, and,where the context so permits, includes anamendment statement and a documentregistered under the Registration ofDocuments Ordinance (Chapter 117),together with any writing that accompaniesor was registered to rectify, amend or renewsuch registration;

fungible collateral means goods of such natureor kind as can be freely exchangeable orreplaceable in whole or in part, for anotherof a like nature or kind;

future advance means the advance of any money,credit or other value secured by a securityagreement, whether or not such advanceis made pursuant to a commitment;

goods means movable property other than chattelpaper, documents of title, instruments,money and investment property, andincludes fixtures, growing crops, theunborn young of animals, timber to be cutand minerals and hydrocarbons to beextracted;

instrument means -

(a)a bill of exchange, a promissory noteor a cheque within the meaning of theBills of Exchange Ordinance (Chapter82);

(b)a letter of credit or an advance of credit,if the letter or advance states that it

54Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

must be surrendered upon claimingpayment thereunder; and

(c)any other writing that establishes a rightto payment of money and is of a type thatin the ordinary course of business istransferred by delivery with any necessaryendorsement or assignment,

but does not include a writing that constitutes apart of chattel paper, document of title, instrument,money or investment property;

intangible means movable property includingchoses in action that is not goods, chattelpaper, documents of title, instruments,money or investment property;

inventory means goods that are-

(a)held by a person for sale or lease orthat have been leased by that personas a lessor;

(b)to be furnished or that have beenfurnished under a contract or service;

(c)raw materials or work in progress; or

(d)material used or consumed in anybusiness or profession;

lease for a term over one year includes a series ofshort term leases of the same asset that inaggregate exceeds one year, but does notinclude-

(a)a lease of goods by a lessor who isnot regularly engaged in the businessof leasing goods;

(b)a lease of household furnishing orappliances as part of a lease of

55Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

immovable property where the goodsare incidental to the use andenjoyment of the immovableproperty; or

(c)a lease of goods of a prescribed kind,regardless of the length of the termof lease;

minerals includes oil, gas and hydrocarbons;

Minister means the Minister to whom theimplementation of the provisions of this Actis assigned;

movable property means-

(a)goods, a document of title, chattelpaper, security, instrument, money orany intangible property; or

(b)(i)an interest in a fixture of anyimmovable property; or

(ii) an assignment of a right topayment under a mortgage,charge or lease of any immovableproperty, where the assignmentdoes not convey or transfer theassignors interest in theimmovable property;

notice of change means data included in anyprescribed form required to be submittedto the Bureau, in order for a financingstatement to be discharged or otherwiseamended;

notice of judgment and notice of claim meansthe data in any prescribed form required tobe registered with the Authority to effect aregistration under this Act, and where thecontext so admits, includes the data

56Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

authorized in order to give effect to anamendment, renewal or discharge of suchregistration;

obligation secured, for the purpose of determiningthe amount payable under a lease thatsecures payment or performance of anobligation, means -

(a)the amount originally contracted tobe paid as rent under the lease; and

(b)all other amounts payable under theterms of the lease, including theamount, if any, required to be paid bythe lessee to obtain ownership of thecollateral, less the amounts paid;

pawnbroker shall have the same meaning as givento that term in the Pawnbrokers Ordinance(Chapter 90);

pledgor means a person who delivers goods inpledge or for pawn to a pawnbroker;

prescribed means prescribed by regulations madeunder this Act;

proceeds means identifiable or traceable movableproperty in any form derived directly orindirectly from any dealing with thecollateral or the proceeds therefrom, andincludes-

(a)any payment representing anindemnity or compensation for lossor damage caused to the collateral,including a right to an insurancepayment or proceeds therefrom; and

(b)any payment made in total or partialdischarge or redemption of chattelpaper, an instrument or anyintangible;

57Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

purchase includes obtaining by sale, lease,mortgage, pledge, lien, gift or any otherconsensual transaction creating an interestin movable property;

receiver includes a receiver and manager;

registered interest means a right in immovableproperty that is registered with a competentauthority;

secured party means -

(a) a person who holds a security rightfor the persons own benefit;

(b)a person who holds a security rightfor the benefit of another person;

(c)a trustee, if a security right isembodied in a trust indenture; and

(d)where the context so admits, includesa receiver;

security agreement means an agreement thatcreates or provides for a security right andincludes a document evidencing a securityright;

security right means an interest in movableproperty that secures payment orperformance of an obligation and includes,whether or not the interest securespayment or performance of an obligation,the interest of-

(a)a lessor under a lease for a term overone year; and

(b)a transferee of an account or chattelpaper;

58Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency

trust indenture means any security agreement bythe terms of which a body corporate, withor without a share capital and wherever orhowever incorporated, issues orguarantees debt obligations or providesfor the issue or guarantee of debtobligations, and appoints a person astrustee for the holders of the debtobligations so issued, guaranteed orprovided for; and

value means any consideration sufficient tosupport a contract and includes anantecedent debt or liability, andaccordingly new value means valueother than an antecedent debt or liability.

(2) Except as otherwise expressly provided for by thisAct, the determination as to whether any goods areconsumer goods, inventory or equipment, shall bemade at the time the security right is created.

(3) Proceeds are traceable, whether or not there is afiduciary relationship between the person who has a securityright in the proceeds as provided in section 35 and the personwho has rights in or has dealt with the proceeds.

76. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

59Secured Transactions Act, No. 17 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.