COMMUNITY BASED CORRECTIONS ACT, No. 46 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 10th December, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 10, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 10.25Postage : Rs. 5.25

(Internet Version)

1Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

Appointment ofCommissioner ofCommunityBased Corrections& c.

Short title anddate of operation.

H - 022545

[Certified on 10 th December, 1999]

L.D.O.28/99.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE IMPOSITION OF COMMUNITYBASED CORRECTION ORDERS BY COURTS IN LIEU OF SENTENCES OF

IMPRISONMENT; FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A COMMISSIONER OFCOMMUNITY BASED CORRECTIONS; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Community BasedCorrections Act, No. 46 of 1999;

(2) Parts I and III of this Act shall come into operation onthe day on which this Act becomes an Act of Parliament.

(3) Part II of this Act shall come into operation on suchdate as the Minister may appoint by Order published in theGazette. Different dates may be appointed in respect of differentjudicial divisions or judicial zones.

PART I

COMMISSIONER OF COMMUNITY BASED CORRECTIONS

2. (1) There may be appointed, by name or by office, aCommissioner of Community Based Corrections (hereinafterreferred to as the Commissioner) and such number of Deputyand Assistant Commissioners of Community BasedCorrections and other officers as may be necessary for theimplementation of the provisions of this Act.

(2) The act of appointment of every Deputy and AssistantCommissioner of Community Based Corrections shall specifywhether he is appointed as such for the whole of Sri Lanka orany part thereof.

2Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

DeputyCommissionersand assistantCommissioners.

3. Every Deputy Commissioner of Community BasedCorrections and every Assistant Commissioner of CommunityBased Corrections may, subject to the general direction andcontrol of the Commissioner, exercise, perform or discharge,within the area for which he is appointed, all or any of thepowers, duties or functions conferred or imposed on, orassigned to the Commissioner by or under this Act.

4. It shall be the function of the Commissioner -

(a) to exercise control over the community correctionscentres established for the purposes of this Actand over the Deputy Commissioners of CommunityBased Corrections. Assistant Commissioners ofCommunity Based Corrections and other officers ofthe Department of Community Based Corrections;

(b) to arrange with appropriate bodies, for the carryingout of community based correction orders;

(c) to provide advice to courts regarding the suitabilityof offenders for community based correction orders;

(d) to ascertain, identify, and advise, courts on thefacilities available for carrying out community basedcorrection orders;

(e) to provide advice concerning the most appropriateprogramme or special condition to be attached to acommunity based correction order proposed to beentered by court;

(f) to monitor, and provide surveillance and supervisionof , offenders in respect of whom community basedcorrection orders have been entered;

(g) to inform court of the failure to comply with anycondition of a community based correction orderwith a view to instituting proceedings undersection 14;

Functions of theCommissioner.

3Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

Communitybased correctionorders.

(h) to apply for variation of a community basedcorrection order, where necessary.

(i) to provide Community education regardingcorrectional principles, objectives and programmes.

PART II

COMMUNITY BASED CORRECTION ORDERS

5. (1) Notwithstanding any thing in any other Law, wherean offender is convicted of an offence other than.

(a)an offence for which the imposition of a minimumsentence of imprisonment is mandatory; or

(b)an offence, the penalty perscribed for whichincludes a term of imprisonment exceeding twoyears.

the court may, in lieu of imposing a sentence of imprisonmentor a suspended sentence of imprisonment or fine on suchoffender but subject to sections 6,7 and 8 enter an order(hereinafter referred to as a Community based correctionorder) in the prescribed form, ,in respect of such offender.

(2) In entering a community based correction order inrespect of an offender, the court shall have regard to the natureand gravity of the offence committed by the offender and theother circumstances relating to the commission of suchoffence,the pre-sentence report, if any, furnished in respect ofthe offender and the facilities available for carrying out suchorder.

6. (1) If a court finds a person guilty of an offence, it may,before passing sentence on such person and for the purposeof -

(a)determining whether it is suitable to enter acommunity based correction order in respect ofthe offender;

Pre-sentenceReport.

4Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

(b)ascertaining whether there are facilities forcarrying out such order.

(c)Obtaining advice as to the most appropriateconditions that should be attached to theproposed order,

require the Commissioner to furnish to court, a written or oralpre-sentance report on such offender on or before a specifieddate and at a specified place, and may adjourn proceedings toenable the report to be prepared:

Provided however that where the court adjournsproceedings as aforesaid, it shall fix the place, date and timefor the passing of sentance.

(2) If a court adjourns the sentancing of an offender underthe provisions of this section it may release the offender onbail.

(3) Where the Commissioner has been required to furnish apre-sentence report, orally, the Commissioner shall presenthis report in open court, and the offender to whom the reportrelates or his or her attorney-at-law shall be entitled to challengethe contents of such report.

(4) (a) Where the Commissioner has been required tofurnish his pre-sentence report in writing, the Commissionershall, a reasonable time before the date fixed for the passing ofsentance, cause a copy of his report to be made available, onsuch terms with regard to confidentiality as he deems fit, tothe offender to whom the report relates or his or her attorney-at-law and to the Attorney -General.

(b) If the offender or the Attorney-General disputes thewhole or any part of the written pre-sentence report furnishedto court by the Commissioner, he or she may file a motion incourt indicating his or her intention to do so.

5Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

(c) The court shall not take into consideration, for thepurposes of sentence, a pre-sentence report in respect ofwhich a motion has been filed under paragraph (b), unless theoffender to whom the report relates or his or her attorney-at-law and the Attorney-General have been afforded anopportunity of leading evidence on disputed matters and ofcross-examining the author of the report on its contents.

(5) The Commissioner or any person authorized by himmay make such inquiries and investigations as may benecessary (including the examination of any records relatingto the offender), for the preparation of a pre-sentence reporthe is required to furnish to court.

(6) Subject to any special directions given by court, apre-sentence report furnished to court by the Commissionerin compliance with a requirement imposed on him undersubsection (1), shall set out all such matters as appear to theCommissioner to be relevant to the sentencing of the offenderand as are readily ascertainable by him, including the following:-

(a)the age of the offender;

(b)the social history and background of the offender(including the names and ages of the personswho are dependant on the offender);

(c)the medical and psychiatric history of the offender;

(d)the educational background of the offender;

(e)the employment history of the offender;

(f)any other offences of which the offender has beenfound guilty or for which he or she is charged orindicted;

(g)the extent to which the offender has compliedwith any earlier sentence or is complying withany sentence currently in force in respect of himor her;

6Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

(h)the financial circumstances of the offender;

(i)any special needs of the offender;

(j)the employment history of the offenders spouseand the income earned by him or her;

(k)the courses, programmes, treatment or otherassistance that could be made available to theoffender and from which he or she may benefit;

(l)the facilities available for the performance ofunpaid community work.

(7) Where the court takes into consideration, for thepurposes of sentence, a pre-sentence report the contents ofwhich have been disputed in whole or in part, the court shallrecord its reasons for doing so.

7. No community based correction order shall be enteredin respect of an offender, unless the offender consents inwriting, in the prescribed form, to the entering of such order.

8. Before entering a community based correction order inrespect of an offender, the court shall explain to the offenderin language that may readily be understood by the offender -

(a)the purpose and effect of the proposed order;

(b)the consequences that will follow if the offenderfails without reasonable cause to comply with theconditions of the proposed order; and

(c)the manner in which the proposed order may bevaried.

9. (1) Every community based correction order shall be inthe prescribed form and shall contain the following conditions-

(a)that the offender shall not commit, during theperiod of the order, another offence punishableon conviction with imprisonment;

Consent of theoffender requiredfor communitybased correctionorder.

Effect of order tobe explained tothe offender.

Conditions ofcommunity basedcorrectionorders.

7Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

(b) that the offender reports to a specified communitycorrections centre within seventy two hours ofthe date of the order;

(c) that the offender reports to, and receives visitsfrom, an officer of the Community BasedCorrections Department on such dates as may bespecified by the officer in charge of that communitycorrections centre;

(d) that the offender notifies the officer in charge ofthe community corrections centre specified in theorder at least seven days before such change, ofany change of address, employment oroccupation;

(e) that the offender does not leave a specified areaexcept with the permission of the officer in chargeof the community corrections centre specified inthe order, being permission granted either generallyor in relation to a particular case;

(f) that the offender obeys all lawful rules, instructionsand directions issued by officers appointed undersection 2.

(2) The court may, for the purposes of -

(a) enabling any personal factors which contributedto the offenders criminal behaviour to be assessed;

(b) providing an opportunity for the offender torecognize, to take steps to control, and if necessary,to receive treatment for, those factors; and

(c) enabling an offender with needs in areas directlyrelated to his or her criminal behaviour, to participatein programmes designed to address those needs,

attach one or more of the following conditions to a communitybased correction order:-

(i) that the offender performs unpaid community workas directed by the officer in charge of thecommunity corrections centre specified in the orderfor the period determined by court;

8Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

(ii) that the offender be under the supervision of anofficer of the community Based CorrectionsDepartment designated by the Commissioner;

(iii) that the offender attends educational, vocational,personal training or development programmesdetermined by court and as directed by theCommissioner; an offender with high needs in areasdirectly related to his or her criminal behaviourmay be required to participate in programmes whichwill address those needs;

(iv) that the offender undergoes assessment andtreatment for alcohol or drug addiction or submitsto medical, psychological or psychiatricassessment and treatment as directed by court;

(v) that the offender submits to testing for alcohol ordrug use as directed by the officer in charge of thecommunity corrections centre specified in theorder;

(vi) any other condition that the court considersnecessary or desirable, having regard to thepurposes for which the order is being entered.

(3) In determining for the purposes of a communitybased correction order, the period for which the offender inrespect of whom the order has been entered shall performunpaid community work, the court shall have regard to theprovisions of the Schedule to this Act, so however, that wherethe term of imprisonment or the fine for which the offender isliable for the offence in respect of which the order is entereddoes not exceed the term or amount specified in Column I ofthat Schedule, the period of unpaid community work shall, asfar as practicable, be equal to the period specified in thecorresponding entry in Column II of that Schedule.

(4) An offender directed to perform unpaid communitywork under a community based correction order shall, in anyperiod of seven days, perform unpaid community work for notless than ten hours and not more than twenty-four hours;

9Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

Provided that the Commissioner may, on a request made tohim in writing by an offender, allow that offender to work forupto forty hours in any period of seven days.

(5) If the Commissioner is satisfied that an offender is illor that there are other exceptional circumstances he maynotwithstanding anything in subsection (4), permit theoffender to perform less than ten hours of unpaid communitywork in a period of seven days;

Provided however that permission given under thissubsection shall be deemed not to affect the duty of theoffender to perform unpaid community work for the number ofhours specified in the community based correction orderentered in respect of the offender.

(6) If a court makes separate community based correctionorders in respect of two or more offences committed by anoffender, the conditions of those orders shall be concurrent,unless the court otherwise directs.

(7) The conditions of a community based correctionorder made in respect of an offender shall, unless the courttherwise directs, be concurrent with those of any othercommunity based corrections order in force in respect of thatoffender.

(8) A court shall not give a direction that would result inthe total number of hours of unpaid community work yet to beperformed by an offneder under a Community based correctionorder, exceeding five hundred hours.

10. In assigning the unpaid community work to beperformed by an offender in respect of whom a communitybased correction order has been entered, the officer in chargeof the community corrections centrespecified in such ordershall have regard to the age, health, education and the religiousand cultural beliefs of the offender, the distance of the proposedworksite from the residence or place of employment of theoffender and the possible interruption of the education oremployment of the offender.

Factors to beconsidered inassigning unpaidcommunitywork.

10Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

11. During the continuance in force of a community basedcorrection order, the court entering such order may -

(a) upon application made by the offender in respect ofwhom the order is entered or the Commissioner; and

(b) upon being satisfied that-

(i) the circumstances of the offender have materiallyaltered since the order was entered and as a resultthe offender will not be able to comply with anycondition of the order; or

(ii) the circumstances of the offender were wronglypresented, or were not accurately presented, tothe court or the author of the pre-sentence report,before the order was made;

(iii) the offender is no longer willing to comply withthe order.

vary the order or cancel it and subject to subsection (2), dealwith the offender for the offence or offences in respect ofwhich it was entered in any manner in which the court coulddeal with the offender if it had just found him or her guilty ofthat offence or those offences.

(2) Notice of every application made under subsection(1) to vary or cancel a community based correction order shallbe given to the offender to whom the order relates, theCommissioner and to the Attorney-General.

(3) In dealing with an offender following the cancellationof a community based correction order entered in respect ofthat offender, the court shall have regard to the extent to whichthe offender had complied with the conditions of the orderbefore its cancellation.

12. (1) Where it is not convenient for an offender in respectof whom a community based correction order has beenentered. to report to the community corrections centre specifiedin the community based correction order, by reason of changeof place of residence or work palce or other cause.

Variation ofcommunitybased correctionorders.

Commissionermay directoffender toappear beforeanother person orat another place& c.

11Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

he or she shall forthwith inform the Commissioner, and theCommissioner may direct the offender to report at anothercommunity corrections centre.

(2) An offender shall attend at the place or report to theperson, as directed by the Commissioner under subsection(1) as if such place or person were specified in the communitybased correction order entered in respect of such offender.

13. Where the Commissioner is satisfied that an offender inrespect of whom a community based correction order hasbeen entered is unable to comply with the order by reason ofillness or other exceptional cause, the Commissioner maysuspend the operation of the order or any condition thereoffor a specified period, and the period so specified shall bedisregarded in calculating the period for which the communitybased correction order shall remain in force.

14. (1) Any offender who fails without reasonable cause, tocomply with any condition of a community based correctionorder shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall beliable, on conviction after summary trail, to a fine not exceedingfive thousand rupees.

(2) Where a person commits an offence under subsection(1) the Commissioner shall institute proceedings in respect ofthat offence by making a written report to the Court whichentered the community based correction order in relation towhich the default is alleged to have been made, to the effectthat the person specified in the report has failed to complywith the conditions of the order specified in the report.

(3) Upon the making of a written report to it undersubsection (2) in respect of an offence under subsection (1),the court may issue summons or warrant of arrest on theoffender and proceed to try such offence in the mannerprovided by the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. No. 15 of1979 for the trial of offences summarily.

Suspension ofcommunitybased correctionorder.

Failure tocomply withcommunitybased correctionorder anoffence.

12Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

(4) Upon the conviction of any person for an offenceunder sub section (1), the court may -

(a) vary the community based correction order in respectof which the default was made;

(b) cancel such order.

if such order is for the time being in force.

(5) Upon the cancellation of a community basedcorrection order, the court may subject to the provisions ofsub section (6) deal with the offender for the offence oroffences in respect of which the order was entered in anymanner in which the court could have dealt with the offenderhad it just found him or her guilty of that offence.

(6) In dealing with an offender following the cancellationof a community based correction order, the court shall haveregard to the extent to which the offender had complied withthe conditions of the order before its cancellation.

15. (1) Where an offender in respect of whom acommunity based correction order has been entered for defaultof payment of a fine, pays to court, at any time during whichthe order is in force, a part of that fine the commissioner shall,upon proof of payment, reduce the period specified in suchorder by such period as is equal to the proportion which theamount paid bears to the amount of the fine:

Provided that the other conditions of the order shallcontinue to be in force.

(2) Where the only condition attached to a communitybased correction order is the performance of unpaidcommunity work by the offender to whom the order relatesand the Commissioner issues a certificate to the effect thatsuch offender has satisfactorily performed the community workassigned to him or her during the period specified in the order,the offender shall be deemed to have complied with theconditions of such order.

Effect of partpayment of fineor completionof programmecondition oforder.

13Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

PART III

GENERAL

16. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purposesof carrying out or giving effect to the principles and provisionsof this Act and in respect of all matters which are required orauthorized by this Act to be prescribed.

(2) Every regulation made by the minister shall be publishedin the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date ofsuch publication or on such later date as may be specified inthe regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon asconvenient after its publication in the Gazette, be laid beforeParliament for approval. Any regulation which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded with effect from thedate of such disapproval without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder. Notification of the date on whicha regulation is so deemed to be rescinded shall be publishedin the Gazette.

17. (1) The Commissioner may make rules in respect of theadministration and management of community correctioncentres established for the purposes of this Act or of aparticular community correction centre.

(2) No rule made under sub section (1) shall have effectuntil it is approved by the Minister and notification of suchapproval is published in the Gazette.

18. Where Part II of this Act is brought into operation inany judicial division or judicial zone, by an Order made undersection I, courts exercising criminal jurisdiction in that judicialdivision or judicial zone, as the case may be, shall cease toexercise the powers conferred on them by section 18 of theCriminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979.

Regulations.

Rules.

Application ofsection 18 ofAct No. 15 of1979.

14Community Based CorrectionsAct, No. 46 of 1999

19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

20. In this Act, judicial division and judicial zone meana judicial division and judicial zone determined respectively,by an order made under section 3 of the judicature Act, No. 1of 1978.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Interpretation.

SCHEDULE[Section 9(3)]

Column I

TERM OF IMPRISONMENTOR AMOUNT OF FINE

1 year or over.

6 months or over but less than 1year.

Less than 6 months

Five thousand rupees or over.

Four thousand rupees or over butunder five thousand rupees.

Three thousand five hundredrupees or over but under fourthousand rupees.

Three thousand rupees or overbut under three thousand fivehundred rupees.

Below three thousand rupees.

Column II

PERIOD OF UNPAIDCOMMUNITY WORK

200 to 300 hours over a periodof 1 year

100 to 200 hours over a periodof 6 months

50 to 100 hours over period of3 months.

200 to 300 hours over a periodof two years.

150 to 200 hours over a periodof one and a half years.

75 to 150 hours over a period ofone year.

50 to 75 hours over a period ofsix months.

50 to 75 hours over a period ofthree months.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.