PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 16.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 08, 2013

[Certified on 07th August, 2013]

Printed on the Order of Government

SRI LANKA ELECTRICITY (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 31 OF 2013

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 20131

[Certified on 07th August, 2013]

L.D.O. 21/2009.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE SRI LANKA ELECTRICITYACT, NO. 20 OF 2009

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Electricity(Amendment) Act, No. 31 of 2013.

2.Section 2 of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act (hereinafterreferred to as the principal enactment) is hereby amended,by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section, and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection :

(1) The Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka(hereinafter referred to as the Commission) establishedby the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka Act,No. 35 of 2002, shall exercise, perform and discharge allthe powers, functions and duties as are conferred on orassigned to the Commission by or under this Act..

3.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 2 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 2A of that enactment :

2A. (1) (a) The Commisssion may delegateany of its powers, duties and functions conferredon or assigned to it by or under this Act, to anyofficer of the Commission for a specific purposeand period as may be determined by theCommission.

(b) The Commission may delegate anypower conferred on it by items 3, 4, 5 and 6 ofSchedule 1 of the Act to any DivisionalSecretary.

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 2 of Act,No. 20 of 2009.

Delegationof powers,duties andfunctions oftheCommission.

Insertion of newsection 2A in theprincipalenactment.

2Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

(2) The officer to whom any power, duty orfunction is delegated under subsection (1) shallexercise, perform or discharge such power, dutyor function, subject to such directions as maybe given to such officer by the Commission.

(3) The Commission shall notwithstandingany delegation made under subsection (1), havethe authority to exercise, perform or dischargeany power, duty or any function so delegated..

4. Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words provided thatsuch person shall be required, of the words provided thatwhere such person is a company incorporated under theCompanies Act, No. 7 of 2007, such person shall be required.

5.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)of that section, the following new subsection :

(1A) Notwithstanding the provisions ofparagraph (c) of subsection (1), the eligibilityrequirement specified in that paragraph shall notbe applicable to a company which, on the date ofthe coming into force of this Act, is operating aplant to generate electricity over and above thegeneration capacity of 25MW, having a valid powerPurchase Agreement executed with the CeylonElectricity Board and which is in operation on thedate preceding the date of the coming into force ofthis Act :

Provided that the non applicability of the eligibilityrequirements in respect of a company as provided forby this subsection, shall be in operation only duringthe period of duration of the Power PurchaseAgreement referred to in that subsection.; and

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 20133

(2)in paragraph (c) of subsection (3) of that section,by the substitution for the words the Governmentholds more than, of the words the Government ora public corporation holds more than.

6.The following section is hereby inserted immediatelyafter section 9 of the principal enactment and shall haveeffect as section 9A of that enactment :

9A. (1) The Commission may, having regardto :

(a) the process adopted for generation ofelectricity ;

(b) the quantity of electricity proposedto be generated ;

(c) the number of persons among whom theelectricity generated is to bedistributed ;

(d) the location of the plant to be used forthe generation of electricity ; and

(e) any other criteria that the Commissionmay consider appropriate,

by Order published in the Gazette, exemptany person or category of persons from therequirement of obtaining a licence for thegeneration or distribution of electricity,where such person engages in communitybased electricity generating project on anon-commercial basis.

(2) The period for which such exemption isgranted and the terms and conditions whichsuch exemption shall be subject to, shall be asspecified in such Order.

Statutoryexemptions.

Insertion of newsection 9A in theprincipalenactment.

4Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

(3) The Commission may withdraw anexemption granted to any person or categoryof persons under subsection (1), where suchperson or category of persons :

(a)have acted in violation of any term orcondition subject to which theexemption was granted ; or

(b)commences to generate or distributeelectricity on a commercial basis.

(4) Where an exemption granted under thissection is withdrawn, the Commission shall bynotice published in such manner as theCommission considers appropriate, disclose thenames of the person or category of personswhose exemption is being withdrawn andnotify the persons affected by such withdrawal,of the same..

7.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words on an application made for anexemption by Order published in the Gazette,exempt, of the words on application made forthat purpose, exempt;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(2) The Commission shall issue to every personor category of persons to whom an exemption undersubsection (1) is granted, a Certificate of Exemptionwhich shall be subject to such terms and conditionsand be effective for such period, as shall bespecified therein..

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 20135

(3)by the addition at the end of that section, of thefollowing new subsection :

(3) Within one week of the issue undersubsection (2) of a Certificate of Exemption to anyperson or category of persons, it shall be the duty ofthe Commission to publish by a notice in theGazette, the names of all such persons or categoryof persons, as the case may be, to whom a Certificateof Exemption was issued :

Provided that, if no Notice as required above ispublished in the Gazette within the periodstipulated, the Certificate of Exemption grantedunder subsection (2) shall be null and void and ofno force or avail in law..

(4)by the substitution for the marginal note to thatsection, of the following marginal note :

Exemptiongranted onapplication..

8.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b) ofthat section, of the following new paragraph :

(bb) requiring the licensee, where such licenseeseeks to distribute electricity to owners of condominiumparcels in any Condominium Property or SemiCondominium Property, to enter into an agreement withthe management corporation of such CondominiumProperty or the Semi Condominium Property, as thecase may be, established under the ApartmentOwnership Law, No. 11 of 1973, for the supply ofelectricity to such owners, authorizing such managementcorporation to recover service charges and monthlycharges from all such owners for the consumption ofelectricity ;.

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

6Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

9.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following :

(1) A licence shall be capable of being assignedeither in whole or part if it includes a conditionauthorizing such assignment.;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)of that section, of the following new subsection :

(3A) The Minister shall, where he is satisfiedthat the Commission had complied with therequirements imposed by subsection (3) and thatsuch purported assignment does not contravene theprovisions of subsection (6) of this section, granthis consent for such assignment..

10.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words and figure under section 10 of thewords and figures under sections 9A and 10;

(2)by the addition at the end of that section, of thefollowing new subsection :

(3) The Commission shall by notice publishedin the Gazette, publish the names of all persons orcategory of persons whose exemption is revokedunder paragraph (a) or the name of any person outof any category of persons whose exemptionwithdrawn under paragraph (b), of subsection (1) ofthis section..

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 20137

11.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(1) Where any electrical line or electrical plantis provided by the distribution licensee for thepurpose of connect and supply of electricity to anyperson requiring a supply of electricity undersection 25, the licensee may require any expensesreasonably incurred in providing the line or plantor the connect and supply of electricity to the personconcerned, to be defrayed by such person, to suchextent as is allowed by the conditions of thedistribution licence.; and

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)of that section, of the following new subsections :

(1A) Where any person who requires a supply ofelectricity under section 25 but has not sufficientmeans to defray the expenses incurred by thedistribution licensee under subsection (1), suchperson may request the distribution licensee toconnect and supply the electricity to the premisesconcerned, on the basis of recovering such expensesin reasonable monthly instalments along with thetariff and any other charges levied by thedistribution licensee, as per the standard tariffagreement.

(1B) Where the distribution licensee is satisfiedthat a person as referred to in subsection (1A) hasnot the sufficient means to defray in total theexpenses incurred by the licensee, prior to providingthe line or plant or connect and supply of electricity

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment.

8Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

to the premises concerned, such person shall berequired to enter into an agreement with thedistribution licensee relating to the manner in whichthe expenses would be defrayed by him to thedistribution licensee, before the line or plant orconnect and supply of electricity to the premises isbeen attended to by the distribution licensee.

(1C) The information required by the distributionlicensee for the purpose of being satisfied asprovided for in subsection (1B), that a person hasnot the sufficient means to defray any expensesincurred by such licensee, shall be based on suchguidelines as shall be prescribed..

12.Section 39 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)of that section, of the following new subsection :

(2A) In mediating and resolving any disputeunder subsection (2), the Commission may where itconsiders it expendient to do so, refer such disputefor purpose of resolution to a Panel of Mediatorsconsisting of three persons appointed by theCommission, one of whom shall be either a memberof the Commission or a member of the staff of theCommission or a public officer, who shall functionas the Chairman of such Panel. The Panel ofMediators shall make every endeavour to resolvethe dispute referred to it and bring about asettlement among the parties to the dispute andconclude its deliberations within the time, as shallbe specified by the Commission.; and

(2)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words by rules made under the Public

Amendment ofsection 39 of theprincipalenactment.

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 20139

Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka, No. 35 of 2002and this Act., of the words by rules made underthis Act..

13.Section 43 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor :

43. (1) Subject to the provisions of section8 of this Act, no person shall proceed with theprocuring or operating of any new generationplant or the expansion of the generationcapacity of an existing plant, otherwise thanin the manner authorized by the commissionunder this section.

(2) A transmission licensee shall, based onthe future demand forecast as specified in theLeast Cost Long Term Generation ExpansionPlan prepared by such licensee and as amendedafter considering the submissions of thedistribution and generation licensees andapproved by the Commission, submit proposalsto proceed with the procuring of any newgeneration plant or for the expansion of thegeneration capacity of an existing plant, to theCommission for its written approval :

Provided however where on the daypreceding the date of the coming into force ofthis Act :

(a)an approval of the Cabinet ofMinisters had been obtained todevelop a new generation plant or toexpand the generation capacity of anexisting generation plant ; or

Replacement ofsection 43 of theprincipalenactment.Provision ofnewgenerationplant or theextension ofany existingplant.

10Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

(b)a permit had been issued to generateelectricity through renewable energyresources by the Sri LankaSustainable Energy Authorityestablished by the Sri LankaSustainable Energy Authority Act, No.35 of 2007 under section 18 of thatAct, as a consequence of which thedevelopment of a new generationplant or the expansion of thegeneration capacity of an existinggeneration plant, has becomenecessary,

the approval obtained or the permit issued,as the case may be, shall be referred to theCommission for its approval. TheCommission shall, having considered therequest made along with any supportingdocuments annexed thereto and on beingsatisfied that the necessary Cabinetapproval had been obtained or a permit hadbeen issued by the Sustainable EnergyAutohrity, as the case may be, prior to thecoming into force of this Act, grantapproval to the transmission licensee toproceed with the procuring of the newgeneration plant or the expansion of thegeneration capacity of its existing plant,as the case may be.

(3) Where a person who is issued with alicence under section 13 of this Act to generateelectricity of less than 25MW in capacity,proposes to expand its generation capacity ofits generation plant as a consequence of whichthe generation of electricity would exceed25MW in capacity, the approval of the

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 201311

Commission under subsection (1) for suchproposal shall not be granted, unless suchperson is a person who is qualified undersubsection (1) of section 9 of this Act, to beissued with a generation licence.

(4) Upon obtaining the approval of theCommission under subsection (2), thetransmission licensee shall in accordance withthe conditions of its transmission licence andin compliance with any rules that may be madeby the Commission relating to procurement,call for tenders by notice published in theGazette, to develop a new generation plant orto expand the generation capacity of anexisting generation plant, as the case may be,as shall be specified in the notice :

Provided however, subject to the provisionsof subsection (6) of this section, the requirementto submit a tender on the publication of a noticeunder this subsection shall not be applicablein respect of any new generation plant or to theexpansion of any existing generation plantthat is being developed :

(a)in accordance with the Least Cost LongTerm Generation Expansion Plan dulyapproved by the Commission andwhich has received the approval of theCabinet of Ministers on the datepreceding the date of the coming intoforce of this Act and is required to beoperated at least cost ;

(b)on a permit issued by the Sri LankaSustainable Energy Authority,established by the Sri Lanka

12Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

Sustainable Energy Authority Act,No. 35 of 2007 under section 18 of thatAct for the generation of electricity throughrenewable energy sources and requiredto be operated at the standardized tariffand is governed by a StandardizedPower Purchase Agreement approved bythe Cabinet of Ministers ; or

(c)in compliance with the Least Cost LongTerm Generation Expansion Plan dulyapproved by the Commisssion havingreceived the prior approval of theCommission, for which the approval ofthe Cabinet of Ministers has beenreceived on the baiss of :

(i) an offer received from a foreignsovereign Government to theGovernment of Sri Lanka, forwhich the approval of theCabinet of Ministers have beenobtained ; or

(ii) to meet any emergencysituation as determined by theCabinet of Ministers during anational calamity or a long termforced outage of a majorgeneration plant, whereprotracted bid inviting processoutweigh the potential benefitor procuring emergencycapacity required to beprovided by any person at leastcost.

(5) Upon the close of the tender, thetransmission licensee shall through a properly

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 201313

constituted tender board, recommend to theCommission for its approval, the person who isbest capable of :

(a)developing the new generation plant orthe expansion of the generationcapacity of an existing generation plant,as the case may be, as specified in thenotice published in the Gazette undersubsection (4), in compliance with thetechnical and economic parameters ofthe transmission licensee ;

(b)selling electrical energy or electricitygenerating capacity at least cost ; and

(c)meeting the requirements of the LeastCost Long Term Generation ExpansionPlan of the transmission licensee dulyapproved by the Commission,

along with the draft Power PurchaseAgreement, describing the terms and conditionsof such purchase.

(6) Notwithstanding the fact that :-

(a)an exemption from the submission of atender is granted to any person underparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of the provisoto subsection (4) ; or

(b)a new generation plant or an expansionof the generating capacity of an existinggeneration plant is being developed inaccordance with the Least Cost LongTerm Generation Expansion Plan dulyapproved by the Commission, by aperson who had obtained the approval

14Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

of the Cabinet of Ministers and whichapproval is force on the date of thecoming into operation of this Act,

the transmission licensee shall be required tonegotiate with the person concerned to satisfyitself, that such person is capable of developingthe new generation plant or the expansion ofthe generating capacity of an existinggeneration plant, as the case may be, incompliance with the technical and economicalparameters of the transmission licensee and iscapable of selling electrical energy or electricitygenerating capacity at least cost, and forwardits recommendations for approval to theCommission, along with the draft PowerPurchase Agreement or the draft StandardizedPower Purchase Agreement, as the case maybe, describing the terms and conditions of suchpurchase.

(7) The Commission shall be required onreceipt of any recommendations of thetransmission licensee under subsection (5) orsubsection (6), as the case may be, to grant itsapproval at its earliest convenience, where theCommission is satisfied that the recommendedprice for the purchase of electrical energy orelectricity generating capacity meets theprinciple of least cost and the requirements ofthe Least Cost Long Term Generation ExpansionPlan and that the terms and conditions of suchpurchase is within the accepted technical andeconomical parameters of the transmissionlicensee.

(8) For the purpose of this section-

Least Cost Long Term GenerationExpansion Plan means a plan

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 201315

prepared by the transmissionlicensee and amended and approvedby the Commission on the basis ofthe submissions made by thelicensees and published by theCommission, indicating the futureelectricity generating capacityrequirements determined on the basisof least economic cost and meetingthe technical and reliabilityrequirements of the electricitynetwork of Sri Lanka which is dulyapproved by the Commission andpublished in the Gazette from timeto time; and

Standardized Power PurchaseAgreement means an agreemententered into by the transmissionlicensee for the purchase of electricalenergy or electricity generatingcapacity, generated using renewableenergy resources under a permitissued by the Sri Lanka SustainableAuthority, established by the SriLanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007, under section 18of that Act..

14.Section 50 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-

(1)in subsection (1) of that section :-

(a) by the substitution in paragraph (a) of thatsubsection, for the words apparatus : or, ofthe words apparatus;;

(b) in paragraph (b) of that subsection, for thewords a licensee,, of the words alicensee; or; and

Amendment ofsection 50 ofthe principalenactment.

16Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

(c) by the insertion immediately after paragraph(b) of that subsection, of the following newparagraph :-

(c) intentionally or negligently:-

(i)alters the quantity of electricity asregistered on any meter used formeasuring the quantity of electricitysupplied to any premises by adistribution licensee; or

(ii)prevents any meter from dulyregistering the quantity of electricitysupplied through that meter,;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection:-

(1A) Where any person is prosecuted for anoffence under paragraph (c) of subsection (1), acertificate issued by the distribution licensee tothe effect that

(i)the meter was in the custody or underthe control of the person beingprosecuted; and

(ii)there is clear proof that the meter hasbeen tampered causing an alteration ofthe register of the quantity of electricityregistered on such meter and thereforepreventing the meter from dulyregistering such usage,

shall be admissible in evidence and shall be primafacie proof of the matters contained therein.;and

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 201317

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (4) ofthat section, of the following new subsection:

(4A) Where any person is convicted of anoffence under paragraph (c) of subsection (1) ofthis section, the distribution licensee maydiscontinue the supply of electricity to thepremises of the person convicted and removethe meter in respect of which the offence wascommitted and thereafter keep the same in safecustody, until the Commission authorizes thelicensee to dispose of it. However in the eventthat the unpaid dues are recovered by thedistribution licensee, the distribution licenseeshall, within a reasonable period of time, restorethe supply of electricity that was disconnected..

15.Section 57 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :-

57. The Minister shall, in giving hisconcurrence as required under subsection (1)of section 13, subsection (1) of section 20,subsection (1) of section 22 and subsection (1)of section 38, as the case may be, of this Act,act in accordance with such criteria as shall beprescribed..

16.Section 61 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression Central Environmental Authority,of the following new definition :-

Ceylon Electricity Board means the CeylonElectricity Board established by the CeylonElectricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969;;

Replacement ofsection 57 ofthe principalenactment.Minister toensurecompliance.

Amendment ofsection 61 ofthe principalenactment.

18Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

(2)in the definition of the expression electrical plant,by the substitution for paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) ofthat definition, of the following paragraphs :

(a) an electrical line ; or

(b) an electrical appliance under the control of aconsumer;;

(3)in the definition of the expression high voltagelines, by the substitution for the words not morethan 33 kilovolts, of the words not less than 33kilovolts; and

(4)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe word notice, of the following new definitions:

Power Purchase Agreement means an agreemententered into by the transmission licensee witha generation licensee for the purchase of bulkelectrical energy or bulk electricity generatingcapacity, exclusively for the purpose of sellingelectrical energy to distribution licensees;

17.The Schedule I of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in item 3 of that Schedule

(a) by the substitution for paragraph (3) of thatitem, of the following paragraph :

(3) Where paragraphs (1) or (2) applies and-

(a) the licensee has made allreasonable efforts to secure thegrant of a way leave ; and

Amendment ofSchedule I of theprincipalenactment.

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 201319

(b) such efforts have beenunsuccessful,

the Divisional Secretary of theadministrative district in which theland, over which the way leave is beingrequested for or from which anelectrical line which is installed isrequested to be removed, as the casemay be, shall within six weeks of anapplication being made in that behalfby the licensee concerned, and :-

(i) upon holding an inquiry aftergiving an opportunity to theowner or occupier of the landconcerned, of being heard ; and

(ii) on being satisfied that it isnecessary or expedient for thelicensee to install and keepinstalled an electrical line on,under or over the land of theowner or occupier concerned, inorder to carry on the activitieswhich the licensee is authorizedby its licence to carry on,

may either unconditionally or subjectto such terms, conditions andstipulations as such DivisionalSecretary considers appropriate,authorize the licensee or prohibit thelicensee, as the case may be, fromcarrying on the activities mentioned inparagraph (1) or (2).

(3A) Where upon the conclusion ofan inquiry the Divisional Secretary is

20Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

satisfied that the acquisition of the wayleave has become necessary for thepurpose of carrying on the activitiesauthorized by the licence of thelicensee, the Divisional Secretary shall,within six weeks of an application beingmade by the licensee in that behalf,make his recommendations pertainingto the same, to the Commission. TheCommission shall, on being satisfiedthat it is necessary or expedient, toacquire the land or to install and keepinstalled an electrical line on, under orover the land concerned in order tocarry on the activities which thelicensee is authorized to carry on underthe licence, recommend to the Ministerthe acquisition of the same. Thereuponthe Minister shall approve theacquisition by Order published in theGazette and the way leave shallthereupon be deemed to be requiredfor a public purpose and be acquiredunder the Land Acquisition Act andtransferred to the licensee. Any amountpayable for such acquisition, shall bepaid for by the licensee.; and

(b) by the omission of paragraph (5) of that item ;and

(2)in item 6 of that Schedule :

(a) in paragraph (4) of that item, by the substitutionfor the words twenty one days and for thewords may cause, of the words sevenworking days and of the words shall causerespectively ; and

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 201321

(b) in paragraph (5) of that item, by the substitutionfor the words twenty one days and for thewords to the Commission., of the wordsseven working days and of the words tothe Commission or to a person appointed bythe Commission for that purpose,respectively..

18.The Schedule II of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (5) of item 1 of thatSchedule and substitute the following :

(5) If a tariff customer:

(a)has not, within the requisite period, paidall charges due to a distribution licensee inrespect of the supply of electricity to anypremises, or the provision of any electricitymeter, electric line or electrical plant for thepurposes of that supply;

(b)has failed to comply with a notice from thelicensee requiring him or her to cease usingany appliance which unduly or improperlyinterferes with the supply of electricity bythe licensee to any other consumer; or

(c)has failed to pay the monthly instalmentsdue for the requisite period under theagreement entered into under subsection(1B) of section 27 of the Act or any othercharges which the customer has agreed tomake to the distribution licensee,

the distribution licensee may, at the end of therequisite period cut off the supply to the premises,or to any other premises occupied by the customer,by such means as the licensee thinks fit andrecover any expenses inccurred in so doing fromthe costomer..

Amendment ofSchedule II ofthe principalenactment.

22Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 2013

(b)in paragraph (1) of item 5 of that Schedule, by thesubstitution for the words and figures subject tothe provisions of item 8, any officer authorized bya distribution licensee may enter any premises toof the words Notwithstanding the provisions initem 8(1)(a) of Schedule 11 any officer authorizedby a distribution licensee as may be prescribedby regulations may enter any premises from 8 a.m.to 5 p.m.;

(c)in item 6 of that Schedule

(i) in paragraph (1), by the substitution for thewords and figures subject to item 8, enter thepremises of the words enter the premisesfrom 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and

(ii) in paragraph (2), by the substitution for thewords and figures subject to item 8, enter thepremises of the words enter the premisesfrom 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.;

(d)in paragraph (1) of item 8 of that schedule, by thesubstitution for the words under this Act shall notof the words under this Act except under theprovisions of item 5 and item 6 of the schedule IIshall not.

19.Schedule III of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the omission of item 8 of that Schedule.

20.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

21.The amendments made to the principal enactmentby the provisions of this Act, shall be deemed for all purposesto have come into force, on April 8, 2009.

Amendment ofSchedule III ofthe principalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Retrospectiveeffect.

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)Act, No. 31 of 201323

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.