PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, No. 42 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 09th October, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 12, 2007

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 20071

[Certified on 09th October, 2007]

L. D. -O. 16/2007

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXTENSION OF THE PERIOD OF DETENTION OF

PERSONS ARRESTED WITHOUT A WARRANT IN ORDER TO FACILITATE THE

CONDUCT OF INVESTIGATIONS; FOR DISPENSING WITH THE CONDUCT OF

THE NON-SUMMARY INQUIRY IN CERTAIN CASES; TO PROVIDE FOR THE

TAKING OF DEPOSITIONS OF WITNESSES FOR THE PROSECUTION; AND TO

MAKE PROVISION FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Code of CriminalProcedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 2007.

2.Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979 other than theprovisions of section 43 (A) of that Act, any peace officershall not detain in custody or otherwise confine a personarrested without a warrant for a longer period than under allthe circumstances of the case is reasonable and such periodshall not exceed twenty-four hours exclusive of the timenecessary for the journey from the place of arrest to thepresence of the Magistrate:

Provided that where the arrest is in relation to an offenceas is specified in the Schedule to this Act, such period ofdetention in police custody may, on production before himof the person arrested and on a certificate filed by a policeofficer not below the rank of the Assistant Superintendent ofPolice submitted prior to the expiration of the said period oftwenty-four hours, to the effect that it is necessary to detainsuch person for the purpose of further investigations, beextended upon an order made in that behalf by the Magistratefor a further period not exceeding twenty-four hours, sohowever that the aggregate period of detention shall notexceed forty-eight hours:

2PL 0022824,350 (07/2007)

Short title.

Period ofdetention ofperson arrestednot to be morethan twenty-fourhours or forty-eight hours incertain cases.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 20072

Provided further, that any person arrested and detainedfor a further period shall be afforded an opportunity to consultan Attorney-at-Law of his choice and to communicate withany relative or friend of his choice during the period of suchdetention.

3.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979, where there areaggravating circumstances or circumstances that give rise topublic disquiet in connection with the commission of anoffence, specified in the Second Schedule to the JudicatureAct, No. 2 of 1978, it shall be lawful for the Attorney-Generalto forward indictment directly to the High Court.

(2) The Attorney-General may in forwarding indictmentdirectly in terms of subsection (1) proceed to do so ex meromotu or upon receipt of the relevant record from theMagistrate.

4. (1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979 where there areaggravating circumstances or circumatsnces that give rise topublic disquiet in connection with the commission of anoffence specified in the Second Schedule to the JudicatureAct, No. 2 of 1978, the Magistrate shall not hold a preliminaryinquiry in terms of Chapter XV of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No.15 of 1979 and shall forthwith forward therecord of the proceedings to the Attorney-General andthereafter abide by the instructions of the Attorney-General.

(2) Upon receipt of the record of the proceedings by theMagistrate in terms of subsection (1), the Attorney-Generalshall

(a)where he is of the opinion that there are aggravatingcircumstances or circumstances that give rise topublic disquiet in connection with the commissionof the aforesaid offence, forward indictment directlyto the High Court ;

Direct indictmentin case ofoffencecommitted inaggravatingcircumstances.

Magistrate toforward recordto Attorney-General.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 20073

(b)where he is of the opinion that the circumstances donot warrant the forwarding of direct indictment tothe High Court, return the record to the Magistratewithin thirty days of the receipt of the same anddirect that a preliminary inquiry be held in terms ofChapter XV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No.15 of 1979.

(3) If the Magistrate proceeds to hold a preliminary inquiryin terms of Chapter XV of the aforesaid Code, the Attorney-General shall, call for the record of the proceedings, for thepurpose of considering the forwarding of indictment directlyto the High Court. In such an event the Magistrate shallforthwith suspend proceedings and forward the record of theproceedings to the Attorney-General and shall thereafter abideby the instructions of the Attorney-General.

5.Any proceedings in terms of the provisions of thisAct shall be concluded within a period of ninety days fromthe date of the commencement of proceedings under ChapterXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979.

6.(1) Notwithstandings anything contained in ChapterXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979, inthe course of holding of an inquiry under the aforesaidChapter, the following provisions shall apply to the takingof statements of persons who know the facts and circumstancesof the case.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (11), theMagistrate shall read out, or cause to be read out to everywitness produced against the accused, in the presence andhearing of the accused, the statement made by the witness inthe course of the investigation conducted in terms of ChapterXI of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979 andshall ask the witness whether the statement is an accuraterecord of what he had stated to the police.

Depositions.

Proceedings tobe terminatedwithin ninetydays.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 20074

(3) (a) If the witness states, in response to an inquiry madeof him under subsection (1), that the statement is an accuraterecord of what he had stated to the police, the Magistrateshall record that fact. The Magistrate shall permit the witness,if the witness so desires, to make such additions or alterationsto his original statement. Every such addition or alterationshall be recorded.

(b) The Magistrate shall not permit any crossexamination of the witness by the accused or his pleader, butthe Magistrate may put to the witness, any clarificationrequired by the accused or his pleader of any matter arisingfrom the statement made by the witenss in the course of theinvestigation, or any additions or alterations to his originalstatement if any, and may put to the witness any clarificationwhich the Magistrate himself may require of any such matter.Every clarification so made shall be recorded:

Provided that having considered the nature of the materialcontained in the statement of a witness made to the police,the prosecution may tender the witness for cross examinationby the accused or his pleader.

(4) The Magistrate shall thereafter read out or cause to beread out to the witness, the statement made by the witness toCourt affirming the accuracy of the statement made by himin the course of the investigation and the clarifications ifany made by him under subsection (2), and additions oralterations to his original statement if any, made by him undersubsection (3), and shall require the witness to swear or affirmto the truth of the matters recorded.

(5) (a) If on the other hand, the witness states in responseto an inquiry made of him under subsection (1), that thestatement is not, in its entirety or in part, an accurate recordof what he had stated to the police, the Magistrate shall permitthe witness to give an account of the circumstances relatingto the offence, or as the case may be, to make such additionsor alterations to his original statement as the witness maywish to make.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 20075

(b) The Magistrate shall not permit any cross-examinationof the witness by the accused or his pleader but the Magistratemay put to the witness, any clarification required by theaccused or his pleader of any matter arising from the accountgiven, or additions or alterations made by the witness or mayput to the witness any clarification that the Magistrate himselfmay require of any such matter:

Provided that having considered the nature of the materialcontained in the statement of a witness made to the police,the prosecution may tender the witness for cross examinationby the accused or his pleader.

(c) The Magistrate shall record the account given, or theadditions or alterations made by the witness under paragraph(a) and any clarifications made by the witness under paragraph(b), and read out the same or cause the same to be read out tothe witness and shall require the witness to swear or affirm tothe truth of the matters so recorded.

(6) Before a witness is produced against the accused, theMagistrate shall permit the accused or his pleader to persuein open court, the statement made by that witness to thepolice in the course of the invesigation.

(7) The Magistrate shall sign, and shall cause the witnessto sign, a certified copy of the statement made by the witnessto the police in the course of the investigation and cause thesame to be filed of record. The copy so filed shall for allpurposes form part of the record of the inquiry.

(8) The Magistrate shall not summon an expert witnessor a police officer but shall cause the report of such expertwitness or the affidavit of such police officer, as the case maybe, to be produced and filed of record:

Provided that the Magistrate may, for reasons to be recordedand in the case of an expert witness, with the prior sanction ofthe Attorney-General, summon an expert witness or policeofficer to be present in Court for examination.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 20076

(9) Where an expert witness or a police officer appears incourt in response to summons issued on him under subsection(8), the Magistrate shall not permit any cross examination ofsuch expert witness or police officer by the accused or hispleader but may put to such expert witness or police officer,any clarifications that the accused or his pleader may require,of any matter arising from the report of the expert witness orthe affidavit of the police officer, as the case may be, or fromthe examination of such expert witness or police officer, asthe case may be, and the Magistrate may himself put to thewitness any clarification that he may require of any suchmatter. Every clarification so made shall be recorded.

(10) A statement made by an expert-witness or policeofficer and the deposition made by a witness tendered forcross examination under this section, shall be deemed to beadmissible in evidence in terms of section 33 of the EvidenceOrdinance (Chapter 14).

(11) (a) Where the accused

(i)is absconding or has left the island; or

(ii)is unable to attend or remain in court byreason of illness and has consented eitherto the commencement or continuance ofthe inquiry in his absence, such inquirymay commence or continue without anyprejudice to him; or

(iii)by reason of his conduct in court isobstructing or impeding the progress of theinquiry,

the Magistrate may, if satisfied of these facts, commence andproceed or continue with the inquiry in the absence of theaccused.

(b) An attorney-at-Law may appear for such absentaccused.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 20077

(c) The inquiry shall proceed as far as is practicable inaccordance with the provisions of this Act except that theprovisions of section 416 of the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No.15 of 1979 shall not apply to the depositions recordedwhere there is a trial on indictment in the High Court, whetherthe accused is present in the High Court or not.

(12) The statement made by a witness to the police in thecourse of the investigation together with, as the case may be,his statement and clarifications, if any, recorded undersubsection (3) or the additions, alterations and clarificationsmade and recorded under subsection (4) or the account givenand recorded under subsection (5), shall be regarded for thepurposes of this Act, as the deposition of that witness.

(13) Every witness produced against the accused at theinquiry shall be entitled to be represented by an Attorney-at-Law.

(14) If after the conclusion of the procedure set out above,the Magistrate does not consider that the case should bedealt with in accordance with the provisions of section 153of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979, theMagistrate shall read the charge to the accused and explainthe nature thereof in ordinary language and inform him thathe has a right to call witnesses and, if he so desires to giveevidence on his own behalf.

(15) The provisions of Chapter XV of the Code of Criminalprocedure Act, No.15 of 1979 shall mutatis mutandis applyto any preliminary inquiry held under the provisions of thisAct.

7. (1) The provisions of this Act shall be in operation fora period of two years commencing from the thirty-first day ofMay, 2007.

Duration of theAct.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 20078

(2) The Minister may, at any time within one month priorto the expiration of the period of operation of this Act, byOrder published in the Gazette, extend for a further periodthe operation of the Act, so however that the aggregate periodof any one extension shall ont exceed two years from thedate of such extension, as is specified in the Gazette.

(3) The Order published in the Gazette under subsection(1) shall be placed before the Parliament for its approval.

(4) A Notification specifying of the date on whichParliament has approved the Order shall be published in theGazette.

8.Any act or thing done for which enabling provision ismade under this Act, during the period commencing on thethirty-first day of May, 2007 and ending on the date of thecoming into operation of this Act, shall be deemed to havebeen done validly.

9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Validation.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 20079

Section 102 - Penal Code

Section 113B - Penal Code

Section 296 - Penal Code

Section 297 - Penal Code

Section 300 - Penal Code

Section 355 - Penal Code

Section 356 - Penal Code

Section 358 - Penal Code

Section 359 - Penal Code

Section 364 - Penal Code

Section 371 - Penal Code

Section 383 - Penal Code

Section 384 - Penal Code

Section 490 - Penal Code

Explosive as defined in theexplosives Act (Chapter183); offensive weapon asdefined in the OffensiveWeapons Act, No 18 of1966 and a Gun as definedin the Firearms Ordinance(Chapter 182).

SCHEDULE(Section 2)

Column IColumn II

1. Abetment of an offence set out in theSchedule, if the act abetted iscommitted

2. Conspiracy for the abetment orcommission of any offence set out inthe Schedule

3. Murder

4. Culpable Homicide not amounting tomurder

5. Attempt to commit murder

6. Kidnapping or abduction to commitmurder

7. Kidnapping or abduction with intentto wrongfully confine a person

8. Kidnapping or abduction with intentto wrongfully subject person togrievous hurt

9. Concealing or keeping in confinementa kidnapped person

10. Rape

11. Theft, preparation having being madeto cause death &c,.

12. Robbery with attempt to cause deathor grievous hurt

13. Attempt to commit robbery whenarmed with deadly weapons

14. Attempt to commit any of the aboveoffences

15. An offence committed with the useof explosives, an offensive weaponor a gun

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 200710

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 befor 15th December each year in respect of the year following.