PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
CORPORATION OF SRI LANKA
ACT, No. 7 OF 1997

{Certified on 18th June, 1997]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 19, 1997

~

PRINTED AT TIE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SKI LANKA
‘TO BE PURCHASED AT TIE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price : Rs. 17,00 Postage : Rs. 4.60


Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

L. D.—O. 22/995. [Certified on 18th, June 1997]

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR TILE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HousING
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CoRPORATION OF SRI LANKA ; TO
SPECIFY TTS POWERS AND FUNCTIONS } AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWTIIL OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1, This Act may be cited as the Housing Development
Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997 and
shall come into operation on such date as the Minister may

appoint by Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred

to as “the appointed date”).

PART I

EsTABLISIIMENT OF HousiING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
_ CORPORATION OF SRI LANKA

2. (1) There shall be established a Corporation to be
called the Housing Development Finance Corporation of Sri
Lanka (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”).

(2) The Corporation shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common scal, and may suc and be sued in such name.

(3) The head office of the Corporation shall be in
Colombo. Such branch offices as the Board of Directors may
consider necessary shall be established in places in Sri Lanka
outside Colombo.

1- D039038 - 8 550 (97/02)

Short ule and date
of operation.

Establishment of
Housing
Development
Finance
Corporation of
Sn Lanka.


Board of Directors.

2 Housing Development Finance Corporation of

Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

3. (1) The administration and management of the affairs
of the Corporation shall be vested in a Board of Directors
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) which shail consist

of—

(a) two ex-officio directors, namely —

(i)

(ii)

a representative of the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Housing to be
nominated by the Minister ; and

the Secretary to the Treasury or his representative.

(b) four directors, of whom—

(i)

(il)

(iii)

(iv)

one director shall be a representative of the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka, nominated by the
Minister in consultation with the Board and with
the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance;

one director shall be a representative of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Housing
nominated by such Minister,

one director shall be a representative of the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance, nominated by the Minister in
consultation with the Board and with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance;

one director shall be a representative of the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Labour, nominated by the Minister in
consultation with the Board and with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Labour.


Housing Development Finance Corporation of 3
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

A director nominated under this paragraph is hereinafter
referred to as a “nominated director”:

(c) one or more nominated directors shall, after the
contributions of the institutions referred to in section
17 are repaid under that section, resign their posts at
the first Annual General Mecting or subsequent Annual
General Meetings as the case may be, in order to secure
that the number of nominated directors is proportionate
to the share of equity capital held by the Government
or Government Institutions in the Corporation ;

(d) four directors elected by the shareholders of the
Corporation at the Annual General Meeting of the
Corporation:

Provided however that a majority of such elected
directors shall at all times be citizens of Sri Lanka ;

Provided further, that the initial elected directors
shall be appointed by the Minister;

A director appointed under this proviso is
hercinafter referred to as an “appointed Director”.

(2) (a) A nominated director may resign his office by a
letter in that behalf, addressed to the Minister.

" (6) The Minister may, at any time remove a nominated
director from office, without assigning any reason therefor.

(c) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b), the
term of office of a nominated director shall be the period
specified in his letter of nomination.

(d) Where a nominated director dies, resigns or is removed
from office, the Minister may, having regard to the provisions
of paragraph (6) of subsection (1), nominate another person
in his place. The person so nominated shall hold office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of the director whom
he succeeds.


Housing Development Finance Corporation of 3
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

A director nominated under this paragraph is hereinafter
referred to as a “nominated director”:

(c) one or more nominated directors shall, after the
contributions of the institutions referred to in section
17 are repaid under that section, resign their posts at
the first Annual General Meeting or subsequent Annual
General Meetings as the case may be, in order to secure
that the number of nominated directors is proportionate
to the share of equity capital held by the Government
or Government Institutions in the Corporation ;

(d) four directors elected by the shareholders of the
Corporation at the Annual General Meeting of the
Corporation:

Provided however that a majority of such elected
directors shall at all times be citizens of Sri Lanka ;

Provided further, that the initial elected directors
shall be appointed by the Minister;

A director appointed under this proviso is
hercinaficr referred to as an “appointed Director”.

(2) (a) A nominated director may resign his office by a
letter in that behalf, addressed to the Minister.

_ (6) The Minister may, at any time remove a nominated
director from office, without assigning any reason therefor.

(c) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b), the
term of office of a nominated director shall be the period
specified in his letter of nomination,

(d) Where a nominated director dies, resigns or is removed
from office, the Minister may, having regard to the provisions
of paragraph (6) of subsection (1), nominate another person
in his place. The person so nominated shall hold office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of the director whom
he succeeds.


4 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri. Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

(e) Where a nominated director is, by reason of illness,
absence from Sri Lanka or other cause, temporarily unable to
perform the duties of his office, the Minister may nominate a
person to act in his place.

(3) (a) Two appointed directors shail vacate office at the
first Annual General Meeting of the Corporation held after
the appointed date, and another two appointed directors shall
vacate office at the second Annual General Meeting held after
the appointed date and so on until all the appointed directors
have vacated office. The determination of the appointed
directors who shall vacate office at any Annual General
Mecting shall be made by the drawing of lots at such Annual
General Meeting.

(b) Anappointed director may resign his office by a letter
in that behalf addressed to the Minister.

(c) The Minister may, at any time remove an appointed
director from office, without assigning any reason therefor.

(d) Where an appointed director vacates office otherwise
than in the circumstances referred to in paragraph (a) of this
subsection, the Minister may appoint another person in his
- place.

(e) Where an appointed director is, by reason of illness,
absence from Sri Lanka or other cause, temporarily unable to
perform the dutics of his office, the Minister may appoint
another person to act in his place.

(f An appointed director who vacates office otherwise than
by removal shail be eligible for election as a director under
the succeeding provisions of this section.

(4) (a) Where an appointed director vacates office under
paragraph (a) of subsection (3) at an Annual General Meeting
of the Corporation, the sharcholders present at such Annual
General Meeting shall elect a person to succeed such director.
A person so elected is hereinafter referred to as “an elected
director”.


Housing Development Finance Corporation of — 5
Sri Lanka Act, No.7 of 1997

(b) Anelected director may resign his office by a letter
in that behalf addressed to the Board.

(c) The shareholders of the Corporation may remove an
elected director from office by a resolution passed at a meeting
of the shareholders.

(d) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)and — (c)
this subsection the term of office of an elected director shall
be three years.

(e) Anelected director vacating office by efluxton of time
shall be eligible for re-election.

(f) Where an elected director dies, resigns or is removed
from office the shareholders of the Corporation shall, at a
meeting of such sharcholders, elect another person to succeed
such director. The person so elected shall hold office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of the director whom
he succeeds.

(g) Where an elected director, is by rcason of illness,
absence from Sri Lanka or other cause, temporarily unable to
perform the duties of his office, the shareholders of the
Corporation may at a meeting of the sharcholders elect another
person to act in his place.

4. (1) No person shall be qualified to be elected as a
director under subsection (4) of scction 3 unless—

{a} he has ; or

(b) he is the director or officcr of a body corporate which
has,

Shares to the value of not less than five thousand rupees in.

the capital of the Corporation :

Provided however that the first directors clected under
subsection (4) of section 3 shall not be required to have the
qualification referred to in this subsection until two months
have lapsed after the first issue of shares to the public.

Qualifications to be
a director.


Chairman of the
Board,

6 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

(2) A person shall be disqualified from being nominated,
appointed or elected, as a director or continuing in office as a
director if—

(a) he is, or becomes a Member of Parliament, a member
of a Provincial Council or a member of a local
authority;

(b) he is, or becomes, an officer or servant of the
Corporation;

(c) he, being a person who has been declared an insolvent
or bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in
any other country, is an undischarged insolvent or
bankrupt ;

(d) he is found or declared to be, of unsound mind under
any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country;

(e) he has served, or is serving, a sentence of .
imprisonment, imposed by a Court in Sn Lanka or
any other country.

5. (1) The Directors shall elect from among themselves,

- a Chairman of the Board.

(2) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairman
by letter in that behalf addressed to the Board.

(3) The Board may, by resolution, remove the Chairman
from office.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),
the term of office of the Chairman shall be his period of
membership of the Board.

(5) Where the Chairman is by reason of ill-health, absence
from Sri Lanka or other cause temporarily unable to perform
the duties of his office, the directors shall elect a person from
among themselves to act in the place of Chairman.


Housing Development Finance Corporation of — 7
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

6. (1) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the
Board and in the absence of the Chairman from any meeting
of the Board, the Directors present at such mecting shall select
from among themselves a Chairman for that mecting.

(2) The quorum for any mecting of the Board, shall be
five,

(3) The Chairman of any mecting of the Board shall, in
addition to his own vote, have a casting vole.

(4) A resolution in writing signed by all the directors,
for the time being entitled to receive notice of a meeting of
the Board, shall be valid and effectual as if such resolution
had been passed at a meeting of the Board duly convened and
held.

(5) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Board
may regulate the procedure in regard to its meetings and the
transaction of business at such meetings.

(6) All or any of the dircctors shall be paid such
remuneration as may be determined by the shareholders of
the Corporation at a mecting of such sharcholders.

7. A director who is directly or indirectly interested in
any contract proposed to be made by the Board shall disclose
the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Board. The
disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of Board and such
director shail not take part in any deliberation or decision of
the Board with respect to such contract.

8. The Board of Directors may exercise, discharge and
perform the powers, functions and duties of the Corporation
under this Act or any other law, and do all acts and things
necessary for administering and for managing the affairs of
the Corporation.

Meetings of the
Board.

Director to
disclose interest in
contract.

Powers of the
Board of Directors.


Delegation.

Scal of the
Corporation.

Board may act
despile vacancy.

Functions

of the Corporation.

8 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

9. The Board may delegate any of its powers, duties and
functions to any commitice thercof consisting of not less than
three dircctors. The Board may, notwithstanding any such
delegation, exercise, perform or discharge any such power,
duty or function.

10. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Board.

(2) The scal of the Corporation may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Board.

(3) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except in the presence of two directors
both of whom shall sign the instrument or document in token
of their presence.

11. Noactor proceeding of the Board or any committee
thereof shall be or deemed to be invalid by reason only of the
existence of a vacancy among its members or any defect in
the nomination, appointment or election of any of its members.

PART II
FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF THE CORPORATION
12. The functions of the Corporation shall be—

(a) to grant loans and other forms of financial assistance,
for housing purposes, and for the redemption of
residential property in accordance with such guidelines
as the Minister may prescribe by regulations made
under this Act, to individuals and housing finance
corporations ;

(b

~~

to subscribe for, and purchase, shares and securities
of every description, in companics having as their
object, the development of housing ;


Housing Development Finance Corporation of 9

(c)

(d)

(e)

(A)

(i)

)

(k)

()

(m)

Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

to engage in, and promote, the development of the
infrastructure related to housing ;

to provide amenitics and facilities to persons living in
housing schemes ;

to provide Icgal, engincering, architectural, surveying
and other support services, to individuals and
institutions engaged in the construction of houses ;

to undertake research, surveys and studies on
construction techniques, building materials and other
matters related to housing and human settlement ;

to formulate schemes for the mobilization of resources
for the purpose of extending credit for housing
purposes ;

to formulate and implement schemes for the provision
of housing for the economically disadvantaged
sections of the socicty ;

to conduct training programmes, seminars and
symposia on matters relating to housing ;

to provide technical and management assistance to
housing finance corporations, including assistance
relating to the preparation of standard instruments and
documents ;

to act as an agent of the Goverment or the Central
Bank ;

to guarantee the financial obtigations of housing
finance corporations and to underwrite the issue of
stocks, shares, bonds, debentures and securities of
housing finance corporations and of companies having
as their object, the development of housing ;

to purchase the rights of any housing finance
corporation under any mortgage entered into by such
housing finance corporation with any other person.


10 Housing Development Finance Corporation of

Powers of the 13.

Corporation.

(a)

(5)

(c)

(4)

(e)

(g)

(A)

(i)

Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

The Board shall, for the purposes of discharging its

functions, have the power—

to grant Joans or financial assistance to individuals
and to housing finance corporations ;

10 acquire, hold, take on Icase or hire, sell, mortgage
or otherwise dispose of, any movable or immovable

property ;

to enter into and perform, either directly or through
any officer or agent authorised in that behalf, all such
contracts or agrcements as may be necessary for that

purpose ;

to employ such officers and servants as may be
necessary for such purpose ;

to make rulcs in relation to its officers and servants,
including thcir appointment, promotion,
remuneration, disciplinary control and the grant of
Icave to them ;

to establish a provident fund or pension scheme for
its officers and servants, to make contributions to such
fund or scheme and to provide welfare and recreation
facilitics to such officers and servants ;

to make charges for any services provided by the
Corporation ;

to guarantce any loans or financial accommodation
granted to housing finance corporations ;

to underwrite the issue of stocks, shares, bonds,
debentures and sccurities of housing finance
corporations and companies having as their object,
the development of housing ;


Housing Development Finance Corporation of 11
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

(f) to accept tcrm deposits from the public for such
periods as may be determined by the Board and to
pay interest on such deposits ;

(k) toinvest the funds of the Corporation in such securities
as it may think fit ;

(J to borrow moncy on such terms and conditions as are
recognized as sound financial practice and approved
by the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance ;

(m) toreceive gifts, grants and donations, whether in cash
or otherwise, and to apply them to such purposes.

PART Ill
OFFICERS AND STAFF OF TIT CORPORATION

14, (1) The Board shall, with the prior written approval
of the Minister appoint a Gencral Manager to the staff of the
Corporation on such salary and with such allowances as may
be fixed by the Board.

(2) The General Manager shall be a full time officer of the
Corporation and shall be the Chicf Executive Officer of the
Corporation.

(3) The General Manager shall attend every mecting of the
Board unless the Board otherwise dirccts, but he shall have
no right to vote.

15. (1) For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act, the Board may appoint such other officers and
servants as the Board considers necessary.

(2) The Board may, from time to time, fix and alter the
salaries and allowances of such officers and servants subject
to any Govermmental circulars relating to the salary scales
and allowances applicable to state owned companies.

Appoinument and
powers of the
General Manager.

Officers and
servants of the
Board.


Capital of the
Corporation.

Contributions to the
Fund.

12 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

(3) Every officer or servant required by the Board to
furnish security shall furnish security to the satisfaction of
the Board for the due and faithful performance of his duties.

(4) No director or officer or servant of the Corporation
shall guarantec the repayment of any loan granted by the
Corporation to any other person.

PART IV
FINANCE

16. (1) The authorized capital of the Corporation shall
be two thousand million rupees divided into twenty million
shares of onc hundred rupecs each.

(2) The issued capital of the Corporation shall, subject to
the provisions of subscclion (3), be one thousand million
rupees.

(3) The Corporation may, subject to the provisions of
subsection (1), raise sums of money as contributions to the
capital of the Corporation by the issue of shares.

17. (1) Every institution sct out in Column I hereunder
shall, within five years of the appointed date, contribute to
the capital of the Corporation, an amount equal to the amount
specified in the corresponding entry in column II hereunder—

Column! Column IT
Scvana Fund Five hundred million rupees
in cash.
National Housing Develop- One hundred million
ment Authority rupees in cash
Employces Trust Fund Fifty miltion rupees in cash.

The National Savings Bank may within one year of the
appointed date contribute to the capital of the Corporation an
amount not exceeding one hundred million rupees in cash.


Pe eee a

Housing Development Finance Corporation of 13
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

(2) Upon the members of the building society registered
under the National Housing Act (Chapter 401) as the Housing
Development Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka Lid, resolving
to transfer its assets and liabilities to the Corporation, every
person who held shares in the Housing Development Finance
Corporation of Sri Lanka Lid., on the day preceding the date
of the resolution, shall be allotted shares in the Corporation
equal to the value of the shares hcld by him on that day in the
Housing Development Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka Ltd.

(3) The balance of the shares referred to in subsection (2)
of section 16, after the allotments made under subsection (2)

- Of this section, shall be offered for sale to the public in such

manner as may be determined by the Board.

(4) After the sale of shares to the public, under subsection
(3) is completed, the Corporation shall repay to the institutions
referréd to in subsection (1), the respective contributions made
by such institutions under that subsection to the capital of the
Corporation.

(5) (1) The Corporation shall notatlot any shares, or register
any shares—

(a) in the name of any company, incorporated body or an
individual if such allotment or registration would result
in such company, incorporated body or individual
owning more than fifteen per centum, of the total
issued share capital of the Corporation :

(6) in the name of a company and any one or more of the
following :—

(i) any of its subsidiaries ;
(ii) its holding company ;

(iii) a subsidiary of its holding company ; or


14 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

(iv) a company, in which such company or its
subsidiary or its holding company or a subsidiary
of its holding company, has a substantial interest,

if such allotment or registration would result in such company
and one or more of the persons referred to in subparagraphs
(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) owning, in the aggregate, more than
fifteen per centum, of the total issued share capital of the
Corporation —

(c} in the name of an individual and of any one or more
of the following :—

(i) his close relations ;

(ii) a company in which he has a substantial interest
or in which his close relation has a substantial
interest ;

(iii) the subsidiary of a company referred to in
sub-paragraph (ii) ;

(iv) a holding company of a company referred to in
sub-paragraph (it) ;

(v) asubsidiary of a holding company of a company
referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) ;

(vi) a company in which a company referred to in
sub-paragraph (ii) or its subsidiary or its holding
company or a subsidiary of its holding company
has a substantial interest ; or

(vii) an incorporated body other than a company in
which such individual or his close relation has a
substantial interest,

if suchAlloument or registration would result in such individual
and orfe or more of the persans referred to in sub-paragraphs
(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) owning, in the aggregate,
more than fiftecn per centum of the total issued share capital
of the Corporation.

moo


Housing Development Finance Corporation of 15
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

A company or individual shall be deemed to
have a substantial interest in a company or
incorporated body other than a company within
the meaning of this subsection where such
company or individual owns more than fifty-one
per centum of the shares in such company or
incorporated body, as the case may be.

(6) For the purpose of subsection (1) —

“close relation” in relation toa person, means a parent,
Spouse, or child of that person or the spouse of a
child of that person ;

“subsidiary” has the same meaning as in the Banking
Act, No. 30 of 1988.

18. The liability of any sharcholder of the Corporation
shall be limited to the amount, if any, unpaid on his shares,

19. The Corporation may, under and in accordance with
the provisions of this Act, raise such sums of money in or
outside Sri Lanka, by way of loan or otherwise, as may be
necessary for discharging its functions and exercising and
performing its powers and duties.

20. The Corporation may, from time to time, borrow
from the Government, and the Government may, from time
to time, lend to the Corporation from the Consolidated Fund
any sum of money, subject to such terms and conditions as
may be determined by the Government,

21. The Corporation may, with the approval of the
Monetary Board from time to time, borrow from any foreign
Government, or any other source whatsoever outside Sri
Lanka, any sum of money on such terms and conditions as to
the interest thereon and the repayment thereof as may be
determined by agreement between the Corporation and such
Government or such other source, as the case may be.

2- D039038 - &,550 (97/02)

Liability of
shareholders.

General borrowing
powers of the
Corporation.

Borrowing from the
Goverment,

Borrowing from
foreign
Govemments, &c.


Debentures and
Stock.

Govemmient to
Guarantee
repayments, &c.

16 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

22. (1) The Board may create and issue debentures and
stock, and the debentures and stock so created and issued
shall in this Act be referred to as “Housing Development
Finance Corporation Debentures” and “Housing Development
Finance Corporation Stock”, respectively.

(2) Housing Development Finance Corporation
Debentures and Housing Devclopment Finance Corporation
Stock shall be issued, transferred, dealt with, redeemed and
cancelled in accordance with such terms and conditions as
may be determined by the Board.

23. (1) The Government may guarantee the repayment
of the principal sum, and the payment of the interest on —

(a) any Housing Development Finance Corporation
Debentures, and any Housing Development Finance
Corporation Stock, created and issued by the Board
under section 22 ;

(b) any loan raised by the Corporation from any foreign
Government, or any other source under section 21 ;

(2) Any sum required for the fulfiliment of any guarantee
provided under subsection (1) shall be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund.

(3) Immediately after a guarantee is given under
subsection (1), the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance
shall lay a statement of such guarantee before Parliament.

(4) Where any sum is paid out of the Consolidated Fund
in fulfillment of any such guarantee, the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance shall lay before Parliament, a
statement that such sum has been so paid.


Housing Development Finance Corporation of 17
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

24. (1) Ail sums of money received by the
Corporation —

(a) as contributions towards the capital of the
Corporation ;

(6) in discharging the functions of the Corporation ;

(c) in exercising and performing the powers and duties of
the Corporation,

shall be credited to the funds of the Corporation.

(2) All financial commitments or liabilities of the
Corporation arising from, or incurred in connection with —

(a) the discharge of the functions of the Corporation ;

(6) the exercise and performance of the powers and duties
of the Corporation ,

shall be charged on the funds of the Corporation.

25. No dividend shal! be declared or paid by the
Corporation for any financial year out of the profits of the
Corporation for that ycar, arrived at after providing for
depreciation in accordance with provisions prescribed in that
behalf, except after the transfer to the reserves of the
Corporation, of such percentage of the profits of the
Corporation for that year not exceeding ten per centum as
may be prescribed :

Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to
prohibit the Corporation from voluntarily transferring a higher
percentage of its profits in that year, to its reserves,

Funds of the
Corporation.

Restriction on
declaration of
dividend.


Audit of the
accounts.

18 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

PART V
ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT

26. (1) The Board shall cause the accounts of the
Corporation to be kept in such form and manner as may be
determined by the Board.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor annually appointed at a meeting of the
share-holders of the Corporation :

Provided that, so long as the majority of the issued shares
of the Corporation is held by the Government of Sri Lanka,
ora public Corporation, the accounts of the Corporation shall
be audited by the Auditor-General.

(3) The sharcholders shall determine the remuneration
payable to the auditor of the Corporation.

(4) The auditor of the Corporation shall be supplied with
a copy of the annual balance sheet of the Corporation, and it
shall be his duty to examine such balance sheet together with
the accounts and vouchers relating thereto. He shall at all
reasonable times have access to the books, accounts and
vouchers of the Corporation and shall be entitled to require
from the directors and officers of the Corporation such
information and explanations as may be necessary for the
performance of his duties.

(5) The auditor of the Corporation may, if he so desires,
make a continuous audit of the accounts of the Corporation.

(6) The auditor of the Corporation shall make a written
report upon the annual balance sheet and accounts of the
Corporation and shall in such report state whether he has or
has not had access to the books and accounts of the
Corporation and whether he has or has not obtained all the
information and explanations required by him and whether,


Housing Development Finance Corporation of 19
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

in his opinion such accounts are Properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the Corporation's affairs
according to the best of his information and the explanations
given to him and as shown by the books of the Corporation.

(7) The report of the auditor of the Corporation shall be
transmilted by him to the Board.

(8) The Board shall cause a copy of the report of the
auditor of the Corporation together with a copy of the balance
sheet and profit and loss account to which such report refers,
to be transmitted to each shareholder and to the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance.

(9) The Financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.

(10) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate to
Practise as an accountant, issucd by the Council of
such Institute ; or

(b) a firm of Accountants, cach of the resident partners of
which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practise
as an accountant issucd by the Council of such
Institute.

PART VI
GENERAL

27. (1) The Board may make rules dealing with matters
not provided for by this Act which in the case of a company
formed under the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 would be
dealt with by its articles of association.

Rules of the
Corporation,


Application

of the Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982
to the Corporation.

Certain laws not to

apply to
Corporation.

Power to inspect
vajuation rolls of
local rating
authorities.

Bills of Exchange
and promissory
notes.

20 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No.7 of 1997

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the shareholders
may by special resolution, amend or rescind any rule made
under subsection (1) or add to the rules so made.

In this subsection the expression “special resolution” mearts
arcsolution passed by a majority of not less than three fourths
of such sharcholders as, being entitled so to do, vote in person
or by proxy’at a mecting of the shareholders of which not
less than twenty one days notice has been duly given to the
sharc-holders specifying the resolution intended to be
proposed al that mecting.

28. The provisions of the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the Corporation in regard to
any matter for which there is no provision in this Act or any
rule made under section 27 :

Provided that the Corporation shall not be required to be
registered under that Act nor shall the Registrar of Companies
have any power with respect to the Corporation.

29. The provisions of the Debt Conciliation Ordinance
(Chapter 81) and the Money Lending Ordinance (Chapter 80)
shall not apply to and in relation to, the Corporation.

30. For the purpose of deciding whether any immovable
property tendered as security for a loan should or should not
be accepted by the Corporation, the Corporation shall have
access [ree of charge to the valuation rolls of any local rating
authority, and the officers of every such authority shall, upon
application made therefor, submit to the Corporation full
particulars as lo any valuation of rateable property in respect
of which such loca! rating authority has power to levy rates.

31. A bill of exchange or promissory note shall be
deemed to have been made, executed or endorsed on behalf
of the Corporation, if made, executed or endorsed in the name
of, or on behalf, or on account of, the Corporation by any
person duly authorised thereto as hereinafter provided.


Housing Development Finance Corporation of 21
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

32. No person, other than a director or an officer of the
Corporation expressly authorised by the Board and acting
within the limits of the authority so conferred on him, shall
have the authority to make, draw, accept or endorse any
promissory note, bill of exchange, cheque or order for the
payment of money in the name of, or on behalf of, the
Corporatian or to enter into any contract, so as to impose
thereby any liability on the Corporation or otherwise to pledge
the credit of the Corporation.

33. The Corporation shall be deemed to be a Bank within
the meaning of Chapter VI of the Evidence Ordinance,
hotwithstanding the fact that it does not accept demand
deposits, and accordingly, the provisions of that Chapter shall
apply to, and in relation to, the Corporation.

34. (1) Every dircctor, officer or auditor of the
Corporation shall before cntcring upon his duties, sign a
declaration pledging himself to obscrve strict secrecy
respecting all transactions, of the Corporation and all matters
relating to such transactions and shall by such declaration
pledge himself not to reveal any such transaction or matter
except—

(a) when required so to do by the Board, a court of law,
or the person to whom that transaction or matter
relates ;

(b) in the performance of his duties under this Act ; and

(c) in order to comply with any of the provisions of this
Act or any other law. .

(2) Every director, officer or auditor of the Corporation
Shall decline to answer any question conceming the business
of the Corporation if he cannot answer the question without
infringing his pledge of secrecy under subsection (1).

Persons authorised
to act on behalf of
the Corporation.

Application of
Chapter VI of
Evidence
Ordinance to the
Corporation.

Secrecy.


Annual General
Mecting.

Protection of action.

Offences.

22 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

35. An Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of
the Corporation shalt be held within nine months after the
close of each financial year of the Corporation, at which the
Annual Report and Accounts presented by the Board shall be
considered and decisions as to the declaration of dividends
taken. The manner of summoning the Annual General Meeting
and the procedure for transaction of business at such meeting
shall be as prescribed. At every Annual General Meeting,
directors shall be clectcd to the Board in accordance with the
share holdings in the Corporation on the day preceding the
date of such meeting.

36. No director or officer of the Corporation shall be
liable for any damage or loss suffered by the Corporation,
unless such damage or loss was caused by his misconduct or
willful loss.

37. (1) Every person who—

(a) knowingly allots, or registers, any shares in the
Corporation, to or in the name of, any person, in
contravention of the provisions of section 17(5) ; or

(b) knowingly secures the allotment or registration of any
shares in the Corporation, to, or in the name of, any
person, in contravention of the provisions of section
17(5) ; or

(c

—_

being a director, officer or auditor of the Corporation,
discloses any matter relating to a transaction of the
Corporation, to any person for any purpose other than
a purpose for which he is authorised to disclose such
matter by this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall upon
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
one year, or to both such fine and imprisonment.


Housing Development Finance Corporation of 23
Sri Lanka Act, No.7 of 1997

(2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then,—

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director and officer of that body corporate ; or

(6) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of that
firm, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence :

Provided, however, that a director or officer of such body
corporate or a partner of such firm, shall not be deemed to be
guilty of such offence if he proves that such offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

38. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of Regulations.
any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are required by this Act to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shail come into operation on
such date as may be specified in the regulation or if no such
date is so specified, on the date of such publication.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before Parliament by a motion that such regulation be
approved.

(4) Any regulation which Parliament refuses to approve
shall be deemed to be rescinded but without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done thereunder. The date on
which the regulation shal! be decmed to be rescinded shall be
the date on which Parliament refuses to approve such
regulation.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.


Transfer of assets
and liabilities of the
Housing Finance
Development
Corporation of

Sri Lanka Lid.

Transitional
provisions.

24 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

39. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
Law, the members of the building society registered under
the National Housing Act (Chapter 401) as the Housing
Development Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka Ltd., may
resolve to transfer all its assets and liabilities to the
Corporation, and upon such resolution, the assets and
liabilities of the Housing Development Finance Corporation
of Sri Lanka Ltd., shall stand transferred to the Corporation
with effect from the date of such resolution and the Housing
Development Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka Ltd., shall
be deemed to have been dissolved with effect from that date.

40. Notwithstanding the dissolution of the Housing
Development Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka Lid.—

(a) every action or proceeding instituted by or against the
Housing Development Finance Corporation of Sri
Lanka Ltd., and pending in any court, whether original
or appellate, on the day preceding the date on which
the Housing Development Finance Corporation of Sri
Lanka Ltd., is deemed to have been dissolved, shall
be deemed with effect from that date to be an action
or procecding instituted by or against the corporation
and every such action or proceeding may be proceeded
with to completion and enforced accordingly ;

(b) every decree, ordcr or award entered or made in favour
of or against the Housing Development Finance
Corporation of Sri Lanka Ltd., by any court or tribunal
in any action, matter, proceeding or thing and
remaining unsatisfied on the day preceding the date
on which the Housing Development Finance
Corporation of Sri Lanka Ltd., is deemed to have been
dissolved, shall with effect from that date be deemed
lo be a decree, order or award entered or made in
favour of or against the Corporation and may be
enforced accordingly.

~~

«


Housing Development Finance Corporation of 25
Sri Lanka Act, No.7 of 1997

41. Section 22 of the Recovery of Loans by Banks
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of 1990, is hereby amended
by the substitution, in the definition of “Bank”, for the words
and figures “Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Act,
(Chapter 165)”, of the words and figures “Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon Act, (Chapter 165) and the
Housing Development Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka
established by the Housing Development Finance Corporation
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997.”.

42. (1) Every officer and servant of the Housing
Development Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka Ltd. registered
under the National Housing Act (Chapter 401), on the day
immediately preceding the date of dissolution of that body
shall be offered employment in the Corporation.

(2) Every officer or scrvant of the said Housing
Development Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka Lid. who is
employed by the Corporation, shall be so employed on such
terms and conditions as may be agreed upon by such officer
or servant and the Corporation.

(3) any officer or servant of thc Housing Development
Finance Corporation of Sri Lanka Ltd., who is not employed
by the Corporation shall in addition to any retiral benefit that
may be due to him, be paid compensation of an amount to be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance having regard to
his years of service in that body.

43. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shalt prevail.

44. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Board ;

“ Director ” means a director of the Board ;

Amendment of
section 22 of Act
No. 4 of 1990.

Protection of
Employment and
Compensation.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.


26 Housing Development Finance Corporation of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 7 of 1997

“Employees Trust Fund ” means the Employees Trust Fund
established by the Employees Trust Fund Act,
No. 40 of 1980 ;

“Housing Finance Corporation” means any corporation,
established by or under law and empowered to grant
loans for the purposes of housing ;

“local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority established by or under any law to exercise,
perform and discharge powers, duties and functions
corresponding or similar to the powers, duties and
functions exercised, performed and discharged by
any such Council or Sabha ;

“National Housing Development Authority” means the
National Housing Development Authority
established by the National Housing Development
Authority Act, No. 17 of 1979 ;

“National Savings Bank” means the National Savings Bank
- established by the National Savings Bank Act,
No. 30 of 1971;

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council
established by Chapter X VIIA of the Constitution ;

“Sevana Fund” means the Fund established under section
5 of the National Housing Development Authority
Act, No. 17 of 1979.


Annual subscription of English Bitls and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180

(Foreign), Payable to the Suprkintenpent, GOVERNMENT Pusications Burzau, No. 32,
Transworks House, Lorus Roan, Cotomne 01 before 15th December each year in Tespect
of the year following.

free
