PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

UNIVERSITIES (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 57 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 07th October, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 2.50Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 09, 2009

1Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 57 of 2009

[Certified on 7th October, 2009]

L.D.O 49/2007

AN ACT TO AMEND THE UNIVERSITIES ACT, NO. 16 OF 1978

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Universities(Amendment) Act, No. 57 of 2009 and shall come intooperation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

2.Section 48 of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended in subsection (1A) of that section, by the repeal ofparagraphs (b), (c) and (d) of that subsection and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraphs:

(b)all permanent Senior Professors, Professors,Associate Professors, Senior Lecturers and Lecturersof the Departments of Study comprising the Faculty;

(c)two members elected by the Lecturers(Probationary) of the Faculty from among suchLecturers;

(d)two members of the permanent staff attached to theFaculty and who are imparting instructions, otherthan those referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c),elected from among such staff members;.

3.Section 71 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal ofparagraph (ii) of that subsection and the substitution thereforof the following paragraph:

(ii)appointment to a post other than that of teacher, ofwhich the salary code or minimum salary point shall

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Amendment ofsection 48 ofAct, No. 16 of1978.

Amendment ofsection 71 of theprincipalenactment.

2PL 0042224,250 (07/2009)

Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 57 of 20092

be as determined by the Commission, by Rulesmade from time to time:

Provided that, the Commission may require therespective Higher Educational Institutions toforward the recommendation for appointment tothe above posts, in accordance with the procedurespecified by the Commission by rules made inthat behalf. The Commission shall on receipt ofsuch recommendation make the necessaryappointments; and.

4.Section 72 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal ofproviso of that subsection and the substitution therefor ofthe following proviso:

Provided that where the appointment is to a post of

(a)teacher, and the appointee has been previouslyconfirmed in a post of teacher in another HigherEducational Institution or in another Departmentof the Higher Educational Institution to which theappointee is attached, such appointment shall, inthe first instance be for a probationary period ofone year; or

(b)teacher, and the appointee has been previouslyconfirmed in any post equivalent to the post ofteacher in another Higher Educational Institutionor in another Department of the Higher EducationalInstitution to which the appointee is attached, suchappointment shall in the first instance be for aprobationary period of one year ..

5.Section 75 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for all the words from Theholder of any post, to retired from service:, of thefollowing:

The holder of any post other than that of teacher,shall continue in office beyond the optional age of

Amendment ofsection 72 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 75 of theprincipalenactment.

3Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 57 of 2009

retirement of such officer, i.e. fifty-five years andremain in service up to the age of fifty seven years,and shall thereafter be deemed to have voluntarilyretired from service:.

6.Section 147 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution, for the definition of theexpression Teacher, of the following definition:

Teacher means a Senior Professor, Professor,

Associate Professor, Senior Lecturer Grade I,Senior Lecturer Grade II, Lecturer and Lecturer(Probationary) and the holder of any post,declared by Ordinance to be a post, the holderof which, is a teacher; and.

7.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment ofsection 147 ofthe principalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 57 of 20094

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.