PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Sth Session 1969-70

Criminal Procedure Code
(Amendment) Act,
No. 37 of 1969

ete of sent: December 28, 1088

i Octal Goren
‘Conlon Government Gaze,
"POT of Jonuary 310

»
ond publced



Criminal Procedure Code (Amoniiment)
ot, No. 37 of 1960

1 D0. 1900,

AK Ace 10 scm nae Canxas, Procsoone, Come
Tonto Make PROVISION UAMLING. MAGISTRATES!
Covers 40 mista wnocesoiNos iN Okse5, WHEE,
Serone mite Passive OF Tis cr, & MAGISTRATES
Goenn, aeine op oPrsion rua ax ACCUSED WAS OF

[Date of Assent: December 28, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen's Most Excsllent Majesty,
by and with he adic and consent of the Sena ad
the Toute of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the

ame, as follows! —

4. This Act may be cited as the Criminal Pro-
sedate Code (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 1069,

2, Section 307 of the Criminal Prsedure Code,
einaar referred to as th principal enactment”,
te oreby amended an flows
(0) in subsection @ of chat geton, by the subst
{atin, for Ge words "It the Magistrate’
{Court of he words "Tf the Magistrate's
Coast, nthe eae ofan Ingury, and
) by the insertion of the following subsetion
Snell alter exbsnion @) of that
(@) 1 the Magistrate's Court in th
case ot a trial, of opaion Gat the
Stesed {sof unsound find and conse.
gently Sacepable of making his defence,
aay
(@) if he court is of th view thus the
‘eae ith wh he ct
arged ie of trivial ture a
hat having regard to tho medical
fvidone, the eeosed maybe di
hanged without danger of aoing
Snjury to himeolf or to any ober
oon, order the aorsed 10 Be
echatge, oF



2 Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment)
Ast, Nor 9 of 1088

(© postpone, further proceedings in the

the substation, for the words
his defence the cour, of the wards "incapable
‘making his defence, and has not been discharged under
the provisions of tub-sction (3) of section 367, the
ort,

4) Mihere a Marita Conn ing tia
Aefoe theta gn whch hn Act cae in or
eg of opinion thal the accused was of unsound min
sl Smeal nepal af alg bi Sete, has
tponed further prosedings ia the case under the
Provstons of sub-sction (of setion 237 of the
rincipal enactment, and the Miniter of Justice has,
[Ey eting under the band ofthe Periasent Secretary,
ordered the accused to be confined in'a mental oxptal,
‘nder the provisions of subsection 2 of section 905
of that enactment if it appears to the Visitors ofthe
Imentalfompital, or any two of them, that the once
‘ith which the accused was changed was of trivial
‘ature, and the Medical Superintendent or doctor
Charge’ ofthe mental borptal certifies thatthe
fscrused may be dincharged without danger of doing
Injury to hinsel or to an other person such Visto
‘may ake a-writien applications to which the cette
feate'of such Medical Superintendent or decor in
charge shall be appended, to the Magistrate's Court
before which the accused’ was originally charged, 0
Tesume prossedigs in the casa,

(2) Whore an application to resume proceedings in
‘ate is made under the provisions of tub-section (1),
shall be lawful forthe Magistrate's Cour wo resams
‘Proceedings in that case and, ifthe cout fs etsfed
Hat the offence with which the ancosed was charged
is ofa trivial nature and, aftor hearing the evideace,
if necessary, of the Medical Superintendent or doctor
euisal he aate, atthe, arcane ay te
ischarged without danger of doing injury to Hinsel
‘ta any, other person. to order the ascoed to be
fischarged.” Tf the Court is not. sp sitised, the
sceused shall continue to be confined in the mental
espa inike manne if pocedings had bot ben

