PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ind Session 1957-58 ie
ott
2
SD
(al)
2 2
|
Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 16
of 1958
Date of Assent: May 9, 1958
Printed on the Orders of Government
Printed at the Govennent Press, CevioN, Tobe
Penk a te con a Rites Bonini, CoLons
‘Annual Subscription (incliding Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
annual, Subseriptin,CnciMaing, PALO ating” Pata tions
siranee tg, SUNOS Cerctirt, "Colonibo T
Price : 40 cents. Postage: 10 cents


| Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958 3 ,
1. D.—0. 48/57.
AN Acr To AMEND THE Stamp ORDINANCE. Brg

[Date of Assent: May 9, 1958} Page 684)

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,

by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and

the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present

Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the

game, as follows :—

‘4. This Act may be cited as the Stamp (Amend- Short title.

ment) Act, No. 16 of 1958, and shall come into opera- 324 dste of

non such dave ae the Minister may appoint by Order 7

published in the Gazette.

2, Section 23A of the Stamp Ordinance (herein- Amesigem ot
after referred to as the “ principal enactment ”’), a3 ¢gtion 40!
amended by Ordinance No. 47 of 1941, is hereby °"*
amended as follows :—

(a) by the renumbering of that section as sub-

section (1) of section 23A; and

* (b) by the addition, at the end of that section, of
the following sub-section: —

: “« (2) Where any instrument referred to in
sub-section (1) in reality effects a gift of any
such annuity or other right as is specified in
that sub-section, that instrument shall be
chargeable with the same duty as on a gift of
a value equivalent to that which is deemed
under sub-section (1) to be consideration if
no consideration is set forth in the
instrument.” .

3. Section 25A of the principal enactment, a8 smesimen: st
amended by Ordinance No.’ 47 of 1941, is hereby section 54 0f
amended as follows: — ames

(1) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the substi-

tution, for all the words from “ the instru-
ment shall be deemed to be’ to the end of
that sub-section, of the following: — :
“the Commissioner of Stamps shall, j
acebrding to the circumstances of the case, |
deem the transaction embodied in such
instrument to be—
(j) a conveyance or transfer for a considera-
tion partly pecuniary and partly other
than pecuniary, or
(ii) partly a conveyance or transfer for a
pecuniary consideration and partly a
gift.”;
3.x. mateet-yons ais


; Seunip (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958
(2) by the insertion, immediately after ssub-seetiy,
(2) of that ection, of the following ney
sub-sections:— =
* (1A) Where the transaction embodied jy

the instrument, referred to in sub-section (j)

is deemed by the Commissioner of Stamps i

be a conveyance or transfer for a considera

tion partly pecuniary and partly other thay
pecuniary, such instrument shall be charge:

able with duty accordingly. A

(1B) Where the transaction embodied igi

the instrument referred to in sub-section (1)

is deemed by the Commissioner of Stamps i

be partly a conveyance or transfer for

pecuniary consideration and partly a gift,
such instrument shall—

(a) if such transaction does not relate to any
property or business referred to in
paragraph (2a) of item 23 in Part I
of Schedule A, be chargeable with
duty equal to the aggregate of —

(i) the duty, in respect of such part of
that ‘transaction as is deemed
by the Commissioner of Stamps
to be a conveyance or transfer
for a pecuniary consideration,
chargeable as on a conveyance
or transfer for the pecuniary
consideration set forth in su
instrument, and

(ii) the duty, in respect of such part of
that transaction as is deemed by
the Commissioner of Stamps to
bea gift, chargeable as on a gift
of a value equal to the difler-
ence between the value of the
property to which that transac
tion relates and the amount of
the pecuniary consideration set
forth in such instrument; and

(0) if such transaction relates to any pro-
perty or business referred to in para-
graph (2a) of item 23 in Part I of

Schedule A, be chargeable with duty

in accordance with the provisions of

Paragraph (2) of the proviso to pe

graph (2a) of the aforesaid item 23.


Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958 5
(10) Where, in the case of any instrument
of ‘conveyance or transfer to which section
6C does not apply and in which a pecuniary
‘onsideration or a consideration capable of
being valued in money is set forth, it appears
to the Commissioner of Stamps that, by reason
of the fact that the consideration so expressed.
‘Seems not to have passed at the time of execu-
tion of the instrament or seems to be in-
adequate, such instrument is in reality for
the purpose of bestowing a gift, he may call
upon the parties to such instrament to furnish
proof to his satisfaction that the transaction
embodied in such instrument is a bona fide
conveyance or transfer and not a gift. If
no sch proof is furnished or the proof
furnished is in his opinion inadequate, the
Commissioner of Stamps shall deem such
instrument to be for the purpose of bestowing
a ee and such instrument shall be charge-
able with duty accordingly.” ;
(8) by the addition, at the end of that section, of the
following new sub-section: —
(3) Where any immovable property, or
- any part thereof, is conveyed or transferred
to the same person in lots by several instru-
ments, and the consideration set forth in any
such instrument does not exceed fifteen
thousand rupees, and it appears to the Comn-
missioner of Siampe that several instruments
were executed with the intention of avoiding
the duty which would be chargeable if the
total area conveyed or transferred by such
instruments was conveyed or transferred by a
single instrument, he may call upon the
Parties to such instruments to prove to his
satisfaction that such instruments were not
executed with such intention, and, if no such
proof is furnished or the proof furnished is,
in his opinion, inadequate, each instrument in
which the consideration set forth does net
exceed fifteen thousand rupees shall be
charged with the same rate of duty as is
chargeable in the case of a conveyance or
transfer in which the consideration set forth
exceeds fifteen thousand rupees.””; and
(4) inthe marginal note to that section by the substi-
tution, for the words ‘ true consideration ”’,
of the words “true consideration, true
character of conveyance or transfer,”


6 Stump (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958
Amesdinent of Section 26A of the principal enactment, yy
Seeechaf amended by Ordinance No. 47 of 1941, is her
‘enactment. amended by the insertion, immediately after sy}

section (1) of that section, of the following sy,

sections :— z

“ (LA) Where in the case of the agreement or coi
tract referred to in sub-section (1) it appears to the
Commissioner of Stamps that, by reason of the fag
that no consideration is set forth in such agreement
or contract or the consideration so set forth is not
capable of being valued in money or by reason of
other circumstances, such agreement or contract is
in reality for the purpose of bestowing gift, he may
call upon the parties to such agreement or contrac,
to furnish proof to his satisfaction that such agree
ment or contract is wholly for the purpose of making
a bona fide conveyance or transfer and not for the
purpose of bestowing a gift. If no such proof is
furnished or the proof furnished is in his opinine
inadequate, the Commissioner of Stamps shall deer
such agreement or contract to be wholly for th
purpose of bestowing a gift. ¢

(1B) Where any peaupiary consideration or any °
consideration capable of being valued in money is
set forth in the agreement or contract referred to in’
sub-section (1) and it appears to the Commissioner of!
Stamps that, by reason of the inadequacy of such
consideration or other circumstances, stich agseemext,
or contract is not wholly for the purpose of making a

conveyance or transfer, the Commissioner of Stamps
may call upon the parties to such agreement or cou
tract to furnish proof to his satisfaction that such:
agreement or contract is wholly for the purpose of |
making a bona fide conveyance or transfer and not
partly for the purpose of making a conveyance of
transfer and partly for the purpose of bestowing a
gift. If no such proof is iene or the proof.
furnished is in his opinion inadequate, the Com:
missioner of Stamps shall deem such agreement or
contract to be partly for the purpose of making #
conveyance or transfer and partly for the purpose of.
bestowing a gift. :

(1C) The agreement or contract referred to in
sub-section (1) shall,—

(a) if such agreement or contract is deemed by the.

Commissioner of Stamps to be wholly for the
purpose of bestowing a gift, be charged with


! 'Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958 7+
such duty, to be paid by the grantee or trans-
feree, as is chargeable,—

(i) where such agreement or contract is im
respect of a business, on a gift of a
value equal to the net value of that
business added to the amount, includ-
ing accrued interest, due on mortgage
debts charged on the immovable
property of that business;

(ii) where such agreement or contract is in
respect of a share in a business, on the
net value of that share added to such
part of the amount, including accrued
interest, due on mortgage debts
charged on the immovable property of
that business as is proportionate to
that share; and

(iii) where such agreement or contract is in
respect of other property, on a gift of
a value equal to the value of that
property ;

(0) if such agreement or contract is in respect of
property referred to in any of the sub-
paragraphs (i) to (vi) of paragraph (22) of
item 23 in Part I of Schedule A and is
deemed by the Commissioner of Stamps to
be partly for the purpose of making a
conveyance or transfer and partly for the
purpose of bestowing a gift, be charged with
duty equal to the aggregate of —

(i) the duty which is in respect of such part

of the agreement or contract as is

i deemed by the Commissioner of

Stamps to be for the purpose of
making a conveyance or transfer and
which shall be chargeable under
paragraph (2a) of item 23 in Part I
of Schedule A on a transfer of such

4 property for the consideration set
forth in the agreement or contract, and
(ii) the duty which is in respect of such part
of the agreement or contract as is
deemed iy the Commissioner of
Stamps to be for the purpose of
bestowing a gift and which shall be
chargeable as on agift of a value equal
to the difference between the amount
‘on which duty would be chargeable if


& Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958
the agreement or contract were who},
for the purpose of making a convey.
ance or transfer and the amount ;,
value of the consideration set forth j;
the agreement or contract; and

() if such agreement or contract is in respect of :
business and is deemed by the Commissioxa:
of Stamps to be partly for the purpose <#
making a conveyance or transfer at partly
for the purpose of bestowing a gift, %
charged with duty equal to the aggregate of
(i) the duty which is in respect of such pax

of the agreement or contract as i:
deemed Y the Commissioner «i
Stamps to be for the purpose of mak.
ing a conveyance or transfer and
which shall be equal to such part of
the amount of the duty chargeable
under sub-paragraph’ (vii) of
paragraph (2a) of item 23 in Part 1
of Schedule Aon a transfer of the said
business as bears to that amount the
same proportion as the amount or
value of the consideration set forth
in the agreement or contract bears to
the aggregate of the net value of the
said business and the amount, includ.
ing accrued interest, due on mortgage
debts charged on the immovable
property of the said business, and
(ii) the duty which is in respect of such part
of the agreement or contract as is
deemed by the Commissioner of
Stamps to be for the purpose of
bestowing a gift and which shall be
chargeable as on a gift of a value equal
| the difference between— i
(a) the aggregate of the net value of
une said business andthe

é amount, including accrued
' interest, due on mortgage debts

charged on the immovable
property of the said business,
and

(y) the amount or value of the con
sideration set forth in the
agreement or contract.”.


10 Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958
and partly a gift, and such instrumé{'
shall be Ghargeable with diy |
accordingly. ””. 2
Amendment of 6. Section 30 of the principal enactment, '{{)
secon 9 of ganended by Ordinance No. 47 of 1941, is herey
Siduen™" amended, in sub-section (3) of that section, by th |
substitution, in paragraph (c) of the proviso to thi |
section, for the word * six", of the word “ ten”. :;:/
meinen of 7. Section 34 of the principal enactment, i.
tecion 81 of amended by Ordinance No. 47 of 1941, is. hereby.
fucaet' amended by the substitution, for the word ‘* six”, of.
the word “ ten ’’. oa
Amendment of 8. Section 35 of the principal enactment,
sera, ef amended by Ordinance No. 47 of 1941. is herety
Sadmen amended, in paragraph (a) of the proviso to. that
section, by the substitution, for the word “ six”, of
the word “‘ ten ’’. is
Auecdment of 9. Section 41 of the principal enactment, a
igemcaff amended by Ordinance No. 47 of 1941, is hereby
enacrment. amended in sub-section (1) of that section by the
substitution, for the word ‘six. of the word
“ten”. %
snsdment of 10. Section 43 of the principal enactment, a
seven 18 of amended by Ordinance No. 47 of 1941, is hereby
insctnest amended by the substitution, for the word “‘ six ”, of
the word “ten”.
susmioenr of 44, Part I of Schedule A to the principal enact
ze Lsi, ., ment is hereby amended as follows: —
ae pense (1), in item 1 of that Part, as amended by Ordinance
| No. 47 of 1941, by the substitution, for the
figures ‘0.6? appearing in the colum
hended “ Daty. "sof the figures “0.10 "5
(2) in item 14 of that Part, by the substitution it
| paragraph (b) of the exemptions set, out
under that item, for all the words from ‘02
| the British territories” to the end of that
| paragraph, of the words “ to be drawn out
i of, and to be payable in, Ceylon. ”;
(3). in item 23 of that Part— Z
() in sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph (1) of
that item— 3
" (i) by the substitution, for the words
and figures “Every further
- Rs. 500 or part thereof”, of


"Stamp: (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958 11 :
i the words and figures “ Over
Rs. 1,000 and not over
Rs. 15,000, for every Rs. 500 or
part thereof”; and
(ii) by the addition, at the end of that
sub-paragraph, of the
following: —
“* Over Rs. 15,000, for every
Rs, 100 or part thereof ... 3.0:
Provided that where a
conveyance or transfer of any
immovable property is deemed
by the Commissioner of Stamps
to be partly a conveyance or
transfer and partly agift, then,
if the value of such property
exceeds Rs, 15,000, the rate of
duty chargeable in respect of
such part of the transaction as
is deemed to be a conveyance
or transfer shall be Rs. 3 for
every Rs. 100 or part thereof,
notwithstanding — that the
consideration set forth in the
instrument of such conveyance
or transfer is less than
Rs. 15,000.” ;
(2) in paragraph (2) of that item, as amended by
Act No. 4 of 1948, by the substitution, in the
proviso to that paragraph,—
(i) for the figures “0.50, of the figures
1.00 75 i
(ii) for the figures “1.50, of the figures i
“2.00;
(iii) for the figures ‘* 3.00 ”, of the figures
"4.0085
(iy) for,the figares 4.50", of the figures
6.00"; {
@) for the figures ‘‘ 6.00 ’’, of the figures i
"8.00 8
(vi) for the figures “‘ 7.50, occurring imme-
diately below the figures ‘6.00 "’, of
the figures ‘ 10.00 "5
(vii) for the figures “15.00 ”, of the figures
“ 20.00"; and
(viii) for the figures ‘7.50, occurring at
the a of that proviso, of the
figures ‘ 10.00 °°;


4 12 Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958
(c) in paragraph of that item, inserted jr
@) Grainanee No lr of 1941, by the addition,
. the end of that paragraph, of the followiag
proviso: — ‘e
“« Provided that the following provisiony
shall apply where any such transfer or assign.
ment is deemed by the Commissioner of
Stamps to be a gift, or to be partly a transfe,
or an assignment and partly a gift: —
(1) the transfer or assignment which ij
deemed by the Commissioner of Stamp,
to be a gift shall,— 3
(a) if it is a transfer or an assignmen,
referred to in any Of the
preceding sub-paragraphs ().
to (vi), be charged with the
same duty as on agift of a value
equal to the amount on which
duty would be chargeable if the
transfer or assignment were not
a gift, and
(d) if it is a transfer or an assignment
referred to in the precedin
sub-paragraph (vii), be chargel
with the same duty as on a gift
of a value equal to the aggre.
gate of the net value of the
business transferred or assigned
and the amount, including
accrued interest, due on mort
gage debts charged on the
immovable property of such
business; |
(2) the transfer or assignment which is
deemed by the Commissioner of Stamps
to be partly a transfer or an assign
ment and partly a gift shall,—
(@) if it is a transferor an assignment
referred to in any of the preced:

ing sub-paragraphs (i) to (vi)

be charged with duty equal t

the aggregate, of —

(i) the duty which is in respee!
of ‘such part of the
transaction as is deemed
by the Commissioner
of Stamps to be &


Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958 13
transfer’ or an assign-
ment and which shall be
chargeable as on the
transfer or assignment
for the amount ur value
of the consideration set
forth in the instrument
of transfer or assign-
ment, and

(ii) the duty which is in respect
of such part of the trans-
action as is deemed by
the Commissioner of
Stamps to be a gift and
which shall be chargeable

. as on a gift of a value
equal to the difference
between the amount on
which duty would be
chargeable if the entire
transaction were a
transfer or an assign-
ment and the amount or
value of the considera-
tion set forth in the
instrument of transfer or
assignment, and

(b) if it is a transfer or an assign-
ment of a business, be charged
with duty equal to the
aggregate of —

(i) the duty which is in respect
of such part of the tran-
saction as is deemed by
the Commissioner of
Stamps to be a transfer
or an assignment and
which shall be equal
to such part of the
amount; of the duty
chargeallle under the pre-
ceding . sub-paragraph
(vii) on a transfer or an
assignment of the said
business as bears to that
amount the same pro-
portion as the amount or
value of the considera-
tion set forth in the


14 stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958
: instrument of transfer gi
assignment bears to tht
aggregate of the ne
value of the said busines,
and the amount, inclug.:
ing accrued interest, day.
on mortgage debty
charged on the in)
movable property of thy

said business, and i

(ii) the duty which is in respeg
of such part. of the
transaction as is deemef
by the Commissioner of

Stamps to be a gift and

which shall be chargeable

as on a gift of a value
equal to the difference
between—

(2) the aggregate of the
net value of the
said business and
the amount, in.
cluding — accrued
interest, ane = :
mort ebis
charged on. the «
immovable pro-
perty of the said ;

. business, and

(y) the amount or value
of the considera.
tion set forth in
the instrument of
transfer or as-

‘ signment.””;
@ in paragraph (6) of that item, as amended by
ct No. 4 of 1948, by the substitution, in
sub-paragraph (ii) of that paragraph, for the
‘figures ‘/ 15’, of the figures ‘20’; and
(e) in paragraph (8) of that item, as amended by
Ordinance No. 47 of 1941, by the substitu-
tion, for the words ‘ such property.”, of the
following :—

“such property, or, where such convey-
ance or transfer is deemed by the Commis
sioner of Stamps to be a gift, the same duty
as on a gift of a value equal to the value of
such property, or, where such conveyance oF


Stamp (Amendment) Act, Wo.16 of iv08 1s .
transfer is deemed by the Commissioner of
Stamps to be partly a conveyance or transfer
and partly a gift, the aggregate of —

(i) the duty which is in respect of such part
of the transaction asis deemed by the
Commissioner of Stamps to be a con-
veyance or transfer and which shall be
chargeable as on a conveyance or
transfer for the amount or value of
the consideration set forth in the
instrament of conveyance or transfer,
and

(ii) the duty which is in respect of such part
of the transaction as is deemed by the
Commissioner of Stamps to be a gift
and which shall be chargeable as on a
fit of a value equal to the difference

tween the value of such property
and the amount or value of such
consideration
Provided that, except in cases where
different allotments are treated and
described as one property, and from their
situation as respects each other can be
included in one survey, a conveyance or
transfer affecting more than one land shall
be liable to further duty, in respect of each
additional land as follows:—

(i) where the aggregate value of the
lands does not exceed Rs. 100 0.25

(ii) where such aggregate value ex-
ceeds Rs. 100 but does not
exceed Rs. 300 .. 0.50

(iii) where such aggregate value ex-
ceeds Rs. 300. v1.00."
(4) in item 27 of that Part by the substitution, for
the proviso to that item, of the following
proviso: — |
“ Provided that the duty chargeable on
such declaration shall,—

(a) where such declaration is in reality a
conveyance or transfer, be the same
duty as on a conveyance or transfer
for a pecuniary consideration equal
to the value of the property as set
forth in the instrument by which such
declaration is made, and


+16 Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1958,

(®) where such declaration is in reality¥f

gift, be the same duty as on a giftie

a value equal to the value of #y

property as so set forth.””; =

(5) in item 29 of that Part, as amended jy
Ordinance No. 47 of 1941, by the additiog.*

at the end of that item, of the following
paragraph :— he

“< (8) Where the deed or instrument referneg

to in any of the preceding paragraphg

(1) and (2) is in reality a deed op

instrament of gift, the duty shall by

the same as on a gift of a value equal

to the value of the property of the
greatest value as set forth in such deed ;
or instrument.” ; {

(6) in item 31 of that Part, as amended by!
Ordinance No. 47 of 1941, by the substitu.
tion, for the figures ‘ 0.6 appearing in the
column headed “ Dnty”, of the figures
0.10 "5

(7) in item 32 of that Part, as follows:—

(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (1) of
that item, for all the words from
“The same duty ” to the end of that
paragraph, of the following: — .
“A duty of Rs. 5 for every Rs. 100
or part thereof of the value of the
gifted property as set forth in such
instrument: ’";
(b) by the omission of the figure ‘* (1) "* from
the first paragraph of that item:
(c) by the omission of paragraph (2) of that
item; and
; (@ by the omission of all the words and
i figures from ‘* (3) Gift or deed ” to
“fraction thereof:”; and ‘

(8) in item 49 of that Part, as amended by
Ordinance No. 47 of 1941, by the substitution,
for the figures 0.6" appearing in the
column headed ““Duty.”, of the fgureg
eo40”.
