PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 30.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 15, 2013.

[Certified on 11th November, 2013]

Printed on the Order of Government

CONVENTION AGAINST DOPING INSPORT ACT, No. 33 OF 2013

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 20131

2PL 0076614,090 (10/2013)

[Certified on 11th November, 2013]

L.D.O. 17/2011.

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION AGAINSTDOPING IN SPORT ; TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION INSRI LANKA OF THE SAID CONVENTION BY THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THESRI LANKA ANTI DOPING AGENCY AND FOR SPECIFYING THE

APPLICABLE DOMESTIC LEGAL MECHANISM TO COMBAT DOPING

IN SPORT WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE AFORESAID CONVENTION ;

AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

WHEREAS an International Convention Against Doping InSport (hereinafter referred to as the Convention) wasadopted on the Nineteenth day of October, Two Thousandand Five in Paris, at the General Conference of the UnitedNations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization(UNESCO) :

AND WHEREAS the Government of Sri Lanka acceded tothe aforesaid Convention on the Twenty-Fourth day ofFebruary, Two Thousand and Eleven and the Instrument ofAccession was deposited with the Director-General on theNinth day of March, Two Thousand and Eleven :

AND WHEREAS the aforesaid Convention entered into forcein respect of Sri Lanka on the First day of May, Two Thousandand Eleven :

AND WHEREAS it is necessary for the Government ofSri Lanka to enact domestic legislation to give effect toSri Lankas obligations under the aforesaid Convention :

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Convention againstDoping in Sport Act, No. 33 of 2013.

Short title.

Preamble.

2Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

2.The provisions of this Act shall apply in respect of:

(a)all persons who are members of any NationalAssociation of Sports, established in terms of theSports Law, No. 25 of 1973 ;

(b)any person or body of persons being an affiliatedmember, club, team, association or league of anyNational Association ;

(c)every person who participates in any sports activityorganized, held, convened or authorized by anyNational Association of Sports or by any person orbody of persons ;

(d)every person connected with the training ofan athlete at any level including any member ofhis entourage ;

(e)every participant (including minors) at a sportsevent, being held in Sri Lanka or abroad.

PART I

OFFENCES

3.(1) Any person who

(a)induces, supplies, administers any prohibitedsubstance or uses or applies any prohibited methodwhich are prescribed by regulations made under thisAct on an athlete ;

(b)induces or introduces its metabolites or its markersin any athletes sample ;

(c)uses or applies any prohibited substance orprohibited method on any animal used in sport ;

(d)engages in sports has in ones possession, anyprohibited substance or prohibited method with theintention of committing an offence under this Act ;

Persons to whomthe Act applies.

Offences.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 20133

(e)trafficks in any prohibited substance or uses on anathlete any prohibited substance or any prohibitedmethod in sport,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

trafficking means

(i)to sell, give, procure, transport, send,deliver or distribute ; or

(ii)to offer to do anything mentioned inparagraph (i).

(2) Any person who

(a)attempts to commit ;

(b)aids and abets the commission of ; or

(c)conspires with another person or a group ofpersons in the commission of,

an offence within the meaning of subsection (1), shallbe guilty of an offence under this Act.

In this subsection

aid or abet has the same meaning as in section 100of the Penal Code.

conspires has the same meaning as in section 113Aof the Penal Code.

(3) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) orsubsection (2) of this section, shall on conviction onindictment by the High Court, be punished with imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding two years, and also be liable to a finenot less than rupees five hundred thousand and not more

4Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

than rupees one million and may impose a prohibition for acertain number of years on his activities where the personconvicted is a member of the athletes entourage.

4. (1) The High Court of Sri Lanka holden in Colomboor the High Court of the Province established under Article154p of the Constitution for the Western Province, holden inColombo, shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary inany other law, have exclusive jurisdiction to try offencesunder this Act.

(2) Where an act constituting an offence under this Act iscommitted outside Sri Lanka, the High Court referred to insubsection (1) shall have jurisdiction to try such offence as ifit were committed within Sri Lanka, if

(a)the person who committed such act is present in SriLanka ;

(b)such act is committed by a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

(c)such act is committed on board an aircraft which isoperated by the Government of Sri Lanka ; and

(d)the person in relation to whom the offence is allegedto have been committed is a citizen of Sri Lanka.

PART II

THERAPEUTIC USE EXEMPTIONS

5.(1) A Therapeutic Use Exemption (hereinafter referredto as a TUE) may be granted to an athlete, permitting theuse of a prohibited substance or prohibited method by theathlete when participating at any sports event by the SriLanka Anti-Doping Agency established under section 10.

(2) An athlete who requires to avail himself of the saidTUE shall make an application not less than thirty days

High Court to tryoffences underthis Act.

Therapeutic useExemptions.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 20135

prior to the date on which the approval is required in theform prescribed by regulations to the Sri Lanka Anti-DopingAgency requesting the grant of a TUE. The athlete shouldforward all supporting medical evidence and documents tothe Agency along with such application.

(3) Regulations may be made prescribing any othermatters, procedures or documents which may be required forthe consideration and grant of a TUE.

6.(1) The Sri Lanka Anti Doping Agency shall onreceipt of an application for the grant of a TUE made by anathlete in terms of section 5, submit such application forreview by the Therapeutic Use Exemption Committee(hereinafter referred to as the TUE Committee), which shallbe established and appointed by such Agency for suchpurpose.

(2) The TUE Committee should comprise of not less thanthree members who shall be persons, having experience inclinical, sports and exercise medicine. The members shouldat the point of being appointed, disclose any conflict ofinterest which may exist. The Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agencyshall thereupon take steps to appoint another person in placeof such member.

(3) The TUE Committee shall recommend the grant of aTUE to the Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency, only if,

(a)the athlete making the application wouldexperience a severe impairment to health, if theprohibited substance or prohibited method were tobe withheld in the process of treatment of an acuteor chronic medical condition ;

(b)it is established to the satisfaction of the Committee,by the athlete, that the use of the prohibitedsubstance or prohibited method would produce noadditional enhancement of performance other than

Procedure forthe grant of aTUE.

6Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

that which might be expected by the return of bythe athlete to a state of normal health following thetreatment for a legitimate medical condition :

Provided that the use of any prohibited substanceor prohibited method to increase low normallevels of any endogenous hormone is not consideredan acceptable therapeutic intervention ;

(c)there is no reasonable therapeutic alternative forthe athlete in the circumstances, other than the useof the prohibited substance or prohibited method ;and

(d)the necessity for the use of the otherwise prohibitedsubstance or prohibited method, should in no eventbe a consequence, wholly or in part, of the prioruse, without having obtained a TUE, of a substanceor method which was at the time of use prohibited.

(4) In arriving at its decision, the Committee shall beguided by the provisions in the International Standard forTherapeutic Use Exemptions of the World Anti DopingAgency (hereinafter referred to as WADA) as are embodiedin the document titled Medical information to Support theDecisions of Therapeutic Use Exemption Committees andthe arguments related to the diagnosis and treatment as wellas the duration of the validity of TUEs.

(5) Having considered the evidence and documents insupport of the TUE, the TUE Committee shall forward to theSri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency its recommendation, eitherrecommending the grant of, or refusing the grant of, therequested TUE. The TUE Committee shall set out in suchrecommendation, the reasons for its decision.

7.(1) The Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency shall onreceipt of the recommendation forwarded to it by theCommittee, grant approval and issue TUE or reject theapplication with reasons assigned.

Issue of TUE.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 20137

(2) The TUE shall set out clearly the prohibited substanceor prohibited method in respect of which the TUE is grantedand the period for which such exemption is so granted, alongwith any other conditions.

8.A TUE granted in accordance with the provisions ofthis Part of the Act, shall be cancelled if,

(a)the athlete to whom the TUE is granted, does notpromptly comply with any requirements orconditions subject to which the TUE has beengranted by the Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency ;

(b)the period for which the TUE was granted hasexpired ; or

(c)the decision of the Sri Lanka Anti Doping Agencyis reversed by the World Anti-Doping Agency.

9.If at the end of the period for which the TUEhas been granted, an athlete is still required to use theprohibited substance or method for which the TUE wasgranted, then a further application may be made in the mannerset out above.

PART III

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA ANTI DOPING AGENCY

10.(1) There shall be established, in accordance withthe provisions of this Act, an Agency which shall be calledthe Sri Lanka Anti Doping Agency (hereinafter referred to asthe Agency).

(2) The Agency shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in suchname.

Cancellation of aTUE.

Extension ofperiod ofapplicability ofTUE.

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaAnti DopingAgency.

8Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

11.The objectives of the Agency shall be to

(a)take such measures as are required for eradicatingdoping in sport ;

(b)promote research into the area of doping in relationto sports and reciprocal testing between the Agencyand other International Organizations carrying outsimilar functions.

12.The Agency shall have such powers as may benecessary for the implementation of its objectives and thedischarge of the duties and functions assigned to it, and inparticular shall have the power to do all or any of thefollowing :

(a)to plan, co-ordinate, implement and monitor anti-doping activities ;

(b)to take measures against anti-doping ruleviolations ;

(c)to acquire (whether by sale, gift or otherwise), hold,take or give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge andsell or otherwise dispose of, any movable orimmovable property ;

(d)to open and maintain current and savings accountsin any bank ;

(e)to accept grants or donations from persons or bodiesof persons, whether in or outside Sri Lanka ;

(f)to enter into or perform, all such contracts as maybe necessary for the exercise of its powers or thedischarge of its functions ;

(g)to invest any money belonging to the Agency ;

Objectives of theAgency.

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Agency.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 20139

(h)to borrow such sums of money as may be necessaryfor the purpose of discharging its functions ;

(i)to appoint, employ, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control over, and dismiss such officersand servants as are necessary for the discharge ofthe functions of the Agency under this Act ;

(j)to charge fees for the services and assistanceprovided by the Agency ; and

(k)to do all such other things which in the opinion ofthe Agency are necessary to facilitate the dischargeof its functions.

13.(1) The administration, management and control ofthe affairs of the Agency shall be vested in a Board ofGovernors (hereinafter referred to as the Board).

(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of administering theaffairs of the Agency exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, duties and functions conferred or imposed on orassigned to the Agency by this Act.

14.(1) The Board shall consist of the following :

(a)ex-officio members, namely

(i) an officer not below the rank of SeniorAssistant Secretary nominated by theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister towhom the subject of Sports is assigned ;

(ii) the Director-General of Sports Development ;

(iii) the Director-General of the National Instituteof Sports Medicine ;

(iv) the Director of the National Institute of SportsScience ; and

Administrationof the Agency tobe vested in theBoard.

Constitution ofthe Board.

10Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

(b)six members appointed by the Minister(hereinafter referred to as the appointedmembers) distinguished in the field of law, sportsmedicine and sports science.

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointedmembers of the Board to be the Chairman of the Board. TheChairman so appointed shall hold office for a term of threeyears and shall be eligible for reappointment.

(3) A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor from continuing as a member of the Board, if he

(a)is, or becomes, a member of Parliament or a memberof a Provincial Council or a member of a LocalAuthority as the case may be ; or

(b)directly or indirectly, holds or enjoys any right orbenefit under any contract made by or on behalf ofthe Agency ; or

(c)has any financial or other interest as is likely to affectprejudicially the discharge by him of his functionsas a member of the Board.

15.It shall be the duty of the Board to advice the Ministeron any or all of the matters related to the objects of theAgency and for any such matter referred to the Board foradvice by the Minister.

16.The Minister may from time to time issue special orgeneral directions in writing relating to the exercise of thepowers and the performance of the duties of the Board, andthe Board shall give effect to such directions.

17.(1) An appointed member of the Board shall holdoffice for a period of three years from the date of theappointment.

Duties of theBoard.

Power of theMinister to givespecial orgeneraldirections to theBoard.

Term of officeof appointedmembers.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 201311

(2) The Minister may if he condiders it expedient to doso, remove, with reasons assigned therefor, any appointedmember of the Board from office.

(3) An appointed member of the Board may at any timeresign his office by a letter addressed to the Minister.

(4) In the event of a vacancy occurring in the membershipof the Board as a result of any appointed member vacatingoffice by death, resignation, removal from office or otherwise,another person shall, having regard to the provisions ofsection 14, be appointed to fill such vacancy.

(5) Where another person is appointed to fill a vacancycaused by the death, resignation, removal from office orotherwise of an appointed member, the person so appointedshall hold such office for the unexpired part of the term ofoffice of the member of the Board whom he succeeds.

(6) Where any appointed member is by reason of illness,infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period of not lessthan three months, temporarily unable to perform his duties,another person, may, having regard to the provisions ofsection 14, be appointed to act in his place.

(7) Any appointed member of the Board, who is absentwithout leave from three consecutive meetings of the Boardshall be deemed to have vacated his office.

18.(1) The Chairman or in absence of the Chairman, theVice Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board. Inthe absence of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman from anymeeting of the Board, the members present at such meetingshall nominate one member from amongst those present, topreside at such meeting.

(2) In the event of an equality of votes at any meeting ofthe Board, the Chairman, or the member presiding at suchmeeting shall in addition to his vote, have a casting vote.

Meetings of theBoard.

12Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

(3) The meetings of the Board shall be convened by theChairman and shall be held as frequently as is necessary forthe purpose of discharging the functions of the Agency underthis Act.

(4) The quorum for meeting of the Board shall be fourmembers.

(5) The Board may pay any member with the approval ofthe Minister, such remuneration or allowance, as may bedecided by the Board with the concurrence of the Ministerof Finance.

(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, regulations maybe made, regulating the procedure to be followed with regardto conduct of its meetings and the transaction of business atsuch meetings. The Board may make rules in this regard.

19. The Agency shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution, within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

20. All members, officers and servants of the Agency shallbe deemed to be public servants within the meaning, and forthe purposes, of the Penal Code.

21. Subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of section17, the Board shall have the power to act notwithstandingany vacancy in its membership, and no act or proceeding ofthe Board shall be invalid by reason only of the existence ofany such vacancy or any defect in the appointment of amember thereof.

The Agencydeemed to be ascheduledInstitutionwithin themeaning of theBribery Act.

Officers andservants of theAgency to bepublic servants.

Proceedings ofthe Board not tobe invalid byreason of anyvacancy ordefect in theappointment ofa member.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 201313

22.(1) The Board shall appoint a fit and proper persondistinguished in the field of medicine or sports medicine asDirector-General of the Agency who shall be the ChiefExecutive Officer of the Agency for a period of three yearsand shall be eligible for reappointment.

(2) The Director-General shall execute or perform suchpowers, functions and duties as may be delegated to him bythe Board. The Director-General may delegate to any memberof the Board any of his powers and duties.

23.(1) (a) The Board may establish Committees andPanels to assist it in the performance of its functions underthis Act and may appoint such persons as it may deem fit tobe members of any such Committee or Panel.

(b) A Committee or Panel shall carry out its functions andfulfill its obligations as stipulated in the terms of referencegiven to such Committee or Panel by the Board.

(c) The Board may where it considers necessary, co-optas a member to a Committee or Panel any person whopossesses the required knowledge and expertise in therelevent field for the purpose of finalizing the particularmatter under consideration. Such person shall not be apermanent member and shall not have the right to vote inrespect of any issue which may arise in the course of itsbusiness.

(d) The term of office of the members of any Committeeor panel shall be four years.

(e) Where a member of Committee or Panel dies or resigns,the Board may, appoint another person to succeed themember who dies or resigns:

Provided that the member so appointed in place of suchmember shall hold office only for the unexpired portion ofthe term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

Appointment ofthe Director-General.

Establishment ofCommittees andPanels.

14Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

(f) A member of a Committee or Panel may be re-appointedfor another four year period only.

(g) A medical practitioner and a sports administrator shallbe included in every such Committee or Panel. Each suchmember shall also make a disclosure of any involvement ofsuch member which may affect the impartiality of the decisionof the committee or Panel.

(h) The Committee or Panel may appoint an expert toassist and advise the Committee or Panel on any hearing, ona case by case basis.

(i) The Athlete or a member of his entourage, Agency, theInternational Federation, the National Sports Associationand WADA shall have the right to appear as observers andattend the hearings of the Disciplinary Panel.

(j) The Athlete or a member of his entourage may foregoa hearing by waiving in writing, the right to a hearing. TheAthlete or related person shall also in such letter acknowledgethe violation of the anti-doping rules and state that suchathlete or person accepts the consequences of such violationas are prescribed in relation thereto.

(k) Every hearing in terms of this section shall should becompleted as expeditiously as possible and in any event,prior to the expiry of three months of the date on which theCommittee or Panel commenced its hearing.

(l) The decision of a Committee or Panel on theconclusion of a hearing shall be given in writing and shallbe signed by three members of each Committee or Panel andbe dated. In the event of a dissent, the member dissentingshall state his reasons for such dissent as part of the decisionof the Committee or Panel.

(m) Every decision of the Committee or Panel shall setout the consequences applicable to the Athlete or Personconcerned.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 201315

(n) Every decision of the Committee or Panel shall benotified to the Athlete or a member of his entourage, Agency,the International Federation, the National Association ofSports and WADA as soon as practicable.

(o) Rules may be made setting out the procedure to befollowed by a Committee or Panel in relation to the hearingsunder this section.

(2) The Board shall constitute a Panel to be calledthe Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Disciplinary Panel (hereinafterreferred to as the Disciplinary Panel) which shallconsist of-

(a)an officer not below the rank of Senior AssistantSecretary nominated by the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister to whom the subject ofSports is assigned, who shall be the Chairman;

(b)two persons from among lawyers who have morethan five years experience in court appearances,who shall both be Vice Chairmen;

(c)three persons from among medical practitioners whohave more than five years experience in the field ofsports medicine;

(d)three persons who shall be persons who have hadprevious experience in sports administration.

PART IV

DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE AND APPEALS PROCEDURE IN RELATION TOANTI-DOPING RULE VIOLATIONS

24.The Board may, on the basis of the finding of anyinvestigation regarding anti-doping rule violation carriedout by a Disciplinary Panel appointed under section 23,assert that there has been an anti-doping rule violation if-

(a)there has been an adverse analytical finding inrespect of an athlete based on an allegation of doping

Situation of ananti-doping ruleviolation.

16Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

along with a provisional suspension and aprovisional hearing;

(b)the test of the sample has not been declared voiddue to an irregularity;

(c)the prohibited substance present is not consistentwith the TUE granted to the athlete in terms of thisAct;

(d)the Sample B analysis conforms the Sample Afinding or the athlete has not requested a sample Banalysis;

(e)all follow-up investigations lead clearly to theconclusion that an Anti Doping Rule Violation hasbeen committed by the Athlete or any other person;and

(f)the athlete has not provided any information orevidence on the validity of the anti-doping test,which requires further investigation.

25.(1) Where the Board asserts an anti-doping ruleviolation in terms of section 24, the Board shall in writing,notify its assertion to the Athlete or Person against whomthe adverse analytical finding was made, the national anti-doping body, the International Federation, the NationalAssociation of Sports and WADA.

(2) The Board shall also in the event that it makes suchan assertion, notify the Sri Lanka Anti-doping DisciplinaryPanel established in terms of section 23 of such assertionand request that a hearing be conducted by the Sri LankaAnti-Doping Disciplinary Panel in accordance with suchguidelines as shall be specified by rules.

Steps to be takenif the Boardasserts an anti-doping ruleviolation.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 201317

(3) The Board shall thereupon forward to the Sri LankaAnti-Doping Disciplinary Panel all documentation which isrelevant to the violation and which is available with them.

26.(1) Any Athlete or person aggrieved by a decisionof-

(a) a Disciplinary Panel in terms of section 23; or

(b) a decision of the Agency refusing to grant to anathlete a TUE which is requested in terms ofsection 5,

may appeal to the Appeal Panel appointed by the Minister,within two weeks of the decision being communicated tohim.

(2) The decision of the Appeal Panel shall be final andconclusive.

(3) The Minister shall appoint an Anti-Doping AppealPanel (hereinafter referred to as the Appeal Panel) whichshall consist of six members who have distinguished in thefield of law and sports medicine to hear appeals in respect ofmatters arising from the violation of Anti-Doping Rules asmay be prescribed.

27.(1) Every decision of a Panel upon a hearing interms of this Act may be appealed against by a party aggrievedby such decision. Every such appeal shall be made to CASand the provisions of the Code shall be applicable thereto.

(2) Where any athlete has been found to have acted incontravention of the Anti Doping Rules applicable in SriLanka, such athlete may be punished in terms of theapplicable provisions of the WADA Code. Rules may bemade setting out the punishments which are contained inthe WADA Code as being applicable to anti dopingcontravention.

Appeal.

Consequences ofan adversedecision by theAppeal Panel.

18Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

PART V

FINANCE

28.(1) The Agency shall have its own fund.

(2) There shall be credited to the fund of the Agency-

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted fromtime to time by Parliament for the use of theAgency;

(b) all such sums of money as may be received bythe Agency in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions;and

(c) all such sums of money as may be received bythe Agency by way of loans, donations, gifts orgrants from any source whatsoever, whether inor outside Sri Lanka.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Agency-

(a)all such sums of money as are required to defrayany expenditure incurred by the Agency in theexercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act; and

(b)all such sums of money as are required to bepaid out of such fund, by or under this Act.

29.The financial year of the Agency shall be thecalendar year.

30.(1) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to, and in relation to, the audit of the accounts of theAgency.

Fund.

Financial year ofthe Agency.

Audit ofAccounts.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 201319

(2) The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of1971 shall, mutatis mutandis apply to the financial controland accounts of the Agency.

PART VI

GENERAL

31.Where an offence is committed by a body of persons,then-

(a)if such body is a body corporate, then every personwho, at the time of the commission of the offence,was a director, manager, officer or servant of suchbody corporate; and

(b)if such body is a firm, then every person who at thetime of the commission of the offence was a partnerof that firm,

Shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he provesthat the offence was committed without his knowledge orthat he exercised due diligence to prevent the commissionof such offence.

32.(1) Any expense incurred by the Board in any suitor prosecution brought by or against the Board before anycourt, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Agency and anycosts paid to or recovered by the Board in any such suit orprosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the Agency.

(2) Any expense incurred by any member, officer or anyservant of the Board in any suit or prosecution brought by oragainst such person before any court in respect of any act oromission which is done or purported to be done by suchperson in good faith for the purpose of carrying out theprovisions of this Act shall, if the court holds that such act oromission was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund ofthe Agency, unless such expenses are recovered by suchmember, officer or servant in such suit or prosecution.

Offencescommitted bybody of persons.

Expenses to bepaid out of theFund.

20Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

33.(1) The Agency may make rules for followingpurposes:

(a)setting out the procedure for adopting testingmethods, establishment of Registered Testing Pools,sample collection, accreditation of testinglaboratories, standards to be maintained by testinglaboratories based on the Code of InternationalStandards for testing Laboratories;

(b)procedure to be followed in the analysis of samples;

(c)procedure for results management in relation tosamples;

(d)specifying anti-doping rules applicable and theconsequences of anti-doping rule violation;

(e)specifying anti-doping control activities;

(f)specifying the procedures applicable in relation toNegative Analytical findings and AdverseAnalytical findings and principles governingprovisional suspension of an athlete, suspension ofan athlete;

(g)specifying matters connected with the granting ofTUE;

(h)specifying the Sri Lanka Code of Standards for thetesting of samples based on the Code ofInternational Standards for testing of samples;

(i)procedure for re-entry of a banned athlete;

(j)procedure for the providing access to IndependentObservers;

(k)the procedure to be followed by Agency in relationto in competition testing of athletes; and

Rules.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 201321

(l)the procedure to be followed by Agency in relationto out of competition testing of athletes.

(2) A rule made by the Agency under subsection (1) shallnot have effect until it is approved by the Minister and ispublished in the Gazette.

34.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are required or authorized to be madeunder this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation fromthe date of such publication.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette but notlater than sixty days from the making thereof, be broughtbefore the Parliament for approval. Any regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of its disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette.

35.All actions, things or matters done, decisions takenand implemented by the Sri Lanka Anti Doping Agencyappointed in terms of the Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973 and interms of the Sri Lanka Anti Doping Code compiled by theAgency and effective from April 2009, and in force on theday immediately prior to the coming into operation of thisAct, shall be deemed to be actions, things and decisionstaken, done and implemented by the Sri Lanka Anti DopingAgency appointed by section 10 of this Act and shall bedeemed to have been, and to be, validly done and all personsconcerned are hereby indemnified against all actions civilor criminal, in respect thereof.

Regulations.

Validation.

22Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

36.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

athlete means any person who participates in anysport at the international or national level orany sports event;

CAS means Court of Arbitration of Sports;

Code means the World Anti-Doping Code adoptedby the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) onMarch 5, 2003 at Copenhagen, as amended fromtime to time;

competition means a single race, match, game orsingular athletic contest;

in-competition testing means for purposes ofdifferentiating between in-competition and out-of-competition testing, unless providedotherwise in the rules of an internationalFederation or other relevant anti-dopingorganization, a test where an athlete is selectedfor testing in connection with a specificcompetition;

person connected with the training of an athleteincludes every person who is a Curator, MatchAdjudicator, Umpire, Referee, Sports Manager,Coach, Trainer, Sports Associate, Masseur,Physio, Medico, or Paramedic;

sports organization means any organization thatserves as the ruling body for an event for one orseveral sports;

testing means the parts of the doping controlprocess involving test distribution planning,sample collection, sample handling andtransport of sample to the laboratory;

Interpretation.

Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 201323

Therapeutic Use Exemption (TUE) means anexemption granted in accordance with standardsfor granting Therapeutic Use Exemptions;

use means the application, injection orconsumption by any means whatsoever of anyprohibited substance or prohibited method;

World Anti-doping Agency (WADA) means theentity established for the purposes of theInternational Convention against Doping inSport in Switzerland, on November 10, 1999.

37.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

24Convention against Doping in SportAct, No. 33 of 2013

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.