PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA ELECTRICITYACT, No. 20 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 8th April, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 69.00Postage : Rs. 17.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 08, 2009

1Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

2PL 0028724,250 (03/2009)

[Certified on 8th April, 2009]

L. D.O 57/2006.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATIONS OF THE GENERATION,

TRANSMISSION, DISTRIBUTION, SUPPLY AND USE OF ELECTRICITY INSRI LANKA ; TO REPEAL THE ELECTRICITY REFORM ACT, NO. 28

OF 2002 AND THE ELECTRICITY ACT (CHAPTER 205) ; AND FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

WHEREAS a national policy on electricity had beenformulated with a view to enabling Sri Lanka to meet theincreasing demands for electricity in the future :

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to give effect tothis policy by regulating the generation, transmission,distribution, supply and use of electricity in Sri Lanka andby providing for certain related matters:

NOW THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Parliamentof the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka asfollows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Electricity Act,No. 20 of 2009.

CHAPTER I

PRELIMINARY

2.(1) The administration of the provisions of this Actshall vest in the Public Utilities Commission (hereinafterreferred to as the Commission) established under thePublic Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002,and the Commission shall exercise, perform and dischargeall the powers, functions and duties as are conferred on orassigned to it under this Act.

Short title.

Administrationof the Act.

Preamble.

2Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(2) The exercise, performance and discharge by theCommission of the powers , duties, and functions conferredon or assigned to it under this Act, shall be in addition andnot in derogation to the exercise, performance and dischargeof the powers, duties and functions that the Commission isgiven or conferred with by the Public Utilities Commissionof Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002.

CHAPTER II

FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION

3. (1) The functions of the Commission shall be to act asthe economic, technical and safety regulator for the electricityindustry in Sri Lanka, and

(a)to advise the Government on all matters concerningthe generation, transmission, distribution, supplyand use of electricity in Sri Lanka;

(b)to exercise licensing, regulatory and inspectionfunctions, as the case may be, in respect of mattersprovided for in this Act, to regulate theimplementation codes of practice and otherrequirements imposed by or under this Act relatingto the generation, transmission, distribution, supplyand use of electricity in Sri Lanka ;

(c)to approve such technical and operational codes andstandards as are required from time to time to bedeveloped by licensees;

(d)to regulate tariffs and other charges levied bylicensees and other electricity undertakings, in orderto ensure that the most economical and efficientservice possible is provided to consumers;

(e)after consultation with transmission and distributionlicensees, to publish a statement setting out therights and obligations of consumers arising undersections 23 to 29 and Schedules I and II to this Act;

Functions of theCommission.

3Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(f)to collect and record information relating to thegeneration, transmission, distribution, supply anduse of electricity in Sri Lanka;

(g)to set and enforce technical and other standardsrelating to the safety, quality, continuity andreliability of electricity supply services and meteringservices;

(h)to promote the efficient use and conservation ofelectricity;

(i)to prepare, within three months of the coming intoforce of this Act and to revise, from time to timethereafter, a regulatory manual containing a code ofgood practice relating to the functions assigned tothe Commission by or under this Act;

(j)to pursue any matter relating to the functionsconferred on or assigned to the Commission by orunder this Act within such period and in such manneras may be specified in the regulatory manual;

(k)subject to the provisions of this Act, to consult tothe extent the Commission considers it appropriate,any person or group of persons who may be affectedor are likely to be affected by the decisions of theCommission, and ;

(l)to undertake all incidental or ancillary measures thatit considers appropriate for the effective dischargeof its functions.

(2) The Commission in the discharge of its licensingfunctions entrusted to it by paragraph (b) of subsection (1),shall ensure that a co-ordinated, efficient and economicalsystem of electricity supply is provided for and maintainedthroughout Sri Lanka, at all times.

4Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

4.(1) The Commission shall discharge the functionsassigned to it by or under this Act in a manner which itconsiders is best calculated

(a)to protect the interests of consumers in relation tothe supply of electricity, by promoting efficiency,economy and safety by persons engaged in, or incommercial activities connected with, the generation,transmission, distribution, supply and use ofelectricity;

(b)to secure that all demands for electricity in Sri Lankaare met;

(c)to secure that licensees acting efficiently will be ableto finance the carrying on of the activities authorizedor required by their licences;

(d)to promote the efficient use of electricity supplied topremises;

(e)to protect the public from dangers arising from thegeneration, transmission, distribution, supply or useof electricity;

(f)to give effect to any guidance on environmentalobjectives notified to the Commission by the CentralEnvironmental Authority or where applicable, aProvincial Council; and

(g)to promote competition, where appropriate,

(hereinafter referred to as the objectives).

(2) In this section the interests of consumers includesthe interests of existing and future consumers, with regard to-

(a)the prices charged and other terms of supply ofelectricity ;

Objectives.

5Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)the availability and continuity of supply ofelectricity ;

(c)the quality of electricity supply services provided;and

(d)the exercise of any rights conferred under this Act toenter their premises.

5.(1) The Minister shall have the power to formulategeneral policy guidelines in respect of the electricity industry

(2) The Minister shall in formulating the general policyguidelines referred to in subsection (1), take intoconsideration, among other matters, the following:-

(a)the requirements for electricity in Sri Lanka in orderto attain national targets for sustainable economicgrowth, including requirements in respect of-

(i)different geographical areas, including ruralareas; and

(ii)different socio-economic groups;

(b)fuel diversity and the preferred fuel for new electricitygenerations;

(c)the priorities and objectives in meeting the needsset out in paragraph (a);

(d)pricing policy in respect of the supply of electricityto facilitate the sustainable economic growth;

(e)the measures being taken by the Government withrespect to these matters.

(3) The Minister shall forward the general policyguidelines formulated under subsection (1) to the Cabinet ofMinisters for its approval. All amendments sought to be madeto the guidelines approved by the Cabinet of Ministers,shall also be required to be approved by the Cabinet ofMinisters.

General policyguidelines to beissued by theMinister.

6Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

6.(1) The Commission may appoint electrical inspectorsfor the purposes of this Act.

(2) It shall be the duty of an electrical inspector appointedunder subsection (1)

(a)to inspect and test electric lines and electrical plantsbelonging to persons authorized by a licence orexempted from the requirement of obtaining a licence,to generate, transmit, distribute or supply electricity;

(b)to examine the generation, transmission, distributionor supply of electricity by such persons;

(c)to inspect and test if and when required by anyconsumer, any such lines and plant on the consumerspremises, for the purpose of ascertaining whetherany requirement imposed by this Act in respect ofthose lines or plant or the supply of electricitythrough or by them, has been complied with; and

(d)to carry out such other functions as may be imposedon him or her by regulations or the Commission as itso determines.

(3) Regulations may be made

(a) prescribing the manner in which, and the times atwhich, any duties imposed on electrical inspectorsare to be performed;

(b)requiring persons authorized by a licence or exemptedfrom the requirement of obtaining a licence, togenerate, transmit, distribute or supply electricity-

(i)to furnish electrical inspectors with records orother information; and

(ii)to allow such inspectors access to premisesand to the use of electrical plant and otherfacilities;

Electricalinspectors.

7Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(c)prescribing the amount of the fees (if any) whichare payable to such inspectors and the persons bywhom they are payable;

(d)prescribing a procedure for the audit of the activitiesof electrical inspectors;

(e)prescribing the circumstances in which a licenseemay be relieved from its obligation to supplyelectricity ; and

(f)setting out the procedure for the resolution ofdisputes between an electrical inspector and aconsumer or a licensee.

(4) Any fees received by the electrical inspector under thissection, shall be credited to the Fund of the Commission

CHAPTER III

PART I

LICENSING

7.(1) A person shall not -

(a)generate electricity;

(b)transmit electricity; or

(c)distribute and supply or distribute or supplyelectricity for the purpose of giving a supply to anypremises or enabling a supply to be given to anypremises,

unless he is authorized to do so by a licence granted underthis Act or is exempted from obtaining a licence undersection 10.

Prohibition onunlicensedsupply &c. ofelectricity.

8Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection(1) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall beliable on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,to a fine not less than one hundred thousand rupees and notexceeding ten million rupees and where the offence iscontinued to be committed after such conviction, be liable toan additional fine equal to the amount imposed as the fine onconviction, in respect of each day during which the offenceis continued to be so committed.

(3) Where a person is prosecuted for an offence undersubsection (2), the court shall in addition to the punishmentimposed under that subsection, further order the personconvicted to refrain with immediate effect from carrying onthe activity which he is prohibited from carrying on undersubsection (1), until he has obtained a licence for the same asrequired by that subsection.

(4) No proceedings shall be instituted in respect of anoffence under this section except with the written sanction ofthe Commission.

8.Any person may participate in a bidding process forthe generation of electricity provided that such person shallbe required to conform to the requirement specified inparagraph (c) of subsection (1) of section 9, in order to beeligeble to obtain a generation licence under subsection (1)of that section.

9. (1) No person other than any one of the followingshall be eligible to apply for the issue of a generation licence,to generate electricity over and above the generation capacityof 25 MW:

(a)the Ceylon Electricity Board, established by theCeylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969;

(b)a local authority;

Participating in abidding processfor thegeneration ofelectricity.

Eligibility toapply for alicence undersection 11.

9Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(c)a company incorporated under the Companies Act,No. 7 of 2007, in which the government, a publiccorporation, a company in which the governmentholds more than fifty per centum of the shares or asubsidiary of such a company, holds such numberof shares as may be determined by the Secretary tothe Treasury, with the concurrence of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance.

(2) No person other than the Ceylon Electricity Board,established by the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of1969 shall be eligible to apply for the issue of a transmissionlicence.

(3) No persons other than any one of the following shallbe eligible to apply for the issue of a distribution licence:

(a)the Ceylon Electricity Board, established by theCeylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969;

(b)a local authority;

(c)a company incorporated under the Companies Act,No. 7 of 2007, in which the Government holds morethan fifty per centum of its shares; or

(d)a society registered under the Co-operative SocietiesLaw, No. 5 of 1972.

10.(1) The Commission may on an application madefor an exemption by Order published in the Gazette, exemptany person or category of persons from the requirement ofobtaining a licence for generating or distributing electricity,having regard to the manner in which or the quantity ofelectricity likely to be generated or distributed by such personor category of persons.

(2) Every such exemption granted under subsection (1)shall be to such extent, be subject to such conditions and befor such period, as may be specified in the Order.

Exemptions.

10Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

11. Subject to the provisions of section 9, an applicationfor a licence to generate, transmit or distribute electricity orfor an extension of any such licence, shall be made in writingto the Commission and shall be in such form, and shall beaccompanied by such information and documents and suchfee, as may be prescribed by regulation.

12.(1) Upon receipt of an application under section 11and where the Commission intends to grant the licence orextension applied for, the Commission shall

(a)publish a notice of its intention to do so in suchmanner as the Commission considers appropriate,for bringing it to the attention of persons who arelikely to be affected by the licence or extension ;and

(b)send a copy of the notice to the Minister for his orher information.

(2) Every notice under subsection (1) shall

(a)state that the Commission proposes to grant thelicence or extension to the persons and for thepurposes, set out in the notice;

(b)state the reasons for proposing the grant of suchlicence or extension; and

(c)specify the period (not being less than twenty eightdays from the date of publication of the notice) withinwhich representations may be made to theCommission with respect to the proposal.

13.(1) The Commission may

(a)after considering any representations made to it inresponse to the notice published under section 12;

(b)after satisfying itself that the applicant has thefinancial and technical capability for carryingout the activities authorized by the licence orextension ; and

Applications forlicences.

Procedure priorto grant oflicences.

Grant oflicences.

11Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(c)with the concurrence of the Minister :

(i)grant a licence authorizing any person

(a)to generate electricity from an identifiedgeneration plant (a licence grantedunder this sub-paragraph is hereinafterreferred to as a generation licence);

(b)to transmit electricity (and procure andsell electricity in bulk) in the AuthorizedArea specified in the licence (a licencegranted under this sub-paragraph ishereinafter referred to as a transmissionlicence); or

(c)to distribute and supply or distribute orsupply electricity for the purpose ofgiving a supply to any premises orenabling a supply to be so given in theAuthorized Area specified in the licence(a licence granted under this sub-paragraph is hereinafter referred to as adistribution licence); or

(ii)extend for the period specified in theextension, a generation, transmission, ordistribution licence granted under this Act.

(2) Forthwith upon the grant of a licence or an extensionunder this section, the Commission shall cause to bepublished in the Gazette, a Notification giving details of thelicence or extension granted, including the persons to whomand the purposes for which it was granted, the term of suchlicence or extension, as the case may be, and the conditionssubject to which it was granted.

(3) A person shall not be granted both a transmissionlicence and

(a)a generation licence; or

12Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)a distribution licence.

(4) A person shall not be granted both a generation licenceand a distribution licence.

14.(1) Every generation, transmission or distributionlicence or extension thereof granted under this Act, shall

(a)be in writing;

(b)unless previously revoked or surrendered inaccordance with the terms of the licence or extension,continue in force for the period specified in thelicence or extension; and

(c)not be capable of being surrendered without theconsent of the Commission.

(2) As soon as practicable after granting a generation,transmission or distribution licence or of an extension ofsuch licence, the Commission shall send a copy thereof

(a)to the Minister for his or her information; and

(b)to any other licensee who may be likely to beaffected by the grant or extension, as the case maybe, of such licence.

15.(1) A generation, transmission or distribution licencemay include

(a)such conditions (whether or not relating to theactivities authorized by the licence) as theCommission considers necessary having regard tothe functions assigned to it by section 3 of this Act;

(b)conditions requiring payment to the Commissionupon the grant of the licence or periodic paymentsduring the term of the licence, of such amount oramounts as may be determined by the Commission,by or under the licence;.

Form of licence.

Generalconditions oflicences.

13Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(c)in addition to the provisions in sections 31 and 32of this Act, conditions with provision for suchconditions

(i)to have effect or cease to have effect at suchtimes and in such circumstances as may bespecified in the licence; or

(ii)to be modified in such manner as maybe specified in the licence at such times,and in such circumstances, as may be sospecified;

(d)conditions relating to the prohibition of abuse ofmonopoly position or other anti-competitivebehaviour ; and

(e)conditions relating to the optimum utilization offunds and assets of the licensee, in order to ensurethat a most economical and efficient service isprovided to its customers.

(2) Conditions included in a generation, transmission ordistribution licence may include, requirements

(a)compelling the licensee to adhere to any decision,order, direction or determination given by theCommission as to such matters as are specified inthe licence;

(b)compelling the licensee to comply with allrequirements of the licence;

(c)compelling the licensee to refer certain matters fordetermination by the Commission;

(d)compelling the licensee to refer for approval by theCommission certain things to be done under thelicence or certain contracts or agreements made inpursuance of the licence;

14Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(e)restricting the ownership by the licensee or any ofits affiliates, of specified business interests; and

(f)compelling the licensee to enter into agreementswith other persons.

(3) Any sum received by the Commission by virtue of anycondition of a licence shall be paid into the Fund of theCommission.

16.Without prejudice to the generality of section 15, alicence issued to a generation licensee shall includeconditions:

(a)prescribing how it shall discharge the functionsassigned to the licensee under this Act in so far assuch condition is not inconsistent with any provisionof this Act:

(b)requiring the licensee to sell electricity generatedby the licensee exclusively and only to transmissionlicensees;

(c)requiring the licensee to adhere to all environmentallaws for the time being in force;

(d)requiring the licensee to take all possible steps toprotect persons, plants and equipment from injuryand damage;

(e)requiring the licensee to implement and maintainsuch technical or operational codes in relation tothe generation system as the Commission considersnecessary or expedient: and

(f)requiring it to develop and maintain electric lines,cables, plants and fuel handling plants andassociated equipment.

Specialconditions ofgenerationlicences.

15Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

17. Without prejudice to the generality of section 15, atransmission licence issued to a licensee shall includeconditions

(a)prescribing how the licensee shall discharge thefunctions assigned to the licensee under this Act inso far as such condition is not inconsistent with anyprovision of this Act;

(b)requiring the licensee to forecast future demand, toplan the development of the licensees transmissionsystem and to procure the development of newgeneration plant to meet reasonable forecast demand;

(c)requiring the licensee to purchase electricity andother goods and services on the most economicallyadvantageous terms and in a most transparentmanner ;

(d)relating to the establishment of tariffs the licenseemay charge for the bulk sales of electricity and tariffsfor the use of the transmission system by generationlicensees and distribution licensees;

(e)requiring the licensee to maintain separate accountsin respect of different parts of the licensees businessand prohibiting cross subsidy between those parts;

(f)requiring the licensee to implement and maintainsuch technical or operational codes in relation tothe transmission system (including a grid code) asthe Commission considers necessary or expedient;

(g)requiring the licensee to develop and maintainelectric lines or electrical plant or both;

(h)requiring the licensee to develop and operate atransparent generation dispatch model; and

Specialconditions oftransmissionlicences.

16Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(i)requiring the licensee to publish for the benefit ofthe public, all relevant information relating to itsgeneration procurement,

and may include conditions allowing the transmissionlicensee to sell electricity in bulk to certain consumers whoare connected to the transmission licensees transmissionsystem and are identified in the transmission licence, subjectto such further conditions as are included in that licencerelating to such bulk sales.

18. Without prejudice to the generality of section 15, adistribution licence issued to a licensee may include,conditions

(a)prescribing how the licensee shall discharge thefunctions assigned to the licensee by or under thisAct in so far as such conditions are not inconsistentwith any provision of this Act;

(b)requiring the licensee to publish and conform tocodes of practice in relation to consumer issues,containing such provisions as the Commissionconsiders necessary for the protection of consumers,including provision relating to-

(i)the maximum time period required forproviding a new connection of electricity orfor the restoration of supply after beinginformed of a fault, as the case may be ;

(ii)the payment of compensation for any lossincurred by a customer, due to the failure ofthe licensee to comply with any requirementreferred to in sub-paragraph (i) ;

(iii)the payment of bills by consumers ;

(iv)the disconnection of supplies to consumers ;

Specialconditions ofdistributionlicences.

17Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(v)the provision of services to the elderly anddisabled ;

(vi)the efficient use of electricity by consumers;

(vii)the handling of consumer complaints;

(viii)the monitoring of compliance by the licensee,with maximum charges for the resale ofelectricity set by the Commission;

(ix)the providing of services to geographicalareas and prospective, hitherto consumers notbeing served with electricity ; and

(x)providing life-line tariffs to disadvantagedgroups of consumers.

(c)requiring the licensee to implement and maintainsuch technical or operational codes in relation tothe electricity distribution network as theCommission considers necessary or expedient ; and

(d)requiring the licensee to develop and maintainelectric lines or electrical plant or both.

19.(1) A licence shall be capable of being assigned eitherin whole or in part, if it includes a condition authorizingsuch assignment.

(2) A licence shall not be capable of being assigned exceptwith the consent of the Commission and of the Minister.

(3) In deciding whether to give its consent undersubsection (2), the Commission shall apply the same criteriaas it would apply if it were deciding whether to grant acorresponding licence or part of a corresponding licence tothe assignee.

Assignment oflicences.

18Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(4) A consent under subsection (3) may be given subjectto the assignee agreeing to -

(a)such modification of the conditions of the licenceor the imposition of such further conditions as theCommission and the Minister consider necessary,for the purpose of protecting the interests ofconsumers; and

(b)such incidental or consequential modification ofconditions as the Commission and the Ministerconsider necessary.

(5) A licence may include conditions authorizingassignment, subject to compliance by the assignee of certainspecified conditions.

(6) An assignment or purported assignment of a licenceshall be void

(a)if the licence is not capable of assignment;

(b)if the assignment or purported assignment is in breachof a condition of the licence; or

(c)if there has been before the assignment or purportedassignment, a contravention of a condition subjectto which consent was given under subsection (2).

(7) The Minister shall in exercising his powers undersubsections (2) and (4) of this section, act in accordance withsuch criteria as shall be prescribed for each such purpose.

20.(1) The Commission may after considering anyrepresentation made to it in response to a notice publishedunder subsection (2) and with the concurrence of the Minister,by Order published in the Gazette, revoke a generation,transmission or distribution licence, in accordance with theterms as to revocation contained in such licence.

Revocation oflicences.

19Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(2) Before revoking any licence under subsection (1), theCommission shall by notice published in the Gazette and bysuch other means as it considers appropriate for bringing it tothe attention of persons likely to be affected by the revocation,state that it proposes to revoke the licence specified in thenotice, and the reasons for proposing to do so and specify aperiod within which representations may be made to it againstsuch revocation.

21.(1) Every application for an exemption under section10, may be made in writing to the Commission in such formas may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by suchinformation, documents and fees as may be prescribed byregulation.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) and (2) of section 12shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to anapplication made under subsection (1).

(3) The Commission shall consider any representation madeto it in response to a notice published by it in pursuance ofsubsection (2), before granting an exemption under section 10.

22.(1) The Commission may after considering anyrepresentation made to it in response to a notice publishedunder subsection (2) and with the concurrence of the Minister,by Order published in the Gazette :

(a)revoke an exemption granted to a person or acategory of persons under section 10; or

(b)withdraw an exemption granted to a person out ofany category of persons to whom an exemption wasgranted under section 10,

in accordance with any provision of the Order by which theexemption was granted or if it appears to the Commissioninappropriate that the exemption should continue.

Revocation andwithdrawal ofexemptions.

Application forexemption.

20Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(2) Before revoking or withdrawing an exemption undersubsection (1), the Commission shall by notice published insuch manner as the Commission considers appropriate tobring it to the attention of the persons affected, state that itproposes to revoke or withdraw the exemption specified inthe notice, the reasons for doing so and specify a periodwithin which representations may be made to the Commissionagainst such proposed revocation or withdrawal.

PART II

POWERS AND DUTIES OF LICENSEES

23.The provisions of this Part shall be in addition toand not in derogation of, the conditions of a generation,transmission or distribution licence.

24.(1) A transmission licensee shall-

(a)develop and maintain an efficient, coordinated,reliable and economical transmission system;

(b)procure and sell electricity in bulk to distributionlicensees so as to ensure a secure, reliable andeconomical supply of electricity to consumers; and

(c)ensure that there is sufficient capacity fromgeneration plant to meet reasonable forecast demandfor electricity.

(2) Sections 6, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 40, 41, 42, 54 and 56and Schedules I, II and III to this Act shall mutatis mutandis,apply to bulk sales of electricity by a transmission licensee,as they apply to the supply of electricity by a distributionlicensee.

25.(1) A distribution licensee shall on any request bythe owner or occupier of any premises within the AuthorizedArea of the licensee-

(a)connect, supply and maintain the supply ofelectricity to those premises; and

Provisions of thisPart to be inaddition toconditions.

Duties oftransmissionlicensees.

Duties ofdistributionlicensees.

21Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)so far as may be necessary for that purpose, provideelectric lines or electrical plant or both,

subject to the provisions of this Part, any regulations madeunder this Part or under section 54, and the Electricity SupplyCode (as set out in Schedule II to this Act).

(2) A distribution licensee shall avoid any unduepreference or undue discrimination in the connection of anypremises to any electricity distribution system operated bythe licensee or in the terms on which the licensee makesconnections or supplies electricity.

(3) The owner or occupier of any premises within theAuthorized Area of a distribution licensee, which -

(a) are situated within fifty meters from any distributionline of the licensee; or

(b) could be connected to any such line by an electricline supplied and laid by the owner or occupier ofthose premises,

may make a request for a supply under subsection (1) to suchdistribution licensee .

(4) A supply of electricity to any premises shall be on thebasis of a standard tariff agreement and a distribution licenseeshall inform all consumers within the Authorized Area of thedistribution licence (whether existing consumers or thosepersons requesting a supply) of the requirements set out inthis Part and the distribution licence, which have to besatisfied by a consumer in order to obtain a supply ofelectricity.

(5) Where any person requires such a supply of electricityas is referred to in subsection (1), he or she shall request for asupply from and shall inform the distribution licensee of -

(a)the premises at which the supply is required;

22Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)the purposes for which electricity is to be used inthose premises;

(c)the day (not being earlier than a reasonable timeafter the distribution licensee is informed of apersons requirement) on which the supply is requiredto commence;

(d)the maximum power which may be required at anytime; and

(e)the minimum period for which the supply is requiredto be given,

and shall provide the distribution licensee with such otherinformation as may be prescribed from time to time, byregulation.

(6) As soon as practicable after receiving a request undersubsection (5), the distribution licensee shall give to theperson making the request a notice under subsection (7), if

(a)such licensee has not previously given a supply ofelectricity to those premises;

(b)the giving of the supply requires the provision ofelectric lines or electrical plant or both; or

(c)if there are other circumstances which make itnecessary for the licensee to do so.

(7) A notice under this subsection shall

(a)state the extent to which the proposals specified inthe prospective consumers request under subsection(5) are acceptable to the distribution licensee andspecify any counter-proposals made by thedistribution licensee;

(b) specify the tariff payable;

23Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(c)specify any payment which that person may berequired to make under sections 27 and 28; and

(d)specify any other terms and conditions which thatperson may be required to accept,

so however , that the counter-proposals, terms and conditionsproposed by the distribution licensee shall be those whichthe licensee is entitled to impose on that person in accordancewith this Act, any regulations made under this Act and theconditions of the distribution licence.

(8) In this section

(a)any reference to giving a supply of electricity,includes a reference to continuing to give such asupply;

(b)any reference to requiring a supply of electricity,includes a reference to requiring such a supply tocontinue to be given; and

(c)any reference to the provision of an electric line oran item of electrical plant, includes a reference tothe installation of a new line or item or themodification of an existing line or item.

26.Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to require adistribution licensee to connect and give a supply ofelectricity to any premises under section 25, if and to theextent that the connection and giving of the supply wouldresult in the distribution licensee being in breach ofregulations made under this Part or under section 54 or theElectricity Supply Code, (as set out in Schedule II tothis Act), and the licensee has taken all such steps as arereasonable to prevent the circumstances that may arise as aresult of such breach.

Exemption fromduty to connectand supply.

24Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

27.(1) Where any electric line or electrical plant isprovided by the distribution licensee to a person requiring asupply of electricity under section 25, the licensee mayrequire any expenses reasonably incurred in providing theline or plant to be defrayed by that person, to such extent asis allowed by the conditions of the distribution licence.

(2) The Commission may direct a person requiring a supplyof electricity under section 25 from a distribution licensee,to pay to the licensee in respect of any expenses reasonablyincurred in providing any electric line or electrical plantused for the purpose of giving that supply, such amount asmay be reasonable in all the circumstances, taking intoaccount

(a)the period of time between laying the distributionline and making the connection;

(b)any payment any other person has previously madeto the licensee in respect of these expenses; and

(c)the extent to which the licensee has already recoveredthe licensees expenses in full.

(3) Directions given by the Commission under subsection(2) may require the distribution licensee who has recoveredan amount in respect of expenses reasonably incurred inproviding any electric line or electrical plant, to apply anyamount so recovered or part thereof, in making such paymentsas may be appropriate towards reimbursing any person whohad previously contributed to such expenses.

(4) Any reference in this section to any expensesreasonably incurred in providing an electric line or electricalplant includes a reference to the capitalized value of anyexpenses likely to be so incurred in maintaining the line orplant, in so far as such expenses are not recoverable by thedistribution licensee as part of the charges made by thelicensee for the supply of electricity.

Power to recoverexpenditure.

25Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

28.(1) Subject to the following provisions of thissection, a distribution licensee may require by notice inwriting any person who requires a connection and supply ofelectricity under section 26, to provide reasonable securityfor the payment of all money which may become due to thelicensee

(a) in respect of the supply; or

(b) where any electric line or electrical plant requiresto be provided for such supply, in respect of theprovision of such line or plant,

and if that person fails to provide such security, thedistribution licensee may refuse to give the supply, or refuseto provide the line or plant, for so long as the failure continues.

(2) Where any person has not provided such security as isrequired under subsection (1), or the security provided bysuch person has become insufficient

(a)the distribution licensee may by notice require theperson to provide within seven days after the serviceof the notice, reasonable security for the paymentof all monies which may become due to the licenseein respect of the supply; and

(b)if that person fails to provide such security, thelicensee may refuse to make the connection ordiscontinue the supply, as the case may be, for solong as the failure continues.

(3) Where any sum of money is provided to a distributionlicensee by way of security in pursuance of this section, thelicensee shall pay interest on such sum of money at such rateas may from time to time be fixed by the licensee with theapproval of the Commission, for the period in which it remainsin the hands of the licensee.

Power to requiresecurity.

26Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

29.A distribution licensee may require any person whorequires a supply of electricity under section 25, to accept inrespect of the supply

(a)any terms requiring that person to continue toreceive and pay for the supply of electricity for aminimum period of time and subject to minimumconsumption requirements;

(b)any restrictions which may be required to beimposed for the purpose of enabling the licensee tocomply with any regulations made under this Partor under section 54 or the electricity supply code(as set out in Schedule II to this Act); and

(c)any terms restricting liability of the licensee for anyeconomic, consequential or other indirect losssustained by such person, however arising , which itis reasonable in all the circumstances for that personto be required to accept.

30.(1) This section shall apply to

(a)tariffs or charges levied by the transmission licenseefor the transmission and bulk sale of electricity(hereinafter referred to as transmission and bulksale tariffs); and

(b)tariffs or charges levied by the distribution licenseefor the distribution and supply of electricity (hereinafter referred to as distribution and supply tariffs).

(2) Transmission and bulk sale tariffs and distribution andsupply tariffs, as the case may be, shall, in accordance withconditions specified in the relevant licence -

(a)be set by the relevant licensee in accordance with acost reflective methodology approved by theCommission;

Tariffs.

Additionalterms.

27Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)permit the relevant licensee to recover all reasonablecosts incurred in the carrying out of the activitiesauthorized by its licence on an efficient basis,

(c)be approved by the Commission in accordance withthe policy guidelne approved by the Cabinet ofMinisters under section 5; and

(d)be published in such manner as may be required bythe Commission, in order to ensure publicknowledge.

(3) Where a transmission licence or a distribution licence,as the case may be, contains provision for transmission andbulk sale tariffs or distribution and supply tariffs, as the casemay be, to be subject to review, the Commission shall (unlessa procedure for the review of such tariffs is specified in therelevant licence) prescribe a procedure for review, which shallinclude

(a)a timetable for the review of tariffs by theCommission; and

(b)provision for consumers and other interested partiesto participate in the procedure for review.

(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, theCommission may

(a)upon being satisfied of the adequacy of funds beingprovided by the Treasury to bear the cost of anysubsidy approved by the Government to subsidizeconsumers ; and

(b)considering any cross subsidy recoverable from suchcategories of consumers as determined by theCommission,

set tariffs and charges to be levied by the licensee, whichreflect such subsidies.

(5) In this section, relevant licensee means atransmission licensee in respect of transmission and bulk

28Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

sale tariffs and a distribution licensee in respect of distributionand supply tariffs.

31. The provisions contained in

(a)Schedule I to this Act (Other Powers of Licensees);

(b)Schedule II to this Act (the Electricity Supply Code);

(c)Schedule III to this Act (Use of Electricity Meters);and

(d)Schedule IV to this Act (Preservation),

shall apply to and in relation to , the respective licences andlicensees referred to in those Schedules.

PART III

MODIFICATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF LICENCES

32.(1) Subject to the following provisions of thissection, the Commission may modify the conditions of ageneration, transmission or distribution licence, if the licenseeconsents to the modifications.

(2) Before making modifications under this section, theCommission shall

(a)publish a notice in such manner as the Commissionconsiders appropriate for bringing the proposedmodifications to the attention of persons likely tobe affected by the proposed modifications;

(b)serve a copy of the notice on the licensee;

(c)send a copy of the notice to the Minister for his orher information;

(3) The notice under subsection (2) shall

(a)state that the Commission proposes to make themodifications specified in the notice, the effect of

Modification byagreement.

Provisions ofSchedules toapply to licences.

29Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

the proposed modifications and the reasons for theproposed modifications; and

(b)state the period (not later than twenty eight dayscommencing on the date of publication of the notice)within which representations or objections maybe made to the Commission regarding the proposedmodifications.

(4) The Commission shall consider any representationsand objections made to it in response to a notice publishedunder subsection (3), before making any modificationsproposed in the notice.

(5) As soon as practicable after making any modificationsunder this section, the Commission shall send a copy of themodifications to the licensee, and to the Minister for his orher information.

33.(1) Subject to the following provisions of thissection, the Commission may modify the conditions of ageneration, transmission or distribution licence, where thelicensee does not consent to the modifications.

(2) Before making any modifications under this section,the Commission shall investigate the following questions: -

(a)whether any matters which relate to the generation,transmission (including the procurement and saleof electricity in bulk), distribution or supply ofelectricity under a licence, operate or may beexpected to operate, against the public interest; and

(b)if so, whether those matters could be remedied orprevented by modifying the conditions of therelevant licence,

and thereafter provide a written report of the investigation tothe Minister, who shall consider the report and anyinformation given to him or her by the Commission, in order

Modificationwithoutagreement.

30Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

to advise the Commission whether or not to give effect to theproposed modifications.

(3) In its report to the Minister, the Commission shall setout the following:

(a)the effects adverse to the public interest which itthinks the matters specified in the report haveor may be expected to have; and

(b)proposed modifications of the conditions of therelevant licence by which, in its opinion, thoseeffects could be remedied or prevented.

(4) The Commission may at any time by notice to theMinister, revise the report provided under this section byadding to, or excluding matters from, such report.

(5) To assist the Minister in the consideration of the report,Commission shall give to the Minister

(a)any information the Commission has relating tomatters within the scope of the investigationconducted by it and which the Minister requires orwhich the Commission thinks it would beappropriate for the Minister to have; and

(b)any other assistance which the Commission is ableto give in relation to matters within the scope ofsuch investigation and which is requested by theMinister.

(6) As soon as practicable after preparing a report underthis section, the Commission shall

(a)serve a copy of the report on the relevant licensee;and

(b)publish particulars of the report in such manner asit considers appropriate for bringing them to theattention of persons likely to be affected by them.

31Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(7) A licensee may within twenty days of service of a copyof the report on the licensee, make any representations to theMinister which the Minister shall take into consideration inmaking his or her decision.

(8) Within thirty five days of receiving the report undersubsection (2), the Minister shall advise the Commission inwriting, either to give effect to the proposed modifications,or as the case may require, not to give effect to the proposedmodifications. Where the Minister advises the Commissionto give effect to the proposed modifications, the Commissionshall make such modifications to the conditions of therelevant licence as appear to the Commission to be necessary,for the purpose of remedying or preventing the effects adverseto the public interest which have been identified in the report.

(9) The Minister shall when advising the Commissionunder subsection (8), state his or her reasons for his or heradvice and shall have regard to the objectives set out insection 4.

(10) The Commission shall send a copy of the Ministersadvice to the licensee to whom it relates and publish theadvice in such manner, as it considers appropriate for bringingthe advice to the attention of persons likely to be affected byit. As soon as practicable after making modifications underthis section, the Commission shall send a copy of themodifications to the licensee and to the Minister.

(11) (a) A licensee shall have a right of appeal to theCourt of Appeal against any modifications made under thissection.

(b) The Supreme Court Rules relating to appeals to theSupreme Court from the Court of Appeal or other court ortribunal (Rule 28 of the Supreme Court Rules of 1990 orsuch provision of law as would correspond to such Rule)shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of all mattersconnected with the filing, hearing and disposal of an appealpreferred under this section.

32Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

34.(1) If the Commission is satisfied that a generation,transmission or distribution licensee is contravening or islikely to contravene any condition of a licence or anystatutory requirement, it shall make an enforcement ordercontaining such provision as it may deem necessary to securecompliance with such condition or requirement by thelicensee.

(2) An enforcement order

(a)shall require the licensee to whom it relates to do ordesist from doing such things as are specified in theorder;

(b)shall be in force for such period as maybe specifiedin the order;

(c)may be revoked or modified at any time by theCommission, but in any event shall cease to haveeffect at the end of the period specified in the order.

35.(1) Before making an enforcement order undersection 34, the Commission shall

(a)publish a notice in such manner as it thinks isappropriate for bringing the matter to the attentionof persons likely to be affected by the enforcementorder, stating that the Commission is proposing tomake such order;

(b)serve on the licensee a copy of the notice and acopy of the proposed order.

(2) A notice referred to in subsection (1) shall set out -

(a)the relevant licence conditions or statutoryrequirements with which the proposed order isintended to secure compliance;

Enforcementorders.

Procedure formakingenforcementorders.

33Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)the acts or omissions which in the opinion of theCommission constitute a contravention of thatcondition or requirement;

(c)any other facts which in the opinion of theCommission justify the making of the proposed order;

(d)the effects of the proposed order; and

(e)the period, not being less than twenty eight daysfrom the date of the notice, within which the licenseemay make representations or objections to theproposed order.

(3) Before making an enforcement order under section 34,the Commission shall consider any representations andobjections made to it under subsection (2).

(4) The Commission shall not make an enforcement orderif it is satisfied that

(a)the licensee has agreed to take and is taking all suchsteps as the Commission considers that the licenseeshould take, to secure compliance with the conditionor requirement in question;

(b)that the objectives imposed on the Commission bysection 4 precludes it from doing so; or

(c)the contraventions or apprehended contraventionsare trivial.

(5) As soon as practicable after making an enforcementorder, the Commission shall

(a)serve a copy of the order on the licensee to whomthe order relates; and

(b) publish the order in such manner as it considersappropriate for bringing it to the attention of personslikely to be affected by it.

34Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(6) Before revoking an enforcement order, the Commissionshall

(a)publish a notice in such manner as it thinksappropriate for bringing the proposed order ofrevocation to the attention of persons likely to beaffected by it;

(b)serve a copy of the proposed order of revocation onthe licensee; and

(c)consider any representations and objections madein response to the notice.

(7) Every notice published under subsection (6 ) shall -

(a)state that the Commission proposes to revoke theorder specified in the notice and the effect of therevocation; and

(b)specify a period of not later than twenty eight daysfrom the date of publication of the notice, withinwhich representations or objections to the proposedorder of revocation may be made to the Commission.

(8) If after considering any representations and objectionsmade in response to a notice published under subsection (6),the Commission decides not to revoke the enforcement orderto which the notice relates, it shall give notice of its decisionto the persons affected.

36.(1) It shall be the duty of a licensee to whom anenforcement order relates

(a)to comply with such order;

(b)if the licensee decides to challenge the validity ofthe enforcement order in any court, to providesecurity for costs to the Commission, of such amountas the Commission may consider reasonable, toensure that such challenge is not frivolous orvexatious.

Effect ofenforcementorder.

35Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(2) A duty is also owed by the licensee to any person whomay be affected by a contravention of the enforcement orderand any such person who sustains any loss or damage as aresult of such contravention, may institute an action againstthe licensee in a court of competent jurisdiction, for damagesfor such loss or damage.

(3) In proceedings brought against a licensee undersubsection (2), it shall be a defence for the licensee to provethat the licensee took all reasonable steps and exercised alldue diligence, to avoid contravening the enforcement order.

37.(1) If a licensee to whom an enforcement orderapplies fails to comply with such enforcement order in wholeor in part, the licensee shall be guilty of an offence under thisAct, and shall be liable on conviction after summary trialbefore a Magistrate, to a fine not less than one millionrupees and not exceeding ten million rupees, and to a furtherfine of five hundred thousand rupees for each day duringwhich such contravention continues after conviction.

(2) The Commission shall in making an enforcement orderunder this Part of this Act, be entitled to direct thatcompensation be paid by the licensee to whom theenforcement order relates, to any person affected by thecontravention specified in such order.

(3) The levies by way of fine and compensation which maybe imposed under this section, shall be in addition to and notin derogation of any other liability which the person guiltyof non compliance may have incurred.

(4) The Commission may apply to a court for an injunctionor other remedy to secure compliance with an enforcementorder by a licensee, notwithstanding the fact that it hasinstituted a prosecution against such licensee for failure tocomply with such enforcement order.

Offences.

36Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

38.(1) Where the Commission is satisfied that a licenseewho is

(a)subject to an enforcement order made by theCommission; or

(b)subject to an insolvency event,

is not carrying on the activities that such licensee isauthorized to carry on under the licence properly, and thatthe supply of electricity to consumers is not being or islikely to be given in an efficient, secure and a safe manner,the Commission may with the concurrence of the Minister,by Order published in the Gazette, vest the management andcontrol of the whole or a part of the undertaking of the licenseein any other authority or person specified in the Order andsuch authority or person shall have all the powers necessary,for carrying on such undertaking:

Provided however where the licensee is subject to anenforcement order and is a person established by law and theprovisions of that law does not pemit compliance with thesaid enforcement order, the Commission shall instead ofexercising its powers under this subsection, make suchrecommendations as to it may deem appropriate to theMinister to whom the activities of such person is assigned, inorder to secure compliance with such enforcement order.

(2) Any person or authority in whom the management andcontrol of an undertaking is vested under subsection (1),shall not be held liable for conduct amounting to a fraudulentpreference under the Company Act, No. 7 of 2007, on theground that it is continuing to carry on the management andcontrol of the licensees undertaking.

(3) No Order shall be made under this section withoutgiving the relevant licensee written notice of the proposedOrder and affording the licensee a reasonable opportunity ofbeing heard.

Power ofCommission tovest managementand control ofundertaking oflicensee inanother authorityor person.

37Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(4) During such period as an Order under this section is inforce

(a)the licensee shall not be or continue to be (as thecase may be) voluntarily or compulsorily wound upwithout the consent of the Commission;

(b)no steps shall be taken by any person to enforce orexecute a judgment or security over that licenseesproperty, without ten days prior notice in writingto the Commission ; and

(c)the licensee shall not exercise any of his rights underthe licence in relation to the undertaking or partthereof.

(5) In this section, insolvency event means

(a)the passing of a resolution for the winding up of alicensee, other than for the purposes of amalgamationor reconstruction;

(b)a licensee entering into a compromise with thelicensees creditors;

(c)the suspension by the licensee, of payment of debtsor the inability of the licensee to pay the licenseesdebts or the declaration of the licensee as bankruptor insolvent; or

(d)the filing of a petition for the winding up of thelicensee.

39.(1) The following disputes arising in connection withthe supply or use of electricity shall be referred to theCommission by any party to the dispute:-

(a)a dispute between a licensee and a tariff customerarising under sections 25 to 30 or Schedules I, II orIII to this Act;

The resolution ofdisputes.

38Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)any dispute (other than a dispute referred to inparagraph (a)) between a licensee and -

(i) a tariff customer;

(ii)another licensee, or

(iii)any other affected party,

which the parties have not been able to resolve through anydispute resolution procedure prescribed by the Commission,despite the licensee using its best efforts to do so.

(2) On a reference under paragraph (a) of subsection (1),the Commission shall mediate and resolve the dispute andon a reference under paragraph (b) of subsection (1), theCommission shall mediate and resolve the dispute, unless itdecides that it is more appropriate for the dispute to bedetermined either by the courts or through arbitration.

(3) The practice and procedure to be followed in theresolution of any such dispute shall be such as the Commissionshall set out by rules made under the Public UtilitiesCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002 and this Act.

(4) Where any dispute arising under section 27 is to beresolved by the Commission under this section, theCommission may give directions as to the security (if any) tobe given pending the determination of the dispute.

(5) A resolution by the Commission under this section -

(a)may include such incidental, supplemental andconsequential provisions (including provisionsrequiring either party to pay a sum in respect of thecosts or expenses incurred by the Commission) asthe Commission considers appropriate; and

(b)shall be final and shall be enforceable so far as itincludes such provisions as to costs or expenses

39Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

incurred by the Commission in the District Court ofColombo, as if it were a decree entered by that courtfor the payment of money.

(6) In including a provision as to costs and expenses in aresolution under this section, the Commission shall haveregard to the conduct and means of the parties and any otherrelevant circumstances.

CHAPTER IV

CONSUMER PROTECTION

40.(1) Regulations may be made under this Actprescribing the standards of performance to be attained bydistribution licensees in connection with the supply ofelectricity and the provision of electricity supply services, totariff customers.

(2) Different standards may be prescribed in respect ofdifferent distribution licensees, having regard to any specialcircumstances or conditions in or subject to which thosedistribution licensees are required to supply electricity orprovide electricity supply services to tariff customers.

(3) Regulations referred to in this section shall as far aspracticable, be made after consultation with distributionlicensees and bodies representative of persons likely to beaffected by the proposed regulations.

(4) Where any person suffers any loss or damage of aprescribed description by reason of the failure of a distributionlicensee to meet any standard prescribed by regulations madeunder this section, the distribution licensee shall pay to suchperson compensation of such amount or calculated in suchmanner, as is specified in such regulations.

(5) The payment of compensation to any person as providedfor in subsection (4), in respect of a failure by a distributionlicensee to meet a standard prescribed by regulations made

Standard ofperformance forsupply ofelectricity.

40Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

under this section, shall be without prejudice to any otherremedy which is available to such person in respect of the actor omission constituting such failure.

(6) Any dispute arising from the enforcement of regulationsmade under this section may be referred to the Commissionby a distribution licensee or a tariff customer or any otheraffected party, and the Commission may determine suchdispute in accordance with the provisions of section 39.

41.(1) The Commission may, after consultation withdistribution licensees and with persons or bodies appearingto the Commission to be representative of persons likely tobe affected, from time to time

(a)determine such standards of overall performance inconnection with the quality of electricity supplyand electricity supply services and the promotionof the efficient use of electricity by consumers as inits opinion, ought to be attained by such distributionlicensees; and

(b) arrange for the publication in such form and in suchmanner as it considers appropriate, of the standardsso determined.

(2) Different standards may be determined under thissection in respect of different distribution licensees, havingregard to any special circumstance or conditions in or subjectto which, those distribution licensees are required to supplyelectricity.

42.(1) The Commission shall from time to time collectinformation with respect to

(a)the compensation paid by distribution licenseesunder regulation made under section 40 (if any);

Information withrespect to levelsof performance.

Standards ofoverallperformance andefficient use ofelectricity.

41Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)the levels of overall performance attained by suchlicensees in connection with the provision ofelectricity and electricity supply services; and

(c)the levels of performance attained by such licenseesin connection with the promotion of the efficientuse of electricity by consumers.

(2) On or before such date in each year as may be specifiedin a direction given by the Commission, each distributionlicensee shall furnish to the Commission such information asit may require relating to the standards, including

(a)as respects each standard prescribed by regulationsunder section 40, the number of cases in whichcompensation was paid and the aggregate amountor value of the compensation paid; and

(b) as respects each standard determined under section41, such information with respect to the level ofperformance attained by the licensee as may berequired by the Commission.

(3) A distribution licencee who without reasonableexcuse,fails to do anything required of the licensee bysubsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and be liable onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a finenot exceeding one million rupees and to an additional fineof fifty thousand rupees for each day during which such offenceis continued to be committed after such conviction, whichshall be paid into the Fund of the Commission.

(4) Subject to the provisions of section 59, theCommission shall at least once in every year arrange for thepublication in such form and in such manner as it considersappropriate, of such information collected by or furnished toit under this section, as may appear to it expedient to give tocustomers or potential customers of distribution licensees.

42Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

CHAPTER V

NEW GENERATION PLANT AND OVERHEAD LINES

43.(1) Subject to section 8, no person shall operate orprovide any new generation plant or extend any existinggeneration plant, except as authorized by the Commissionunder this section.

(2) Subject to the approval of the Commission, atransmission licensee shall, in accordance with the conditionsof the transmission licence and such guidelines relating toprocurement as may be prescribed by regulation and by noticepublished in the Gazette, call for tenders to provide newgeneration plant or to extend existing generation plant, asspecified in the notice.

(3) A transmission licencee shall with the consent of theCommission, select a person to provide at least cost, the newgeneration plant or to extend the existing generation plantspecified in the notice published under subsection (2), fromamongst the persons who have submitted technicallyacceptable tenders in response to such notice.

44.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), noperson shall

(a)install ; or

(b)keep installed,

an electric line above or below the ground, except inaccordance with a consent granted by the Commission.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply

(a)to an electric line or underground cable which has anominal voltage upto and of thirty three kilovoltsor any other higher voltage as may be deemed fit, tobe decided by the Commission;

Provision of newgeneration plantand extension ofexisting plant.

Consent requiredfor overhead andundergroundelectric lines.

43Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)in relation to so much of an electric line as is or willbe, within premises in the occupation or control ofthe person responsible for its installation.

(3) A consent granted under this section

(a) may include such conditions (including conditionsas to the ownership and operation of the line) asappear to the Commission to be appropriate;

(b) may be varied or revoked by the Commission atany time after the end of such period as may bespecified in the consent; and

(c)subject to paragraph (b), shall continue in force forsuch period as may be specified in or determined byor under the consent.

45.The Commission may direct that an electric line bedesignated as a high voltage line for the purposes of thisAct.

CHAPTER VI

FINANCE

46.(1) There shall be levied and recovered from everylicencee an annual levy of such amount as may be determinedby the Commission, by Order published in the Gazette.

(2) In determining the annual levy for any year, theCommission shall have regard to the following :

(a)the estimated expenditure of the Commission forthat year; and

(b)any unrecovered expenditure from the previous year.

(3) the levy imposed under sub section (1) on a licenseefor any year shall be paid by the licensee to the Commissionbefore the thirtieth day of June of that year.

High voltagelines.

Annual Levy.

44Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(4) Where the licencee fails to pay the levy imposed undersubsection (1) for any year before the thirtieth day of June ofthat year, the levy shall be deemed to be in default and theChairman shall certify the amount of the levy due from thelicencee.

(5) Upon the production of a certificate issued by theChairman under subsection (4), before the District Courtwithin whose jurisdiction the business of the licencee referredto in the certificate is being carried on, the Court shall issuea writ of execution to issue to the Fiscal authorizing theFiscal to seize and sell all or any of the property movable orimmovable of such licencee, necessary for the recovery ofthe amount specified in the certificate and the provisions ofsection 226 to section 297 of the Civil Procedure Code shall,mutatis mutandis, apply to the execution of such seizure andsale.

(6) Where the Chairman issues a certificate undersubsection (4), he or she shall notify in writing to the licenceespecified in the certificate, that the amount specified in thecertificate is payable by the licencee, but the non receipt ofsuch notice shall not invalidate any proceedings institutedunder this section.

(7) Nothing in this section shall affect or be deemed toaffect the right of the Commission to recover in any othermanner, the amount of any levy in default.

47.All monies collected on any payment made to theCommission by any licencee under this Act, shall be creditedto the Fund of the Commission.

CHAPTER VII

OFFENCES AND REGULATIONS

48.(1) Every person who contravenes any provision ofthis Act or any regulation or rule made under this Act or anyrequirement imposed under any provision of this Act or anydecision, direction, order or determination of the

Moneys to becredited to theFund of theCommission.

General Penalty

45Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

Commission, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act andshall, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, beliable on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrateto a fine not less than one million rupees and in any casewhere such offence is continued after conviction, to a furtherfine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees, foreach day on which such offence is being continued to becommitted after conviction.

(2) Upon conviction of any person for an offence underthis Act, a Magistrate may, in addition to or in lieu of imposingany punishment prescribed for the offence, make an orderdirecting that any installation or other apparatus involved inthe commission of the offence, shall be dismantled andremoved before a date specified in the order.

(3) An officer authorized in writing by the Commissionmay institute proceedings in a Magistrates court for anoffence under this Act, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other law.

(4) No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall beinstituted except with the written sanction of the Commission.

49(1) Every person who takes, uses or extracts anyelectricity

(a)which is in the course of being transmitted ordistributed by a transmission or distributionlicensee; and

(b)otherwise than in pursuance of a contract made witha distribution licensee or other electricityundertaking,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liableon conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, inaddition to a penalty of not less than ten thousand rupeesand not exceeding fifty thousand rupees, to a fine in a sum of

Extraction ofelectricity to bean offence.

46Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

money being the value of the loss or damage caused to thelicencee as a result of the act or default constituting suchoffence, and any sum recovered as such additional fine shallbe paid to the licencee on application made to Court by suchlicencee.

(2) Any person who aids or abets in the commission of anyoffence punishable under this section, shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act and shall be liable to the samepunishment as is provided for the principal offence. Wheretwo or more persons are convicted of having committed thesame offence, whether as principal or abettor, the value ofsuch loss or damage may be apportioned among such personsand the amount so apportioned, shall be imposed on each ofsuch persons as a fine.

(3) A certificate issued by the licensee shall be received asproof of the value of such loss or damage in the absence ofevidence to the contrary. In the absence of any agreement, alicensee may charge for the electricity supplied to anyconsumer in accordance with any method of chargingprovided for in the licence.

50.(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of ScheduleII to this Act, every person who

(a)not being an authorized officer of a licensee,connects or disconnects any electric line throughwhich electricity is or may be supplied by thelicensee to or from any meter, indicator or otherapparatus; or

(b)without the consent of a licensee, lays or causes tobe laid any electric line or connects up any electricline, equipment, apparatus, or works, for the purposeof establishing a connection with any electric line,apparatus or works belonging to a licensee,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liableon conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate inaddition to a penalty of not less than ten thousand rupees

Improper use ofelectricity to bean offence.

47Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

and not exceeding fifty thousand rupees, to a fine in a sum ofmoney being the value of the loss or damage caused to thelincensee as a result of the act or default constituting suchoffence, and any sum recovered as such additional fine shallbe paid to the licensee on application made to Court by suchlicensee.

(2) Any person who aids or abets the commission of anyoffence punishable under this section shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act and shall be liable to the samepunishment as is provided for the principal offence. Wheretwo or more persons are convicted of having committed thesame offence, whether as principal or abettor, the value ofsuch loss or damage may be apportioned among such personsand the amount so apportioned, shall be imposed on each ofsuch persons as a fine.

(3) A certificate issued by the licensee shall be received asproof of the value of such loss or damage in the absence ofevidence to the contrary. In the absence of any agreement, alicensee may charge for energy supplied to any consumer inaccordance with any method of charging provided for in thelicence.

(4) In the case of such offence being continued afterconviction, there shall be imposed a further fine not exceedingfive hundred rupees for each day on which such offence isbeing continued to be committed after conviction.

(5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979 , an offence undersection 49 or this section shall be a cognizable offence and anon-bailable offence, within the meaning and for thepurposes of that Act.

51.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector and officer of that body corporate; or

Offences bybodies ofperson.

48Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of thatfirm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence:

Provided however, that a director or officer of that bodycorporate or a partner of such firm shall not be deemed to beguilty of such offence, if he or she proves that such offencewas committed without his or her knowledge or that he or sheused all such diligence as was necessary, to prevent thecommission of such offence.

52.(1) Where the President on a recommendation madeby the Minister is of the opinion that any immovable propertyis required for a power generation project or a transmissionproject and that such project would serve for the generalwelfare and benefit of the public, the President may by Orderpublished in the Gazette, declare that such immovableproperty is required for such purpose, and the property mayaccordingly be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act andbe transferred to the person or persons proposing to carry outsuch project.

(2) The provisions of section 3 to section 8 (both inclusive)of the Urban Development Projects (Special Provisions) Act,No. 2 of 1980, shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in relationto an acquisition of property under subsection (1).

(3) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immovableproperty under subsection (1) , shall be paid by the person orpersons to whom the property is transferred.

53.(1) The Commission, may make rules in respect ofall matters for which rules are required or authorized to bemade under this Act.

(2) All rules made by the Commission shall be publishedin the Gazette, and shall come into force on the date of suchpublication or on such later date as may be specified therein.

Rules.

Acquisition ofproperty forPowerGenerationproject.

49Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

54.(1) The Minister may on the recommendation of theCommission, make regulations under this Act in respect ofall matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are required or authorized by this Act tobe made.

(2) Every regulation made under this section shall bepublished in the Gazette, and shall come into force on thedate of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(3) Every regulation made under this section shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any such regulation which isnot so approved within thirty days of it being brought beforeParliament, shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof its disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded, shall bepublished in the Gazette.

55.(1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to theprovisions of this Act or the rules, regulations, or Orders madeunder this Act, the Minister may by Order published in theGazette, make such provision not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other law, as appears to himor her to be necessary or expedient for removing thedifficulty.

(2) Every Order made under this section shall, as soon aspracticable after it is made, be laid before Parliament.

56.(1) Regulations may be made for the purpose of-

(a)allowing and securing appropriate electricity tradingarrangements between licensees;

(b)securing that supplies of electricity are regular andefficient;

Regulations.

Removal ofdifficulties.

Purposes forwhichRegulations aremade.

50Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(c)protecting the public from dangers arising from thegeneration, transmission, distribution, supply or useof any electric line or electrical plant; and

(d)without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (c),eliminating or reducing the risk of personal injuryor damage to property or interference with its use,arising any of the activities referred to in thatparagraph.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),regulations may be made to:

(a)prohibit the supply, transmission or distribution ofelectricity, except by means of a system approvedby the Commission;

(b)make provision requiring notice to be given tothe Commission in such cases as may be specifiedin the regulations, of accidents and of failuresin the supply, transmission or distribution ofelectricity;

(c)make provision as to the keeping by personsauthorized by a licence or exempted fromthe requirement to obtain a licence, to supply,transmit or distribute electricity, of maps and plansand as to their production for inspection orcopying;

(d)make provision for relieving persons authorized bya licence to supply electricity, from an obligationto supply in certain instances;

(e)make provision requiring compliance with noticesgiven by the Commission specifying action to betaken in relation to any electric line or electricalplant or any electrical appliance under the controlof a consumer, for the purpose of

(i)preventing a breach of any regulation;

51Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(ii)eliminating or reducing a risk of personalinjury or damage to property or interferencewith its use;

(f)provide for particular requirements of the regulationsto be deemed to have been complied with in thecase of any electric line or electrical plantcomplying with specified standards or requirements;and

(g)provide for the granting of exemptions from anyrequirement of the regulations for such periods asmay be determined by or under the regulations.

CHAPTER VIII

GENERAL

57.The Minister shall in giving his concurrence asrequired under subsection (1) of section 13, subsection (1) ofsection 20, subsection (1) of section 22 and subsection (1) ofsection 38, of this Act, act in accordance with such criteria asshall be prescribed for each such purpose.

58.(1) The Commission shall maintain a register at itsoffice in such form, as it may determine.

(2) The Commission shall cause to be entered in suchregister

(a)particulars relating to every licence issued andexemption granted under this Act;

(b)particulars relating to the modification of theconditions of any such licence or the revocation ofany such licence;

(c)every decision of the Commission, including everyorder, direction or determination;

(d)every enforcement order made under section 34;and

Register.

Minister to act inaccordance withthe criteriaprescribed.

52Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(e)particulars relating to any other instrument ordocument to which the Commissions seal has beenfixed.

(3) The contents of the register shall be made available forinspection by the public during such hours and subject tothe payment of such fees, as may be prescribed by regulation.

59.(1) The Commission may for the purposes ofdischarging and performing its functions and duties underthis Act, by notice in writing require any person to furnish tothe Commission or any person authorized by the Commission,and within such period as may be specified in the notice, allsuch returns and information as may be specified in suchnotice

(2) It shall be the duty of every person who is required tofurnish any returns or information by a notice undersubsection (1), to comply with the requirements of the noticewithin the period specified in the notice, except where he orshe is prohibited from furnishing such returns or informationby the provisions of any law.

(3) Every person who acts in contravention of theprovisions of subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence andbe liable on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrateto a fine not exceeding one million rupees and to anadditional fine of fifty thousand rupees for each day duringwhich such offence is continued to be committed after suchconviction.

(4) No information furnished in compliance with therequirements of a notice sent under this section shall bepublished or disclosed by the Commission to any otherperson, except with the consent of the person furnishing suchinformation.

(5) The disclosure by the Commission of any informationreferred to in subsection (4) without the consent of the personfurnishing such information-

(a)to a court of law, when required to do so by suchcourt ;

Returns andinformation.

53Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)for the purposes of discharging any functionassigned to it by this Act ; or

(c)for the purposes of enabling compliance with acondition of a licence granted under this Act,

shall be deemed not to be a contravention of the provisionsof subsection (3).

60.(1) The Consumer Affairs Authority established bythe Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No. 9 of 2003, shall notexercise any powers, duties or functions, conferred on thatAuthority by that Act, in relation to the exercise, discharge orperformance of the powers, duties and functions conferredon the Commission by this Act or the Public UtilitiesCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002.

(2) The Commission shall, wherever the need to do soarises and in the absence of specific provisions in the PublicUtilities Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002 relatingto the protection of the rights of consumers, exercise, performand discharge such of the powers, duties and functionsconferred on the Consumer Affairs Authority established bythe Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No. 9 of 2003 as arerelevant thereto, and the provisions of that Act shall, mutatismutandis, apply to and in regard to the exercise, performanceand discharge of such powers, duties and functions by theCommission.

CHAPTER IX

INTERPRETATION

61.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

authorized means authorized by a licence issued or anexemption granted under this Act;

Authorized Area in relation to a person authorized by alicence to transmit or to distribute and supply ordistribute or supply electricity, means the areadesignated in the licence;

Interpretation.

ConsumerAffairs AuthorityAct not to apply.

54Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

bulk sales in relation to the sale of electricity means thesale of electricity in bulk by the transmission licenseevia its transmission system, to-

(i)distribution licensees; and

(ii)those consumers who are connected to thetransmission licensees transmission systemand identified in the transmission licence;

Central Environmental Authority means the CentralEnvironmental Authority established by theNational Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980 ;

connect in relation to any premises means connect to adistribution line of the distribution licensee and theexpression connection shall be construedaccordingly;

consumer means a consumer of electricity in Sri Lankaand includes a prospective consumer;

contravention in relation to any decision, direction,determination, licence condition, requirement,regulation, rule or order includes any failure tocomply with it;

disadvantaged group of consumers means consumersbelonging to any group of consumers whoseindividual house hold income is less than suchamount as may be prescribed by regulation;

distribute in relation to electricity means distribute bymeans of a system which consists(wholly or mainly)of low voltage lines and electrical plant and is usedfor conveying electricity to any premises or to anyother distribution system and the expressionsdistribution and distribution system shall beconstrued accordingly;

distribution licensee means a person who has beengranted a distribution licence;

55Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

distribution line in relation to a distribution licensee,means any distribution line in the Authorized Areaof the distribution licensee, which is being used forthe purpose of giving a supply of electricity to anypremises;

dwelling means a building or part of a building occupiedor (if not occupied ) last occupied or intended to beoccupied, as a private dwelling;

electric line means any line whether underground orover ground which is used for carrying electricityfor any purpose and includes, unless the contextotherwise requires

(a)any support for any such line, including butnot limited to, any structure, pole or other thingin, on, by or from which any such line is ormay be supported, carried or suspended;

(b)any apparatus connected to any such line forthe purpose of carrying electricity; and

(c)any wire, cable, tube, pipe or other similarthing (including its casing, insulator orcoating) which surrounds or supports or issurrounded or supported by or is installed inclose proximity to or is supported, carried orsuspended in association with, any such line;

electrical plant means any plant, equipment, apparatusor appliance used for or for purposes connected with,the generation, transmission, distribution or supplyof electricity, other than

(a) an electric line;

(b)a meter used for ascertaining the quantity ofelectricity supplied to any premises; or

(c)an electrical appliance under the control of aconsumer;

56Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

electricity supply code means the provisions ofSchedule II to this Act ;

electricity undertaking means any person engaged inthe generation, transmission, distribution or supplyof electricity, including any person who is exemptedfrom obtaing a licence under this Act;

enforcement order means an enforcement order madeby the Commission under section 34 ;

exemption means an exemption granted undersection 10;

financial year means the calendar year ;

Fund means the Fund of the Commission establishedunder section 31 of the Public Utilities Commissionof Sri Lanka Act, No.35 of 2002;

generation licensee means a person who has been granteda generation licence;

generator means a generation licensee or a person exemptfrom the requirement of obtaining a generationlicence;

high voltage lines means an electric line of a nominalvoltage of not more than 33 kilovolts or such othervoltage as the Commission may direct in accordancewith section 45 and the expression low voltageline shall be construed accordingly;

licence means a licence granted under section 11 andlicensee or licensees shall be construedaccordingly;

life line tariff means a concessionary electricity tariffmade available to the section of the population whoare unable financially to afford to pay for the basicelectricity needs, at a rate representing the true costof supply;

57Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

line means any wire, cable, pipe, conductor or othersimilar thing (including its casing or coating) whichis designed or adapted for transporting electricity;

local authority means a Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil or a Pradeshiya Sabha, and includes anyauthority created and established by or under anylaw to exercise, perform and discharge, powers,duties and functions corresponding to, or similar tothe powers, duties and functions exercised,performed, and discharged by any such Council orSabha;

modifications includes additions, alterations andomissions;

necessary wayleave means consent for the licensee toinstall and keep installed the electric line on, underor over the land and to have access to the land forthe purpose of inspecting, maintaining, adjusting,repairing, altering, replacing or removing the electricline;

notice means notice in writing;

premises includes any land, building or structure;

prescribed means prescribed by rules or regulationsmade under this Act;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished under Chapter XVII A of theConstitution;

register means the register maintained under section 58;

regulations means regulations made by the Ministerunder this Act;

relevant condition in relation to a licensee, means anycondition of its licence or any duty imposed on itby or under this Act;

58Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

relevant licencee has the meaning as given in subsection(5) of section 30;

relevant undertaker has the meaning as given inparagraph 2 of Schedule I to this Act;

rules means rules made by the Commission under thisAct;

sell electricity in bulk has the same meaning as bulksales;

supply in relation to electricity, means supply ofelectricity to any premises (other than premisesoccupied by a licensee for the purpose of carryingon the activities which it is authorized by its licenceto carry on) but shall exclude bulk sales of electricity;

tariff customer means a person who requires a supply ofelectricity from a distribution licensee in pursuanceof section 25 and is supplied by the distributionlicensee;

transmission licensee means a person who has beengranted a transmission licence under this Act ;and

transmit, in relation to electricity, means thetransportation of electricity by means of a system,which consists (wholly or mainly) of high voltagelines and electrical plant and is used for conveyingelectricity from a generating station to a sub-station,from one generating station to another or from onesub-station to another, and the expressionstransmission and transmission system shall beconstrued accordingly.

62.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

59Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

CHAPTER X

REPEALS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

63.(1) Electricity Reform Act, No 28 of 2002 is herebyrepealed.

(2) The Electricity Act (Chapter 205) is hereby repealed.

(3) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Electricity Act(Chapter 205) -

(a)all licences issued under that Act and in force onthe day preceding the date of this Act, shall, insofaras such licences authorize any one of the followingactivities, namely, the generation, transmission,distribution or supply, of electricity, continue to bevalid and in force for a period of six months fromthe date of coming into force of this Act and shallbe subject to the provisions of this Act.

(b)all regulations made under section 60 of that Actand in force on the day preceding the date of theAct, shall in so far as such regulations are notinconsistent with any provision of this Act continuein force after that date.

64.Notwithstanding the provisions of the CeylonElectricity Board Act, No.17 of 1969, where there is a conflictbetween any regulation made under section 56 of that Actand any provisions of this Act or any regulations madethereunder, the provisions of this Act and the regulationsmade thereunder, shall prevail.

65.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act orany provision in the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No 17 of1969, the Ceylon Electricity Board shall, with effect fromthe date on which this Act comes into operation, be issuedwith appropriate provisional licenses by the Commissionunder this Act, so as to enable the Ceylon Electricity Board

Repeals andtransitionalprovisions.

Provisions ofthis Act andregulations toprevail overregulations madeunder section 56of the CeylonElectricity BoardAct.

CeylonElectricityBoard to beissued withprovisionallicence andlicences.

60Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

to carry on activities relating to the generation, transmission,and bulk procurement of electricity and for the distributionand supply of electricity. All provisional licenses issued underthis section shall be valid for a period of six months from thedate on which this Act comes into operation and shall besubject to such conditions as may be determined by theCommission.

(2) Not less than three months prior to the expiry of theperiod of six months referred to in subsection (1), the CeylonElectricity Board to which such provisional licences wereissued shall be required to make an application to theCommission under this Act for the issue of a licence undersection 7 of this Act to generate, transmit and for bulkprocurement of electricity or distribution and supply ofelectricity, as the case may be. The Board shall along with itsapplicaton also submit a plan specifying the geographicalareas on which it is operating its activities as on the date ofthe making of the aplication and an expansion plan indicatingthe geographical areas in which it proposes, during a periodof fifteen years from such date, to expand its activities relatingto the generation, transmission and for bulk procurement ofelectricity and distribution and supply of electricity preparedin accordance with the guidelines approved by the Cabinetof Ministers under section 5 of this Act.

(3) On receipt of the application and the required plansunder subsection (2), the Commission shall, prior to theexpiry of the six months period referred to in subsection (1)and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherprovisions of this Act, issue the required licences to theCeylon Electricity Board for a period of fifteen years. Everylicence so issued shall be subject to the terms and conditionsattached to such licence, and may be extended from time totime, for further periods of fifteen years each, on applicationbeing made for that purpose prior to the expiry of the periodof validity of the licence issued, along with the requiredplans prepared in accordance with policy guidelines approvedby the Cabinet of Ministers under section 5.

61Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

66.(1) The Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969(in this section referred to as the Act), as last amended byAct, No. 32 of 1988, is hereby further amended as follows:

(a)in section 11 of that Act

(i)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that sectionand the substitution therefore of the followingsubsection:

(1) It shall be the duty of the Board todevelop and maintain an efficient, co-ordinated and economical system ofelectricity supply in accordance with anyappropriate licence issued by the PublicUtilities Commission of Sri Lanka.;

(ii)by the insertion, immediately after subsection(2) of that section, of the following newsubsection:

(2A) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (2), in the performance of the dutiesspecified therein, the Board shall not act incontravention of any condition of a licenceissued to it by the Public Utilities Commissionof Sri Lanka.;

(b)in section 12 of that Act

(i)by the renumbering of that section assubsection (1) of that section;

(ii)by the substitution in the renumberedsubsection (1) of that section for the wordsThe Board may exercise, of the wordsSubject to the provisions of subsection (2),the Board may exercise;

Amendment totheCeylonElectricity BoardAct, No.17 of1969.

62Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(iii)by the addition, immediately after therenumbered subsection (1) of that section ofthe following new subsection:

(2) The powers referred to in paragraphs(a), (d), (h), (l) and (n) of subsection (1) shallbe exercised by the Board, in accordance withthe terms and conditions of any appropriatelicenses issued to the Board by the PublicUtilities Commission of Sri Lanka.;

(c)by the repeal of sections 14, 15 and 16 of that Act;

(d)by the repeal of Part II and Part V of that Act; and

(e)in section 66 of the Act

(1)by the insertion, immediately before thedefinition of the expression LocalGovernment Service, of the following newdefinition:

licence means a licence issued by thePublic Utilities Commission of SriLanka Under the Sri Lanka ElectricityAct, No. 20 of 2009; and

(2)by the insertion, immediately after thedefinition of the expression public officer,of the following new definition:

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lankameans the Public Utilities Commissionof Sri Lanka established by section 2 ofthe Public Utilities Commission of SriLanka Act, No. 35 of 2002.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of Part V of the Act, alltariffs fixed by the Ceylon Electricity Board under section52 of that Act for the supply of electrical energy by suchBoard and in force on the day preceding the date on whichthis Act comes into operation, shall continue to be inforce, untill such tariffs are varied or replaced by or underany written law.

63Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

SCHEDULE I[Section 31]

OTHER POWERS OF LICENSEES

1. (1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, licenseemay, for any purpose connected with the carrying on of the activitieswhich it is authorized by its licence to carry on, execute in its AuthorizedArea, any of the following works: -

(a)installing under, over, in, on, along or across any street-

(i)any electric lines or electrical plant; and

(ii)any structures for housing or covering any such linesor plant,

and from time to time inspect, maintain, adjust, repair, alter, replace orremove any such plant or lines; and

(b)any works requisite for or incidental to the purposes of anyworks referred to in sub paragraph (a), including for thefollowing purposes:-

(i)opening or breaking up any street or any sewers,drains or tunnels within or under any street;

(ii)tunneling or boring under any street; and

(iii)removing or using all earth and materials in or underany street,

but nothing in this subparagraph shall empower a licensee to lay downor place any electric line or electrical plant into, through or against anybuilding, or in any land not dedicated to the public use.

(2) The power conferred on a licensee under paragraph (1) to placeon or over a street any structure for housing any line or plant shall beexercisable only with the consent of the local authority or other relevantauthority;

(3) Except in cases of emergency arising from faults in any electriclines or electrical plant, a street which does not come within the authorityof local authority or other relevant authority shall not be opened orbroken up in the exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph (1)except with the consent of the Commission.

(4) Notwithstanding anything in paragraph (7), licensee may withthe consent of the Commission construct lines, which are temporary,and not in compliance with the prescribed standards.

64Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(5) The Commission shall not consider an application for its consentunder paragraph (3) unless the licensee has served notice of theapplication on any person whose consent would otherwise be required.

(6) A licensee shall do as little damage as possible in the exercise ofthe powers conferred by paragraph (1) and shall make compensationfor any damage done in the exercise of those powers.

(7) A licensee shall exercise the powers conferred by paragraph (1)in such manner as will secure that nothing which it installs or keepsinstalled under, over, in, on, along or across any street becomes asource of danger to the public and shall-

(a)immediately cause the part broken up or opened to be fencedand guarded;

(b)while such part remains broken up or open, cause a lightsufficient for warning passers by, to be set up at sunset andmaintained until sunrise against or near such part; and

(c)with all reasonable speed fill in the ground and reinstate andmake good the soil or pavement or the sewer, drain or tunnelbroken up or opened, and shall keep it in good repair forthree months and, where any subsidence occurs, for anyfurther period, not exceeding six months, during which thesubsidence continues.

(8) A licensee who fails to comply with the provisions of paragraph(7) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable onconviction after summary trial by a Magistrate, to a fine not less thanfive thousand rupees and not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees.

2.(1) A licensee may execute works in the exercise of the powersconferred by item 1, notwithstanding that they involve a temporary orpermanent alteration of any of the following:-

(a)any electric line or electrical plant under the control of anotherlicensee;

(b)any pipe, including any pipe used for the conveyance ofgas, which (whether or not it is in a street) which is under thecontrol of a gas undertaker, a water undertaker, a sewerageundertaker or a person supplying water in the exercise ofstatutory powers;

(c)any telecommunication apparatus used for the purposes of atelecommunication system which is operated by a personlicenced under the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act 25 of1991;

65Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(d)any telecommunication apparatus used for the purposes of atelegraphic system which is operated by the General Managerof the railway;or

(e)any telecommunication apparatus used for the purposes of acable television system to which the Sri Lanka RupavahiniCorporation Act, No. 6 of 1982 applies.

(2) Where a licensee is proposing to execute works in the exerciseof the powers conferred by item 1 which involve or are likely toinvolve any such alteration as is referred to in subparagraphs (1)(a),(b), (c),(d) or (e) the succeeding provisions of this paragraph shallapply and a reference in those provisions to relevant undertakershall be deemed to be a reference to an undertaker referred to insubparagraphs (1) (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e)

(3) A member of the public may request the relevant licensee tocarry out alterations in respect of any electric line or electrical plantnotwithstanding that such works may fall within sub paragraph (1)(a)

(4) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (5), a licensee shall, notless than one month prior to the commencement of the works, give therelevant undertaker a notice specifying the nature of the works proposedto be executed by the licensee, the alteration or likely alteration involved,and the time and place at which the execution of the works will becommenced.

(5) The provisions of paragraph (4) shall not apply in relation toany emergency works of which the licensee gives the relevant undertakernotice as soon as practicable after commencing the execution of theworks.

(6) Where a notice has been given under paragraph (4) by thelicensee to the relevant undertaker, the undertaker may, within theperiod of seven days of the date of the notice, give the licensee acounter notice which may state either-

(a)that the undertaker intends himself or herself to make anyalteration made necessary or expedient by the works proposedto be executed by the licensee; or

(b)that he or she requires the licensee to make any such alterationunder the supervision, and to the satisfaction of, theundertaker.

(7) Where a counter notice given under paragraph (6) states that therelevant undertaker intends himself or herself to make any alteration:

(a)the undertaker shall have the right, instead of the licensee, toexecute any works for the purpose of making that alteration;and

66Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)any reasonable expenses incurred by the undertaker in or inconnection with the execution of those works and the amountof any loss or damage sustained by the undertaker inconsequence of the alteration shall be recoverable by theundertaker from the licensee.

(8) Where a counter notice given under paragraph (6) states thatany alteration is to be made under the supervision, and to the satisfactionof, the relevant undertaker-

(a)the licensee shall not make the alteration except in compliancewith the requirements of the counter notice; and

(b)any reasonable expenses incurred by the undertaker in or inconnection with the provision of that supervision and theamount of any loss or damage sustained by the undertaker inconsequence of the alteration shall be recoverable by theundertaker from the licensee in any court of competentjurisdiction.

(9) Where-

(a)no counter notice is given under paragraph (6); or

(b)the relevant undertaker, having given a counter notice underthat paragraph fails to make any alteration made necessaryor expedient by the works proposed to be executed by thelicensee, within any such period (being not less than fortyeight hours) as the licensee may by notice specify or, as thecase may be, unreasonably fails to provide the requiredsupervision,

the licensee may execute works for the purpose of making the alterationor, as the case may be, may execute such works without the supervisionof the undertaker; but in either case the licensee shall execute the worksto the satisfaction of the undertaker.

(10) Licensee or any of his or her agents who-

(a)executes any works without giving the notice required byparagraph (4); or

(b)unreasonably fails to comply with any reasonable requirementgiven by a relevant undertaker under this paragraph,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable on convictionafter summary trial by a Magistrate, to a fine not less than five thousandrupees and not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees.

67Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

3. (1) This item applies where-

(a)for any purpose connected with the carrying on of theactivities which a licensee is authorized by its licence tocarry on, it is necessary or expedient for a licensee to installand keep installed an electric line on, under or over anyland; and

(b)the owner or occupier of the land, having been given anotice by the licensee requiring him or her to give thenecessary wayleave within a period (not being less thantwenty one days) specified in the notice-

(i)has failed to give the wayleave before the end of thatperiod; or

(ii)has given the wayleave subject to terms and conditionswhich are not acceptable to the licensee.

(2) This item also applies where-

(a)for any purpose connected with the carrying on of theactivities which the licensee is authorized by its licence tocarry on, it is necessary or expedient for a licensee to keep anelectric line installed on, under or over any land; and

(b)the owner or occupier of the land has given notice to thelicensee under paragraph 5(2) requiring it to remove theelectric line.

(3) Where paragraphs (1) or (2) applies and the Commission issatisfied that -

(a)the licensee has made all reasonable efforts to secure thegrant of a wayleave;

(b)those efforts have been unsuccessful; and

(c)the acquisition of that wayleave is necessary for thecarrying on of the activities authorized by the licence of thelicensee,

the Commission, shall, within six weeks of an application made by thelicensee, recommend to the Minister, the acquisition of the wayleave.Where the Minister approves the proposed acquisition, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, the wayleave shall be deemed to be requiredfor a public purpose and maybe acquired under the Land AcquisitionAct, and transferred to the licensee.

68Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(4) The Commission shall not recommend the acquisition of awayleave under paragraph (3) in any case where-

(a)the land is covered by an authorized dwelling, or planningpermission has been granted under the relevant laws for theconstruction of a dwelling on that land; and

(b)the line is to be installed on or over that land.

(5) Before making a recommendation under paragraph (3), theCommission shall give-

(a)the occupier of the land; and

(b)where the occupier is not also the owner of the land, theowner,

an opportunity of being heard by a person appointed by the Commission.

(6) Where a wayleave is acquired under the Land Acquisition Act,and transferred to a licensee, the wayleave -

(a)shall not be subject to the provisions of any enactmentrequiring the registration of interests in or, charges over, orother obligations affecting, land; but

(b)shall bind any person who is at any time the owner or occupierof the land.

4. (1) Where a wayleave is granted to a licensee under item 3-

(a)the occupier of the land;or

(b)where the occupier is not also the owner of the land theowner of the land,

may recover from the licensee reasonable compensation in respect ofthe grant as may be determined by the commission.

(2) Where in the exercise of any right conferred by such a wayleaveany damage is caused to land or to movables, any person interested inthe land or the movables may recover from the licensee reasonablecompensation in respect of that damage; and where in consequence ofthe exercise of such a right a person is disturbed in his or her enjoymentof any land or movables he or she may recover from the licenseecompensation in respect of that disturbance of such amount as may bedetermined by the Commission.

(3) The Commission may on its own motion or on the applicationof a person affected, conduct such inquiries as may be necessary todetermine whether a licensee is liable to pay any person anycompensation under paragraph (1) and (2).

69Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(4) The Commission shall communicate any decision underparagraph (3) to the licensee and to any person who has applied for, orwas awarded, compensation.

(5) A person who is aggrieved by the decision of the Commissionthat no compensation is payable under paragraph (1) or (2) who isdissatisfied with the amount of compensation determined to be payableby the Commission, may institute, in a court of competent jurisdiction,an action against the licensee from whom the compensation is claimedfor the recovery of the compensation claimed by that person or thedifference between the amount of the compensation claimed by thatperson and the amount of the compensation determined to be payableto that person by the Commission.

(6) An action by any person under paragraph (5) shall be institutedwithin two months of the date on which-

(a)that person receives a communication sent by the Commissionunder paragraph (4);

(b)the amount of compensation determined by the Commissionis paid to that person under paragraph (7); or

(c)the notice of the payment of that amount into the court isgiven, or is exhibited for the first time under paragraph (7).

(7) A licensee who is liable to pay to the owner of that land anamount of compensation under paragraph (1) or (2) shall pay thatamount to that person within such period as may be determined by theCommission. Where that owner is unknown or where the ownership ofthat land is subject to dispute, the licensee shall-

(a)pay that amount into the district court having jurisdictionover the place where that land is situated, within such periodas may be determined by the Commission to be drawn fromthat court by that person upon proof of title; and

(b)give the occupier of that land written notice of the paymentof that amount into the court, within such period as isdetermined by the Commission or, if there is no occupier,exhibit that notice in some conspicuous position on thatland.

5. (1) This paragraph applies where at any time such a wayleave asis mentioned in item 3 (whether granted under that item or by agreementbetween the parties)-

(a)is determined by the expiration of a period specified in thewayleave;

70Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)is terminated by the owner or occupier of the land inaccordance with a term contained in the wayleave; or

(c)by reason of a change in the ownership or occupation of theland after the granting of the wayleave, ceases to be bindingon the owner or occupier of the land.

(2) The owner or occupier of the land may in a case falling withinparagraph (1)-

(a)at any time after or within three months before the end of theperiod specified in the wayleave;

(b)at any time after the wayleave has been terminated by him orher; or

(c)at any time after becoming the owner or occupier of the landby virtue of such a change in the ownership or occupation ofthe land as is referred to in that paragraph,

give to the licensee a notice requiring the licensee to remove the electricline from the land; but the licensee shall not be obliged to comply withsuch a notice except in the circumstances and to the extent provided bythe following provisions of this paragraph.

(3) Where within the period of three months beginning from thedate of the notice under paragraph (2) the licensee-

(a)fails to make an application for the grant of the necessarywayleave under item 3;

(b)makes an application for the grant of the necessary wayleaveunder item 3 and that application is refused by theCommission;

(c)fails to obtain an order authorizing the compulsory purchaseof the land under item 7 of this Schedule,

the licensee shall comply with the notice at the end of that period, or inthe case of subparagraph (b), at the end of the period of one monthbeginning from the date of the Commissions decision or such longerperiod as the Commission may specify.

(4) In this schedule wayleave in relation to a land means suchinterest in the land as consists of a right of a licensee, to install and keepinstalled, an electric line on, under, or over, that land and to have accessto that land for the purpose of inspecting, maintaining, adjusting,repairing, altering, removing or replacing such electric line.

71Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

6. (1) This item applies where any tree is or will be in such closeproximity to an electric line or electrical plant which has been installedor is being or is to be installed by a licensee as-

(a)to obstruct or interfere with the installation, maintenance orworking of the line or plant; or

(b)to constitute an unacceptable source of danger (whether tochildren or to other persons),

and in this item the land means the land on which the tree is growing.

(2) The licensee may give notice to the occupier of the land requiringhim or her to fell or lop the tree or cut back its roots so as to prevent itfrom having the effect mentioned in subparagraph (1)(a) or (b), subjectto the payment to him or her by the licensee of the expenses reasonablyincurred by him or her in complying with the requirements of thenotice.

(3) Where the occupier is not also the owner of the land, a copy ofany notice under paragraph (2) shall also be served on the owner.

(4) If within twenty one days from the giving of a notice underparagraph (2)-

(a)the requirements of the notice are not complied with; and

(b)neither the owner nor occupier of the land gives a counternotice under paragraph (5),

the licensee may cause the tree to be felled or lopped or its roots to becut back so as to prevent it from having the effect mentioned insubparagraph (1)(a) or (b).

(5) If, within twenty one days from the giving of a notice underparagraph (2), the owner or occupier of the land gives a counter noticeto the licensee objecting to the requirements of the notice, the mattershall, be referred to the Commission.

(6) On a reference to it under paragraph (5), the Commission mayafter giving the parties an opportunity of being heard by a personappointed by it, may make such order as it thinks just, in thecircumstances and any such order-

(a)may allow the licensee (after giving such notice to anyperson by whom a counter notice was given of thecommencement of the work as the order may direct) to

72Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

cause the tree to be felled or lopped or its roots to be cut backso as to prevent it from having the effect mentioned insubparagraph (1)(a) or (b); and

(b)may determine any question as to what expenses (if any) areto be paid to the licensee by the owner or occupier.

(7) Where the licensee acts in pursuance of paragraph (4) or anorder made under paragraph (6), the licensee shall-

(a)cause the tree to be felled or lopped or their roots to be cutback in accordance with good arboricultural practice and soas to do as little damage as possible to trees, fences, hedgesand growing crops;

(b)cause the felled trees, lopped boughs or root cuttings to beremoved in accordance with the directions of the owner oroccupier; and

(c)make good any damage done to the land.

(8) In this item, tree includes any shrub, and references to fellingand lopping shall be construed accordingly.

7. (1) Where the Commission is satisfied that any immovableproperty is required for the purposes of carrying on the activitieswhich a licensee is authorized to carry on by its licence, or for thepurposes of discharging any function assigned to such licensee by thisAct and that-

(a)the licensee has made all reasonable efforts to negotiate theacquisition of such property with the owner of the property;and

(b)those efforts have been unsuccessful,

the Commission may recommend to the Minister that the immovableproperty be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and transferred tothe licensee.

(2) Where the Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, approvesthe proposed acquisition of the immovable property specified in therecommendation of the Commission made under paragraph (1), suchimmovable property shall be deemed to be required for a public purposeand may accordingly be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act andtransferred to the licensee.

73Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(3) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any immovable propertyunder the Land Acquisition Act, for a licensee shall be payable by thatlicensee.

(4) The Commission shall not recommend the acquisition of anyimmovable property under paragraph (1) if such immovable propertyis being used by another licensee, to whom it belongs for the purposeof an installation necessary for carrying on of the activities which thelicensee is authorized by its licence to carry on or is proposed to beused, within a period of five years, by such other licensee for thepurposes of such an installation.

SCHEDULE II[Section 31]

ELECTRICITY SUPPLY CODE

1. (1) Subject to paragraph (2), a distribution licensee may recoverfrom a tariff customer any charges due to the licensee in respect of thesupply of electricity, or in respect of the provision of any electricitymeter, electric line or electrical plant.

(2) If a tariff customer quits any premises at which electricity hasbeen supplied to him or her by a distribution licensee, without giving atleast two working days prior notice to the licensee, he or she shall beliable to pay the licensee, in respect of the supply of electricity to thepremises, all accrued charges due up to the earlier of-

(a)the second working day after he or she gives such notice tothe licensee provided that reasonable access to the premiseshas been granted;

(b)the next day on which the register of any meter is ascertained;and

(c)the day from which any subsequent occupier of the premisesrequires the supplier to supply electricity to the premises.

(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) or a statement setting out thoseprovisions shall be endorsed upon every demand note for electricitycharges payable to a distribution licensee by a tariff customer.

(4) If a tariff customer quits any premises at which electricity hasbeen supplied to him or her by a distribution licensee, without payingall charges due from him or her in respect of that supply, or the provisionof any electricity meter, electric line or electrical plant for the purposesof the supply, the licensee-

(a)may refuse to furnish him or her with a supply of electricityat any other premises until he or she pays the charges due;but

74Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)shall not be entitled to require payment of that charge fromthe next occupier of the premises.

(5) If a tariff customer-

(a)has not, within the requisite period, paid all charges due to adistribution licensee in respect of the supply of electricity toany premises, or the provision of any electricity meter, electricline or electrical plant for the purposes of that supply; or

(b)has failed to comply with a notice from the licensee requiringhim or her to cease using any appliance which unduly orimproperly interferes with the supply of electricity by thelicensee to any other consumer,

the distribution licensee may, at the end of the requisite period cut offthe supply to the premises, or to any other premises occupied by thecustomer, by such means as the licensee thinks fit and recover anyexpenses incurred in so doing from the customer.

(6) In paragraph (5) the requisite period means-

(a)in the case of premises which are used wholly or mainly fordomestic purposes, a period of not less than ten days aftereither the making by the distribution licensee of a demand inwriting for the payment of the charges due or a notice by thedistribution licensee requiring the tariff customer to cease touse the appliances which interfere with electricity suppliedto another customer; and

(b)in the case of any other premises, a period of ten days afterthe making of such a demand.

(7) A distribution licensee shall not exercise the powers conferredon the licensee by paragraph (5), if there is a genuine dispute regardingthe amount of the charges due.

(8) In this item a reference to the provision of any electric line oritem of electrical plant shall include a reference to the provision of sucha line or item by the installation of a new one or by the modification ofan existing one.

2. (1) Where a distribution licensee has cut off the supply ofelectricity to any premises in consequence of any default by a tariffcustomer, the licensee shall be under an obligation to resume the supplyof electricity within two working days of the requirements of paragraph(2) being fulfilled.

75Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(2) The requirements of this paragraph are that the customer indefault-

(a)has made good the default;

(b)has paid the reasonable expenses of disconnecting andreconnecting the supply; and

(c)has given such security as is mentioned in section 26 of thisAct.

(3) The obligation imposed by paragraph (1) on a distributionlicensee shall be a duty owed by the licensee to any person who may beaffected by a failure to comply with the obligation.

(4) Where a duty is owed by a licensee to any person by virtue ofparagraph (3), any breach of that duty which causes any loss or damageto that person shall be actionable at the suit or instance of that person.

(5) In any proceedings brought against a distribution licensee inpursuance of paragraph (4), it shall be a defence for the distributionlicensee to prove that the licensee took all reasonable steps and exercisedall due diligence to avoid failing to comply with the obligation imposedon the licensee by paragraph (1).

(6) Without prejudice to any right which any person may have byvirtue of paragraph (4) to bring civil proceedings against a distributionlicensee in respect of any failure to comply with the obligation imposedon the licensee by paragraph (1), compliance with that obligation maybe enforced by the Commission against in the licensee by the institutionof appropriate proceedings in a court of civil jurisdiction.

3. (1) Where a supply of electricity to any premises has been cutoff by a distribution licensee no person other than such licensee shallrestore such supply.

(2) If any person acts in contravention of paragraph (1), he or sheshall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable onconviction after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceedingtwenty five thousand rupees and the distribution licencee may cut offthe supply

4. (1) If any person intentionally or negligently damages or causesto be damaged

(a)any electrical plant or electric line belonging to or operatedby-

(i)a distribution licensee;

76Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(ii)a generation licensee; or

(iii)a transmission licensee; or

(b)any part of any domestic electricity supply equipmentbelonging to or operated by a distribution licensee that issituated on his or her property,

he or she shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liableon conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not less thanfive thousand rupees and not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.

(2) In this item, domestic electricity supply equipment includesall line and plant up to, and including, the meter situated in a consumersproperty.

(3) Where an offence has been committed under subparagraph(1)(a), in respect of the electrical line or electrical plant of a distributionlicensee, the distribution licensee may discontinue the supply ofelectricity to the person so offending until the matter has been remedied.(4) Where an offence has been committed under subparagraph(1)(b), in respect of any domestic electricity supply equipment, thedistribution licensee-

(a)may discontinue the supply of electricity to the person sooffending until the matter has been remedied;and

(b)may remove the meter in respect of which the offence wascommitted.

(5) Where a distribution licensee removes a meter in the exercise ofpowers under paragraph (4), the licensee shall keep it safely until theCommission authorizes the licensee to destroy it or otherwise disposeof it.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of item 8, any officer authorized bya distribution licensee may enter any premises to which a supply ofelectricity is being given by the distribution licensee through the electriclines and electrical plant belonging to, or operated by, the distributionlicensee for any of the following purposes, namely-

(a)inspecting any electric line or electrical plant belonging to oroperated by the distribution licensee;

(b)ascertaining the register of any electricity meter and, in thecase of a prepayment meter, removing any money or tokensbelonging to or operated by the distribution licensee;

(c)removing, inspecting or reinstalling any electricity meter orinstalling any substitute meter or associated equipment.

77Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(2) The powers conferred by subparagraph (1)(a) and (b) shall notbe exercised in respect of a premises if-

(a)the consumer has applied in writing to the distribution licenseefor the licensee to cease to supply electricity to the premises;and

(b)the licensee has failed to do so within a reasonable time.

6. (1) Where a distribution licensee is authorized by paragraph 4(3)or 4 (4) of this Schedule-

(a)to discontinue the supply of electricity to any premises; or

(b)to remove the electricity meter in respect of which theoffence under that paragraph was committed,

any officer authorized by the distribution licensee may, subject to item8, enter the premises for the purpose of disconnecting the supply orremoving the meter or any associated electrical plant used for, or forpurposes connected with, the distribution or supply of electricity.

(2) Where-

(a)a distribution licensee is authorized by any other provisionof this Act or of regulations made under it to cut off ordiscontinue the supply of electricity to any premises;

(b)a person occupying any premises supplied with electricityby a distribution licensee ceases to require such a supply;

(c)a person entering into occupation of any premises previouslysupplied with electricity by a distribution licensee does notrequire such a supply; or

(d)a person entering into occupation of any premises previouslysupplied with electricity through a meter belonging to oroperated by a distribution licensee does not hire or borrowthat meter,

any officer authorized by the distribution licensee may, subject to item8, enter the premises for the purpose of disconnecting the supply orremoving any electrical plant, electrical line or electricity meter.

7. (1) Any officer authorized by a distribution licensee, a generationlicensee or a transmission licensee, as the case may be, may, subject toitem 8, enter any premises for the purpose of-

(a)placing a new electric line or new electrical plant in place of,or in addition to , any existing line or plant which has alreadybeen lawfully placed; or

78Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)repairing or altering any such existing line or plant.

(2) In the case of emergency arising from faults in any electric lineor electrical plant, entry may be made under paragraph (1) without thenotice required to be given by item 8, but the notice shall then be givenas early as possible.

8. (1) An electrical inspector or a licensee (or officer of a licensee)authorized to enter upon any land or premises under this Act shall notdemand to do so as of right unless-

(a)three days notice of the intended entry has been given by theelectrical inspector or the licensee or officer of the licenseestating as fully and accurately as possible the nature andextent of the acts intended to be done;

(b)if required to do so, he or she has produced evidence of hisor her authority;

(c)reasonable compensation is paid to the owner of the land orpremises for any disturbance, disability or damage that maybe caused pursuant to the entry.

(2) Any notice referred to in subparagraph 1(a) shall-

(a)where the land is occupied, be given to the occupier;

(b)where the land is not occupied, be given to the owner if hisor her name and address are known or can with reasonablediligence be ascertained;

(c)where the land is not occupied and the name and address ofthe owner cannot with reasonable diligence be ascertained,be exhibited in some conspicuous position on the land; and

(d)where the land is used or reserved for any public purpose, begiven to the officer or other person in charge of the executionof that purpose.

(3) The electrical inspector or the licensee or person authorized bythe licensee in writing in that behalf shall be entitled to enter the land,for the purpose of giving a notice referred to in subparagraph 1(a).

(4) Where any person exercises any powers conferred by this item, the licensee by whom he or she was authorized in writing shall makegood any damage done to the land as a result of such entry.

(5)Where in the exercise of any power conferred by or under thisAct any damage is caused to any land or to any moveable property, anyperson interested in the land or moveable property may recover

79Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

compensation in respect of that damage from the licensee on whosebehalf the power is exercised; and where in consequence of the exerciseof such a power a person is disturbed in his or her enjoyment of anyland or moveable property he or she may recover from that licenseereasonable compensation in respect of that disturbance as determinedby the Commission.

9.(1) If, in an attempt to exercise any of the powers of entryconferred by this Schedule, the distribution licensee has made allreasonable efforts, otherwise than by the use of force, to obtain entry tothe premises; and those efforts have been unsuccessful, it may apply, exparte, to the Magistrates Court having jurisdiction over the place wherethe premises are situated for an order authorizing the licensee or anofficer authorized by the licensee to enter the premises by force.

(2) An order granted under paragraph (1) shall specify the action,which may be taken by the licensee, or an officer authorized by thelicensee to effect the entry by force and may stipulate the conditions tobe observed by the licensee or such officer after such entry.

(3) The licensee or an officer authorized by the licensee shall incurno liability to any person in respect of the entry by force to thepremises provided that he or she -

(a)takes no action to effect entry other than such action as isspecified in the order;

(b)observes any condition stipulated by the order; and

(c)does as little damage as is reasonably practicable in takingthe specified action and in observing any stipulated condition.

(4) No appeal shall lie from a decision of the Magistrates Court-

(a)to grant or not to grant an order under paragraph (1); or

(b)regarding the terms of, or the conditions stipulated in, anysuch order.

(5) Any costs incurred by the licensee in obtaining and executing anorder under paragraph (1) shall be recoverable as a civil debt from theowner or the occupier of the premises to which the order relates.

10. (1) Where in pursuance of any powers of entry conferred bythis Schedule, entry is made on any premises by an officer authorizedby a distribution licensee-

(a)the officer shall ensure that the premises are left no lesssecure by reason of the entry; and

80Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)the distribution licensee shall make good, or paycompensation for, any damage caused by the officer, or byany person accompanying him or her in entering the premises,or in taking any action authorized by this Schedule, or inmaking the premises secure.

(2) Any officer exercising powers of entry conferred by thisSchedule may be accompanied by such persons as may be necessary orexpedient for the purpose for which the entry is made or for thepurposes of paragraph (1).

(3) If any person intentionally resists or obstructs any officerexercising powers of entry conferred by this Schedule, he or she shallbe guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable on convictionafter summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees.

11. Any electrical plant, electric line or electricity meter owned byor let for hire or lent to a consumer by a distribution licensee andmarked or impressed with a sufficient mark or brand indicating thedistribution licensee as the owner-

(a)shall be deemed not to be landlords fixtures, notwithstandingthat they may be fixed or fastened to any part of the premisesin which they may be situated; and

(b)shall not be subject to distress or be liable to be taken inexecution under process of any court or any proceedingsin bankruptcy against the person in whose possession theymay be.

SCHEDULE III[Section 31]

USE OF ELECTRICITY METERS

1. (1) Where a consumer of electricity supplied by a distributionlicensee is to be charged for the supply wholly or partly by reference tothe quantity of electricity supplied, then, unless otherwise agreed betweenthe consumer and the distribution licensee, the supply shall be giventhrough, and the quantity of electricity shall be ascertained by, anappropriate meter or meters, as the case may be.

(2) The meter shall be provided-

(a)by the distribution licensee; or

(b)if agreed by the parties in the case of a meter used or intendedto be used in connection with an exempt supply, by theconsumer.

81Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(3) The meter shall be installed on the consumers premises in aposition determined by the distribution licensee, unless in all thecircumstances it is more reasonable to place it outside those premises orin some other position for the purpose this Act, the supply of energy bya licensee to a consumer shall be deemed to commence, unless otherwiseagreed between them, at the out going terminals of the meter or meteringequipment used to measure the supply to the consumer.

(4) The distribution licensee may require the replacement of anymeter provided and installed in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3)where the replacement -

(a)is necessary to secure compliance with the provisions of thisSchedule or any regulations made under the Act ; or

(b)is otherwise reasonable in all the circumstances,

and any meter so replaced shall be provided and installed in accordancewith those paragraphs.

(5) If the consumer refuses or fails to take his or her supply ofelectricity through an appropriate meter provided and installed inaccordance with paragraphs (2) and (3), the supplier may refuse togive, or may discontinue, the supply.

(6) For the purposes of this paragraph, a meter is an appropriatemeter for use in connection with any particular supply of electricity ifit is of a pattern or construction, which, having regard to the terms onwhich the supply is to be charged for is suitable for such use.

(7) Pending the determination under section 36 of any disputearising under this item, the Commission may give directions as to theprovision or installation of a meter and directions under this item mayapply either in the case of meters of particular descriptions or in particularcases.

(8) In this Schedule exempt supply means a supply of electricityto any premises where-

(a)the premises are not premises used wholly or mainly fordomestic purposes; or

(b)the supplier or the consumer is a person authorized by anexemption to supply electricity to those premises.

2. (1) No meter shall be used for ascertaining the quantity ofelectricity supplied by a distribution licensee to a consumer unless themeter-

(a)is of an approved pattern or constriction and is installed in anapproved manner; and

82Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)subject to the provisions of paragraph (2), is certified underitem 4,

and in this Schedule approved means approved by the Commissionin accordance with regulation made under this Act.

(2) The provisions of subparagraph (1)(b) shall not apply to ameter used in connection with an exempt supply if the distributionlicensee and the consumer have agreed in writing to dispense with therequirements of that paragraph.

(3) Regulations may provide-

(a)for determining fees to be paid for approvals given by orunder the regulations;

(b)for revoking an approval so given to any particular patternor construction of meter and requiring meters of that patternor construction which have been installed to be replacedwith meters of another approved pattern or constructionwithin a prescribed period;

(c)for revoking an approval so given to any particular mannerof installation in that manner to be installed in anotherapproved manner within such period as is specified in theregulation,

and may make different provision for meters of different descriptionsor for meters used or intended to be used for different purposes.

3. (1) Where a distribution licensee supplies electricity through ameter which is used for ascertaining the quantity of electricity suppliedand-

(a)the meter is not of an approved pattern or construction or isnot installed in an approved manner; or

(b)except in the case of a meter referred to in subparagraph 2(b) of item 1, is not certified under item 4,

the distribution licensee shall be guilty of an offence under this Act andshall be liable on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,to a fine not less than five thousand rupees and not exceeding twentyfive thousand rupees.

(2) Where any person is guilty of an offence under this item due tothe act or default of some other person, that other person shall also beguilty of the offence; and that other person may be charged with andconvicted of the offence by virtue of this paragraph whether or notproceedings are taken against the first-mentioned person.

83Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(3) In any proceedings in respect of an offence under this item itshall be a defence for the person charged to prove that he or she tookall reasonable steps and exercised all due diligence to avoid committingthe offence.

(4) No proceedings shall be instituted in respect of an offence underthis item except by or on behalf of the Commission.

4. (1) The Commission may appoint any person to examine test andcertify meters.

(2) No meter shall be certified in accordance with paragraph (1)unless-

(a)the meter is of an approved pattern or construction; and

(b)the meter conforms to such standards (including standardsframed by reference to margins of error) as may be prescribedby regulation,

and references in this Schedule to prescribed margins of error shallbe construed accordingly.

(3) Regulations may be made providing different provisions formeters of different descriptions or for meters used, or intended to beused, for different purposes and may include provision-

(a)for the termination of certification in the case of meterswhich no longer conform to the prescribed standards;

(b)for determining the fees to be paid for examining, testingand certifying meters, and the persons by whom they arepayable; and

(c)as to the procedure to be followed in examining, testing andcertifying meters.

5. (1) Where a consumer of electricity supplied by a distributionlicensee is to be charged for his or her supply wholly or partly byreference to the quantity of electricity supplied, the distribution licenseemay, in the normal course of business, estimate the amount of electricityconsumed by the consumer and recover charges accordingly, so longas the estimated consumption is confirmed by a meter reading within areasonable period of time.

(2) In the event of-

(a)a meter ( by which the quantity of electricity supplied to anyconsumer is ascertained) being proved to register consumptionincorrectly;

84Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(b)the malfunction of any meter; or

(c)any person altering the register of any meter used formeasuring the quantity of electricity supplied to any premises,

the distribution licensee shall be entitled to estimate consumption andrecover charges accordingly.

(3) Where the consumption of electricity has been estimated by adistribution licensee in accordance with paragraph (1) or (2), theconsumer shall pay for any electricity consumed in accordance withthe estimate prepared by the distribution licensee or otherwise determinedin accordance with the provisions relating to dispute resolution.

6.(1) This item applies to meters used for ascertaining the quantityof electricity supplied to any premises.

(2) The register of a meter to which this item applies shall beadmissible in any proceedings in court as evidence of the quantity ofelectricity supplied through it.

(3) Where electricity has been supplied for any period through sucha meter which is of an approved pattern or construction and is installedin an approved manner, the register of the meter shall be presumed tohave been registering during that period-

(a)within the prescribed margins of error; and

(b)in the case of a meter used in connection with an exemptsupply, within any agreed margins of error.

(4) Where a meter to which this item applies is presumed to beregistering for any period-

(a)within the prescribed margin of error; and

(b)in the case of a meter used in connection with an exemptsupply, within any agreed margins of error,

the burden shall be on the consumer to prove that the meter wasincorrectly registering the quantity of electricity supplied through itduring that period.

7. (1) A consumer of electricity supplied by a distribution licensee,shall at all times, at his or her own expense, keep any meter belongingto him or her in proper order for correctly registering the quantity ofelectricity supplied to him or her; and in default of his or her doing so,the supplier may discontinue the supply of electricity through thatmeter.

85Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

(2) A distribution licensee shall at all times, at its own expense, keepany meter let for hire or lent by it to any consumer in proper order forcorrectly registering the quantity of electricity supplied and, in the caseof pre-payment meters, for operating properly on receipt of thenecessary payment.

(3) A distribution licensee shall have power to remove, inspect andre-install any meter by which the quantity of electricity supplied by thelicensee to a consumer is registered, and shall, while any such meter isremoved, fix a substitute meter on the premises; and the cost of removing,inspecting and re-installing the meter and of fixing a substitute metershall be met by the distribution licensee.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs (2) and (3) shall be withoutprejudice to any remedy the distribution licensee may have against aconsumer for failure to take proper care of the meter.

8. (1) If any person intentionally or negligently-

(a)alters the register of any meter used for measuring the quantityof electricity supplied to any premises by a distributionlicensee; or

(b)prevents any such meter from duly registering the quantityof electricity supplied through that meter,

he or she shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liableon conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not less thanfive thousand rupees and not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees.

(2) Where any person is prosecuted for an offence under paragraph(1), proof -

(a)that the meter was in his or her custody or under his or hercontrol; and

(b)of possession by him or her of artificial means for causing analteration of the register of the meter or, as the case may be,for the prevention of the meter from duly registering,

shall be sufficient evidence that the alteration or prevention wasintentionally caused by him or her.

(3) Where a consumer is convicted of an offence under paragraph(1), the distribution licensee may discontinue the supply of electricityto the premises of the consumer and remove the meter in respect ofwhich the offence was committed.

(4) Where a distribution licensee removes a meter under paragraph(3), the licensee shall keep it in safe custody until the Commissionauthorizes the licensee to destroy or otherwise dispose of it.

86Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

9. (1) A consumer of electricity supplied by a distribution licenseewho takes his or her supply through a pre-payment meter shall beunder a duty to take all reasonable precautions for the safekeeping ofany money or tokens which are inserted into that meter.

(2) Except with the permission of the consumer, a pre-paymentmeter shall not be used to recover any sum owing to a distributionlicensee by a consumer otherwise than in respect of the supply ofelectricity, the provision of an electric line or electrical plant or theprovision of the meter.

SCHEDULE IV[Section 31]

PRESERVATION

1. A person authorized by a licence, or exempted from therequirement to obtain a licence, to transmit, generate, distribute orsupply electricity-

(a)shall , in generating , transmitting , distributing or supplyingelectricity, have regard to the desirability of preserving naturalbeauty, of conserving flora, fauna and geological orphysiographical features of special interest and of protectingsites, buildings and objects of architectural, historic orarchaeological interest; and

(b)shall do what the person reasonably can to mitigate anyeffect which such generation, transmission, distribution orsupply would have on the natural beauty of the countrysideor on any such flora, fauna, features, sites, buildings orobjects.

2. Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (1), a personauthorized by a licence, or exempted from the requirement to obtain alicence, to transmit, generate, distribute or supply electricity and theCommission shall, in generating, transmitting, distributing or supplyingelectricity, or as the case may be, in the discharge of the Commissionsfunctions, avoid, so far as reasonably practicable, causing injury tofisheries or to the stock of fish in any waters.

3. (1) A generation license shall, in circumstances specified by theCommission, be entitled to construct, subject to conditions prescribedby the commission in consultation with the relevant water authority,water ways and pipelines and to use water for its licensed activities andthe relevant water authority shall not unreasonably deny such right.

(2) For the purpose of this item the relevant water authority meanssuch authority as the commission shall prescribe

87Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.