PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF |
SRI LANKA

TEXTILE QUOTA BOARD
ACT, No. 33 OF 1996

[Certified on 4th December , 1996]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 06, 1996

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price : Re. 1.35 : Postage : Rs. 2.55


Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of | ae

~ [Certified on 4th December, 1996)"
L.D—0 35/95

AN ACT TO PROVIDE-FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A TEXTILE
Quota BOARD ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
a INCIDENTAL THERETO: - iP Rg OIG S vs)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democatc Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Textile Quota Board Act,
No. 33 of 1996 and shall come into operation on such date, as
the Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.

2. (1) There shall be established a board which shall be
called the Textile Quota Board ee referred to as the
“Board”’).

(2) The Board shall, by tie name -asSIBY to it by sub-
section (1), be a body corporate having perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate
name.

3. (1) The Board shall consist of—

(a) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister or any
other officer of the Ministry appointed by the Minister
who shall be the Chairman of the Board (hereinafter
rcferred to as the “Chairman” ;

(b) the Director-General of the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka established by the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 or his nominee ;

(c) the Director-General of Customs or his nominee ;

(d) the Director of Commerce or his nominec ;

(e) the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Export-Development
' Board established by the Sri Lanka Export

Development Act, No. 40 of 1979 or his nominee ;
and Ee st ee Bes

(f) not more than five other persons to represent

_. associations connected with the export of textiles

and textile products, appointed by the Minister
(hereinafter referred to as “appointed members”).

2—D 041842 — 7,355 (96/10)

Short title and
date of operation.

Establishment of
the Textile Quota
Board.

Members of the
Board.


2 Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996

(2) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall have
effect in relation to the appointed members of the Board.

oi Revita
» iw

Objects of the 4. The objects of the Board shall ber gin ¢
Board. ;
(a) to Formutater an appropriate chEMIC or el eaten for the
| management, distribution, utilization and allocation
5" ofexport-quotas of textile and textile products granted
‘ to Sri Lanka and to manage and carry out such
ede .», scheme or schemes after approval by the Minister ;
i Trey, and re): ;
(b) toadvise the Minister regarding the implementation of
~_ scheme or schemes formulated under paragraph (a),
and on any other matters that may be referred to it by
the Minister for its advice.
Powers, duties \ 15, For the purpose of carrying out its objects, the Board
aeteee of may exercise, perform and discharge all or any of the following
powers, duties, and functions—

(a) tomanage and carry-oul the scheme or schemes for the
_ distribution, utilization and allocation of export
quotas ;

(b) to allocate export quotas among registered exporters
- andto vary, suspend, cancel or restore allocations of
- export quotas’ fen

(c) to determine the terms and monaivons subject to which
export quotas will be allocated ;

(d) to direct registered exporters to + anil, in sich (oem
as may be determined by the Board, information
relating to their manufacturing capacity, employment,
production, utilization of export quotas, marketing

_ programmes and any other related matters ;

(e) to collcct,collate, classify and publish information
relating to the management of the scheme or schemes
*-and the utilization of export quotas ; |


Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996 3:

'\(f) to monitor from time to time the utilization,of export
quotas allocated to registered exporters-;.

(g) topurchase, hold, take, give on lease, mortgage or hire

or sell or otherwise dispose of. movable or rimmovable

. properly prrovir antes Mois gen

(h) ‘to Open and maintain bank accounts ;"

(i) to levy fees or ee for any’ services rendered or
provided to registered EXPORTS: or on arcelsiralion of
such exporters’:

Yj) to appoint, employ, remunerate, exercise disciplinary
control.over and dismiss its officers, servants and
agents ;

 (k) to make rules relating to mectings of the Board and on
matters in respect of which rules are Tequired to be
framed under this Act ; a

(1) generally to do all such other things as are necessary
to facilitate the proper discharge of functions of the
Board. |

6. (1) The Board may vary, suspend or cancel an export
quota allocated to any registered exporter, where it is found
that—-

Jas Fehon: fii]

(a) :anexport quota has been obtained by mis-representing
facts ;

(b) an export-quota allocated is far in excess of the
installed capacity to produce textiles and textile
products’,

: baa ; rityyr
©) further quantitative restrictions stave = slacéd’ ‘by
“ ‘the importing countries or where the scheme
formulated for the management, distribution, and
“'2°-" ¢ allocation of export quotas is amended due to the
non-availability of sufficient quotas 3." *

Power to vary,
suspend or cancel
export quota.


4.

Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996

(d) after review of the performance of a factory, ‘that
export quotas are unlikely to be utilised by such
registered exporter ;

(e) the conditions laid down by the Board, when
allocating export quotas have not been observed ;

(f) aregistered exporter has forged or caused to be forged
an export licence or a textile visa or a certificate of
origin as the case may be which he is required to
obtain in order to export any textile or textile product
under an export quota allocation ;

(g) aregistered exporter has without due authority, made
any alteration or caused any altcration to be made to
an export licence, a textile visa or a certificate of
origin as the case may be ;

(4) a registered exporter, when applying for an export
licence or textile visa or certificate of origin has
furnished information which is false or misleading in
a material particular or has omitted any material
particular ;

(i) a registered exporter or any employee or agent of a
registered exporter, has made use of any export
licence, textile visa, a certificate of origin or any
other document which is related to or is connected
with the export of textile or textile product, which
has been forged or altered ;

(j) aregistered exporter has committed any malpractice ;
and

(k) a registered exporter has failed or refused to pay the
textile quota cess.

(2) Nothing contained in subsection (1) of this section,

shall preclude any prosecution being brought under section 23
of this Act, against any person whose textile quota allocation
is varied, suspended or cancelled under paragraphs (f), (g), (2)

_ or (i) of subsection (1), inaddition tosuch variation, suspension

or cancellation as the case may be.


Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996 5

7. The members of the Board may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund of the Board as the Minister
may, in consultation with the Minister in charge of the pipe
of Finance determines

- 8. (1) The Chairman shall, if present, preside at cvery
meeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman from any
such meeting, the members present shall clect one of the
members present, to preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board oat be five
members.

(3) The person presiding at any mecting of the Board snail
in addition to his own vole, have a casting vote.

(4) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Board may
regulate the procedure in regard to the meetings of the Board
and the transaction of business.at such mcetings.

9. No act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall be
deemed to be invalid, by reason only of the existence of any
defect in the appointment of any member thereof.

10. (1) The seal of the Board may be determined and
devised by the Board and may be altered in such manner as
may be determined by the Board.

(2) The seal of the Board shall be in the custody of the
Chairman of the Board.

(3) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except with the sanction of the Board
and in the presence of:two members of the Board who shall
sign the instrument or document in token of their presence.

(4) The Board shal! maintain a register of the instruments
and documents to which the seal of the Board has been affixed.

11. (1) The initial capital of the Board shall consist of
such amount as may be made available to the Board by the
Government on such terms and conditions as may be
determined by the Minister, with the concurrence of te
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

Remuneration to
be paid to
members.

Chairman to
preside at
mectings.

No act, decision or
proceedings
deemed not
invalid.

Seal of the Board.

Capital of the
Board.


Fund of the
Board.

Financial year of
the Board.

Chief executive
officer.

6 Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996

(2) The capital of the Board may be increased from time
to time by such amount as may be determined by the Minister
with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance, and shall be made available to the Board by way
of grant or loan and on such terms and conditions as may be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

12, (1) The Board shall have its own Fund and there shall
be paid into the Fund.—

(a) any sums of moncy made available to the Board under
section 11 ;

(b) all such sums of money as may be reccived by the
Board in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act ;

(c) ail such sums of money as may be received by the
_ Board by way of donations, gifts or grants from any
source whatsoever, whether in or outside Sri Lanka.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Board in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, dutics and functions.

13. (1) The financial year of the Board shall be th
calendar year.

(2) The Board shall, in respect of each financial year,
cause proper books of accounts to be kept of its income and
expenditure, assets and liabilities, and all other transactions of
the Board.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Board.

14. The Chairman shall be the chief executive officer of
the Board. 7

a


_ Textile Quota Board Act, No, 33 of 1996 7

15. (1) The Minister shall, in consultation with the Board,
appoint a suitably qualified person to be the Director-General
of the Board. The Director-General shall be a full time officer
of the Board and shall receive such remuneration and other
bencfits as may be determined by the Board.

(2) The Director-General shall, subject to the direction
and control of the Chairman, be charged with the management
of the affairs and transactions of the Board, the administration
and control of the officers and servants of the Board. —

(3) The Director-General may, with the prior approval
of the Board, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate to any officer or servant of the Board any power,
function or duty conferred or imposed on or assigned to him
by this Act, and such officeror servant shall exercise, discharge
and perform such power, function or duty subject to the
general or special directions of the Director-General.

16. (1) The Board may appoint such other officers and
servants as it considers necessaty f for the efficient iudlscharge of
its functions.

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsetion
(1) shall be remunerated in such manner and at such rates and
shall be subject to such conditions of service as may be
determined ny the Board.

(3) At the request of the Board any officer in, the
public service may, with the consent of the officer and the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed to
the Board for such period as may be determined by the Board
with like consent, or be permanently appointed to such staf! f.

; (4) Where any officer in the public senvice is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions of subsection
(2) of section 14 of the National Transport Commisions, Act,
No. 31 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in
relation to, him.

rt isp

Director-
General .

Staff of the
Board.


Appointment of
officers and
servants of public
corporations to
the staff of the
Board.

8 Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996

(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Board, the provision of subsection
(3) of section 14 of the National Tranport Commission Act,
No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in
relation to, him.

(6) Where the Board employs any person who has agreed
to serve the Government for a specified period, any period of
service to the Board by that person shall be regarded as service
to the Government, for the purpose of discharging the
obligations of such agreement.

(7) At the request of the Board, any member of the Local
Government Service or any other officer or servant of a Local
authority, may, with the consent of such member, officer or
servant and the Local Government Service Commission, or
the local authority, as the case may be, be temporarily appointed
to the staff, of the Board for such period as may be determined
by the Board with like consent or be permanently appointed to
such staff on such terms and conditions including those
relating to pension or provident fund rights as may be agreed
upon by the Board and the Local Government Service
Commission or that local authority.

‘ i Bae
(8) Where any member of the Local Government Service
or any officer or, servant of any local authority is appointed
temporarily under subsection (7) to the staff of the Board, he
shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as any other
member of such staff.

17. (1) At the request of the Board, any officer or servant
of a public corporation may, with consent of such officer or
servant and the governing board of such corporation, be
temporarily appointed to the staff of the Board for such period
as may be determined by the Board with like consent or with
like consent be permanently appointed to the staff of the Board
on such terms and conditions, including those relating to
pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the
Board and the governing board of such corporation. ~


“Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996 9.

| (2) Where any person is appointed whether temporarily or
permanently under subsection (1) to the staff of the Board, he
‘shall be subject to the same GHSCIPIERY, control as any other
member of the staff. beo8 str ta gucee

A
R33

-
rf}

18. The Board shall, i in the exercise Of its powers,
performance of its duties and the discharge of its functions,
be subject to and act in accordance with such general or special
directions as the Minister may from time to lime issue in
writing:
19. (1) The Board may delegate any of its powers, duties,
and functions under this Act to any member or officer of the
Board. ! aie PEsitaes f Wy i

(2) Every member or officer to whom any power, duty or
function is delegated under subsection (1), shall: exercise,
perform and discharge such power, duty or function subject to
such directions as may be given to him by the Board.

(3) The Board shall, notwithstanding any delegation made
under subsection (1), have the power to exercise, perform and
discharge the powers, duties and functions so delegated. * —

t

20. All officers and servants of the Board shall be deemed
to be public servants’ within the Meanie of, and for the
peeeee of the Penal Cages a van

21. The Board shall be deemed to bea scheduled institution
within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the provisions of
that Act shall be construed accordingly:

f ‘ ‘ { TMM hy

eal

7 sts
wi fl

Dae (1) INO suit or ue Brad err
@ against thi Board, for any i ict which’ in good faith i 1S
.. done or purported, to be done by the Board under this

é Cl re bar «4 i ‘ : a ¢ typ tee op ye ae wade
cuiNaliia 12 1G Howe HE AIVG O O¥ SIG G1 SONY LL

OT! se O¥ OIG Uy. wal

Board to be
subject to the
direction of the
Minister.

Delegation of
powers, duties and
functions of the
Board.

Members, officers
and servants of
the Board deemed
to be public
servants.

Board deemed to
be a scheduled
institution within
the meaning of
the Bribery Act.

Protection for
action taken
under this Act or
on the direction
of the Board.


Offences.

10 Textile Quota Board:Act, No. 33 of 1996

i; (b) against any member,:officer,:servant or agentiof the

Board for any act which in good faith is done or

:. purported to be done by him under this Act, or on ine
directions of the Board. .

(2) Any expenses incurred by the Board in any suit or
prosecution brought by or against the Board before any court,
shall be paid out of the Fund and any costs paid to, or recovered

by the Board in any such suit or prosecution shall be credited

to the Fund.

(3) Any expenses incurred by any such person as is
referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit or
prosecution brought against him before any court in respect of
any act whichis done or purported to be donc by him under this
Act or on the directions of the Board shall, if the court holds

‘hat such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund

to-such person,unless such expenses are recovered by him in

‘such suil or prosecution.

23. (1) Every person who contravens any provision of this
Actor any regulation made thereunder or fails to comply with
any directions or requirements made or imposed on him under
this Act, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall,
on conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine

not exceeding onc hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment

of either discription for a period not exceeding five years or to
both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Where an offence under this Ret; iscommitted by a Rsty
of persons then—

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director or officer of that body corporate ; or

(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of that
firm,
shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence :

Provided, however, that a director; or an officer of such
body corporate or partner of such firm, shall not be deemed to
be guilty of such offence if he proves that such offence was

- committed without his knowledge; or that he exercised all due

diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.


‘Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996 11

24. (1) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred upon it by section 5; the Board may make rules in
nate of the following mattes— !

“@) ‘matters connected with the management and carrying
___ out of any scheme or schemes formulated under this
__ Act, for the distribution, utilization and allocation of

"export quotas ;

$3

(b) information relating to ananilfacunina capacity,

production, marketing programmes and other related

matters to be provided by exporters ; and

(c) the rates and amount of fees to be charged for any
service rendered by the Board. |

2) A rule made by the Board under sibzection a 1), shall not
have effect, until itis approved by the Minister and is published
in the Gazette.

25. In the even of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

26. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—

“export quota” means the entitlement to export from Sri
Lanka to any other country any specified quantity of
textiles and textile products, during aspecified period
of time, under, and in accordance with, an agreement
between the Government of Sri Lanka and the
Government of that other country ; ;

“governing board” in relation to a public corporation,
means the Board of Directors or other body of
persons, howsover designated, charged with the
administration and management of the affairs of the
corporation ;

“local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council or anv Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority created or established by or under any law
to exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties
and functions corresponding ‘to, or similar to the

vor; powers, duties and functions exercised, performed
»»: or discharged ‘by any such Council or Sabha ;

Rules.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.


12 Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996

“malpractice”. includes trans shipment of: textiles’ and
textile products originating in any. other country as
those originating in-Sri Lanka or vice versa, false
declaration regarding the country of origin, falsifi-

‘cation of official documents with a view to facili-
tating transhipment or re-routing, and re-routing of
textiles and textile products and making false decla-
rations concerning fibre contents, quantilics,
description or classification of merchandise with a
view to circumventing bi-lateral textile agreements ;

“public corporation” means any corporation, board or
other body which was or is established by or under
any written law other than the Companies Act, No.
‘17 of 1982 with funds or capital wholly or partly
‘provided by the Government by way of granissl loan

or otherwise ;

“registered, exporter” means an exporter of textile and

. y textile products registered with the Ministry of the

Minister in charge of the subject of Textile Industries

qa » orthe Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, established

by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No 4
of 1978 as the case may be ;

“textile product” means a product made out of any or all of
the following :—> » :

cotton, wool, man made fibre, silk blended fibre or
other vegetable fibre ; |

“textile quota cess” means the cess ‘imposed under the
provisions of Finance Act, No. 16 of 1995.

“SCHEDULE [section 3 (2)1

PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE APPOINTED
MEMBERS OF THE BOARD : :::. )
ah Cut
“an I A person 1 shall be disqualified f fr rom i ete appointed or
econunune as amember of the Board—,, « «|.
i (a) if he is; or becomes a Member' of SEH nent any
:. .Provincial Council or:any local authority ; or


Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996 13

(b) if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ; or
.. (c) if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
) other country, found or declared to. be of unsound
7 mind ; or-
_(d) if he is a person who, agin been declare! an sinsol-
vent or bankrupt under any law in Sri Lankaor in any
other country, is an undischarged insolvent or
bankrupt ; or
(e) ifheisserving orhas served, asentenceofi imprisonment
imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any other
country for an offence involving moral turpitude.

2. Every appointed member of the Board shall, unless he
vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold
office for aterm of two years from the date of his appointment
and unless he has been removed from office, be cligible for
reappointment :

Provided ths! a member appointed in place of a member
who had vacated office by death, resignation or r-moval, shall
hold office for the unexpired term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.

3. The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette,
remove any appointed member of the Board from office,
withoutassigning any reason therefore. An appointed member
in respect of whom an Order is made under this paragraph
shall be deemed to have vacated office on the date of publication
of the Order in the Gazette.

4. An appointed member of the Board may at any time
resign from his office by letter to that effect addressed to the
Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon it being
accepted by Minister in writing.

5. In the event of the vacation of office by death, resignation
or removal by any, appointed member of the Board, the
Minister may having regard to the provisions of paragraph (f)
of subsection (1) of section 3, appoint any other person to
succeed such member. Any person so appointed in place of
such member, shall hold office during the unexpired part of
the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.


14 Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996

6. Where an appointed member of the Board by reason of
‘illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period not
‘Jess than three months, is temporarily unable to perform his
duties, it shall be the duty of such member to inform the
Minister in writing of such inability. Thereupon, the Minister
may having regard to the provisions of paragraph (f) of sub-
section (1) of section 3, appoint some other person to actin his
place during such period:
