PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 13.50 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 14, 2006

[Certified on 14th July, 2006]

Printed on the Order of Government

PRIVATE MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS(REGISTRATION)ACT, No. 21 OF 2006

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 20061

Preamble.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

[Certified on 14th July, 2006]

L.D. O. 37/2003.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGISTRATION, REGULATION, MONITORING

AND INSPECTION OF PRIVATE MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS; AND TO FOSTER

THE DEVELOPMENT OF, PRIVATE MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS; AND TO

PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

WHEREAS it has become necessary for the Government, inthe interest of providing a safe and efficient medical serviceto the public, to set out a National Policy in relation to theprovision of medical services through private medicalinstitutions and to identify the manner in which such servicesare to be so provided in order to achieve its objectives :

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Private MedicalInstitutions (Registration) Act, No. 21 of 2006 and shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may appoint byOrder published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date)

2.(1) No person shall

(a)establish or maintain on any specified premises; or

(b)operate or permit any other person to operate,

a Private Medical Institution, except under the authority of aCertificate of Registration issued in that behalf in terms ofthe provisions of section 4 of this Act.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

3.(1) Every application for a Certificate of Registrationshall be made to the Private Health Services RegulatoryCouncil through the respective Provincial Director of HealthServices in the prescribed form and shall be accompanied bythe prescribed fee, and all other relevant documents.

Private MedicalInstitutions andpersonsoperating themto be registered.

Application forregistration.

2Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 2006

(2) On receipt of the applications under subsection (1),the Private Health Services Regulatory Council shall wherethe Private Medical Institution and premises to which therelevant application relates satisfies the criteria as may beprescribed, inform the Provincial Director of Health Servicesof the respective Province that the Council has no objectionto the registration of such Institution and premises and directthe respective Provincial Director of Health Services to

(a)register the Private Medical Institution and itspremises with the Private Health Services RegulatoryCouncil and register the applicant as the personregistered to maintain such Institution; and

(b)forward to the applicant the Certificate ofRegistration in the prescribed form.

(3) A Certificate of Registration granted under this sectionshall be valid for such period as shall be specified therein.

(4) A Certificate of Registration shall be renewed onapplication being made in that behalf in the manner specifiedin subsection (1), prior to one month of the date of expiry ofsuch Registration, and on payment of the prescribed renewalfee.

(5) Fifty per centum of the fees collected by eachProvincial Director of Health Services under this section shallbe remitted to the respective Provincial Council.

(6) The Provincial Director of Health Services of theProvince shall in carrying out his duties, act in compliancewith such guidelines as are prescribed under this Act, relatingto the registration of Private Medical Institutions.

4.(1) Where any Private Medical Institution is beingoperated or maintained by any person on any premiseswithout being registered as required by section 2, theProvincial Director of Health Services shall inform the PrivateHealth Services Regulatory Council of such fact and the

Effect ofregistering.

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 20063

Regulatory Council shall thereupon issue a directive to suchInstitution to forthwith register such Institution with theRegulatory Council within such period as shall be specifiedin such directive.

(2) Non-compliance with a directive issued by theRegulatory Council under subsection (1), shall be an offenceunder this Act.

(3) Where any person or institution convicted of an offenceunder subsection (2) continues to commit such offence after aperiod of one month from the date of such conviction , theMagistrate may upon application for a closure order beingmade by the Regulatory Council, order the closure of thatPrivate Medical Institution being maintained on such premises,until the institution or person convicted complies with thedirective issued by the Council under subsection (1).

5.(1) Any person or body of persons who is on theappointed date, operating or maintaining a private medicalinstitution at any premises shall, within three months fromthe appointed date, take such steps as are necessary to registerhimself and the premises concerned with the Private HealthServices Regulatory Council.

(2) In giving effect the provisions of subsection (1), theprovisions of section 2, section 3 and section 4 of this Actshall, mutatis mutandis apply, to and in relation thereto.

6.(1) There shall for the purposes of this Act beestablished a Private Health Services Regulatory Council (inthis Act referred to as the Council), which shall consistof

(a)the following members appointed by the Minister(hereinafter referred to as appointed members) :

(i)a representative each to represent each of theassociations hereinafter set out, nominated bythe respective association;

(a)the Independent MedicalPractitioners Association;

Registration ofexisting PrivateMedicalInstitutions.

Private HealthServicesRegulatoryCouncil.

4Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 2006

(b)the Sri Lanka Dental Association;and

(c)the Society of General MedicalPractitioners;

(ii)one person each to represent the fields ofAccountancy, Management, Law and Nursing:provided such person is a person who hasrendered distinguished service in hisrespective field;

(iii)nine representatives from the Association ofPrivate Hospitals and Nursing Homes; and

(b)the following ex-officio members :

(i)the Director General of Health Services;

(ii)the Director in-charge of development of thePrivate Health Sector;

(iii)the Registrar of the Sri Lanka MedicalCouncil; and

(iv)the Provincial Director of Health Services ofeach Province.

(2) The Director-General of Health Services shall be theChairman of the Council, and the Director of Private HealthSector Development shall be its Secretary.

(3) An appointed member of the Council shall, unlesssuch member vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval or otherwise, hold office for a period of three years.

(4) An appointed member shall be deemed to havevacated office if such member absents himself from threeconsecutive meetings of the Council without any reason,which the council considers as being an acceptable excuse.

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 20065

(5) (a) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shallbe seven members.

(b) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of theCouncil and in the absence of the Chairman, the memberspresent shall elect one from amongst them to preside at themeetings.

(6) The Minister may at any time after assigning reasonstherefor, remove an appointed member of the Council fromoffice.

(7) An appointed member of the Council may at anytimeresign from his office by letter to that effect addressed to theMinister.

(8) In the event of the vacation of office by an appointedmember by death, resignation, removal, the Minister shall,having regard to the provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection(1), appoint another person to succeed such member. Themember appointed to fill the vacancy shall hold office duringthe unexpired period of the term of office of the memberwhom he succeeds.

7. The Council shall, by name assigned to it under section6, be a body corporate and shall have perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

8.(1) The Seal of the Council shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary of the Council or any other member authorisedby the Council.

(2) The Seal of the Council may be altered in such manneras may be determined by the Council.

(3) The Seal of the Council shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except in the presence of theChairman of the Council, and one other member, both ofwhom shall sign the instrument or document in token of theirpresence:

Council to be abody corporate.

Seal of theCouncil.

6Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 2006

Provided that where the Chairman is unable to be presentat the time when the seal of the Council is affixed to anyinstrument or document, any other member authorized inwriting by the Chairman in that behalf, shall be competentto sign such instrument or document in accordance with thepreceding provisions of this subsection.

(4) The Council shall maintain a register of the instrumentsor documents to which the seal of the Council is affixed.

9.The Council shall exercise, perform and discharge itspowers, duties and functions under this Act in such manner,as the Council considers best calculated to achieve thefollowing objects :

(a)the development and monitoring of standards to bemaintained by the registered Private MedicalInstitutions;

(b)the method of evaluation of standards maintainedby such Private Medical Institutions;

(c)to ensure that minimum qualifications forrecruitment and minimum standards of training ofpersonnel, are adopted by all Private medicalInstitutions;

(d)to ensure the quality of patient care services renderedor provided by such Private Medical Institutions.

10.The Council shall exercise, perform and dischargethe following powers, duties and functions:

(a)the formulation of quality assurance programmesfor patient care in Private Medical Institutions andmonitoring of the same;

(b)the maintenance of minimum standards forrecruitment of all staff engaged or employed in suchPrivate Medical Institutions;

Duties andfunctions of theCouncil.

Objects of theCouncil.

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 20067

(c)the collection and publication of relevant healthinformation and statistics;

(d)the implementation of a method of gradingaccording to the facilities offered by the respectivePrivate Medical Institutions; and

(e)such other functions as may be necessary to achievethe objects as referred to in section 9.

11.The Council may where it considers it necessary,delegate the performance and discharge of its duties andfunctions under this Act to any member or members of theCouncil or a Committee consisting of members of the Councilwho shall perform and discharge such duty or function,subject to the general direction and control of the Council.

12.(1) The Council shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into Fund of the Council

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by Parliament for the use of the Council;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theCouncil by way of fees, rates, charges or otherwisein the discharge of its functions;

(c)all such sums of money as may be made available toit by way of grants or donations.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund such sums of moneyas may be required to defray the expenses incurred by theCouncil in the exercise, discharge and performance of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

13.(1) The Minister may on the advice of the Council,by Order published in the Gazette, formulate and enforceschemes of accreditation for private medical institutions. Such

Council todelegate itsduties andfunctions.

Accreditation ofPrivate MedicalInstitutions.

Fund of theCouncil.

8Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 2006

Order should carry all the details specifying the facilities,services and any other factors constituting the criteria foraccreditation :

Provided however, that period of nine moths shall be givento concerned interests, before the implementation of suchschemes of accreditation or subsequent changes that may bemade thereto.

(2) Notwithstanding the Order published undersubsection (1), a Private Medical Institution shall continueto offer its services until such time, the final decision of theCouncil on accreditation shall be made known to suchInstitution :

Provided however, in the event of a Private MedicalInstitution not qualifying for accreditation, sufficient timeshall be given in writing to such institution, to achieve thestandards specified by the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Health to qualify for accreditation.

(3) The Council shall where necessary, call upon a panelof persons who in their opinion possess the necessaryknowledge, expertise, skill or learning to assist and advicethe Council in working out the details in the schemes ofaccreditation and to help, examine and evaluate theapplications made in terms of such schemes.

(4) The Council may implement the schemes ofaccreditation in stages or in such other manner as the Ministermay determine.

(5) An accreditation of a Private Medical Institutionunder this section shall not restrict such institution fromattending to life saving emergencies.

14.(1) It shall be lawful for any authorized officer,without prior notice, at any time by day or night, to enter anyPrivate Medical Institution, or any premises appertainingthereto, and do all such acts as may be reasonably necessaryfor the purpose of carrying out any inspection, examination,investigation or survey, for the purposes of this Act.

Power to enterand inspect.

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 20069

(2) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this sectionshall be deemed or construed to authorize any person toinspect any medical record relating to any patient in aninstitution unless there is a special authorization by theCouncil to inspect any records, other than confidentialinformation which requires the sanction of Court.

(3) Every person who resists or obstructs such authorizedofficer by the Council in the exercise of the powers conferredby the preceding provisions of this section shall be guilty ofan offence under this Act.

(4) For the purpose of this section authorised officermeans the Provincial Director of Deputy Provincial Directorof Health Services of the respective Provincial Council orany other officer, as may on the recommendation of theCouncil be appointed by the Minister by Order published inthe Gazette.

15.(1) Any registered person or body of persons who

(a)contravenes or fails to comply with the provisionsof this Act or any regulation or rule made there under,or any order or direction lawfully given;

(b)contravenes or fails to comply with any conditionor provision contained in any Certificate ofRegistration, issued under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Any person who

(a)attempts to commit an offence under this Act; or

(b)aids or abets another person to commit an offenceunder this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

Offences.

10Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 2006

(3) No prosecution for an offence under subsection (1) or(2) shall be instituted except with the written sanction of theCouncil.

16.(1) Any person who is convictes after summary trialbefore a Magistrate, of an offence under this Act, shall beliable on such conviction

(a)where such offence involves the causing of injuryto human life or seriously jeopardizing public healthor public safety, to a fine not exceeding fiftythousand rupees;

(b)for any other offence

(i)in the case of a first offence, to fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees;

(ii)in the case of second or subsequent offence,to a fine not exceeding twenty thousandrupees; and

(iii)in the case of continuing offence, to a furtherfine not exceeding one thousand rupees foreach day on which the commission of theoffence is continued after conviction or toimprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding six months or to both such fineand imprisonment.

(2) Where a person convicted of an offence under this Actis convicted for a second offence of like or similar nature, theMagistrates Court convicting him for the second offenceshall cancel any certificate, authorization or permit grantedor issued to such person or body of persons under this Act, orany regulation made thereunder and shall cause notice ofsuch cancellation to be notified to the Council.

Penalties.

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 200611

17.Where an offence under this Act or any regulation orrule made thereunder is committed by a body of persons,then

(a)if that body is a body corporate, every person whoat the time of the commission of such offence wasthe Director, General Manager, Secretary or othersimilar executive officer of that body;

(b)if that body is not a body corporate, every personwho at the time of the commission of the offencewas the Chairman, General Manager, Secretary orother similar executive officer of that body;

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he provesthat the offence was committed without his knowledge orthat he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commissionof that offence.

18.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are authorised to be made.

(2) Without prejudice to the powers conferred bysubsection (1), the Minister may on the advice of the Councilmake regulations in respect of all or any of the followingmatters:

(a)the guidelines to be complied with by ProvincialDirectors of Health Services in the registration orrenewal of registration of Private MedicalInstitutions;

(b)the rates, charges and any other expenses, whichshall be recovered or received for any servicesrendered or performed in terms of the Act;

(c)the layout, construction, illumination, additionsand improvements and the maintenance of

Regulations.

Offencescommitted by abody of persons.

12Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 2006

cleanliness of all the buildings and premises ofregistered Private Medical Institutions;

(d)the circumstances in which cases of infectiousdiseases may be admitted for treatment and theprecautions to be taken in such event;

(e)the adoption of universally recognized precautionsfor the prevention and control of infections;

(f)the classification of Private Medical Institutions intocategories, depending upon services being renderedor functions discharged by such institutions;

(g)the procedure or practice to be followed inentertaining any complaint against any PrivateMedical Institution or person attached thereto fromany interested or aggrieved person, and the finaldisposal thereof;

(h)charges for accommodation, drugs and servicesrendered by Private Medical Institutions ;

(i)the appointment of competent officers to prosecuteactions instituted under this Act.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication, or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation, which it isnot so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded from thedate of its disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be publishedin the Gazette.

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 200613

19.(1) The Council may make rules in respect of all orany of the following matters :

(a)the maintenance of records, books, registers, bills,receipts, returns, statements, forms and otherdocuments by a Private Medical Institution;

(b)the reports, returns, statements and other informationrequired to be furnished periodically by a PrivateMedical Institution to the Ministry of the Minister;

(c)the minimum size of wards or rooms and theminimum floor space, which should be allotted foreach patient;

(d)the provisions of adequate latrine and bathingfacilities for in-patients and personnel employed inPrivate Medical Institutions;

(e)the machinery, equipment, devices, utensils,apparatus, crockery, fittings, furniture and otherrequisites of a general or special nature ;

(f)the immunization of personnel employed in PrivateMedical Institutions against specified diseases;

(g)the prohibition or restriction of admission ofmidwifery cases, except to a maternity home or tosuch other Private Medical Institution havingseparate and exclusive facilities for the receptionand treatment of such cases;

(h)the prohibition or restriction of the admission ofcases other than midwifery cases to a maternity homeor to such other Private Medical Institution havingseparate and exclusive facilities for the receptionand treatment of maternity cases;

(i)defining staffing patterns including minimumqualification, induction and in-service training andrefresher courses that should be followed by suchpersonnel;

Rules.

14Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 2006

(j)the definition of the specialized departments andancillary services that should be maintained in termsof special fields of treatment;

(k)the disposal of refuse and waste matter;

(l)the provision of sinks, taps and outlets in wards,kitchens, bathrooms and latrines in proportion tothe ratio of patients and personnel employed therein;

(m)the provision of housing, residential quarters ortransport facilities required for maintaining thehealth of patients; and

(n)the provision of adequate expertise for themaintenance of all institutional assets, machineryand equipment.

(2) No rule made by the Council shall have effect unlessit has been approved by the Minister and published in theGazette.

20.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

accreditation means a process that is adopted for thepurpose of certification of the technicalcompetence and quality of service and facilitiesof a Private Medical Institutions; and

Private Medical Institution means any Institution orestablishment used or intended to be used for thereception of, and the providing of medical andnursing care and treatment for persons sufferingfrom any sickness, injury or infirmity, a Hospital,Nursing Home, Maternity Home, MedicalLaboratory, Blood Bank, Dental Surgery,Dispensary and Surgery, Consultation Room, andany establishment providing health screening orhealth promotion service, but does not include a

Interpretation.

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 200615

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Repeals.

house of observation, Mental hospital, Hospital,Nursing Home, dispensary, Medical Centre or anyother premises maintained or controlled by theState, any private dispensary or Pharmacy or drugstores exclusively used or intended to be used fordispensing and selling any drug, medicalpreparation or pharmaceutical product, or anyInstitution or premises registered for any purposeunder the provisions of Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of1961 and the Homeopathy Act, No. 7 of 1970.

21.(1) The Nursing Homes (Regulation) Act (Chapter220) is herby repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Nursing Homes(Regulation) Act, the registration of any Private MedicalInstitution registered thereunder shall be deemed to be validand effectual and shall continue to be so valid and effectualfor a period of three months from the appointed date, withinwhich period such medical institution is required to applyfor registration in terms of the provisions of this Act.

(3) Where any Private Medical Institution referred to insubsection (2), fails to obtain a registration under this Act asrequired by that subsection within the period specifiedtherein, the registration obtained under the repealed Act shallcease to be valid and effectual from and after the expiry ofsuch specified period.

22.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

16Private Medical Institutions (Registration)Act, No. 21 of 2006

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.