PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA -

VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, No. 14 OF 2002

(Certified on 26th July, 2002}

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part I] of the Gazette of,the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 26, 2002

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRELANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO ]

Price: Rs. 59.50 Postage : Rs, 15.75


Value Added Tux Act No. 14 of 2002

(Certified on 26th July, 2002}

L.D.—O, 25/2002.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF A
VALUE ADDED ‘TAX ON GOODS AND SERVICES SUPPLIED IN SRI
LANKA OR IMPORTED INTO SRI LANKA : TO PROVIDE FOR THE
ABOLITION OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY LEVY AND THE GOODS
AND SERVICES TAX : AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWIFH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1, This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax Act,
No. 14 of 2002 and shall come into operation on August 1,
2002

CHAPTER 1
IMPOSITION OF VALUE ADDED TAX

2. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a lax, to
be known as the Value Added Tax (hereinafter referred to
as “the tax”) shall be charged—

(a) at the time of supply, on every taxable supply of
goods or services, made in a taxable period, by a
registered person in the course of the carrying on, or
carrying out, of a taxable activity by such person in
Sri Lanka ;

(b) on the importation of goods into Sri Lanka, by any
person.

and on the value of such goods or services supplied or the
goods imported, as the case may be. at the following rates :—

(i) ten per centum (of wiich the Tax Fraction is
1/11) on the value of goods and services referred
to in the Second Schedule, which are chargeable
with the tax other than zero rated supplies :

yy Lt 14454 17 Aft) (NOINK,

Short title and
date of Operation.

Imposition of
Value Added Tax.


2 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(li) twenty per centum (of which the Tax Fraction
is 1/6) on the value of all other taxable goods
and services which are chargeable with the tax
other than zero rated supplies.

The Tax Fraction referred to above shall be applied to
ascertain the amount of tax charged in the case of a tax
inclusive consideration :

Provided, however the Commissioner-General shatl not
collect the tax under subsection (1) where the tax is —

(@) recovered in respect of any garments sold locally,
which are referred to in the Proviso to subsection
(1) of section 22:

(6) deferred by the Director-General of Customs in
respect of supplies referred to in sub-paragraph (iv)
of paragraph (a) of the second proviso to subsection
(3) of section 2.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) the
Commissioner-General shall defer the tax due on any tea
supplied by any tea manufacturer registered with the Sri Lanka
Tea Board established by the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law,
[No. 14 of] 1975, to any auction conducted by a registered tea
broker and if such tea broker has Supplied such tea to any tea
exporter registered with the Sri Lanka Tea Board established
by the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of 1975, until such
time the relevant tea broker furnishes the reconciliation
on the disposal of such tea as Stipulated by the
Commissioner-General.

(3) The tax on the importation of goods, shall be charged.
levied and collected as if it is a customs duty and as if all
goods imported into Sri Lanka are dutiable and liable to
customs duty :

Provided however, no tax shall be charged on—

(a4) any goods which entered into a customs bonded
area ;


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 3

(b) any fabric imported by any person, for the purpose of
manufacture of garments for export, who has entered
into an agreement with the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka under section 17 of the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978 for the manufacture
of garments for export under such agreement, and the
transfer of such fabric with or without value addition
with the approval of the Director-General of Customs
or the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, to any other
person for the purposes of such manufacture of
garments for export ;

(c) any fabric imported by any person, who has registered
with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka as a Trading
House for the purpose of manufacture of garments
for export through other garment manufacturers as
approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
and transfer of such fabric with the approval of the
Director-General of Customs or the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka to such garment
manufacturers for the purposes of manufacture of
garments for export ;

(d) any fibre, yarn, grey cloth, finished cloth, chemicals
and dyes used for the manufacture of fabric imported
by any Fabric manufacturer who has entered into an
agreement with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
under section 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka Law. No. 4 of 1978 for the purpose of such
manufacture ; ,

(e) any ship:

Provided further, the Director-General of Customs may,
defer the payment of the tax due on—

(a) (i) any goods imported, including any goods
received from a customs bonded area, by a
registered person who imports or receives such
goods to be used by such person for the purpose
of manufacture and export of the goods so
manufactured ;


4 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(ii) any goods imported by any registered person
referred to in subsection (6) of section 22 which
are project related goods during such project
implementation period ;

(ili) any goods being any plant, or machinery imported
for any infrastructure project funded mainly by a
foreign government or any regional or multilateral
agency including the United Nations
Organization and its affiliates. during the
implementation period ;

(iv) any purchase of fabric, manufactured by a
person who has entered into an agreement with
the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka under
section [7 of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
Law for the manufacture of fabric by another
person who has entered into an agreement with
the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka under
section 17 of the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978 for the manufacture
of garments for export under such agreement and
utilizes such fabric for the manufacture of
garments for export;

for a period of sixty days or such other period not
exceeding ninety days from the date of importation,
receipt or purchase of such goods, as may be determined
by the Minister by notification published in the Gazette -

(b) any goods being plant, machinery or other
equipment of high value temporarily imported into
Sri Lanka and re-exported within twelve months, for
a period upto the date of such re-export :

subject to the furnishing of a bank guarantee or a corporate
guarantee which covers the amount of the tax due on the goods
so imported, reccived or purchased.


3.

Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 5

Notwithstanding the provisions of section 2, the tax

shall not be charged on the wholesale or retail supply of goods,
other (han on the wholesale or retail supply of goods, by—

(a)
(b)

(c)

a manufacturer of such goods ; or
an importer of such goods ; or

a supplier who is unable to satisfy the Commissioner-
General, as to the source from which the goods
supplied by him. were acquired :

Provided however, such tax shall be charged on such
wholesale or retail supply of goods, if—

(a)

(b)

- 4,

any registered person makes an application to that
efiect to the Commissioner-General;

any other person makes an application to that effect
to the Commissioner-General and obtains a
registration as provided for in sections 10 or 12.

(1) The supply of goods shall be deemed to have taken

place at the time of the occurrence of any one of the followin g
whichever, occurs earlier :—

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the issue of an invoice by the supplier in respect of
the goods ; or

a payment for the goods including any advance
payment received by the supplier ; or

a payment for the goods is due to the supplier ‘in
respect of such supply ; or

the delivery of the goods have been effected.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d) of
subsection (1), where an invoice is issued in respect of goods
delivered, within ten days from the date of delivery of such
goods, the time of supply of such goods, shall be deemed to
be the time at which the invoice was issued.

Tax not be charged
on wholesale or
retail supply of
goods.

Time of supply.


6 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(3) The supply of services shall be deemed to have taken
place, at the time. of the occurrence of any of the following
whichever, occurs earlier :-—

(@) the service was performed : or

(b) a payment is received for the services rendered or
for future services ; or

(c) a payment is due for the services rendered or for
future services . or

(d) an invoice is issued in respect of the services
rendered.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of
subsection (3), where an invoice is issued in respect of services
supplied, within ten days from the date of performance of
such service, the time of supply of such service shall he
deemed to be the time at which the invoice was issued.

(5} Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (!) and
(3), a supply shall be deemed to take place—

(a) where a supply is made under an agreement entered
into, on or aficr April 1. 1998, other than a hire
purchase agreement, which provides for periodical
payments, when the payment is duc or when the
payment is received, whichever ts earlicr and

(b} where goods are supplied under a hire purchase
agreement. at the time the agreement is entered into.

(6) Where the Commisstoner-General directs any
registered person to account for the tax on a payment basis
under section 23. the time of supply of goods or services
supplied by such person shall be the time at which the payment
in respect of such supply is received.


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 7

(7) Where the time of supply falls within any taxable
period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before July
31, 2002, under the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of
1996 and any event referred to in this section takes place
under this Act in relation to the same supply, such event shal!
not be considered as a time of supply.

5. (1) The value of a taxable supply of goods or services.
shall be such amount where the supply is—

(a) fora consideration in money, be such consideration
less any tax chargeable under this Act which amount
shall not be less than the open market value :

(b) not for a consideration in money or not wholly in
consideration of money, be the open market value
of such supply.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), where a
supply of goods or services is made by a registered person for
an amount which ts less than the open market valuc to a person
not being a registered person the value of such supply, shall
be the open market value of the supply.

(3) Where a supply of goods or services is made by an
employer, to his employec as a benctit from employment. the
consideration in money for the supply shull be the open market
value of such supply or where the open market value of such
supply cannot be ascertained, the consideration in money of
such supply shall be the cost of a similar benefit enjoyed by
any other employee, as may be determined by the Assessor.

(4) Where a supply of services is made under any lottery.
or any taxable activity of entering inlo or negotiating a
wagering contract or any business of like nature, the value of
such supply shall be the total amount of money receivable in
respect of such supply less the consideration of the prizes or
winnings awarded in such lotlery, wagering contract, or any
business of like nature as the case may be.

Value of supply ot
gZ00dS OF sUTVIEeS.


8

Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(5) Where a supply of goods or services—

(i)

(ii)

(tii)

(iv)

is made by a person at the time of cancellation of
the registration under section 16 : or

is made to any person who makes a supply which is
exempted under section 8 : or

made by any person, not being a registered person
or being a registered person who had not opted to
charge tax under the proviso to section 3, who carries
on or carries out any wholesale or retail trade ; or

is appropriated by the supplicr for his personal use
or any other purpose other than the making of a
taxable supply,

the value of such supply shall be not less than the open market

value.

(6) The value of the supply of goods under a hire purchase
agreement shall be the cash price determined in accordance
with the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act, No. 29 of
1982, and shall not be less than the open market value :

Provided however in the case of a hire purchase agreement—

(a)

(b)

where the cash price of any goods supplied under a
hire purchase agreement includes the tax charged.
by the supplier on the seller of such goods to be
supplied under such agreement for which the seller
cannot claim input tax credit being a person who is
not registered under this Act, the cash price and the
market value of such goods shall be adjusted for the
purposes of charging the tax by deducting the tax so
charged on the seller ;

under which second hand goods, which have been
in circulation for a period over one year. are supplied.
the cash price and the market value of such goods


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 9

for the purposes of charging the tax shall be the value
specified in the hire purchase agreement less any
charge made for such hire purchase facility included
in such agreement.

(7) The value of supply of land and improvements thereon,
shall be the value of such supply less the value of land at the
time of supply and the value of any improvements on the
land as at March 31, 1998 which shall not be less than the
open market value of such supply excluding the value of such
land at the time of supply and the value of any improvements
on such land as at March 31, 1998.

(8) Where goods or services are supplied cither on the
issue of a ticket or by the deposit of money the value of such
supply shall be the amount paid for such ticket Jess the tax
payable under this Act or the amount deposited less the tax
payable under this Act, not being any amount which is
refundable as the case may be.

(9) The value of a supply, under any non reviewable
agreement not being a hire purchase agreement entered into
prior to April 1, 1998, shall be the total amount payable or
paid under such agreement for any taxable period and shall
be considered as a tax inclusive consideration.

(10) Where any goods supplied under a Icase agreement
is subsequently transferred to the lessee at the termination of
such agreement for a consideration not exceeding ten per
centum of the total consideration of the lease agreement. such
consideration shall be deemed to be a lease rental recovered
under such agreement.

Further, where such consideration is more than ten per
centum of the total consideration of the leasc agreement such
supply shall be deemed to be a separate supply.

(11) Where the consideration in respect of a supply of
goods or services relates to a taxable supply and a supply
which is not taxable, the consideration for such taxable supply


The value of
goods
imported.

Zero rating.

10 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

shall be deemed to be such part of the consideration as Is
attributed to such taxable supply and shall not be less than
the open market value of such taxable supply.

(12) Where goods are munulactured or produced or a
service is provided, by using other goods, whether provided
by the supplier or any other person, such other goods shall be
deemed to be used in the manufacture or production or the
provision of service as the case may be. and the value of the
supply of the goods so manufactured or produced and the
supply of services in connection with such manufacture or
production or the supply of the service shall be the open market
value or the sum received as consideration for such supply,
whichever is higher :

Provided however, where il is proved to the satisfaction of
an Assessor that the supply of goods, and the supply of services
are two separate supplies, cach such supply shall be treated
as a separate supply by such Assessor.

6. (1) The value of goods imported. shall be the
aggregate of—

(a) the value of the goods determined for the purpose
of customs duty ; and

(b) the amount of any customs duty payable, in respect
of such goods with the addition of any surcharge,
cess and any excise duty payable under the Excise
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989 on such
goods.

7. (1) A supply of—

(a) goods shall be zero rated where the supplier of such
goods has exported such goods ; and


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 1!

(b) services shail be zero rated where the supply of such
services are directly connected with—

(i)

(ii)

{iil)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

any movable or immovable property outside
Sri Lanka ;

the repair of any foreign ship or aircraft,
refurbishment of marine cargo containers or
any other goods imported for the purpose of
re-export +

a copyright, patent, licence, trade mark or
similar intellectual property right, to the
extent that such right is for use outside Sri
Lanka :

the international transportation (including
transshipment) of goods or passengers as are
specified by the Commissoner-General by a
Notification published in the Gazette.

computer software development, in respect
of software developed by the developer for
use wholly outside Sri Lanka, and for which
payment is received in foreign currency
through a bank if, and only if, documentary
evidence is produced to the satisfaction of
the Commissioner-General of the supply of
such services ;

client support services provided, on or after
April 1, 2001 over the internet or the
telephone by an enterprise set up exclusively
for the provision of such services to one or
more identified clients outside Sri Lanka, for
which payment is received in foreign
currency, through a bank ;

any other services consumed outside
Sri Lanka to the extent that the payment for
such services is received in foreign currency,
through a bank in Sri Lanka.


Supplies and
importation
exempted from
tax.

Goods or services
supplied in
Sri Lanka.

Persons making
supplies in the
course of a
taxable activity to
be registered.

12 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(2) Where a registered person supplies any goods or
services which is zero rated—

(a) no tax shall be charged in respect of such supply :

(b) the supply shall in all other respects be treated as a
taxable supply and accordingly the rate at which tax
is charged on the supply shall be zero.

8. No tax shall be charged on the supply of goods or
services and the improtation of goods specified in the First
Schedule to this Act as such supplies and imports are not
taxable unless zero rated under section 7.

9. For the purposes of this Act goods or services shall be
deemcd to be supplied in Sri Lanka where the supplier carries
on or carries out a taxable activity in Sri Lanka and the goods
are in Sri Lanka at the time of supply or the services are
performed in Sri Lanka by the supplier or his agent.

CHAPTER fi
REGISTRATION

10. (1) Every person who, on or after August 1, 2002
carries on or carries out any taxable activity in Sri Lanka shall
be required to be registered under this Act, ii—

(a) at the end of any taxable period of one month or
three months, as the case may be, the total value of
his taxable supplies of goods or services or goods
and services made in Sri Lanka in that taxable period
of one month or three months, as the case may be.
has exceeded five hundred thousand rupees ; or

(b) in the twelve months period then ending, the total
value of his taxable supplies of goods or services or
goods and services made in Sri Lanka has exceeded
one million and eight hundred thousand rupees ; or


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 13

(c) at any time, there are reasonable grounds to believe
that the total value of his taxable supplies in Sri
Lanka of goods or services or goods and services in
the succeeding one month or three months taxable
period, as the case may be, is likely 10 exceed five
hundred thousand rupees or in the succeeding twelve
months period is likely to exceed one million and
eight hundred thousand rupees :

Provided however, where the Commissoner-General is of
opinion that the supply of goods relate to a single isolated
transaction, the value of such supply may be excluded in
calculating the total value of taxable supplies for the purposes
of this section.

(2) Every person who is required to be registered under
subsection (1), shall make an application for registration in
the specified form to the Commissioner-General not later than
fifteen days from the date on which is so liable to be
registered.

For the purpose of this section the total value of taxable
supplies shall not include the supplies of any wholesale or
retail trading activity excluded from the payment of tax under
section 3.

11. (1) Every person who is an importer of goods into
Sri Lanka shal! notify the Commissioner-General not later
than fourteen days prior to the clearing of such goods that he
has imported such goods and obtain from the Commissioner-
General an identification number for the clearing of such
goods :

Provided however, any importer who imports into Sri
Lanka goods under the Passengers Baggage (Exemptions)
Regulations made under section 107 of the Customs
Ordinance or a person who is registered under section 10 or
section | 2, or paragraph (c) of section 14. or be deemed to be
tegistered under subsection (2) of section 77 or is deemed to
be a registered person under subsection (1) of section 75 of
the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 shall not be
liable to notify the Commissioner-General.

Importers of
goods to notify
Commissioner-
General.


Voluntary
registration.

Comumnissioner-
General to
call for
information.

Registered
person.

14 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(2) Every importer referred to in subsection (1) shall make
an application in the specified form to the Commissioner-
General.

12. Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 3 and 10.
any person who supplies goods or services and carries on or
carries out a taxable activity or imports any taxable goods
may make an application in the specified form to the
Commissioner-General for registration under this Act :

Provided however, the Commissioner-General may after
affording the applicant an opportunity of being heard, and
having regard to the nature of the business carried on or carricd
out by such applicant, the value of the taxable supplics made
by such applicant in the two proceeding taxable periods and
the probability that the value of his taxable supplies will not
exceed the value referred to in section 10. refuse to register
such applicant.

13. For the purpose of registering a person under section
14, the Commissioner-General may call for any information
from such person at any time relating to any taxable activity
carried on or carried out by such person.

14. (1) The Commissioner-General shall—

(a) where an application has been made by any person
for registration under section 10 ;

(b) where an application for registration under section
12 has been made and such application has not been
refused by the Commissioner-General ; or

(c) where an application for registration, has not been
made but the Commissioner-General is of opinion
having regard to the nature of the activities carricd
on or carried out by such person, that such person ts
required to be registered under this Act, and after
affording such person an opportunity of being heard,
register such person with effect. from such date as
may be determined by him.


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 IS

(2) Any person registered under subsection (1) or deemed
to be registered under subsection (2) of section 77 or deemed
to be registered under section 75 of the Goods and Services
Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 on August |, 2002 and where such
person is carrying on or carrying out a taxable activity shall
be a registered person under this Act.

15. ($) The Commissioner-General shall. issue to a
person registered under this Act upon such registration under
section [4 —

(a) 4 tax registration number ; and

(b) - a Certificate of registration.

(2) The Certificate of registration shall set out the name
and other relevant details of the registered person, the date
on which registration comes into effect, and the tax registration
number of such person.

(3) The person to whom a certificate of registration is
issued under subsection (1) shall, display such certificate at a
conspicuous place in the place where he carries on or carries
out the taxable activity. Copies of such certificate may be
displayed in the event of there being more than onc placé of
business.

(4) Every registered person who makes an exempt supply
specified in the First Schedule shall display the categories of
such goods and services supplied by him as given in the First
Schedule at each such place of supply.

(5) Where any person fails to comply with the provisions
of subsection (3) or (4) the Commissioner-General may—

(a) impose on such persona penalty of a sum not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees and give notice in
writing to such person of the imposition of such
penalty :

Certificate of
registratton.


Cancellation of
registration.

16 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(6) by notice in writing require such person—-
(i) to pay such penalty ; and

(ii) tocomply with the provisions of subsections
(3) or (4) as the case may be.

within such period as may be specified in such notice.

(6) The Commissioner-General may reduce, or annul any
penalty imposed on any person under paragraph (a) of
subsection (5) if such person proves to the satisfaction of the
Commisstoner-General that his failure to comply with the
provisions of subsection (3) or (4) was due to circumstances
beyond his controf and that he has subsequently complied
with such provisions.

16. (1) A registered person may make an application to
have his registration cancelled at any time after the lapse of a
period of twelve months following the date of registration.
either under this Act or under the Goods and Services Tax
Act, No. 34 or 1996 where such registered person has ceased
to carry on or carry out a taxable activity or the total value of
his supplies during any taxable period within such pertod does
not exceed the value set out in section 10.

(2) The Commissioner-General—

_ (a) shall on receipt of an application made under
subsection (1); .

(b) may at any time,

and upon being satisfied that the applicant or any registered
person as the case may be, has ceased to carry on or carry out
a taxable activity or that the total value of his taxable supplics
does not exceed the valuc referred to in section 10. or the
facilities under the Customs Ordinance in respect of him have
been suspended by the Director-General of Customs or that
the continuation of such registration may impede the
protection of revenue. cancel his registration.


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 17

(3) The Commissioner-General may refuse to cancel the
registration of any person where he ts of the opinion that such
person has not ceased to carry on or carry outa taxable activity
or that it is necessary and expedient to continue with his
registration for the protection of revenue.

(4) Where the Commissioner-General cancels the
registration of a registered person he shall inform such person
of the date of cancellation of the registration by registered
post.

(5) With effect from the date of cancelation of the
registration, any goods or services then forming part of the
assets of a taxable activity carried on or carried out by that
person shall be deemed to be supplied by that person in the
course of carrying on or carrying out a taxable activity at a
time immediately prior to the date of cancellation, unless the
taxable activity (inclusive of all such assets) is carried on or
carried out by another person who is a registered person. -

17. (1) Where the registration of a registered person has
been cancelled by the Commissioner-General, such person
shall— oe _

(a) return to the Commissioner-General the certificate
of registration issued to him not later than- fourteen
days from the last day of the last taxable period during
which the registration was valid :

(b) not, display in any place where such taxable activity
is carricd on or carried out, the certificate of
registration or a copy thereof ;

(c) not, issue any lax invoice, lax debit note or tax credit
note as the case may be. |

Registered person
to return
certificate en
cancellation,


Liability not
affected by
cancellation of
registration.

Registered person
to notify certain
changes.

18 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(2) Where any person fails 6 comply with the provisions
of subsection (1), the Commissioner-General may —

(a) impose on such person a penalty of a sum not
exceeding fifly thousand rupecs, and give notice in
writing to such person of the imposition of such
penalty ;

(b) by notice in writing require such person —

(i) to pay such penalty ; and

(ii) comply with the provisions of subsection
(1) within such period as may be specified
in such notice.

(3) The Commissioner-General_ may reduce, or annul any
penalty imposed on. any person under paragraph (a) of
subsection (2) if such person proves to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner-General that his failure to comply with the
provisions of subsection (1) was due to circumstances beyond
his control and that he has subsequently complied with such
provisions.

18. Notwithstanding the cancellation of registration
under section 16, a registered person. shall be ltable for any
act done or omitted to be done while he remained a registered
person in respect of the taxable supplies made by such person
under this Act or under the Goods and Services Tax Act.
No. 34 of 1996.

19, Every registered person shall notify the
Commissioner-General in writing of any change—

(a) in the name, address and place at which any taxable
activity ts carried on or carried out by such person :

(b) in the nature of the taxable activity carried on or
carried out by such person ;


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 19

(c) in the person authorized to sign returns and other
documents ; and

(d) in ownership of the taxable activity,
not later than fourteen days after the occurrence of the change.

20. (1) Aregistered person who makes a taxable supply
shail issuc to the person to whom such supply is made, if he
has made a writlen request within fourteen days from the time
of supply stating that he is a registered person under this Act
or is deemed to be a regisicred person under this Act, and
requires that a tax invoice be issued, a tax invoice shall be
issued not later than twenty eight days after the time of such
supply :

Provided however, where a request has been made by a
person registered or deemed to be registered under this Act
after the receipt of the first supply such person shall not be
required to make any further request in respect of any
subsequent supply.

(2) The tax invoice shall set out—

(a) the name, address and the registration number of the
supplier ;

(b) the name and address of the person to whom the
supply was made,

(c) the date on which the tax invoice was issued and its
serial number ;

(d) the date of supply and the description of the goods
or services :

{e) the quantity or volume of the supply ;

(f} the value of the supply, the tax charged and the
consideration for the supply ; and

Tax invoice.


20 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(g) the words “TAX INVOICE” at-a conspicuous place
in such invoice. :

Any valid tax invoice issued under the Goods and Services
Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 prior to August 1, 2002 shall be
deemed to be a tax invoice issued under this Act.

(3) Where goods have been imported into Sri Lanka the
customs yoods declaration or any other document
authenticated by the Director-General of Customs shall be
treated as a tax invoice.

Any customs goods declaration or any other document
authenticated by the Director-General of Customs and issued
under the Goods and Services Tax Act. No. 34 of 1996 prior
to August |, 2002 shall also be treated as a tax invoice.

(4) The original of the tax invoice shall be issued to the
person to whom the supply was made and the duplicate of
such invoice shall be retained by the person who makes such
supply for a period of five years after the expiry of the taxable
period in which such invoice was issued,

(5) Itshall not be lawful to issue more than one tax invoice
for cach supply. If a registered person claims to have lost the
original tax invoice the person who makes the supply. may
issue to such registered person a copy clearly marked “copy
only”.

(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2).
where a registered person makes a taxable supply and the
recipient of such supply is nota registered person such supplier
shall issue an invoice giving the total consideration of such
supply including the tax charged. Where the supplier has not
kept adequate records on such supplies covered by such
invoices all such supplies shall be considered as supplies made
under the standard rate of tax. An invoice issued under this
subsection shall not. be considered as a.tax invoice for the
purposes of this Act:


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 21

(7} Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shalt be liable
on conviction afler summary trial before a Magistrate, to a
fine not less than rupees twenty-five thousand and not
exceeding rupees two hundred and fifty thousand and
thereafter in the event of the offence being continucd.to be
committed, after conviction to a fine of rupecs five hundred
for each day on which the offence is so continued to be
committed.

(8) Where any person convicted of an offence under
subsection (7) continues to commit such offence beyond a
period of fourteen days from the date of his conviction, the
court may, upon an application for closure of the business
being made by the Commissioner-General or any officer
authorized in that behalf by the Commissioner-General, order
the closure of such business.

(9) In any case where such person fails to comply with
the closure order issued under subsection (8), the Magistrate
shall forthwith order the fiscal of the court requiring and
authorizing such fiscal before a date specified in such order
not being a date carlier than three or later than seven clear
days from the date of issue of such order to close such
business. Such order shall be sufficient authority for the said
fiscal or any police officer authorized by him in that behalf to
enter the premises in which the business is carried on or carried
out with such assistants as the fiscal or such police officer
shall deem necessary to close such business.


Returns and
information to be
furnished.

22 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

CHAPTER III
RETURNS AND CALCULATION OF TAX

21. (1) Every registered person shall furnish, to the
Commissionér-General not ater than the last day of the month
after the expiry of each taxable period a return of his supplics
during that taxable period. Every such return shall be in the
specified form and shall.contain al] such particulars as may
be required to be set out in such form :

Provided however, a return for the period of two months
commencing from August |, 2002, shall be furnished not later
than the last day of October, 2002 by any person who has
been allocated with a taxable period of three months.

(2) An Assessor may, by notice in writing, require any
person who is not a registered person but, in his judgment is
a person chargeable with tax. to furnish, a return in the
specified form within the time specified in such notice.

(3) Any return due under subsections (1) or (3) of section
21 of Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 for any
taxable period commencing prior (o August |, 2002 shall he
deemed to be a return due under this Act.

(4) For the purposes of, obtaining full information in
respect of the supply of goods or services made by any person.
an Assessor may give notice in writing to such person
requiring him—

(a) to produce for examination or transmit to the
Assessor, within the period specified in such notice
any books of accounts whether contained in a
manual, mechanical or electronic format or
combination thereof, wade lists, stock lists, registers,
invoices, cheques, bank statements, paying-in slips.
accounts, auditors’ reports or other documents in his
possession as may be specified in order to verity the
entries in such books, documents and accounts ;


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 23

(b) toatiend in person or by an authorized representative
at such place and on such date and at such time as
may be specified in the notice for the purpose of
being examined regarding the taxable activity carried
on or carried out by that person.

(5) For the purposes of this Act. a Deputy Commissioner
may give nolice in writing to any person requiring him—

(a) to produce or transmit to such Deputy Commissioner
within the period specified in such notice any books
of accounts whether contained in a manual,
mechanical or electronic format or combination there
of, wade lists, stock Jists, registers, invoices, cheques, *
bank stalements, paying-in-slips, accounts, auditors
reports or other documents in his possession as may
be specified in such notice ;

(b) toattend in person or by an authorized representative
at such place and on such date and at such time as
may be specified in such notice so that he may be
examined on any such matter as may be specified in
such notice. .

(6) A person who attends in compliance with a notice
given under subsection (5) may be allowed by the
Commissioner-General any reasonable expenses, necessarily
incurred by him in so attending.

(7) A Deputy Commissioner or an Assessor with the
approval of a Deputy Commissioner, may retain in his custody
as long as such retention is necessary for the purpose of this
Act any books of accounts whether contained in a manual,
mechanical or electronic format or combination thereof, trade
lists, stock lists, registers, invoices, cheques, bank statements,
paying-in-slips, accounts, auditors’ reports or other
documents in his possession as may be specified in order to
verify the entries in such books, documents and accounts.


24 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(8) An Assessor may give notice in writing to any person
where he thinks, it is necessary, requiring him to furnish within
the time specified in such notice—

(a) fuller or further returns ; or

(6) fuiler or further information relating to any matter
which in the opinion of the Assessor be necessary
or relevant for the assessment to tax payable by such
person.

(9) A return, statement or form purporting to be furnished
under this Act by or on behalf of any person shall for all
purposes be deemed to have been furnished by that person or
by his authority, as the cuse may be, unless the contrary 1s
proved, and any person signing such return. statement or
form shall be deemed to be cognizant of all matters contained
therein.

(10) Where any person fails to comply with the provisions
of subsection (1), or fails to comply with the requirements of
a notice given to such person by an Assessor under subsection
(2) directing him to furnish within the time specified in such
notice, a return containing such particulars as the Assessor
may require, the Commissioner-General may—

(a) impose on such person a penalty of a sum not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees, and give notice in
writing to such person of the imposition of such
penalty:

(b) by notice in writing require such person—
(i) to pay such penalty ; and
(ii) to furnish the return he is required to furnish
under subsection (t) if such return has not

been furnished or to comply with the
requirements or the notice given to him under


bho
MAL

Value Added Tax Act No.. 14 of 2002

“subsection (2) if such requirements have not
been complied with, as the case may be,
within such period as may be specitied in
such notice.

(11) The Commissioner-General may reduce or annul any
penalty imposed on any person under paragraph (a) of
subsection (10) if such person proves to the satisfaction of
the Commissioner-General that his failure to comply with
the provisions of subsection (1) or the direction under
subsection (2), as the case may be. was due to circumstances
beyond his control and that he has subsequently complied
with such provisions or direction.

(12) Except where the Commissioner-General . imposes
a penalty under subsection (9), every person who contravenes
the provisions of subsection (1) or subsection (2), shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine

notexcecding fitty thousand rupees or to an imprisonment of

either description for a term not exceeding six ; months or to
both such fine and imprisonment.

22. (1) A registered person shall. in respect of any
taxable supply made by. him, account for and pay the tax by
reference to such taxable period at such time and in such
manner as may be specified in this Act :

Provided however the amount of tax, due on the supply of
any garments within such percentage as is permitted for sale
locally by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, under any
agreement entered into by a manufacturer of garments for
export under section 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka Law, ixo. 4 of 1978 shall be twenty five rupees lor
each such garment supplied within Sri Lanka.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a registered person
shall be entitled at end of cach such period to credit for’so
much of his input tax as is allowable under this Act, and then
to deduct such amount from any output tax that is due from
him:

Credit for input
tax against oulpul
tax.


26 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

Provided however, any person adopting Ww payment basis
of accounting, shall be entitied to claim credit on so much of
his impul tax as is allowable under this Act, only in respect of
a supply for which the payment.of the tax has been made by
such person.

(3) Where a supply of goods or services received by a
registered person, or goods imported by such person are used
or are to be used partly for the purposes of a taxable activity
carried on or carried out by such person on which tax can be
levied and partly for other purposes, the lax on such supplies
and importation shall be apportioned so however that only so
much of the tax on such supplics or importation as is referable
to his taxable activity on which tax can be levied shall be
counted as his input tax.

Provided however, in the case of a person providing leasing
facilities under the Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000. the
input tax on goods supplied under a leasing agreement for a
period less than three years shall be counted at the rate of ten
per centum or less, even if the tax charged on such goods ts
more than ten per centunt.

(4) Where any return is furnished under subsection (1) or
(2) of section 21 and if at the end of any taxable period to
which the retun relates, the amount of the impul tax exceeds
the amount of the output tax, the excess of the inpul tax shall.
subject to the provisions of section 58 be refunded. Where
such excess is not so refunded, the Commissioner-General
shall pay interest at the rates prescribed under section 59 on
such amount, for the period commencing on the expiration of
two months trom the end of the taxable period in which such
refund became due and ending on the date of the refund :

Provided that where any residuc of any excess inpul tax
refundable on or after August 1, 2002 under the Goods and
Services Act, No. 34 of 1996 is outstanding on August 1,
2002. such excess shall not be deducted from any output (ax
due for any taxable period under this Act. but shalt accordingly
be refunded under the Goods and Services Tax, Act, No. 34
of 1996.


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 27

(5) Where an unregistered person leases out his land and
buildings in terms of a tenancy agreement, to a registered
person, such registered person shall notwithstanding that the
unregistered person is not entitled to claim any input tax in
respect of any expenses incurred in connection with the
services provided on such land and building, be entitled to
claim input tax for the expenses incurred by him in connection
with the services provide on such land for the duration of
such tenancy agreement if such registered person provides
sufficient evidence to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-
General, which establish the existence of a tenancy agreement
in respect of such land and building :

Provided however, that where in a taxable period —

(a) there is an excess of input tax in any taxable period,
in the case of a registered person who has entered
into an agreement with the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka and that taxable period falls within the
period referred to in item (xxvii) of the Schedule to
the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 or
Item (xx) of the First Schedule to this Act or, within
the project implementation period as stipulated in
any agreement referred to in ttem (xxvii) of the
Schedule to the Goods and Services Tax Act No. 34
of 1996 or Item (xx) of the First Schedule to this Act
or up to the commencement of commercial activities
which ever is earlier :

(b) there is an excess of input tax and that taxable period
falls before the taxable period, in which the making
of taxable supplics commenced as undertaken by
such person in the case of a person referred to in
subsection (6) ;

(c) there is an excess of input tax including the tax
deferred under section 2. in the case of a registered
person the value of whose zero rated supplies for
the taxable period was more than fifty per centum

- Of his total taxable supplies for that taxable period,


28 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

the excess of the input tax inclusive of any excess
input Lax brought forward from a prececding taxable
period ;

(d) any registered person who has obtained a deferment
tax under section 2 in any taxable period and not
made any zero rated supplics or made zero rated

“supplies of fifty per centum or less of the total taxable
supplies for such taxable period, the excess of inpul
tax not excceding the amount of such delfered tax
under section 2,

such part of the excess or such excess as the case may be.
including any excess brought forward from any taxable period
under this Act or.the Goods and Services Tax Act, No, 34 of
1996 for any taxable period or part of a taxable period ending
on or before July 31, 2002 shall be refunded, subject to the
provisions of section 58 not later than one month after the
end of the taxable period or from the date of the reccipt of the
return for such taxable period, in which the excess arose.
whichever is later :

‘Provided further, in case of a registered person who imports
goods for re-sale without processing, the excess inpul lax
representing the tax paid under subsection (3) of section 2
shall not be refunded.

In the event of a failure to pay such refund within such
period. interest on such refund shall be payable from the date
on which the refund becomes due to the date of payment
thereof at such rate as may be prescribed under section 59
subject to the provisions of the proviso Lo that section.

(6) Any input tax attributable to the supply of goods or
services reccived shall not be deducted under subsection (2)
in respect of the following :—

(i) # the supply is in respect of motor. vehicles other
than-motor cycles, bicycles. motor coaches provided
by an employer forthe transportation of his


Value Added Tux Act No. 14 of 2002 29

employees, motor vehicles used for excursion tours,
or for the transportation of tourists or transportation
of goods or hiring cars, or motor vehicle forming
part of any stock in trade of any taxable activity ;

(ii) if the supply of goods or services received is not
connected with the taxable activity ;

(iti) if the supply of goods or services received is not
supported hy—

(a) tax invoice ;

(b) a customs goods declaration or other
authenticated document issued by the
Director-General of Customs :

(i) duly issued under the Goods and
Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 or
under this Act ; and

(if) received within twelve months from
the end of the taxable period in
respect of which the tax invoice was
issued : or

(iv) if the input tax on such invoice as mentioned in
subparagraph (iii) has not been deducted from
output tax for any taxable period ending before the
lapse of six months from the last day of the taxable
pertod in which such invoice was received :

Provided however, notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (3) and paragraph (ii) of subsection (5) any
registered person who has obtained a licence under the
Electricity Act, (Chapter 205) and engages in the distribution
of electricity may be allowed input tax on the purchase of
electricity for such distribution notwithstanding the exemption
under items (xxvi) of the Schedule to the Goods and Services
Tax Act. No. 34 of 1996 or under item (xviii) of the First
Schedule to this Act.


30 Value Added,Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(7) Where any person has proved to the satisfaction of
the Commissioner-General, that such person has commenced
any business or any project to carry on a business or project
in Sri Lanka, and undertakes to make taxable supplies in such
business wihin a period of thirly months from. such
commencement, he may register such person subject to such
conditions as may be specified by him, notwithstanding the
provisions of section 14 and allow credit for input lax in
respect of such business or project subject to the provisions
of sub-paragraph (iii) of subsection (5) Further, where the
Commissioner-Gencral is satisfied that in consideration of
the nature of the project that the period of thirty months is not
sufficient to make taxable supplies he may extend such period
on the basis of an application madc by such registered person
to that effect.

(8) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 33, any
refund in excess of the amount duc, or any excess amount of
input tax claimed under this Act or the Goods or Services Tax
Act, No. 34 of 1996 shall be assessed by an Assessor on the
registered person to whom the refund has been made or
making such claim. as the case may be. and such amount
shall be deemed to be a tax in default on the. first day of the
taxable period in which the-excess: of input tax first arose
resulting in such refund or-claim in.excess as the case may he.

For the purpose of this subsection, input tax claimed ina
return by any person—

(a) who has not commenced any commercial operation
within or on completion of the project
impicmentation period referred to in item (xxvii) or
item (xxviii) of the Schedule to the Goods and
Services Tax Act. No. 34 of 1996 or item (xix) or
(xx) of the First Schedule to this Act. as the case
may be ;


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 34

(b) who has obtained approval under subsection (6) and
has not commenced business of making taxable
supplics as stated in the undertaking given, by such
person prior lo oblaining such approval,

shall be deemed to be an excess amount of input tax claimed
by such person.

23. Every registered person shall account for tax on an
invoice basis :

Provided however that. the Commissionet-General may
direct such person to account for tax on a payment basis on
such conditions as may be specified by him on an application
made tn that behalf by a registered person.

24. In ascertaining the amount of tax payable in any
taxable period, there shall be deducted an amount of tax
corresponding to any bad debt incurred in the taxable activity
of a registered person on a debt created on or after April 1.
1998 and which has become bad during such taxable period.
The amount of tax deductible shall not excecd the amount
paid as tax in a previous taxable period in respect of the bad
deht which is to be written off:

Provided that. any amount writien off as bad debt before
or after the commencement of this Act is received in any
taxable period by that person on account of the bad debt so
written off, notwithstanding the provisions of section 33, the
amount received shall be treated as a taxahte supply during
the taxable period under this Act or the Goods and Services
Tax Act. No. 34 of 1996 in which it was received and shall
be liable to tax :

Provided further, that where any amount of tax
corresponding to a bad debt has been deducted by any person.
the amount so deducted shall be an output tax for the
corresponding period of the person in respect of whom the
bad debt was incurred if he is a registered person.

Accounting
basis.

Bad Debt.


Adjustment of tax
by credit or debit
notes.

Payment of
tax,

32 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

25. (1)Where a registered person. has issued a tax invoice
and accounted tor an incorrect amount of lax by undercharging
or overcharging tax on a supply made to another person, hie
shall be entitled to issue to such other person a tax debit note
or a tax credit note. as the case may be, for the purpose of
adjusting the amount of tax so undercharged or overcharged.

(2} Upon the issue of the tax debit note or tax credit note.
as the case may be, in respect of a supply and in retation to
the period in which such note was issued —

(a) the supplier shall pay as output tax such amount of
the tax that was chargeable in respect of the supply
as is in excess of the amount that was accounted for
or deduct as input tax such amount as was accounted
for as output tax as exceeds the amount of tax
chargeable : and

(6) the person to whom the supply was made shall if
such person is a registered person pay as output lax
such amount of the tax that was deducted by him as
inpul tax as excceds the proper amount that should
have been deducted or deduct as input tax such
amount as was deductible as exceeds the actual
amount deducted by him, as the case may be.

(3} The tax debit note or tax credit note referred to in
subsection (1) shall be in the specified form.

CHAPTER IV
PayMENT OF Tax

26. (1) The tax in respect of any taxable period shall he
paid not later than the last day of the month following the end
of that taxable period. Any tax not so paid shall be deemed to
be in default and the person by whom such tax is payable or
where any tax is payable by morc than one person. each such
person shall be deemed to he a defaulter for the purposes of
this Act.


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 33

(2) The Commissioner-General may, deler the due date
for the payment of any tax assessed under paragraph (a) or
(b) of subsection (1) of section 28 or subsection (1) of section
31, under an appcal against such assessment where

{a) a request in writing has been made to the
Commissioner-General for a deferment : and

(b) it has been proved to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner-General that the tax due on the
alleged supplies on which the assessment has been
made has not been charged by such person :

Provided however, such deferred tax or part thereof shall]
become payable on the settlement of the appeal or withdrawal
of the deferment by the Commissioner-General, and shall be
deemed to be tax in default of the original due date of such
Tax.

27, (1) Where any tax is in default ; the defaulter shall,
in addition to such (ax in default pay as penalty —

(a) asum equivalent to ten per centin of the amountin
default : and

(b) where the amount in default is not paid before the
last day of the month succceding the month in which
such tax has begun to be in default, a further sum.
equivalent to two per centum of the amount in default
in respect of each period ending on the last day of
cach succeeding month or part of such period during
which it is in default :

Provided however, that the total amount payable as penalty
under this subsection shall in no case exceed one hundred
per centum of the tax in default and any such amount may be
waived or reduced if the Commissioner-General is satisfied

Penally for
default.


Power of
Assessor to
make
assessment.

34 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

that by reason of any special circumstances in which the
default occurred waiver or reduction of such amount would
be just and equitable.

(2) Where upon the final determination of an appeal under
Chapter VI any tax in default to which any sum or sums under
subsection (1) has or have been added is reduced, then such
sum or sums shall be calculated on the tax so reduced.

CHAPTER V

ASSESSMENT OF TAX

.

28. (1) Where —

(a) any registered person who in the opinion of the
Assessor is chargeable with tax, fails to furnish a
return for any taxable period ; or

(b) any registered person, who is chargeable with tax.
furnishes a return in respect of any taxable period
but tails to pay tax for that taxable period ; or

(c) any person requests the Commissioner-General in
writhing to make any alteration or addition to any
return furnished by such person for any taxable
period,

the Assessor shall assess the amount of the tax, which such
person, in the judgment of the Assessor, ought to have paid
for that taxable period and shall. by notice in writing, require
such person to pay such amount forthwith. The amount so
assessed in respect of any person for a taxable period shall.
be deemed to be the amount of the tax payable by him for
that taxable period.

For the purpose of this section the notice given under this
section may refer to one or more taxable periods.


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002° 35

(2) An assessment made under subsection (1) in respect
of any person for any taxable period shall not affect the liability
of such person to a penalty under section 27 as though the
amount assessed was the amount of tax due from him for that
taxable period.

(3) Where, in the opinion of the Assessor, the amount paid
as tax for any taxable period by any person who has failed to
furnish a return in respect of that taxable period is less than
the actual amount payable by such person for that taxable
period the Assessor shall assess the amount which, in the
judgment of such Assessor, ought to have been paid by such
person and shall. by notice in writing, require that person to
pay on or before a date specified in that notice, the difference
between the amount so assessed and the amount paid by such
person.

(4) Where an assessment is made under subsection (3) in
respect of any person for any taxable period the difference
between the amount so assessed and the amount paid by that
person as tax for the taxable period shall be deemed to be the
tax in default for that taxable period and accordingly such
person shail, from the date on which such person ought to
have paid the tax for such taxable period, be liable in respect
of that amount to the penalty.

29. Where an Assessor does not accept a return furnished
by any person under section 21 lor any taxable period and
makes an assessment or an additional assessment on such
person for such taxable period under section 28 or under
section 31, as the case may be, the Assessor shall communicate
to such person by registered letter sent through the post why
he is not accepting the return.

30. Where the Assessor is of opinion—
(a) that a registered person has made a taxable supply

for a value less than the open market value of such
supply or for no value ; or

Assessor to state
why he is nol
accepting a
return.

Power of
Assessor to
determine open
market value.


Additional

USSESSITIENA,

Evidence of
returns and
assessment.

Limitavion of time
for assessment or
additional
assessment.

36 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(b) the transaction in respect of which taxable supply
has been made, is between two associated persons.

in order to avoid the payment of tax, he shall determine the
open market value of such supply on which tax shall be
charged, having regard to the circumstance of the transaction
and the ume of supply.

31. (1) Where it appears to an Assessor that a person
chargeable with tax has for any taxable penod paid as tax an
amount less than the proper amount of the tax payable by
him for that taxable period, or chargeable from him for that
taxable period. the Assessor may, al any time, assess such
person at the additional amount at which, according lo the
judgement of such Assessor, lax ought to have been paid by
such person. The Assessor shall give such person notice of
the assessment.

(2) Where an assessmént is made under subsection (1) in
respect of any person for any taxable period, the amount so
assessed shall be deemed to be tax in default for that taxable
period and accordingly such person shall. from the date on
which such person ought to have paid the tax for that taxable
period be liable to the penaity in respect of such amount.

32. The production of any document under the hand of
the Commissioner-General purporting lo be a copy of or
extract from any return or assessment made under this Act
shall be admissible in all courts arid shall be sufficient evidence
of the original.

33. (1) Where any registered person has furnished a
return under subsection (1) of section 21 in respect of a taxable
period or has been assessed for tax in respect of any period. it
shall not be lawful for the Assessor, where an assessment —

(a) has not been made. to make an assessment ; oF

(6) has been made. to make an additional assessment.
after the expiration of three years from the end of the taxable
period in respect of which the return is furnished, or the
assessment was made, as the case may be.


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 37

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) where
the Assessor is of opinion that a person has wilfully or
fraudulently failed to make a full and true disclosure of all
the material facts necessary to determine the amount of tax
payable by him for any taxable pertod, ii shall be lawful for
the Assessor where an assessment —

(a) has not been made. to make an assessment ; or
(6) has been made to make an additional assessment,
at any ume.
CHAPTER VI
APPEALS

34. (1) Any registered person may, if he is dissatisfied
with any assessment or additional assessment made in respect
of him by an Assessor, or a penalty imposed under this Act,
appeal against such assessment, additional assessment or
penalty, as the case may be, to the Commissioner-General
within thirty days aller the service ‘of notice of such
assessment, additional assessment or imposition of penalty,
as the case may be. Such person shall, notwithstanding the
appeal, but subject to subsection (2) of section 26, pay the tax
charged by such assessment or additional assessment together
with any penalty imposed on him by this Act :

Provided that, the Commissioner-Gencral. upon being
Satisfied that, owing to absence form Sri Lanka, sickness or
other reasonable cause. the appellant was prevented from
appealing within such period, shall grant an extension of time
for preferring the appeal.

(2) Every appeal shall be preferred by a petition in writing
addressed to the Commissioner-General and shall state
preciscly the grounds of such appeal,

Appeals to the
Commisstoner-
General.


38 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(3) Where the assessment or additional assessment
appealed against has been made tn the absence of a return.
the petition of appeal shall be accompanied by a return with
the proof of payment of the tax and penalty due on such return.

(4) Every person prelerrmg an appeal under subsection
(1) against an assessment for any taxable period shall (unless
such person has done so already). pay to the Commissioner—
General the amount of the tax payable by such person on the
basis of the return furnished by him for such period together
with any penalty thereon accrued up to the date of such notice
of assessment, and shall! attach, to the petition of appeal a
receipt in proof of such payment :

Provided that the Commissioner-General upon being
satished that owing Lo scrious financial hardship suffered by
the appellant at or about the ume of such notice of assessment
or. owing to other reasonable cause. the appellant was
prevented from paying such tax and such penalty, may grant
an extension of time for the payment of such tax and penalty
thereon accrued up to the date of payment, and the reccipt
furnished within such extended time shall, for the purposes
of this subsection, be deemed to have been attached to the
petition of appeal.

(5) Every peution of appeal which was not made within
the period specified under subsection (1) or does not contorm
to the provisions of subsections (2) . (3) and (4) shall not be
valid.

(6) On receipt of a valid petition of appeal, the
Commissioner-General may cause further inquiry to be made
by an Assessor. and if in the course of such inquiry an
agreement is reached as to the matters specified in the petition
of appeal. the necessary adjustment of the assessment shall
be made.


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 39

(7) Where no agreement is reached between the appellant
and the Assessor in the manner provided in subsection (6),
the Commissioner-General shall fix a Gime and place for the
hearing of the appeal.

(8) Every appellant shall attend before the Commissioner-
Gencral at the time and place fixed for the hearing of the
appeal. The appellant may attend the hearing of the appeal in
person or by an authorized representative. The Commissioner-
General may, if he thinks fit, from time to time adjourn the
hearing of an appeal for such time and place as he shall fix
for the purpose. In any case in which an authorized
representative attends on behalf of the appeilant. the
Commissioner-General may adjourn the hearing of the appeal
and may, if he considers that. the personal attendance of the
appellant is necessary for the determination of the appeal.
require that the appellant shall attend in person at the time
and place fixed for the adjourned hearing of the appeal. If the
appellant or his authorized representative fails to attend at
the time and place fixed for the hearing or any adjourned
hearing of the appeal. or if the appellant fails to attend in
person when required so to attend by the Commissioner-
General, the Commissioner-Gencral shall dismiss the appeal :

Provided that. if the appellant shall within a-reasonable
time after the dismissal of an appeal satisfy the Commissioner-
General that he or his authorized representative was prevented
from due attendance at the hearing or at any adjourned hearing
of such appeal by reason of absence from Sri Lanka, sickness,
or other reasonable cause, the Commissioner-General may
vacate the order of dismissal and fix a time and place for the
hearing of the appeal :

Provided further, that every petition of appeal under this
Chapter shall be agreed to or determined by the
Commissioner-Genceral within three years from the date on
which such petition of appeal is received by the
Commissioner-General. unless the agreement or
determination of such appeal depends on the furnishing of


40) Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

any document or the taking of any action by any person other
than the appellant or the Commissioner-General or an
Assessor. Where such appeal is not agreed to or determined
within such period the appeal shall be deemed to have been
allowed and the tax charged accordingly. The receipt of any
appeal under this section shall be acknowledged and the date
of the letter of acknowledgment shall for the purposes of this
section be deemed to be the date of receipt of such appeal.

For the purposes of this proviso where an extension of
lime has been granted to an appellant for the payment of tax
under subsection (4) the date of the receipt in proof of the
payment of tax shall be deemed to be the date of reccipt of
such Appeal.

(9) The Commissioner-General shall have power to
summon any person whom he may consider able to give
evidence in respect of the appeal, to attend before him and
examine such person on oath or otherwise. Any person so
attending may be allowed by the commissioner- General any
reasonable expenses necessarily incurred by such person in
so altending.

(10) Before making his determination on any appeal. the
Commissioner-General may, if he considers i necessary so
to do, by notice given in writing to any person require that
person to produce for examination, or to transmit to the
Commissioner-Gencral within the period specified in such
notice. any such deeds, plans, instruments, books of accounts.
trade lists. stock lists. registers, cheques. paying in slips,
auditors reports or other documents in his possession as may
be specified in such notice. Further, the Commissioner-
General may obtain the assistance of any other Commissioner.
Deputy Commissioner or an Assessor who is familiar with
the issucs involved in such hearing of an appcal.

(11) Where the Commissioner-General hears the evidence
of the appellant or of any other person in respect of the appeal.
he shall maintain or cause to be maintained a record of such
evidence.


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002° 4]

(12) In determining an appeal under this section the
Commissioner-General may confirm, reduce. increase or
annul the assessment appealed against and shall give notice
in writing to the appellant of his determination on the appeal.

(13) The Commissioner-General. may at any time prior
to the determination of an appeal cancel the deferment of the
due date for payment under subsection (2) of section 26.
if he is satisfied that the appellant has not taken adequate steps
to settle the appeal and inform the appellant in writing of
such cancellation.

35. Any person aggrieved by the determination of the
Commissioner-General upon an appeal made to him under
subsection (1) of section 34 may appeal from such
determination to the Board of Review constituted under the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000 and provisions of that
Act relating to appeals to such Board shall, mutatis niutandis,
apply to, and appeal under this section.

36. (1) The decision of the Board of Review shall be
final :

Provided that either the appellant or the Commissioner-
General may make an application requiring the Board of
Review to state a case on a question of law for the opinion of

the Court of Appeal.

(2) The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act. No. 38 of
2000 relating to appeals to the Court of Appeal and to the
Supreme Court shall, autatis mutandis, apply to an application
and reference under this section.

CHAPTER VII

FINALITY OF ASSESSMENT AND PENALTY OR
INCORRECT RETURN

37. Where no valid appeal has been preferred within the
time specified in this Act against an assessment in respect of
tax or where the amount of tax has been determined on appeal,

Appeals to thy
Board of Review.

Appeal ona
question of kiw to
Court of Appeal.

ASSCSSMeHLS 03
amended
assessments ta be
final.


Penalty for
incorrect return.

Recovery of tax.

42 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

the assessment as made or reduced or increased or confirmed
on appeal, as the case may be, shall be final and conclusive
for all purposes of this Actas regards the amount of such tax :

Provided that, nothing in this section shall prevent an
Assessor from making an assessment or additional assessment
for any taxable period if it does not involve reopening any
matter which has been determined on appeal for that taxable
period.

38. Where in an assessment made on any person, the tax
exceeds, the tax paid by him as the amount due from him in
respect of the taxable supplies specified in his return and the
assessment is final and conclusive under section 37, the
Commissioner-General may unless that person proves to the
salisfaction of the commissioner-Genaral that there was no
fraud or willful neglect involved in the disclosure of the
laxable supplies made or input tax claimed by that person in
such return, in writing, order that person to pay. on or before
a specified date, as penalty for making an incorrect return. it
sum not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees and a sum
equal to twice the amount of the difference between the total
tax claimed in the assessment and the tax paid on the return :

Provided however, any such person on whom a penalty is
imposed under this section shall not be liable to prosecution
for an offence relating to that taxable period under
section 66.

CHAPTER VII

RECOVERY OF TAX

39. (1) For the purposes of this Chapter “tax” includes a
penalty imposed or incurred under this Act.

(2) Whenever the Commissioner-General issues a
certificate under section 42 or section 43 or a notice under
sectton 44, he shall at the same time issue to the defaulter a
notification thereof by personal service or by registered letter


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 43

sent through the post or by telegraph ; but the non-receipt of
such notification by the defaulter shall not invalidate
proceedings under this section.

40. Any tax in default shall be a first charge on all the
assets of the defaulter :

Provided that —

(i) such charge shall not extend to or affect any asscts
sold by such person to a bona fide purchaser for value
prior to the seizure of the same in accordance with
the provisions of section 42 ;

(ti) as regards immovable property the tax shall not rank
in priority to any lease or encumbrance created bona
fide for value and registered prior to the date of the
SCIZUTC }

(111) as regards movable property, where the tax for more
than four taxable periods is in default, the tax for
four taxable periods only to be selected by the
Commissioncr-General, shall rank in priority to any
lien or encumbrance created bona fide for value prior
to the date of default of such tax.

41. (1) Where any tax is in default, the Commissioner-
General shall, before proceeding to recover such tax, issue
notice in writing to the defaulter stating -

(a) the particulars of such tax ; and

(b) that action is being contemplated to recover such
tax. ,

(2) Where an assessment has been made and the defaulter
has not appealed within the specified time against the
assessment in respect of which such tax is charged. he may
within thirty days of date of such notice make any objection

Tax to be a first
charge.

Notice to
defaulter.


Recovery of tax
by seizure and
sale.

44 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

to the lax so charged to the Commissioner-General and the
Commissioner-General shall notwithstanding the. provisions
of section 37 consider such objections and give his decision
thereon which shall be final.

42. (1) The Commissioner-General may appoint persons
to be tax collectors for the purposes of this Act.

(2) Where any tax is in default, the Commissioner-General
may issue a certificate to a Divisional Sceretary, Assistant
Divisional Secretary, Fiscal, Deputy Fiscal or Tax Collector
containing particulars of such tax and the name and address
of the defaulter, and the officer to whom such certificate is
issued shall be empowered and is hereby required to cause
the tax to be recovered. from the defauller named in the
certificate by seizure and sale of his movable property.

(3) The seizure referred to in subsection (2) shall be
effected in such manner as the said officer shall deem most
expedient in that behalf and any property so scized shall be
kept for seven days at the costs and charges of the defaulter.
tf the defaulter fails to pay the said tax in default together
with the costs and charges within the said seven days the

‘ Divisional Secretary, Assistant Divisional Secretary, Fiscal.
. Deputy Fiscal or Tax Collector, as the case may be. shall

cause such property to be sold by public auction.
(4) The sum realized by sale shall he applied —

(1) firstly in payment of the costs and charges of seizing.
keeping and selling the property ; and

(ii) secondly in satisfaction of the tax in default,

and any balance shall be paid to the owner of the property
seized.

(5) It shall be lawful for a Tax Collector to recover from
the defaulter reasonable expenses incurred by him in


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 45

proceeding against the defaulter under this section
notwithstanding that the seizure was not effected. Where cash
is seized such reasonable-expenses shall be set off first from
the amount so seized. Any amount so recovered or set off
shall be informed to the defaulter in writing.

(6) Where any tax is in default, and the Commissioner-
General is of opinion that recovery by the means provided in
subsection (2) is impracticable or in expedient. he may issue
a certificate to a District Court having jurisdiction in any
district where the defaulter resides or in which any property
movable or immovable owned by the defaulter is situate.
containing such particulars of tax and the name and address
of the person or person by whom, the tax is payable. and the
Court shall thereupon direct a writ of execution to tssuc Lo
the Fiscal authorizing and requiring him to seize and sell all
or any of the property movable and immovable of the
defaulter. or such part thereol as he may deem necessary for
recovery of the tax, and the provisions of sections 226 to 297
of the Civil Procedure Code shall, sudatis, mutandis, apply
to such seizure and sale.

For the purposes of this section “movable property” shall
include plant and machinery whether fixed to a building or
not.

43. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is of opinion
in any case that recovery of tax in default by seizure and sale

is impracticable, or inexpedient or where the full amount of

the tax in default has not been recovered, he may issue a
certificate containing particulars of such tax and the name
and last known place of business or residence of the defaulter,
to a Magistrate having jurisdiction in the division in which
such place of business or residence of the defaulter is situate.
The Magistrate shall thereupon summon such defaulter before
him to show cause why further proceedings for the recovery

of the tax should not be taken against him. and in default of

sufficient cause being shown, the tax in default shall be
deemed to be a fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate

Proceedings lor
recovery belore a
Magistrate,


46 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

on such defaulter for an offence punishable with fine only or
not punishable with imprisonment and the provisions of
subsection (1) of section 291 (except paragraphs (a), (d) and
(1), thereof of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979, relating to default of payment of a fine imposed tor
such an offence shall thereupon apply, and the Magistrate may
make any direction which, by the provisions of that subsection.
he could have made at the time of imposing such sentence :

Provided thal nothing in this section shall authorize or
require the Magistrate in any: proceeding thereunder to
consider, examine or decide the correctness of any statement
in the certificate of the Commissioncr-General,

(2) Nothing in subsections (2) to (5) of section 291 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall apply
in any case referred to in subsection (1)

(3) In any case referred to in subsection (1) in which the
defaulter is sentenced to imprisonment in default of payment
of the fine deemed by that section to have becn imposed on
him, the Magistrate may allow time for the payment of the
amouat of the said fine or direct payment of that amount to
be made in installments.

(4) The court: may be required bail to be given as a
condition precedent to allowing time under subsection (1)
for showing cause as thercin provided or under subsection
(3) lor the payment of the fine ; and the provisions of Chapter
XXXEV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. [5 of
1979, shall apply where the defaulter is so required to be
given bail.

(5) Where payment in installments is directed under
subsection (3) and default is made in the payment of any one
installment, the same procecdings may be taken as if default
had been made in payment of all the instaliments then
remaining unpaid.


Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 47

44, (1) Where the tax payable by any person ts in default
and it appears to the Commissioner-General to be probable
that any person-

(a) owes or is about to pay money to the defaulter or his
agent : or

(b) holds money for or on account of the defaulter or
his agent : or

(c). holds money for or on account of some other person
for payment to the defaulter or his agent, or

(d) has authority from some other person to pay money
to the defaulter or his agent,

the Commissioner-General may give to such person nolice in
writing (a copy of which shall be sent by post to the defaulter)
requiring him to pay any such moneys nol exceeding the
amount of the tax in default to the officer named in such notice.
The notice shall apply to all such moneys which are in his
hands or duc from him at the date of receipt of such notice. or
come into his hands or become duc from him or are about lo
be paid by him at any Gime within a period of three months
after the date of such notice.

(2) Any person who has made any payment in pursuance
of this section shall be deemed to have acted under the
authority of the defaulter and of all other persons concerned,
and is hereby indemnified in respect of such payment against
all proceedings, civil or criminal, notwithstanding the
provisions of any written law, contract or agreement,

(3) Where any person to whom a notice has been given
under subsection (1) is unable to comply therewith owing to
the fact that moncys in question do not come into his hands
or custody or become due from him during the period referred
to in subsection(1), he shall within fourteen days of the
expiration thereof give notice in writing to the Commissioner-
General apprising him of the facts.

Recovery of lax
out of debts.


48 Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002

(4) Where any person to whom a notice has been given
under subsection (1) is unable to comply therewith and has
failed to give notice to the Commissioner-General as provided
in subsection (3) or where such person has deducted or could
have deducted the tax to which the notice relates or any part
thereof and has not paid over as required by the
Commissioner-General the amount of such tax or part thereof
. within fourteen days after the expiration of the period referred
to in subsection (1), such person shall, if he is an individual,
be liable or where such person is a company or body of
persons, whether corporate or unincorporate, the secretary.
manager, or the principal officer of such company or body be
personally liable, for the whole of the tax which such person
has been required to deduct, and such tax may be recovered
from such individual, secretary, manager or.other principal
officer, as the case may be, by al! means provided in this Act.

(5) For the purposes of this section the expression
“defaulter” shall be deemed to include the agent of a person
_ who is in default and the provisions of this section shall apply
in any case where the tax which would have been payable by
any person if he were alive is in default, and for the purpose
of the application of these provisions in any such case, the
expression “defaulter” in subsection (1) means—

(a) the executor or administrator of such deceased
person ; or

(b) any person who takes possession of, or intermeddles
with, the property of such deceased person ; or

(c) any person who has applied, or is entitled to apply
to a District Court for the grant or resealing of probate
or letters of administration in respect of the estate of
such deceased person.


Value Added Tax Act. No. 14 af 2002 49

43. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is of opinion
that any person is about to or likely to leave Sri Lanka without
paying the tax due from him, the Commissioner-General may
issue a certificate containing particulars of such tax and the
name of such person to a Magistrate, who shall on receipt
thereof issue a dircction to the Inspector-General of Police to
take such measures as may be necessary to prevent such person
from leaving Sri Lanka without paying the tax or furnishing
security to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General for
payment thereof.

(2) Atthe time of issuc of the certificate to the Magistraic
the Commissioner-General shall issue to such person a
notification thereof by personal service, or registered letter
sent through the post or telegraph ; but the non receipt of any
such notification by such person shall not invalidate
proceedings under this section.

(3) The production of a certificale signed by the
Commissioner-Genceral stating that the tax has been paid or
that security has been furnished for the payment of the tax or
payment of the tax to a police officer in charge of a police
statton shall be sufficient authority for allowing such person
to leave Sri Lanka.

(4) Any police officer to whom the amount of any tax
specified in such certificate has been paid shall forthwith pay
such amount to the Commissioner-General.

46. Where the Commissioner-General is of 6pinion that
application of any one of the means of recovery provided in
this Act has failed or is likely to fail to secure payment of the
full amount of lax due from any person it shall be lawful for
the Commissioner-General to proceed to recover any sum
remaining unpaid, by any means of recovery provided in this
Act, notwithstanding that an order has been made by a
Magistrate under section 43 and carried into effect.

Recovery of
tax from
persons
leaving

Sri

Lanka. Abolition
of the
charging of
the National
security Levy
with effect. .
trom August
.

2002. Abolition
of the
charging of
the National
securily Levy
with effect
from August
1, 2002,

Use of more than
one means of
recovery.


Power of
Commissioner-
General to obtain
information for
the recovery of
tax.

Recovery of tax
from the principal
officer and others.

Commissioner-
Genera! to
delegate powers
and functions.

50 Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

47. The Commissioner-General may, by notice given in
writing lo any person, require that person within the
period specified in such notice to furnish any information
which the Commissioner-General may require for the purpose
of recovering any tax due from such person or any other
person.

48. (1) Where a body corporate has not paid any tax on
or before the due date, as provided in Chapter IV it shall be
lawful to proceed under all or any of the provisions of this
Chapter against a manager, director, secretary or any other
principal officer of such body corporate. as if such officer is
responsible for such default unless he proves the contrary lo
the satisfaction of Commissioner-General notwithstanding
anything in any other written law relating to such body
corporate.

(2) Where an unincorporate body of persons has not paid
any tax on or before the due date, as provided tn Chapter IV,
it shalt be lawful to proceed under all or any of the provisions
of this Chapter against any partner or office-bearer of such
unincorporate body of persons as it he is responsible for such
default unless he proves the contrary to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner-General, notwithstanding anything in any other
written law.

49. (1) The Commissioner-General may. by writing
under his hand, delegate to any Assessor any of the powcrs
and functions conferred on ot assigned to the Commiussioncr-
General by this Chapter.

(2) Every Assessor to whom any power or function has
been delegated under subsection (1) shall exercise or discharge
such power or function subject to the general or special
directions of the Commissioner-General.


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 5]

CHAPTER IX
SPECIAL CASES

50. Any act or thing required by or under this Act to be
done by any person shall, if such person is an incapacitated
person, be deemed to be required to be done by the trustee of
such incapacitated person.

51. Any act or thing required by or under this Act to be
done by any person shall, in the case of two or more persons
in partnership, be decmed to be required to be donc by the
precedent partner of such partnership :

Provided that any person to whom a notice has been given
under the provisions of this Act as a precedent partner of a

partnership shall be deemed to be the precedent partner thereof

unless he proves that he is not a partner of such partnership or
that some other person in Sri Lanka is the precedent partner
thereot.

52. (1) The secretary, manager. director or other principal
officer of every company or body of persons shall be hable
to do all such acts. matters or things as are required to be
done under the provisions of this Act by such company or
body of persons :

Provided that any person to whom a notice has been given
under the provisions of this Act on behalf of a company or
body of persons shall be deemed to be the principal officer
thereof unless he proves that he has no connection with such
company or body of persons or that some other person resident
in Sri Lanka is the principal, officer thereof.

(2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
company or body of persons, every person who at the time of
the commission of the offence was the secretary, manager,
director or other principal officer of the company or body of
persons shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he

Who inay act for
incapacitated
person.

Precedent partner
to act on behall of
partnership.

Principal officer
to act on behalf of
a company or
body of persons.


Liability to pay
tax in the case of
cessation of
taxable activity.

Liability of
executor to pay
tax.

52 Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
and that he exercised all such diligence to prevent the
commission of that offence as he ought to have exercised
having regard to the nature of his functions in such
capacity.

53. (1) Subject as hereinafter provided, where during the
course of a taxable period a person chargeable with tax ccases
to carry on or carry oul any taxable activity in respect of which
he is chargeable with such tax, he shall, notwithstanding that
he has ceased to carry on or carry out such taxable activity.
be liable to pay such tax for the period during which he
carried on or carried out that taxable activity in that taxable
period.

(2) Where any person carrying an or carrying oul a taxable
activity transfers the assets of such taxable activity to another
person, as a going concern, resulting in a change of ownership
of any trade or businesses. tax payable in respect of such
taxable activity for any period prior to the transfer may, if it
cannol be recovered from the transferor, be recovered trom
the transferee notwithstanding that an assessment may not
have been made on the transferee and the provisions of this
Act as lo collection and recovery of tax shall apply
accordingly.

54, (1) Where any person chargeable with the tax dics,
the executor of such deceased person shall. in respect of all
taxable periods prior to the date of death of such person, be
chargeable with tax which such person would be chargeable
if he were alive, and shall be liable to do all acts, matters and
things which such person if he were alive, would be fiable to
do under this Act :

Provided that—
(a) no proceedings shall be instituted against the

executor in respect of any act or default of action of
the deccased person ;


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 53

(b} no assessment or additional assessment in respect
of a period prior to the date of such person’s death
shall be made after three years from the end of the
taxable period in which the death occurred : and

(c) the liability of the executor under this section shall
be limited to the sum of—

(1) the deceased person’s estate in his possession
or control at the date when notice is given to
him that liability to tax will arise under this
section : and

(ii) any part of the estate which may have passed
to a beneficiary.

(2) Where an executor on behalf of the estate of a deceased
person carries on any taxable activity which is a part of such
estate, such executor shall, in respect of such taxable activity,
be chargeable with the tax with which such person would be
chargeable if he were alive.

55. Where any taxable activity in respect of which tax is

payable is carried on or carried out by any person on behalf

of any other person as the agent of such other person, the
first-mentioned person shall be chargeable with the tax in
respect of that taxable activity in like manner and to the like
amount as the second mentioned person would be chargeable
under this Act.

56. Where two or more persons act in the capacity as
trustees of a trust or executors of a deceased person’s estate,
they may be charged jointly and severally with the tax with
which they are chargeable in the capacity under this Act and
shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of such
lax.

Liability of certain
petsons lo pay ax
in respect of a
taxable activity
not belonging to
them.

Joint trustees and
executors the
persons who act
as trustees or
executors,


Persons lable to
pay tax upon
liquidation of a
company or
dissolution of a
body of persons.

Refund of excess
tax.

54 Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

$7. (1) Notwithstanding anything in the Companies Act.
No. 17 of 1982, where a company is wound up and where
any tax to which that company ts liable cannot be recovered.
then, every person who was a director of the company at any
time during the period in respect of which such tax is payable
shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of such
tax unless he proves that the default in payment of tax cannot
be attributed to any gross neglect, malfeasance or breach of
duty on his part in relation to affairs of the company, and the
provisions of this Act as to collection and recovery of \ax
shall apply accordingly.

(2) Where a body of persons is dissolved and any tax lo
which such body of persons is Hable. cannot be recovered
then every person who was a partner or office-bearer of such
body of persons at any time during the period in respect of
which such tax is payable shall be jointly and severally liable
for the payment of such tax unless he proves that the default
in payment of the tax cannot be attributed to any gross neglect.
malfeasance or breach of duty on his part in relation to the
affairs of such unincorporate body and the provisions of this
Act relating to collection and recovery of tax such apply
accordingly.

CHAPTER X
REruND OF TAX

58. (1) Where a registered person makes an application
for a refund of any tax or any penalty paid by him in excess
during the taxable period and satisfies the Commissioner-
General that such person has paid any tax or any penalty in
excess, Of any amount which he was liable to pay for that
period, such person shall be entitled to a refund of the amount
paid in excess. subject to the provisions of subsection (3) :

Provided however. that any such amount paid in excess by
a registered person referred to in paragraphs (ca), (b), (c) or
(d) of subsection (4) of section 22, shall be refunded to such


Value Added Tax Act. No. 14 of 2002 55

person within one month from the end of the taxable period.
or from the date of the receipt of the return for the taxable
period, in which the excess arose which ever is later.

(2) Where through death. incapacity. bankruptcy.
liquidation or other cause a registered person who would but
for such cause have been entitled to make a claim under
subsection (1) is unable to do so. his executor, trustee or
receiver as the case may be, shall entitled to a refund of any
tax or penalty paid in excess within the meaning of subsection
(1) by such person for the benefit of such person or his estate,

(3) Notwithstanding anything in subsection (1 }where any
registered person—

(a) has failed to pay the Commissioner-General in whole
or in part, any tax in respect of any taxable period,
any amount of tax payable before the due date may
be set off after due notice to such person against
that unpaid tax, any amount or any part of any
amount otherwise refundable to thal person or ary
amount or part of any amount of interest payable to
that person under section 59 and shal! treat any
amount so set off as a payment received from such
registered person +

(b

has not furnished a return, in respect of. any taxable
period the Commissioner-Gencral may withold
payment of any amount otherwise refundable or any
amount of interest payable under section 59 of this
Act, until the registered person has furnished such
return.

§9. (1) Where any amount refundable under this Act to

a registered per? has not been refunded within a period of

thirty days from the due date of such refund there shall be
paid by the Commissioner-General to such person interest on
such amount for the period commencing on the thirtieth day
from the duc date up to the date of refund of the amount as is
required to be refunded by the Commissioner-General to such
person under this Act, at the rate prescribed by the Minister
from time to time :

Interest on
refunds.


Signature and
service of notice.

56 Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

Provided however, no such interest shail be payable where
there was a delay on the part of the registered person in
complying with any requirement made by the Assessor in
respect of any records of the registered person.

(2) For the purposes of this section “due date” means the
period ending ninety days—

(i) from the date of agreement with an Assessor or from
the date of determination of an appeal in respect of
the assessment appealed against : or

(ii) from the date on which a claim, other than a claim for
a refund made in writing under subsection (4) of
section 22 was received from such person by the
Commissioner-General.

CHAPTER XI
MISCELLANEOUS

60. (1) Every notice to be given by the Commissioner-
General, a Deputy Commissioner or an Assessor under this
Act shall bear the name of the Commissioner-General or
Deputy Commissioner or Assessor, as the case may be. and
every such notice shall be valid if the name of the
Commissioner-Gencral, Deputy Commissioner or Assessor
is duly printed or signed thercon.

(2) Every notice given by virtue of this Act may be served
on a person cither personally or by being delivered at, or sent
by post Lo. his last known place of abode or any place at which
he is, or during the period to which the notice relates, was
carrying on or carrying out a taxable activity.

(3) Any notice sent by post shall be deemed to have been
served on the day on which it could have been received ia the
ordinary course of post.


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 57

(4) In proving service by post it shall be sufficient to prove
that the letter containing the notice was duly addressed and
posted.

(5) Every name printed or signed on any notice or signed
on any certificate given or issued for the purposes of this Act,
which purports to be the name the person authorised to give
or issuc the same. shall be judicially noticed.

61. (1) No notice. assessment, certificate or other
proceeding purporting to be in accordance with the provisions
of this Act shall be quashed. or deemed to be void or voidable,
for want of form, or be affected by reason of a mistake, defect
or omission therein, if the same is in substance and effect in
conformity with, or according to, the intent and meaning of
this Act. and if the person assessed or intended to be assessed
or affected thereby is designated therein according.to common
intent and understanding.

(2) Without prejudice to the gencrality of subsection (1)
an assessment shall not be affected or impugned by reason
of—

(a) amistake therein as to the name or surname of person
chargeable, the amount of the value of taxable
supplies or the amount of tax charged + or

(b) any variance between the assessment and the notice
therelor,
if notice of Such assessment is duly served on-the person
intended to be charged and contains in substance and effect
the particulars setout in paragraph (a) of this subsection.

62. (1) Any officer of the Department of Inland Revenue
who is specially authorised by the Commissioner-General in
that behalf may, accompanied by a peace officer, to do all or
any of the following acts :— OO

(a). enter and search any building or place where he

has reason to believe that. any books of account,
registers, records or other documents which in his

Validity of
assessments.

Power to search
building or places.


58 Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

opinion will be useful for, or relevant lo. any
procecding under this Act may be found, and
examine them if found ;

(b) scize any such books of account, registers. records
or other documents or place marks of identification
thereon or make extracts or copies therefrom ;

(c) make a note or an inventory of any other thing found
in the course of any search under this section which
in his opinion will be useful for, or relevant lo, any
proceedings under this Act,

and the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act.
No. {5 of 1979, relating to searches shall apply so far as may
be 10 searches under this section.

In this subsection “peace officer” shall have the same
meaning as in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. No. 15 of
1979.

(2) Before authorising any officer Lo exercise the powers
under subsection (1), the Commissioner-General shall record
the circumstances which necessitate the exercise of such
powers by such officer.

(3) Where any officer authorised by the Commissioner-
General under subsection (1) take into his possession any
book of account, register, record or other document from any
person, such officer shall issue to such person a memorandum
specifying the book, register. record or other document he
has taken into this possession.

(4) Any book of account, register. record or other
document taken to his possession under subsection (1), by
any officer may be retained in the possession of such officer
as long as may be necessary for a scrutiny of such book,
register, record or other document or for the institution of
legal proceedings against the person to whom such book.
register, record or other document belongs.


63.

Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 59

(1) Thc Commissioner-General or any other officer

of the Department of Inland Revenue who is specially
authorised in that behalf by the Commissioner-General in
writing may do all or any of the following acts :—

(a)

(b)

{c)

(d)

(g)

enter and inspect any place or building whcre any
taxable activity is carried on by any person for the
purpose of ascertaining whether the provisions of
this Act are being complied with ;

open and examine any book of account, register.
record or any other document which may be found
therein and make an inventory of any of the articles
found therein ;

examine and take copies of, or make extracts from,
any book of account, register, record or other
document found in such place or building ;

take possession of any book of account, register,
record or other document or place marks of
identification thereon :

count and make a record immediatcly of the cash
found in such place or building ;

require any person whom he finds in such place or
building to give such information within his
knowledge with respect to matters under this Act ;

examine, either alone or in the presence of any other
person, as he thinks fit, with respect to matters under
this Act. every person whom he finds in such place
or building.

(2) Where an officer authorised by the Commissioner-
General under subsection (1). takes into his possession any
book of account. register, record or other document from any
person, such officer shall issue to that person a memorandum
specifying the book, register, record or document he has taken
into his possession.

Power fo search
where taxable
activity ix carried
on or carried oul.


Keeping of
records.

60 Value Added Tax Act. No. 14 of 2002

(3) Any book of account, register, record or other
document taken into his possession under subsection (1), by
any officer'‘may be retained in the possession of such officer
for a period not excceding three years from the date of taking
such possession for the purposes of scrutinizing such book.
register, record or document or for the institution of legal
proceedings against the person to whom such book, registers,
record or other document belongs :

Provided, however where the Commissioner-General has
instituted action in the case of willfull evation under sections
66 or 67 as the case may be, such book, register, record or
document may be retained as long as it is required for the
purposes of such prosecution.

64. (1) Every registered person shall keep and maintain
records in respect of the taxable activity carried on or carried
out by him to enable the Commissioner-General or any other
officer authorized by the Commissioner-General or that behalf
to ascertain the liability for the payment of the tax.

(2) The form of the records, to be maintained under
subsection (1) and the particulars to be set forth therein shall
be as prescribed.

(3) For the purpose of this section “records” includes—

(a) books of account, (whether contained in a manual,
mechanical or electronic format or combination
thereof) recording receipts or payments or income
or expenditure and also includes vouchers. bank
statements, invoice tax invoices, tax credit notes. lax
debit notes. receipts and such other documents as
are necessary to verify the entries in any such books
of account ; ; ,

(b) details of any warehouse, go-down or any other place
where stock of goods are kept and the stock of goods

kept in such warehouse, go-down, or any other place
as the case may be ;

(¢) any list or record required to be maintained or kept
in accordance with the provisions of this Act or under
any regulations made thereunder.


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 61

CHAPTER XH
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
65. Every person who —
(a) being a person required to take an oath fails to

take an oath of secrecy when so required under
section 73 ; or

(b) acts in contravention of the provisions of

section 73 ; or
(c) aids, abets or incites any other person to act in
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a

fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment of

either description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment.

66. Any person who—

(a) gives any false answer whether orally or in writing
to any question or when requested to furnish
information in accordance with the provisions
of this Act. or under the Goods and Services Tax
Act. No. 34 of 1996 ;

(b) omits from a return made under this Aci any
particulars which he should have included in such
return ; or

(c) makes any false return or false entry in any return
made under this Act,

and thereby evades or atlempts to evade tax or assists any
other person to evade or to attempt to evade tax shall! be

Penal provistons
relating to breach
of secrecy &e.

Penal provisions
relating to fraud.


Penal provisions
relating to returns
&e.

62

guil
alte

, Value Added.Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

ty of an offence under this Act. and shall be liable.
r summary trial before a Magistrate. to a fine

consisting of—

(1) a sum equal to twice the amount of tax so evaded or

attempted to be evaded for which he is liable under
this Act for the taxable period in respect of which the

offence was committed + and

(ii) a sum not exceeding twenty five thousand rupecs or
to imprisonment of cither description for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and

67.
(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(g)

(h)

impnsonment.
Every person who—

fails to apply for registration as required under
section 10; or

fails to notify the Commissioner-General of any
matters required to be notified under section t9 ; or

fails to issue a tax invoice as requied under
subsection (1) of section 20 or an invoice under
subsection (6) of section 20 : or

issues more than one tax invoice for cach taxable
supply ; or

issues a tax invoice where such person is not, entitled
lo issue such tax invotce under section 20: or

fails to furnish a return under section 21 or comply
with a notice issued under section 21 ; or

having appeared before an officer of the
Department of Inland Revenue in compliance with
a notice issued to him under section 21 or section 34
fails, without sufficient cause, lo answer any question
lawfully put to him by an officer acting under this
Act: or

gives any incorrect information relating to any matter
or thing affecting his own liability to tax or the
hablity of any other person : or


Value Added Tax Act. No, 14 of 2002 63

{t) permits (he payment to any other person, other than
the Commissioner-General of any amount to be paid
under section 44 : of

(j) willfully obstructs or delays the Commissioner-
General or any other officer in the exercise of his
power under section 62 or 63 ; or

(k) fails to maintain records as required under
section 64 :

(/) not being a person registered under this Act, issues
a lax invoice.

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall be liable,
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a
fine not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees, or Lo
imprisonment of cither description for a tein not exceeding
six months or both such fine and imprisonment.

68. No prosecution in respect of an offence under this
Chapter shall be commenced except at the instance. or with
the sanction of the Commissioner-General.

69, The Commissionet-Gencral may with the consent of
the parties, having regard to the circumstances in which any
offence under this Act was committed compound. such offence
for asum not exceeding one third the maximum fine imposed
for that offence under this Act. Any sum received by the
Commissioner-General in compounding an offence under this
section shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.

CHAPTER XIII
ADMINISTRATION

70. (1) The Commissioner-General shall, be in-charge
of the administration of this Act, assisted by such number of
Commissioners of Inland Revenue. Deputy Commissioners
of Inland Revenue, Senior Assessors of Inland Revenue.
Assessors of Inland Revenue and Tax Officers of Inland
Revenue as may be necessary for the purpose of giving effect
to the provisions of this Act.

Prosecution to be
with the sanction of
the Commussioner-
General,

Compounding of

offence.

Officers.


Value Added Tax
Refund Fund.

64 Value Added Tax Act, Na. 14 of 2002

(2) (a) The Commisstoner-General may authorise any
Commissioner of Intand Revenue or Deputy Commissioner
of Inland Revenue to exercise. perform or discharge any
power, duty or function which is conferred or imposed on, or
assigned to, the Commissioner-General by this Act.

(b) A Commissioner of Inland Revenue or Deputy
Commissioner of Inland Revenue exercising, performing or
discharging any power, duty or function conferred or imposed
on, or assigned to, the Commissioner-General by any
provision of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to be
authorised lo exercise, perform or discharge that power, duty
or function, until the contrary 1s proved.

(3) A Commissioner of Inland Revenue or a Deputy
Commissioner of Inland Revenue or a Senior Assessor of
Inland Revenue may exercise, perform or discharge any power,
duty or function conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, an
Assessor by any provisions of this Act.

71. (1) There shall be established a Fund called the Valuc
Added Tax Refund Fund. (hereinafter referred to as “the
Fund”)

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund twenty five per
centum of the tax collected every month commencing from
the month commencing from August I, 2002 on or before the
fifteenth day of the month immediately succeeding that menth.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all refunds required
to be paid in accordance with the provision of this Act or the
Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996.

(4) (a) The Commissioner-General or any other officer
of the Department of Inland Revenue authorised by him in
that behalf in writing shall administer the Fund.


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 65

(6) Regulations may be made as regards the manner and
mode in which the relunds may be made.

72. The Commissioner-General may pay, from sunis
appropriated for that purpose by Parliament. such sums of
money as he considers reasonable in the circumstances of the
case, to any individual who provides information which results
in the assessment of the tax payable by any other person and
the collection of tax from such other person.

73. (1) Every person, who is or has been employed or
engaged in carrying oul or in assisting any person in carrying
out the provisions of this Act shall preserve, and aid in
preserving secrecy with regard to all matters relating to the
affairs of any person that may come to his knowledge in the
performance of his duties under this Act, and shall not
communicate any such matter to any person other than the
person to whom such matter relates or to the Minister or to
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of the
subject of Finance or suffer or permit any person to have access
to any records tn the possession, custody or control of the
Commissioner-General.

(2) Every person employed in carrying out the provisions
of this Act shall, before acting under this Act. and the Minister
and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of
the subject of Finance shall before acting under this Act lake
and subscribe before a Justice of the Peace an oath of secrecy
in the prescribed form:

Provided however, such oath taken under the Goods and
Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 shall be deemed for all
purposes to have taken under this Act.

(3) No person employed in carrying out the provisions of
this Act shall be required to produce in any Court any return,
document or to divulge or communicate to any Court any
matter or thing coming to his notice in the performance of his
duties under this Act, except as may be necessary for the

Comniissioner-
General may pay
rewards to
informants,

Official Secrecy.


66 Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

purpose ol carrying into effect the provisions of this Act or
any other written law administered by the Commissioner
General.

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section
any officer of the Department of Inland Revenue may
communicate any matter which comes to his knowledge in
the performance of his duties under this Act to any other officer
of the Department if the communication is necessary for the
performance of any duty under this Act or under any other
written law administered by the Commissioner-General and
ihe Commissioner-General may, notwithstanding anything in
the Evidence Ordinance relating to the proof of ducuments.
produce or cause to be produced in any Court. in any
proceedings under this Act, a copy of any return or document
received by him or in his possession under this Act or under
any other written law administered by him and certified by
him or on his behalf to be a correct copy :

Provided that the Commissioner-Generat may produce or
cause to be produced the original of any such return or
document in any case where it is necessary to prove the hand-
writing or the signature or the person who wrote, made, signed
or furnished such return or document, but only for the purpose
of such proof :

Provided, further that the Commissioner-General shalt not
in any case be compelled to produce in any court either the
original of such document or return or copy of any particulars
contained in such document or return.

(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section the
Commissioner-General may permit the Auditor-General or
any officer of the Department of the Auditor-General duly
authorised by him in that behalf to have such access to any
records or documents as may be necessary for the performance
of his official duties. The Auditor-General or any officer
authorised by him under this section shall be deemed to be a
person employed in carrying out the provisions of this Act
for the purposes of subsection (2).


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 67

(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section
where it appears to the Commissioner-General from any

matter which comes to his knowledge in the performance of

his duties under this Act, that any person has committed an
offence under the Customs Ordinance or the Excise Ordinance
or Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989, he may
communicate with or deliver to the Commissioner of Excise

or the Director-General of Excise or the Director-General of

Customs as the case may be, any information relating to the
commission of the offence or any articles, hooks of accounts
or any other documents necessary or useful for the purpose
of proving the commission of such offence.

74, The Commissioner-General may trom time to time

specify the forms to be used for all or any of the purposes of

this Act, and any form so specified may from time to time be
amended or varied by the Commissioner-General or some
other form may be substituted by the Commissioner-General
in place of any form so specified.

75. (t) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of matters authorized by us Act to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall come into
operation on the date of its publication in the Gazette or on
such date as may be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation shall within two months after tts
publication in the Gazette, be brought before the Parliament
for approval. Any such regulation which is not so approved
shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of disapproval
but without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.
A notification of the date on which a regulation is deemed to
be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

Fornis,

Regulations,


Transitional
provisions.

Admendments to
the Inland
Revenue Act.
No.38 of 2000.

National Security
Levy paid under
the National

Security Levy Act.

No. 52 of 1991 to
be deemed to be
input tax.

68 Value Added Tax Act. No. 14 of 2002

CHAPTER XIV
TRANSITIONAL AND SAVINGS

76. Where the Commisstoner-General is sausfied that a
registered person or any other person, as the case may be. on
or after August |, 2002. has paid tax on the acquisition of
goods for the purpose of making an exempt supply, the tax so
paid by such person shall be deemed to be input tax where
such supply has subsequently become a taxable supply and
the goods so acquired are being used in making such taxable
supply :

Provided however the Commissioner-Gencral shafl
determine the allowable portion of such input tax where the
goods so acquired are being used only partly for the purpose
of making a taxable supply.

77. Albrelerences to Goods and Services Tax and Goods
and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 in the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 38 of 2000, shall on or after August !, 2002, be read
and construed to include a reference to the Value Added Tax
and the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002. for any year of
assessement or part of a year of assessment,

78. (1) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner-General on a claim made in writing on or
before December 31, 2002. that any registred person has paid
the National Security Levy under section 5a of the National
Securily Levy Act, No. 52 of 1991 on the importation into Sri
Lanka of any article, for sale without using such article in the
manulacture of any other goods by such person prior lo August
1, 2002 and the supply of such articles is taxable at the rate of
twelve and onc half per centum prior to August 1, 2002 under
the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996, and such
Articles imported or a portion thereof are remaining as stock-
in-trade as at July 31, 2002 of such registered person and tl
such stock-in-trade will be supptied in the course of making
taxable supplies under this Act, such National Security Levy.


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 69

paid in full or part shall be deemed to be input tax and may be
allowed as inpul tax credit under section 22 during any taxable
period commencing [rom the taxable period in which such
claim was accepted by the Commissiorier-General.

(2) Any excess of input tax attributable to such deemed
input tax shall not be refunded but carried forward to the next
taxable period and so on notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 22.

(3) Any excess claim or unduc claim under subsection
(1) and allowed as input credit shall be considered as excess
input tax claimed and shall be assessed under subsection (7)
of section 22.

79. Any person who is unable to comply with the _ Indemnity.

requirements under subsections (1) and (6) of section 20 due
to specific problems in converting existing invoiging sysicm
to comply with such requirements and undertakes to comply
with such requirements on or before September 30, 2002, and
makes arrangements to issue such invoices complying with
such requirements to the maximum possible extent with effect
from August |, 2002, shall not be liable to any prosecution of
penalty for such noncompliance during the period August 1,
2002 to September 30. 2002.

80. (1) (a) All directions issued by the Commissioner- — Savings.
General under section 23 ;

(b) Any notification issued by the Commissioncr-General
under subsection (1) of section 7:

(c) All regulations made by the Minister —
(i) under section 74 ;
(ti) under section 65 ; and

(d) All forms specified under section 73,


Abolition of the
charging of the
National security
Levy with effect
from August [.
2002.

Abolition of the
charging of the
Goods and
Services Tax with
effect from
August 1, 2002.

70 Value Added Tux Act, No. 14 of 2002

under the Goods and Services Tax Act. No. 34 of £996 and in
force on the day immediately preceding August |. 2002. shall
be deemed to be directions. netifications. regulations and
forms issued under this Act and shall be in force until such
directions, notifications, regulations and forms are rescinded
or replaced by directions, notification or regulations made
under this Act.

(2) Every person registered under section [5 of the Goods
and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996, shall be deemed to be
a registered person under this Act and every certificate of
registration issued and every tax registration number assigned
to a registered person under section 15 of the Goods and
Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 and in force on the day
preceding August |, 2002 shall be deemed for all purposes to
be a certificate of registration issucd and a tax registration
number assigned under this Act.

CHAPTER XV

ABOLITION OF NATIONAL SecuRITY LEvy AND THE GOODS AND
SkRVICES TAX

81. Notwithstanding anything in the National Security
Levy Act. No. 52 of 1991 the National Security Levy shall
nol to be charged from any person to whom such Act applies
for any quarter or part of a quarter commencing on or after
August |, 2002:

Provided however, any person to whom the National
Security Levy Act, No. 52 of 1991 applics. shall furnish a
return under that Act for the month of July, 2002
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in that Act.

82. Notwithstanding anything in the Goods and services
Tax Act. No. 34 of 1996. the Goods and Services Tax shall
not be charged from any person to whom such Act applies.
for any taxable period or part of a taxable period commencing
on or alter August I, 2002 :


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 71

Provided however, any person registered under the Goods
and Services Tax Act, No 34 of 1996, shall furnish return
under that Act for the month of July, 2002 notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in that Act.

83.

CHAPTER XVI
INTERPRETATION

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Assessor” means an Assessor or Senior Assessor

appointed under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000;

“associated persons” means—

(a)

(b)

(ce)

(d)

{e)

2)

(g)
(h)

any two or more companies which consist of the
same shareholders or are managed and controlled
by the same Directors : or

any company and any shareholder, where such
shareholder or the spouse or child of such
sharcholder or any trustee of such shareholder or any
trustee of the spouse or the child of such shareholder
hold jointly or severally twenty- five per centum or
more of the paid up capital or twenty -five per centum
or more of the nominal valuc of the allotted shares
of that company ; or

any two individuals one of whom is the spouse or
child of the other or is a trustee for such spouse or
child ; or

a partnership and an individual where such individual
is related to any partner of such partnership ; or

a joint venture and any person who is related to a
member of such joint venture ; or

any two persons one of whom is a trustee for the
other ;

any two individuals related to each other ; or

any two or more persons carrying on any activity
separately or jointly which has resulted in the supply
of identical goods or services which cannot be
produced by any other person or persons.

Interpretation.


72 Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

“authorized representative” shall have the meaning
assigned to it by the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of
2000.

“body of persons” means any body corporate or
unincorporate, provincial Council, local authority, any
fraternity, fellowship, association or society of persons.
whether corporate or unincorporate, any partnership.
and includes any Government department or any
undertaking of the Government of Sri Lanka or any
Co-ownership of immovable property «

“books” shall not include diaries, cheque books, exercise
books or ledger books ;

“Commissioner-General” means the Commissioner-Genera!
of Inland Revenue appointed under the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 38 of 2000 and includes a Commissioner, and
a Deputy Commissioner specially authorized by the
Commissioner-General either generally or for a specific
purpose to act on behalf of the Commissioner-General .

“Commissioner” means 2 Commissioner of Inland Revenue
appointed under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of
2000.

“Company” means any company incorporated or registered
under any law in force in Sri Lanka or clsewhere :
“customs bonded area” means —

(a) a bonded warehouse approved under section 69 of
Customs Ordinance «

(b) a bonded warehouse approved under section 84A of
Customs Ordinance ;

(c) a warehouse of the Republic as defined in section
167 of Customs Ordinance ;

(d) a Free Trade Zone declared by the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka which is subject to
monitoring by the Department of Customs.

“construction contractor or sub contractor” means any person
who has entered into a contract with another person
and provide services in Sri Lanka in constructing of a
building, road, bridge. water supply systems, drainage


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 73

systems, sewerage systems, clectricity generation or
transmission system or any other infrastructure for that
other person.

“Director” means a director as defined in the Companies Act,
No. 17 of 1982 and includes a working director ;

“Deputy Commissioner” means a Deputy Commissioner of
Inland Revenue appointed under the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 38 of 2000 ;

“educational establishment” means —

(a) a higher educational institution established
under the Universities Act. No. 16 of 1978 or
the Buddhist and Pali University Act, No. 74
of 1981 ; :

(b) any recognized institution providing
vocational training or training for persons
engaged in any trade, profession, or
employment and includes an incorporated
examination body ;

“educational services” means the provision of services by any
educational establishment in relation to education,
vocational training or retraining ,

“executor” includes an administrator ;

“goods” means all kinds of movable or immovable
property but does not include money :

“incapacitated person” means any minor. lunatic, idiot
or person of unsound mind :

“importation” includes the bringing into Sri Lanka of
goods from outside Sri Lanka by any person or
goods received from a custom bonded area the
purchase of goods ona sale by the Director-General
of Customs, the Sri Lanka Ports Authority or the
Commissioner-General, for the levy of the tax and
other dues ;


74 Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

“input (ax” in relation to a registered person, means —

(a) the tax charged by another registered person on any
goods or services to be used by such registered
person in carrying on or carrying out a taxable
activity ;

(b) the tax paid by him or tax deferred under the proviso
to subsection (3) of section 2, on the importation or
purchase of goods or purchase of services which are
used by such person for the purpose of making
taxable supplies under this Act or Goods and Services
Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996.

“international transportation” means any service directly
related to the transportation of goods or passengers-—

(a) from a place in Sri Lanka to a place out side Sri
Lanka ;

(b) froma place outside Sri Lanka to a place in Sri Lanka
up to the point of landing unless such services arc
carried out under a specified carriage contract
according to the Documents of carriage issued by a
freight forwarder who is registered with the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka. ,

(c) from a place outside Sri Lanka to another place
outside Sri Lanka.

“manufacture” means the making of an article, the assembling
or joining of an article by whatever process, adapting
for sale any article, packaging, bottling, putting into
boxes, cutting, cleaning, polishing, wrapping, labeling
or in any other way preparing an article for sale other
than in a wholesale or retail activity ;

“output tax”, in relation to any registered person, means the
tax chargeable in respect of the supply of goods and
services made or deemed to be made by such person
under this Act or Goods and Services Tax Act .No, 34
of 1996,

“open market value” in relation to the value of a supply of
goods or services at any date means, the consideration
in money less any tax charged under this Act, which a


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 75

similar supply would generally fetch if supplied in
similar circumstance at that date in Sri Lanka, being a
supply freely offered and made between persons who
are not associated persons.

“person” includes a company, or body of persons ;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made under
this Act ;

“standard rate” means the rate specified under subsection (1)
of section 2, applicable to the supply of taxable goods
and services other than such supplies of goods and
services and imports specified in the Second Schedule ;

“supply of goods” means the passing of exclusive ownership
of goods to another as the owner of such goods or under
the authority of any written law and includes the sale
of goods by public auction, the transfer of goods under
a hire purchase agreement, the sale of goods in
satisfaction of a debt and the transfer of goods from a
taxable activily to a non-taxable activity.

“supply of services” means any supply which is nota supply
of goods but includes any loss incurred in taxable
activity for which an indemnity is duc.

“supplier”, in relation to any supply of goods and services,
means the person making the supply ;

“taxable period” means—
(a) a period of one month.—

(i) where the value of taxable supplies of any
person has exceeded thirty million rupees during
the preceding twelve months ; or where the value
of taxable supplies of any person for the period
of the succeeding twelve months is estimated
to exceed thirty million rupees ; or

(ii) where any person makes zero rated supplies ;

(iti) where any person has entered into an agreement
with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
referred to in items (XX VIL) or (XXVIED) of the


76

(b)

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Value Added Tax Act. No. 14 of 2002

Schedule to the Goods and services Tax Act,
No. 34 of 1996 prior to April 1, 2001, during
the project implementation period

(iv) where any person has commenced a business
or started a project and undertakes to comply
with the requirements of subsection (6) of
section 22 under this Act or Goods and Services
tax Act, No. 34 of 1996.

(v) where any person has entered into any such
agreement with the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka, as referred to in item (XXVIID of the
Schedule to the Goods and Services Tax Act.
No. 34 of 1996 and such person could not
commence making taxable supptics under the
project to which the agreement relates, by March
31, 2001,

a period of three months commencing respectively
on the first day of January, the first day of April, the
first day of July and the first day of October of cach
year in respect of a registered person whom is not
referred to in paragraph (a) or who opts to submit
quarterly returns on the approval by the
Commissioner-General.

“taxable activily” means —

any activity carried on as a business, trade, profession
or vocation other than in the course of employment
or every adventure or concern in the nature ofa trade ;

the provision of facilities to its members or others
for a consideration and the payment of subscription
in the case of a club, association or organizalion :
anything done in connection with the
commencement or cessation of any activity or
provision of facilities referred to in (a) or (B) -

the hiring, or leasing of any movable property or the
renting or leasing of immovable property or the
administration of any property ; ,


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 77

(¢) the exploitation of any intangible property such as
patents, copyrights or other similar assets where such
asset is registered in Sri Lanka or the owner of such
asset is domiciled in Sri Lanka.

“taxable supply” means any supply of goods or serviccs made
or deemed to be made in Sri Lanka which is chargeable
with tax under this Act and includes a supply charged
at the rate of zero percent other than an exempt supply.

84. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and tamil texts of this Act. the Sinhala text shall prevail.”.

FIRST SCHEDULE

(i) The supply or import of —

(a) unprocessed agricultural products other than,
potatoes, onions, chillies, all other grains (other
than rice and paddy) and planting material ;

(b) unprocessed horticultural products ;

(c) unprocessed animal husbandry products other
than any varicty of meat and live birds, including
day old chicks ;

(d} unprocessed fishing products :

(e) unprocessed forestry products other than timber,

(f) Cardamom, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, pepper,
desiccated coconuts, rubber, paddy and seed
paddy ;

(it) The supply or import of rice, rice flour, wheat, wheat
flour and eggs ;
(iii) The supply or import of bread of any description ;

(iv) The supply or import of liquid milk (not made out
of powdered milk or any grain) and infants powdered
milk ; ;

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


78

{v)

(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

Gx)

(x)
(xi)

Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

The supply or import of air crafts, helicopters and
temporary import of any plant, machinery, equipment
which are re-exported with twelve months from the
date of such import :

The supply of educational services by an educational
establishment or government schools or schools
funded by the government:

The supply or import of any books other than
chequebooks, periodicals, magazines, news papers,
diarics, ledger books of exercise books +

The supply or import of kerosene, bunkerfuel and
aviation fuel ;

The supply of public library services by the

Government. a Provincial Council or a local authority ;

The supply or import of crude petroleum oil;
The supply of the following financial services :—

(a) the operation of any current, deposit or savings
account 5

(b) the exchange of currency ;

(c) the issue, payment, collection or transfer of
ownership of any note, order for paymenl,
cheque or letter of credit ;

(d) the issuc. allotment, transfer of ownership.
drawing, acceptance or endorsement of any debt
security, being any interest in or right lo be paid
moncy owing by any person ;

(e) the issue. allotment, transfer of ownership of
any equity security or a participatory security ;

(f) underwriting or sub -underwriting the issue of
an equity security, debt security or participatory
security +

(g) the provision of any joan, advance or credit :


(X11)

(xii)

(Xiv)

(xv)

Value Added ‘tax Act, No. 14 of 2002° 79

(i) the provision of the facility of installment credit
finance in a hire purchase conditional sale or
credit sale agreement for which facility a
separate charge is made and disclosed to the
person to whom the supply is made and the
goods supplied under such hire-purchase
agreement have been used in Sri Lanka for a
period not less than twelve months as al the date
of such agreement ;

(1) life insurance, ‘Agrahara’ Insurance and crop
and livestock insurance ;

The import or supply of goods and services to the
mission of any State or any organization to which
the provisions of the Diplomatic Privileges Act,
No. 9 of 1996 applies, or to any diplomatic personnel
of such mission or organization, or entitled to these
benefits provided that reciprocal benefits are
available to their counterparts from Sri Lanka and
identified as such by the Commissionce - General.
including the import under a temporary admission
carnel for re-export. Such identifications under
Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 will be
remained valid under this Act.

The import and and supply of goods at duty free
shops for payment in foreign currency ;

The import and supply of unused postage or revenue
stamps of the Government of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka or of a Provincial
Council ;

The import of any article entitled to duty free
clearance under the Passenger's Baggage
(Exemptions) Regulations made under section 107
of the Customs Ordinance, or any article cleared duty
free re-importation certificate as provided in
Schedule A under the Customs Ordinance. or any
article cleared ex-bond for use as ship stores :


80

(xvi)

(xvit)

(xvii)

{xIx)

Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

The import of goods by any organization
approved by the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance and proved to his satisfaction to be
gifts from persons or organizations Overseas or
supply of goods directly funded by foreign
organizations for the relief of distress caused
by natural or other disasters, or similar cause or
for religious or charitable purposes.

The supply of public passenger transport
services (other than air or water transport or
transport of tourists by way of excursion tours
or laxi services) or the provision of leasing
facilities for such motor coaches with seating
capacity not less than twenty cight passenger
seats and used for such public passenger
transport.

The supply of electricity not exceeding 30 kwh
per consumer as defined under the Electricity
Act. (Chapter 205) per month ;

The import by any person who has entered into
an agreement —

{a) prior to May 16, 1996: or

(b) prior to April 1, 1998 in respect of a
project the total cost of which is not less
than Rs. 500 Million,

with the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka, under section 17 of Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of
1978, of any article which is prescribed
as a project related article to be utilized
in the project specified in the agreement
during the project implementation period
of such project as specified in such
agreement or up to the date of completion
of such project, which ever ts earlicr ;


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 8]

(xx) The import by any person who has entered into

an agreement with the Board of investinent of
Sri Lanka, under section 17 of Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978, of
any article which is prescribed as a project
related article to be utilized in the project
specified in the agreement, who will be making
only exempt supplies after completion of the
proyect—

(a) fora period of two years from August J,
2002 ; or

(6) until the completion of the project, °

which ever Is earlier.

(xx1}

(xxi)

(xxill)

(xxiv)

The supply of services al a restaurant situated
beyond the immigration counter at the
Bandaranaike International Air Port ;

The supply of services by a person in Sri Lanka
to another person. to be consumed or uulized
by such other person outside Sri Lanka, where
the payment is made in rupees ;

The supply, lease or rent of residential
accommodation other than the supply. lease or
rent of residential accommodation by an
enterprise which has entered into an agreement
with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, under
section 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka Law, No 4 of 1978, on or alter April 1.
2001 and the total cost of the projects which
such agreement relates is not less than ten
Minion United States of America dollars or its
equivalent in any other currency and the project
relates exclusively to the aforesaid supply, lease
or rental;

The supply of all health care services provided
by medical institutions or professtonally
qualified persons providing such care, other than


$2

Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

(XxvV)

(xxvi)

(Xxvil}

(XX viii}

(XXI1X)

(XxX)

the supply of health care services by a medical
institution which has entered in to an agreement
with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka under
section !7 of the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978, on or after April 1.
2001 and the total cost of the project to which
such agreement relates is not less than ten
million United States of America dolars or its
equivalent in any other currency,

The supply or import of pearls. diamonds,
natural or synthetic precious or semi-precious
stones, diamond powder, precious metals or
metals clad with precious metal, and gold
COINS ; ,

The supply or import of machinery. medical and
surgical instruments, apparatus and accessories
including medical and dental cquipment
and ambulances for the provision of health
SELvices ;

The supply or import of artificial iimbs.
crutches, hearing aids, accessories for such aids
or other appliances which are worn or carried
or implanted in the human body to compensate
for a defect or disability;

The supply or import of wheel chairs, prepared
culture media for development of micro
organisms, diagnostic or laboratory reagents,
surgical gloves, contact lenses, X-ray tubes,
white canes for the blind and Braille typewriters
and parts;

The supply of services in relation to burials and
cremations by the government, a Provincial
Council, a local authority or any other person:

The supply of free or subsidised meals by an
employer to his employees at their places of
work :


Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 83

(xxxi) The supply of transport free or at a subsidized

(XXxXti)

(Xxxili)

(xxxiv)

(xxxv)

(XXXVI)

rate by an employer to his employees using a
vehicle on which the input tax has been
disallowed or a motor coach provided by such
employer to transport employees to and from
their homes and their place of work ;

The import of personal items and samples in
relation to business worth not more than
Rupecs !0,000/- through parcel post or courier.

The supply or import of pharmaceutical
products (other than cosmetics) and raw
materials for such products ;

The supply or import of ayurvedic preparations
which belong to the Ayurveda pharmacopocia
or Ayurveda preparations (other than cosmetic
preparations) or unani, siddha or homeopathic
preparations (other than cosmetic preparations)
and raw materials for such preparations.

The supply or import of agricultural tractors ;
The supply or import of agricultural machinery.

SECOND SCHEDULE

(i) The supply of electricity exceeding 30 kwh per
consumer as defined under the Electricity Act,
(Chapter 205) per month. and the supply of
electricity in bulk to the national grid ;

(ji) The supply of services by construction contractors
or sub-contractors ;

Gii) The supply of services by hotels, guest houses,
restaurants or similar institutions and travel agents
in relation to inbound tours ; ,


84

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vil)

(viii)

(ix)

(x)

(x1)

(xii)

(xiii)

(x1v)

Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002

The supply of cinematic fitms, other than video films.
either produced in Sri Lanka of imported into Sri
Lanka import of such films, exhibition of such films
and theatrical productions ;

The supply of educational services other than
services referred 10 in item (vi) of the First Schedule:

The supply or import of coconut poonac, prawn eed,
and poultry feed.

The supply or import of tea, coconut oil, potatocs.
onions, chillies. copra, vegetable seeds (other than
seed paddy), planting materials, live birds, day old
chicks, dressed chicken including chicken parts and
any other variety of unprocessed meat:

The supply or import of magazines and journals:

The supply or import of powdered milk (other than
infants powdered milk,) condensed milk and lentils:

The supply or import of sugar, jaggery and sakkata :

The supply or import of dried fish. maidive fish.
fertilizer including rock phosphate and water:

The supply or import of petrol. diesel. fuel. liquitied
petroleum gas;

The supply or import of motor coaches and chassis
or bodies of motor coaches with twenty cight or more
sealing capacity, used for public passenger transport
as described under item (xvii) of the First Schedule.

The supply or import of photo voitaic, solar batteries.
energy, efficient compact fluorescent lamps and
spare parts for such lamps and Solar Home Systems:


(xvi)

(xvi)

(xvil)

(xviit)

(xix)

(Xx)

(xxi)

Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 85

The supply of services in relations to the fees
collected by the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign
Employment from prospective migrants;

The supply or import of industrial machinery other
than fans and parts, air conditioners, refrigerators.
cabinets for refrigerators, dish washing machines
(house hold type), personal weighing machines, lawn
or sports ground rollers and spares, lawn movers and
parts, household washing machines, houschold type
sewing machines, but including electric motors and
generators, electric generating sets and rotary
converters and parts for such motors, gencralors,
generating sets and converters;

The supply of services in the course of carrying ona
profession or vocation either singly or jointly with
another person or persons, if all such persons are
qualified members of a recognized professional body
or carrying on a vocation in the fields of literature,
art, music or any other fine art ;

The supply of leasing facilitics by a person registered
under Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000;

The supply of land transport services to transport
goods;

The collection of membership fee or similar charges
from the members of a society, club or association.

The supply or import of bicycles and motor bicycles.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local). Rs. 1, 180(Foreign).

payable to the SuPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PusuicaTions Bureau, No. 32, Transworks Houst..
Lotus Roap. Cocomao 04 before 15th December cach year in respect of the year following.

aan
