PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
5th Session 1969-70

Criminal Procedure Code

(Amendment) Act,
No. 38 of 1969

Date of Assent: December 28, 1969

_. Printed on the Orders of Government
and published as a Supplement to Ceylon Government Gazette,
Part II of January 2, 1970

Printed at the Department oF GOVERNMENT PrinTING, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Burkavu, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40

(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GovERNMENT

Pustications Bureau, P. O. Box 500, CoLtomso 1, before 20th

December each year in respect of’ the year following. ie

subscriptions will be accepted on the condition Nie ills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplie<


Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 88 of 1969 *

L. D.—O. 57/68.

An ACT TO AMEND THE CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE.
{Date of Assent: December 28, 1969 |

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives. of Ceylon in this present-

Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the «

same, as follows:— .. ee * Fs

4. This Act may be cited ‘as. the Criminal
Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1969.
2. Section 2 of the. Criminal Procedure Code

(hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘ principal -enact-
ment’) is hereby amended by . the insertion,

Short title.

Amendment of

* section 2 of

, Chapter 20.

immediately after the definition of “ Registrar ”” ” » of .

the following new definition :—

“ “ Registrar of Finger Prints ” means.any person -

appointed to be or to act as Registrar of
Finger Prints,’ and includes any person
appointed to be or to act as Assistant
Registrar of Finger Prints; ’

_ 8. Section 406 of the principal enactment, as last
amended by Act No. .13 of 1968, is Hereky further
amended as follows: —

(1) in sub-section (8) of hag section—

(2) by the substitution, for the expression
“* Government Examiner of
Questioned Documents, may be
used ’’, of the expression ‘‘ Govern-
ment Examiner of Questioned
Documents, or any document
purporting to be a report under the

and of the Registrar of Finger
Prints upon any matter or thing
examined by such Registrar for a
finger-print, palm print or footprint,
may be used

B 60542—5,728 (70/1)

Amendment of
section 4U6

of the
principal
enactment.


>) Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 38 of 1969

(b) in the proviso to that sub-section, by the

substitution, for all the words from
“© Government Examiner of
Questioned Documents ”’ to the end of
that proviso, of the following :—

** Government Examiner of
Questioned Documents with the
document in respect of which his
report is so needed, or of proving
the identity of the matter or thing
examined by such Registrar of
Finger Prints with the matter or
thing in respect of which his
report is so needed. ’’;

(2) in sub-section (4) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, for the expression

‘‘or the Government Examiner of
Questioned Documents or a Govern-
ment Radiologist referred ’’’, of the
expression ‘‘or the Government
Examiner. of Questioned Documents
or the Registrar of Finger Prints or
a a ag Radiologist referred ”’;
an

(b) by the substitution, for the expression

** Government Examiner of
Questioned Documents or Government
Radiologist’, of the expression
‘“ Government Examiner of Ques-

‘tioned Documents or Registrar of

Finger Prints or Government
Radiologist ”’ ; “5

(3) in sub-section (5) of that section, by the

substitution, for the expression ‘‘ Govern-
ment Examiner of Questioned Documents ’’,
of the expression ‘‘ Government Examiner of
Questioned Documents or Registrar of
Finger Prints ’’; and _

(4) in the marginal note to that section, by the

Registrar of Finger Prints receivable °’.

substitution, for the -expression ‘‘ Govern-
ment Examiner of Questioned Documents
receivable ’’, of the expréssion ‘‘ Govern-
ment Examiner of Questioned Documents or

’

