PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
3rd. Sessiori’-1967-68°N

std
Co er
if 3 are
Nal 3 e
: te
yikes \

National Science Council of

Ceylon Act, No. 9 of
19638

Date of Assent: February 28, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SupreRINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PusBLIcaTIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 60 cents Postage: 10 cents


National Science Council of Ceylon
Act, No. 9 of 1968

L. D.--0. 4/65.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE
NATiONAL SCIENCE COUNCIL OF CEYLON AND FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH.

[Date of Assent: February 28, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the National
Science Council of Ceylon Act, No. 9 of 1968, and
shall come into operation on such date as the Minister
may appoint by Order published in the Gazette (in
this Act referred to as the ‘‘ appointed date ’’).

PART I.
THE NATIONAL SCIENCE COUNCIL OF CEYLON.

2. (1) There shall be established a council which
shall be called the National Science Council of
Ceylon (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘ the Council ’’)
and which shall consist of the persons who are for
the time being members of the Council under this
Part of this Act.

(2) The Council shall by the name assigned to it
by sub-section (1) be a body corporate and shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue
and be sued in such name. :

(3) The head office of the Council shall be in
Colombo or in such other place in Ceylon as may be
determined by the Council.

3. The functions of the Council shall be—
(1) to advise the Minister on— |

(a) the application of science and scientific
research to problems of national
importance for the general benefit
of the community;

(b) the co-ordination of research in the
various fields of scientific work with
a view to directing scientific work
into channels vital for national
development; .
H 9127—8,682 (11/67)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Establishment
of the National
Science Council
of Ceylon.

Functions of
the Council,


2 National Science Council of Ceylon
Act, No. 9 of 1968

(c) the steps that should be taken to maintain
an adequate supply of scientific and
technical personnel, having regard to
the country’s need, from time to time,
for such personnel; and

(7) matters of scientific policy including the
allocation of funds for scientific
research, and any other such matters
as the Minister may refer to the
Council for its advice;

(2) to initiate, promote and intensify fundamental
and applied research with a view to develop-
ing the economic resources of the country and
promoting the welfare of the people;

(3) to collect and disseminate information relating
to scientific and technical matters, and to
publish reports, periodicals and papers on
matters scientific and technical;

(4) to establish and maintain liaison with scientific
institutions and scientific workers in other
countries in matters relating to science and
scientific research; and

(5) to do such other things as may be necessary for
the advancement of science and scientific
research in Ceylon.

Powern of 4. The Council shall have such powers, rights and

iia authorities as may reasonably be necessary or expedi-
ent to carry out its functions, and in particular, it
may—

(2) institute and award research fellowships,
| studentships, scholarships, prizes and medals
for scientific work;

(b) erect, equip and maintain research units and
laboratories either independently or in asso-
ciation with organizations engaged in scien-
tific research in the public sector or in the
private sector;

(c) make grants in aid of specific research projects
carried on by any scientific body or institu-
tion ; .

(d) establish a research fund for the promotion of
scientific research in Ceylon;


Nutional Science Council of Ceylon 3
Act, No. 9 of 1968

(e) take and hold any property, movable or immov-
able, which may become vested in it by virtue
of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and subject to the
rules of the Council, sell, mortgage, lease,
grant, convey, devise, assign, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same;

(f) make rules in respect of the conduct of the
affairs of the Council; and

(g) do all such other acts or things as, in the
opinion of the Council, are necessary to
facilitate the proper carrying out of its
functions.

5. In the exercise of its functions and powers
under this Act, the Council shall comply with such
general or special directions as the Minister may, from
time to time, issue to the Council.

6. (1) The Council shall consist of twenty-one
members all of whom shall be appointed by the
Minister from among persons—

(a) who possess recognized scientific qualifications;
or

(b) who have been engaged in, or closely associated
with, the pursuit, promotion or application
of science; or

(c) who, in the opinion of the Minister, have
rendered distinguished service to science or
have made contributions to _ scientific
knowledge.

. (2) In making the appointments under sub-section
(1), the Minister shall ensure that at least one person
engaged in or closely associated with each of the
following categories of research is appointed as a
member of the Council :—

(2) Physical Science Research
(b) Biological Science Research
(c) Agricultural Research

(d) Industrial Research

(ec) Medical Research

(f) Social Science Research.

(3) A person shall be disqualified for being
appointed, or for continuing, as a member of the
Council, if he is or becomes a Senator or a Member of
Parliament.

Council to
comply with
Minister's
directions.

Constitution
of the Council.


Chairman and
Vice-Chairman
of the Council.

Term of office
of the members
of the Council.

Power of the
Minister to
remove from

office a member
of the Council.

Resignation
of members.

Casual
vacancies
among
members.

Temporary
appointments
of members of
the Council.

Eligibility of
members for
reappointment.

4 National Science Council of Ceylon
Act, No. 9 of 1968

7. (1) The Minister shall appoint one of the
members of the Council to be the Chairman of the
Council.

(2) The members of the Council shall from amongst
their number elect the Vice-Chairman of the Council.

8. Every member of the Council shall, unless he
earlier vacates office by death, resignation or
removal, hold office for a period of three years.

9. (1) The Minister may, if he considers it
expedient so to do, remove, by Order published in the
Gazette, any member of the Council without reason
stated.

(2) A member of the Council in respect of whom
an Order under sub-section (1) is made by the
Minister shall vacate his office on the date of the
publication of such Order in the Gazette.

(3) The removal of any member of the Council
under sub-section (1) shall not be called in question
in any court.

10. A member of the Council may at any time
resign his office by letter addressed to the Minister,
and such resignation shall not take effect until the
Minister intimates in writing to such member that
the resignation has been accepted.

41. (1) Ifa member of the Council dies or resigns
or is removed from office, the Minister may, having
due regard to the provisions of section 6, appoint any
other person to be a member in place of the member
who dies or resigns or is removed from office.

(2) A member appointed under sub-section (1),
shall, unless he earlier resigns or vacates office by
death or removal, hold office for the unexpired part
of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

12. Where a member of the Council is by reason
of illness, infirmity or absence from Ceylon, tempo-
rarily unable to perform the duties of his office, the
Minister may, having due regard to the provisions of
section 6, appoint another person to act in his place.

13. Any member of the Council who vacates office,
other than a member who is removed from office under
section 9, shall be eligible for reappointment.


National Science Council of Ceylon 5
Act, No. 9 of 1968

14. No act or proceeding of the Council shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of
any vacancy amongst its members or defect in the
appointment of any member thereof.

15. (1) The seal of the Council shall be in
the custody of the Council.

(2) The seal of the Council may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Council.

(3) The application of the seal of the Council shall
be authenticated by the signature of the Chairman of
the Council or some other member of the Council
authorized by the Council to authenticate the appli-
cation of the seal, and of the officer of the Council

who is designated the Secretary-General of the Coun-

cil or some other officer of the Council authorized by
name by the Council to act in his stead in that behalf.

16. The members of the Council shall not be paid
any remuneration, but shall be reimbursed from the
Fund of the Council for such travelling, hotel and
incidental expenses as they may incur for the purpose
of attending meetings of the Council or for such
other purpose connected with the activities of the
Council as may be approved by the Council.

17. (1) The meetings of the Council shall be held
once at least in every two months.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Council
shall be at least ten.

(3) The Chairman or in his absence the Vice-

Chairman, or in the case of the ahsence of both, a

member chosen hv the members present, shall preside
at a meeting of the Council.

. (4) All questions for decision at any meeting of the
Council shall be decided by the vote of the majority
of the members present. In case of an equality of
votes, the presiding officer shall have a casting vote.

(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of this

section, rules may be made under this Act in respect
of the meetings of the Council, the procedure to be

followed, and the business to be transacted, at such

meetings. .

Acts or pro-
ceedings of the
Council deemed
pot to be
ipvalid by
reason of any
vacancy, or
defect in the
appointment,
of a member.

Application of
the seal of t

Council.

Reimbursement
of expenses of ©
members of the
Council.

Meetings of
the Council.


Appointment of
the Secretary-
General and
other officers
and. servants
of the Council.

Powers of the
Council in
regard to the
staff of the
Council.

Appointment of
pubtic officers
to the staff of
the Council,

6 National Science Council of Ceylon
Act, No. 9 of 1968

PART II.
STAFF OF THE COUNCIL.

18. (1) The members of the Council shall, in
consultation with the Minister, elect from amongst
their number a Secretary-General who shall be the
chief executive officer of the Council, and who shall
be’ a whole-time officer of the Council.

(2) The Secretary-General—

(a) shall retire from office on reaching the age of
‘sixty years; and

(6) may at any time, with the prior approval of the
Minister, be removed from office. .

(3) The Council may appoint to the staff of the
Council such other officers and servants as the Council
may deem necessary.

19. (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act,
the Council may—

(a) dismiss and exercise disciplinary control over
the staff of the Council;

(5) fix the wages or salary or other remuneration of
such staff;

(c) determine the terms and conditions of the service
_ of such staff; and

(d) establish and regulate provident funds or
schemes for the benefit of such staff, and make
contributions to any such fund or scheme.

(2) Rules may be made under this Act in respect
of all or any of the matters referred to in sub-section
(1).

20. (1) At the request of the Council, any officer
in the public service may, with the consent of that
officer and the Secretary to the Treasury, be tempora-
rily appointed to the staff of the Council for such
period as may be determined by the Council with like
consent or be permanently appointed to such staff.

' (2) The provisions of sub-section (2) of section 9 of
the Motor Transport Act, No. 48 of 1957, shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply in relation to any officer in
the public service who is temporarily appointed to the


National Science Council of Ceylon 7
Act, No. 9 of 1968

staff of the Council, and the provisions of sub-section
(3) of the aforesaid section 9 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply in relation to any officer in the public service
who is permanently appointed to such staff.

(3) Where the Council employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which
he has agreed to serve the Government for a specified
period, any period of service to the Council by that

erson shall be regarded as service to the Government
for the purpose of discharging the obligations of such
contract.

(4) At the request of the Council, any officer or
servant of the Local Government Service Commission
or any local authority may, with the consent of that
officer or servant and that Commission or authority,
as the case may be, be temporarily appointed to the
staff of the Council for such period as may be deter-
mined by the Council with like consent, or be per-
manently appointed to the staff of the Council on such
terms and conditions, including those relating to
pension and provident fund rights, as may be agreed
upon by the Council and that Commission or
authority.

(5) Where an officer or servant of the Local Govern-
meut Service Commission or of any local authority is
temporarily appointed to the staff of the Council, he
shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as
any other member of such staff.

- (6) The employment in the staff of the Council of
any person appointed under this section shall not be
terminated except with the prior approval in writing
of the Minister.

(7) In this section, ** Jocal authority ’? means any
Municipal Council, Urban Council, Town Council or
Village Council.

PART III.
FINANCE.
21. (1) The Council shall have its own Fund.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the
Council—
(wz) all such sums of money as may be voted from

time to time by Parliament for the use of
the Council; and

The Fund of
the Council.


Borrowing
powers of the
Council.

Income of the
Council.

Accounts of
the Council and
financial year.

Estimate of
income and
expenditure of
the Council
for each
financial year
to be trans.
mitted to the
Minister.

8 National Science Council of Ceylon
Act, No. 9 of 1968

_ (b) all sums of money received by the Council in
the exercise, discharge and performance of
its functions, powers and duties.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the
Council all sums of money required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Council in the exercise,
discharge and performance of its functions, powers
ard duties and all such sums of money as are
Teawred to be paid out of such Fund by or under this

ct.

22. The Council may, with the consent of the
Minister, or in accordance with the terms of any
general authority given by the Minister, borrow tem-
purarily by way of overdraft, loan or otherwise, such.
sums as the Council may require for meeting the
obligations of the Council:

Provided that the aggregate of the amounts
outstanding in respect of any temporary loans raised
by the Council shall not exceed such sum as may be
determined by the Minister in consultation with the
Minister of Finance.

23. (1) The net surplus of the income of the
Council in any year may, with the approval of the
Minister,—

(a) be applied to any special purpose cunnected with

the functions of the Council; or

(5) be paid to a general reserve fund which may

be established and maintained by the Council.

(2) The income of the Council shall be exempt from
income tax.

24. (1) The Council shall cause its accounts to be
kept in such form and manner as may be approved by
the Minister.

(2) The financial year of the Council shall be the
period of twelve months commencing on the first day
of October.

25. (1) The Council shall, for each financial year,
prepare in such form as may be approved by the
Minister an estimate of the income and expenditure.
for that year.


National Science Council of Ceylon 9
Act, No. 9.of 1968

(2) The estimate referred to in sub-section (1) shall
be in duplicate and shall be transmitted to the Minis-
ter on or before the fifteenth day of March in the
financial year preceding the one to which it relates.

(3) Where any item of expenditure is not provided
for in such estimate, the prior approval of the
Minister to a supplementary estimate shall be
obtained before any expenditure is incurred in respect
of such item.

- 26. (1) The Council shall have its accounts for each
financial year audited by the Auditor-General.

(2) For the purpose of assisting him in the audit
of such accounts, the Auditor-General may employ
the services of any qualified auditor or auditors who
shall act under his direction and control.

(3) The Auditor-General and any person assisting
him in the audit of the accounts of the Council shall
have access to all such books, deeds, contracts,
accounts, vouchers and other documents of the Council
as the Auditor-General or such other person assisting
him in the audit of the accounts may consider neces-
sary for the purposes of the audit, and shall be
furnished by the members or officers of the Council

with such information within their knowledge as may

be required for such purposes.

(4) For the purpose of meeting the expenses incurred
by him in auditing the accounts of the Council, the
Auditor-General shall be paid from the Fund of the
Council such remuneration as the Minister may
determine with the concurrence of the Minister of
Finance. Any remuneration received from the
Council by the Auditor-General shall, after deductin
any sums paid by him to any qualified auditor employed
by him for the purpose of such audit, be credited to
the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

(5) For the purposes of this section, the expression
‘ qualified auditor ’? means—

¢

(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Ceylon, possesses a certificate to practise as
an Accountant issued by the Council of that
Institute; or

Andit of the
accounts of
the Council.


10 National Science Council of Ceylon
Act, No. 9 of 1968

- (b) a firm of Chartered Accountants each of the

| partners of which, being a member of that
Institute, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of
that Institute.

oe 27. (1) The Auditor-General shall examine the
Report. accounts of the Council and furnish a report—

(a) stating whether he has or has not obtained all
the information and explanations required
by him;

(b) stating whether the accounts referred to in the
report are properly drawn up so as to exhibit
a true and fair view of the affairs of the
Council; and

(c) drawing attention to any item in the accounts
which in his opinion may be of interest to the
Senate and the House of Representatives in
any examination of the activities and
accounts of the Council.

(2) The Auditor-General shall transmit his report
to the Council.

Annual accounts 28. The Council shall, on receipt of the Auditor-
mun ie General’s report on the accounts for each financial
report and a year, transmit such report together with the profit
report of the and loss account and the balance sheet to which the
pee Ot, We report relates, and a statement by the Council of its
transmitted to activities during that financial year to the Minister
the Minister. who shall cause copies thereof to be laid before the

Senate and the House of Representatives before the

end of the year next following the year to which such

report and accounts relate. |

PART IV.
GENERAL.

Power of 29. (1) The Council may make rules in respect of
cennet aloe: all or any matters for which rules are authorized or

required by this Act to be made.
(2) No rule made by the Council under this Act
shall have effect until it has been approved by the

Minister.

Members and 80. All members, officers and servants of the

employees of the Council shall be deemed to be public servants within
uncil deemed i
to be public the meaning of, and for the purposes of, the Penal

servants. Co de :


National Science Council of Ceylon 11
Act, No. 9 of 1968

31. The Council shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and
the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.

32. (1) Contracts on behalf of the Council may be

made as follows :—

(4) a contract which if made between private
persons would be by law required to be in
writing, may be made on behalf of the
Council in writing under the common seal
of the Council;

(b) a contract which if made between private

| persons would be by law required to be in
writing, signed by the parties to be charged
therewith, may be made on behalf of the
Council in writing signed by any person or
persons duly authorized thereto by the
Council; and .

(c) a contract which if made between private
persons would by law he valid although made
by parole only and not reduced into writing,
may be made on parole on behalf of the
Council by any person or persons duly
authorized thereto by the Council.

(2) A contract made according to this section shall
be effectual in law and shall bind the Council and all
parties thereto and their legal representatives.

(3) A contract made according to this section may
be waived or discharged in the same manner in which
it 1s authorized by this section to be made.

83. The Council or any person authorized in that
bebalf by the Council may by notice in writing require
any person to furnish to the Council or the person so
authorized within such period as shall be specified
in the notice, all such returns or information as may
be necessary for the Council under this Act and as are
within the knowledge of such person. ii

34. Any officer or servant of the Council who is
generally or specially authorized in that behalf by the
Council may, after giving at least three days’ notice
In writing to the owner or occupier of any land or
premises, enter upon such land or premises and there
do such acts as may be reasonably necessary for the
purpose of carrying out any work of the Council, or

The Council
deemed to be
a scheduled
institution
within the
meaning of the
Bribery Act. ..

Contracts.

Returns and
information.

Power to
enter any
land or

premises.


Offences and
penalties.

This Act to
prevail over
other written
law.

12 National Science Council of Ceylon
Act, No. 9 of 1968

of maxing any investigation or examination prelimi-
nary or incidental to the exercise of any power, or the
discharge of any function, of the Council.

35. (1) Every person who—

(2) knowingly makes any false or incorrect state-
ment in any return or other document made
or furnished under or for the purposes of
this Act; or

(b) fails or refuses to furnish any information or
return required under this Act to be
furnished by him; or ;

(c) resists or obstructs any person in the exercise,
discharge or performance of any power,
function or duty conferred or imposed upon
that person by or under this Act; or

(d) being a member or officer or servant of the
Council, discloses any information obtained
by him in, or in connection with, the exercise
of his powers or the performance of his
duties under this Act, to any person other
than a person to whom such information is
necessary for the purpose of the exercise of
any power, or the performance of any duty
under this Act; or

(e) contravenes or fails to comply with any provi-
sion of this Act or rule made under this
Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Every person who commits an offence under this
Act shall, on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding five
hundred rupees.

_ 86. The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything contained in any other law,
and accordingly in the event of any conflict or incor-
sistency between the provisions of this Act and such
other law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
