oi
=a
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
GOODS AND SERVICES TAX
; ACT, No. 34 of 1996 "i
+ [Certified on 23rd December , 1996]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 27, 1996. #
PRINTED ATTHE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRILANKA
"TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO I
Price : Rs. 35.85 Postage : Rs. 5.00


‘TABLE OF SECTIONS
Section Page
1 Short title and date of operation” ss a ae
‘Chapter I - Imposition of Tax :
2 Imposition of goods and services tax a m2)
3 Tax on wholesale and retail supplies oon oo 2
4 Time of supply aad Br, 2,
5 Value of supply of goods and services a Fie 3
6 Value of importation of goods a _ 5
7 Zero rating a aig 5
8 Exemption a ro 6
9 Godds or services supplied in SriLanka ... om 6)
Chapter II - Registration
10 Persons making supplies in the course of taxable «
activity to be registered at is 7
i Importers of goods to notify the Commissioner-General im 7
12 Voluntary registration os 8
13° Registered person rae as 8
14 Information to be given to Commissioner-General wos
15 Certificate of registration ~ 6 8B
16 Cancellation of registration Saye i 9
17 Registered person to retum certficates on cancellation... 10
18 Liability not affected on cancellation of registration saa HM
19 Registered person to notify certain changes oe ST
20 Tax invoice my ees
Chapter Ill - Returns and Calculation of Tax
21 Returns and information to be furnished we 3
22 Credit for input tax against output tax _ arallg,
23 Accounting basis a 1B
+ 24 Bad debts a ere)
25 Adjustment of tax by credit or debit notes... tae 19
Chapter IV - Payment of Tax
26 Payment of tax a a 20
27 Penalty for default iM eet 2
i
2—D041350—13,350 (96/08) :


Section Page
‘Chapter V - Assessment of Tax ed
28 Power of Assessor to make assessments ae os 22
29 Assessor to state why he is not accepting a retum  B
30 Power of Assessor to determine open market value ony 23
31 Additional assessment a - B
32 Evidence of returns and assessments za  B
33 Limitation of time for assessment or additional assessment “ 4
Chapter VI - Appeals
34 Appeals to the Commissioner-General & ee)
35 "Appeals to the Board of Review... ay we B
-36 Appeals on a question of law to Court of Appeal » aie 28
. Chapter VII - Finality of Assessment
and Penalty for Incorrect Returns
37 Assessments or amended assessments to be final we 28
38 Penalty for incorrect returns 2
. _ Chapter VIII - Recovery of Tax
39 Recovery of tax o i
40 ‘Tax to be a first charge - 29
«741 Notice to defaulter i 30
42 Recovery of tax by seizure and sale i we 30
43 Proceedings for recovery before a Magistrate ... oe 31
44 Recovery of tax out of debts etc., Pr 33
45 Recovery of tax from persons leaving Sri Lanka 4
46 Use of more than one means of recovery... oe: 35
47 ‘Power of Commissoner-General to obtain information
for the recovery of tax a we 35°
48 Recovery of tax from the principal officer and others 36
49 Delegation of Commissioner-General’s powers and functions... 36
. Chapter IX - Special Cases
50 Who may act for incapacitated persons... wa 36
. 51 Precedent partner to act on behalf of partnership oo 36
52 Principal officer to act on behalf of a company or body
of persons z m+ 3
53 Liability to pay tax in the case of cessation of
: taxable activity _ 37
4, 54 Liability of executor to pay tax a 38
55 Liability of certain persons to pay tax in respect of
F taxable activity not belonging to them... we (39
56 Joint agents, trustees and executors ae 39
57 Persons liable to pay tax upon liquidation of a 3
company or dissolution of a body of persons ... ee | 3D
ii


Section , Page
Chapter X - Refund of Tax
_ $8 + Refund of excess tax a, a)
59 Interest on refunds ae ae)
Chapter XI - Deduction of Tax from Payments
60 Deduction of tax from payments " a 4
Chapter XII - Miscellaneous
61 Signature and sevice of notices a we
62 Validity of assessments os oar’!
63 Power to search buildings or places, a a
64 Power to search where taxable activity is carried on _
or carried out wee Be
65 Keeping of records a me ay
Chapter XIII - Offences and Penalties
66 Penal provisions relating to breach of secrecy &c. 9, ss. 47
67 Penal provisions relating to fraud 7m 48
68 Penal provisions relating to returnsetc., a 48
69 Prosecution to be with the sanction of the
‘Commissioner-General ty a AD
70 Gompounding of offences 2a 50
Chapter XIV - Administration fous
71 Officers sd oh (ge tl= be A BD
72 Official secrecy — - we 5
73 Forms we we wun, SB
_ 74 Regulations o oo aes SB
‘s Chapter XV - Transitional Provisions
75 Transitional provisions sitll — ae" 53
Chapter XVI- Interpretation
76 Interpretation Be =m we 4
Schedule Be ae carp ST.
77 Sinhala text to prevail in case of inconsistency 60
iii


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
{Certified on 23rd December, 1996] * i

L.D.—O. 11/95
(AN ACTTO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF A TAX.

‘ON GOODS AND SERVICES SUPPLIED IN SRI LANKA OR IMPORTED

INTO SRI LANKA ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

’ INCIDENTAL THERETO. .

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist -
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :— )

1. This Act may be cited as the Goods and Services Tax Shor title and
Act, No. 34 of 1996 and shall come into operation on such date of operation.
date (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”) as the ‘
Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.

CHAPTERI ~
Imposition oF Goons AND SERVICES TAX
. 2. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, there shall be Peres of
aa ods and
charged at the time of supply nen
(a) on every taxable supply of goods or services made by
aregistered person, in a taxable period, in the course
of carrying on or carrying out a taxable activity in Sri
Lanka ; and
(6) on the importation of goods into Sri Lanka by any
person, .
a tax to be called the Goods and Services Tax (hereinafter
referred to as “the tax”) at such rate as may be fixed by the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette, by reference to the
value of such goods or services supplied or the goodsimported,
as the case may be.

(2) Every Order made by the Minister under subsection (1) *
shall come into force on the date ‘of its publication in the
Gazette or on such later date as may be specified in such Order
and shall be brought before Parliament for approval within ~
three months of the date of its publication in the Gazette. Any
such Order which is not so approved, shall be deemed to be '
revoked as from the date of its disapproval but without
prejudice tothe validity of anything previously done thereunder.

Notification of the date on which any such Order is deemed to :
_ be revoked shall be published in the Gazette.


2 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
* (3) The Tax on the importation of goods shall be charged,
evied and collected as if it were a customs duty and as if all
_ goods imported into Sri Laika are dutiable and liable to
customsduty. All regulationsand procedures under the Customs
Ordinance relating to the promotion of exports shall apply to
goods liable to tax, other than to goods which are imported and
are used in the manufacture of any article to be supplied in Sri

: Lanka to an exporter.
Taxonwhole-sale - 3, Notwithstanding anything in section 2; no tax shall be
‘andretail supplies. Jevied on any wholesale or retail supply of goods other than
on the wholesale or retail supply of goods by a manufacturer
. ‘or an importer of such goods :

Provided, however, such tax shall be levied on such
wholesale or retail supply of goods if any person registered
under section 10 or section 12 makes an application to the
Commissioner-General to that effect.

\ Time of supply. ‘4. (1) The time of supply of goods shall be, when —

(a) an invoice is issued in respect of the goods by the

supplier ; or
*(B) apayment for the goods is received by the supplier ; or

(©) apayment forthe goodsis due to the supplier in respect

of such supply ; or

(d) delivery of the goods have been effected,
whichever is the earliest.

(2) The time supply of services shall be when —

(@) the services are performed ; or

(a payment for the services or future services is

received ; or

(©) apayment for the services or future services is due ; or

(@) an invoice in respect of the services is issued,
whichever is the earliest. ‘


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 ° 3
(3) Notwithstaniding the provision of subsections (1) and
(2) a supply is deemed to take place —
(a) where a supply is made under an agreement, other than :
a hire purchase agreement, which provides for
periodical payments, when the payment is due or
when the payment is received, whichever is earlier ;
and
(6) where goods are supplied under a hire purchase
agreement, when the agreement is entered into.
5. (1) The value of taxable supply of goods or services, Value of supply
shall if the supply is~ > (evade
services.
(a). for a consideration in money, be such consideration c
less any tax chargeable under this Act and any excise
duty payable under the Excise (Special Provisions)
4 Act, No. 13 of 1989 and any national security levy
payable under the National Security Levy Act, No.
52 of 1991 which amount shall not be less than the
: ‘open market value ;
(b) notforconsideration in money ornot wholly consisting
of money, be the open market value of such supply.
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3) where a
supply of goods or services, is made by a registered person for
an amount which is less than the open market value and the
person to whom the supply was made is not a registered
person, the value in respect of that supply, shall be the open
market value of such supply.
(3) Where goods or services are supplied by an employer
to his employee as a benefit from employment, the value in
money for the supply shall be the open market value of such
supply or where the open market value of such supply cannot
be ascertained, the value in money of that supply shall be the -
cost of a similar benefit enjoyed by any other person, as may
be determined by the Assessor.
(4) Where a supply of services is made under any lottery,
or any taxable activity of entering into or negotiating a
wagering contract or any business of like nature, the value of
such supply shall be the total amount of money receivable in
respect of such supply less the consideration of the prizes or ,
winnings awarded in such lottery, such contract, or any 2
business of like nature as the case may be.


4 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
(5) Where goods or services —
_ @ are’supplied by aperson afier the time of cancellation
of the registration under section 16 ; or
F (ii) are supplied to any person who makes supplies
which are exempted under section 8 ; or .
(iii) are supplied to any person, not being a registered
person or being a registered person who has not
: " made an application in accordance with the
provisions of section 3 and who carries onorcarries
+ out any wholesale or retail trade jor *
(iv) are appropriated by the supplier for his personal use
a or any other purpose other than the making of a
taxable supply,
- the value of such supply shall be not less than the open market
value.

(6) Where the consideration in respect of a supply of
goods or services relates (0 a taxable supply and a supply
which isnot taxable, the consideration for such taxable supply
shall be deemed to'be such part of the consideration as is
attributable to such taxable supply and shall not be less than
the open market value of such taxable supply.

. (7) Where goods are manufactured or produced by using
any other goods, whether provided by the supplier or any other
person such other goods shall be deemed to be used in the
‘manufacture or production and the value of the supply of the
‘goods so manufactured or produced and the supply of services

= in connection with such manufacture or production shall be
the open market value or the amount of consideration
received for, such supply whichever is higher :

Provided however, where itis proved to the satisfaction of
an Assessor that the supply of goods, and the supply of
services are two separate supplies, the Assessor shall treat .

._# each such supply as a separate supply.

(8) The value of the supply of goods under a hire purchase

agreement shall be the cash price determined in accordance
: with the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act, No. 29 0f
1982, and shall not be less than the open market value.


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 5
(9) The value of the supply of land shall be the value of
improvements effected on such land after the appointed date
and shall not be less than the open market value.
(10) Where goods or services are supplied either on the
issue of a ticket or by the deposit of money the value of such
supply shall be the amount paid for such ticket or the amount
deposited, not being any amount which is refundable as the
case may be.
6. (1) The value of goods, imported shall betheaggregate Value of importa
of " tion of goods
. (a) the value of the goods determined for the purpose of
Customs duty ; and 5
(6) the amount of any Customs duty payable, including
any surcharge and any cess on the goods ;
(2) Incalculating the value of any goods for the purposes :
of subsection (1) there shall be included an amount charged in
respect of any—
*  @ wrapper, package, box, bottle or other container in
which the goods concerned are contained ; .
(b) other goods contained in, orattached to, such wrapper,
package, box, bottle or other container ; and
(c) amount that the purchaser has to pay to the vendor by
reason of, or in respect of , the sale in addition to the
amount charged as price (whether payable at the
same time or some other time) including any amount
charged for, or to make provision for, advertising,
financing, servicing, warranty, commission,
transportation, erection or any other matter.
7. (1) A supply of — Zero rating.
(@)_ goods shall be zero rated where such supply has been
exported by the supplier ;
(6) services shall be zero rated where stich supply is
directly connected with —


. 6 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
(i) any movable or immovable property outside Sri
_ Lanka ;

ii) any repair of any foreign ship or aircraft, refur-
bishment of marine cargo containers or any
other goods imported for the purpose of
re export ;

ii) @ copyright, patent, licence, trade mark or
similar intellectual property right, to the
extent that, such right is for use outside ©
Sri Lanka,

(2) Where a registered person supplies any goods or
services which is zero rated then—
(a) no tax shall be charged in respect of such supply ;
() the supply in all other respects be treated as a
taxable supply and’ accordingly the rate at
which tax is as charged on the supply shall be
zero.
Exemption. 8. The provisions of this Act shall not apply to the supply
of goods or services and the importation of goods set out in the
Schedule to this Act other than any such goods as are zero
rated under section 7.
Goods or services 9. Goods or services shall for the purposes of this Act be
sie regarded as being supplied in Sri Lank when the supplier -
carries on or carries out a taxable activity in Sri Lanka and the
‘goods are in Sri Lnaka at the time of supply or the services are
performed in Sri Lanka by the supplier or his agent.
\. -


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 0f 1996 7
Z CHAPTER I
REGISTRATION
10. (1) Every person: who on or after the appointed date. Persons_ making
carries on or carries out any taxable activity in Sri Lanka sree ee
shall be liable to be registered under this Act if— venatioeginbe
_ @), atthe end of any taxable period the total value of his. ‘8d.
taxable supplies of goods or services or goods and
services made in Sri Lanka in that taxable period .
has exceeded two hundred thousand rupees ; or c
(b) inthe four taxable periods then ending, the total value
ofhis taxable supplies of goods orservices or goods
and services made in Sri Lanka has exceeded seven. .
hundred thousand rupees ; or
(c)_atany time there are reasonable grounds to believe af
that the total value of his taxable supplies of goods
orservicesor goods and services in ataxable period
is likely to exceed two hundred thousand rupees or -
in the four succeeding taxable periods is likely to -
exceed seven hundred thousand rupees.
(2) Every persons who is liable to be registered under sub- :
section (1) shall make an application in the specified form not
later than fifteen days from the date on which he becomes so
liable.
For the purpose of this section total value of taxable
supplies shall not include the supplies of any wholesale or ‘
retail trading activity not being the trading activities carried on
by a manufacturer of the goods or as an importer of those
goods. .
11. (1) Every person who is an importer of goods into Sri Importers of
Lanka shall be liable to notify the Commissioner-General not £0088 10 notify
‘ a Commissioner-
later than fourteen days priorto theclearing of such goods,and General,
obtain from the Commissioner-General an identification
‘number for the clearing of such goods :
Provided however, a person who imports into Sri Lanka : 4
200d for his personal use or a person who is registered under
section 10 or section 12 shall not be liable to notify the :
‘Commissioner-General.


8 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
ot (2) Every importer liable to notify the Commissioner-
General and obtain an identification number under subsection
(1) shall make an application in the specified form to the
Commissioner-General. i
Voluntary 12, Nowithstanding the provisions of sections 3 and 10
registration. any person, including an importer carrying on or carrying out
a taxable activity may make an application in the specified
form for registration under this Act.
Registered 13. Where any person—
person.
(@) makesan application for registration undersection 10
. or section 2, suich person shall be registered under
this Act ;

(6) hasnotmadean application for registration but where
the Commissioner-General is of opinion having
regard to the nature and the transactions carried on

_ orcarried out by him, that such person is liable to
beregistered under this Act, he shall after affording
. : such person an opportunity of being heard, register
such person with effect from such date as may be

determined by him.
Information to be 14. For the purposes of registering a persén under section
given to 13 the Commissioner-General may call for any information
Gammissioner- from such person at any time relating to any taxable activity

° carried on or carried out by him.
Copeot 15. (1) TheCommissioner-General shall, upon registering
. Sean a person, issue— :

(a) atax registration number ; and

(b) acentficate of registration,

to such person.

(2) The certificate of registration shall set out the name
and other relevant details of the registered person, the date on
which registration comes into effect, and the tax registration

number of such person,
_


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 0f 1996 9

(3) The person to whom a certificate of registration is -
issued under subsection (1) shall, display such certificate at
conspicuous the place where he carries on or carries out the

~ taxable activity. Copies of such certificate may be displayed
in the event of there being more than one place of business.

(4) Whereany person failstocomply with therequirements
of subsection (3) the Commissioner-General may—

(a) imposeon such personapenalty of asumnotexceeding s
fifty thousand rupees and give notice in writing to
such person of the imposition of such penalty ;
(b) by notice in writing require such person—
(i) to pay such penalty ; and é
(ii) to comply with the requirements of subsection '
(3) within such period as may be specified in
such notice.

(5) The Commissioner-General may reduce, or annul any £
penalty imposed on any person under paragraph (a) of *
subsection (4) if such person proves to the satisfaction of the.
Commissioner-General that his failure to comply with the
requirements of subsection (3) was due to circumstances *;
beyond his control and that he has subsequently complied .
with such requirements.

16. (1) A registered person may make an application to Cancellation of,
have his registration cancelled at any time after the lapse of _'esistration.
eight successive taxable periods following the date of
registration where such registered person has ceased to carry
‘on or carry out a taxable activity or the total value of his .
taxable supplies for such taxable periods does not exceed the
value set out in section 10.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall, subject to the
provisions of subsection (3) where he is, satisfied that such
person has ceased to carry on or carry out a taxable activity or
that the total value of his taxable supplies does not exceed the
value set out in section 10, cancel his registration.


10 - Goods and Services Tax Act; No. 34 of 1996
3) The Commissioner-General may refuse to cancel the
registration of any person registered under section 10 or
~ section 12 where the Commissioner-General is of the opinion
that such person has-not ceased to carry on or carry out a
taxable activity or that itisnecessary andexpedienttocontinue
with his registration for the protection of revenue.
(4) Where the Commissioner:General cancels the
. registration.of any person he shall inform such registered
person of the date of cancellation of the registration by

. registered post.

e (8) With effect from the date of cancellation of the
registration, any goods or services then forming part of the
assets of a taxable activity carried on or carried out by that

7 person shall be deeined to be supplied by that person in the
course of carrying on or carrying out a taxable activity at a
time immediately prior to the date of cancellation, unless the
taxable activity (inclusive of all such assets) is carried on or
carried out by another person who is a registered person.

Registered person" 17, (1) Where the registration of any person has been
tere cancelled by the Commissioner-General, such person shall—
certificate on
cancellation, (@ not later'than fourteen days from the last day of the
: last taxable period during which the registration
. ‘was valid, return to the Commissioner-General the
certificate of registration issued to him; *

: (8) not, display in any place where such taxable activity *
is carried on or carried out, the certificate, of
registration or a copy thereof ; and

(€) not issue any tax invoice, tax debit note or tax credit
note as the case may be. :
(2) Whereany person failstocomply with the requirements
. of subsection (1) the Commissioner-General may—
F (a) impose onsuch persona penalty ofasum notexceeding
fifty thousand rupees, and give notice in writing to
: __= Such person of the imposition of such penalty ;
= . (6) by notice in writing require such person—
(i) to pay such penalty ; and
Gi) comply with the requirement of subsection (1)
within such period as may be specified in
. such ftotice.


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 I !

(3) The Commissioner-General may reduce, or annul any
penalty imposed on any person“under paragraph (a) of
subsection (2) if such person proves to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner-General that his failure to comply with the
requirements of subsection (1) was due to circumstances
beyond his contro! and that he. has subsequently complied
with such requirements.

18. Notwithstanding the cancellation of the registration Liability not
under section 16,aregistered person,shallbeliableforany act SNceatby
done or omitted to be done while he remained a registered ‘egistration
person in respect of the taxable supplies made by him,

19. Every registered person shall notify the Registered person
Commissioner-General in writing of — to notify gertain

changes:

(a) any change, in the name, address and place, at which

any taxable activity is carried on or carried out by
such person ;

(6) any change in the nature of the taxable activity carried

on or carried out by him;
(c) any change in the person authorized to sign returns
and other documents ; and

(@) any change in ownership of the taxable activity,
not later than fourteen days after the occurrence of the change.

20. (1) A registered person who makes a taxable supply Tax invoice.
shall issue to another registered person to whom a supply is
made a tax invoice not later than fourteen days after the time.
of such supply.

(2) The tax invoice shall set out—

++ (@) the name, address and the registration number of
the supplier ;
() thename, address and registration number to whom
the supply was made ;
(c) the date on which the tax invoice was issued and its
serial number ; :
2-D41350


12 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 L

(@ the date of supply and description of the goods or
services ;

(©) the quantity or volume of the supply ; and

(A) the value of the supply, the amount of any excise
duty payable under the Excise (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 13 of 1989, any nationed security levy
payable under the National Security Levy Act,
No. 52 of 1991, the tax charged and the
consideration for the supply.

(3) Where goods have been imported into Sri Lanka the
customs goods declaration or any other documentauthenticated
by the Director-General of Customs shall be treated as a tax
invoice.

(4) The original of the tax invoice shall be issued to the
person to whom the supply was made and the duplicate of
such invoice shall be retained by the person who makes such
supply, for a period of five years after the expiry of the taxable
period in which such invoice was issued.

(5) Itshall notbe lawful to issue more than onetax invoice -
for each supply. If a registered person claims to have lost the
original tax invoice, the person who makes the supply may
issue to such registered person a copy clearly marked “copy
only”. *

(6) Where a taxable supply is made by a registered person
toa person who is not registered, such registered person shall
issue an invoice, to such person who is not registered, setting-

‘out the consideration inclusive of the tax of such supply and
the rate of tax applicable to such supply. 2

(7) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, toa fine
not less than rupees twenty-five thousand and not exceeding
rupees two hundred and fifty thousand and thereafter in the
event of the offence being continued to be committed, after
conviction to a fine of rupees five hundred for each day on
which the offence is so continued to be committed.


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 13

(8) Where any person convicted of an offence under
subsection (7) continues tocommit such offence after a period
of fourteen days from the date of his conviction, the court may
upon an application for closure of the business being made by
the Commissioner-General or any officer authorized in that
behalf by the Commissioner-General order the closure of such
business.

(9) Inany case where such person failstocomply withthe 7
closure order issued under subsection (8), the Magistrate shall
forthwith order the fiscal of ike court requiring and authorizing
such fiscal before a date spBcified in such order not beinga > .
date earlier than three or later than seven clear days from the .
date of issue of such order to close such business. Such order
shall be sufficient authority for the said fiscal or any police
officer authorized by him in that behalf to enter the premises :
in which the business is carried on or carried out with such
assistants as the fiscal or such police officer shall deem
necessary to close such business.

CHAPTER III
RETURNS AND CALCULATION OF TAX

21. (1) Every registered person shall furnish, to the  Retums and
Commissioner-General not later than fifteen days after the information 10 be

: : . the fumished.
expiry of each taxable period a return of his supplies during
that taxable period. Every such return shall be in the specified
form and shall contain all such particulars as may be required
to be set out in such form.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1)—

(an exporter who is a registered person ; or

Gii) any registered person who is liable to pay, under

section 26 the tax on the taxable supplies made by
‘ such person in each month ; or

ili) any person, who has entered into an agreement with
the Board of Investement of Sri Lanka, being a
registered person, and referred to in item (xxvii) or
(xxviii) of the Schedule to this Act,


14 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996

shall furnishareturn for the firstand second month ina taxable.
period in respect of such taxable supplies made by him in such
month during the taxable period not later than fifteen days
after the expiry of such month.

(3) An Assessor may, by notice in writing, require.any
person who, in his judgment is a person chargeable with tax
notwithstanding the fact that he is not registered, to furnish, a
return in the specified form within the time specified in such
notice.

(4) For the purposes of obtaining full information in
respect of the supply of goods orservices made by any person,
an Assessor may give notice in writing tosuch person requiring

- him—

a (a) toproduce for examination or transmitto the Assessor,
within the period specified in such notice any
books of accounts whether contained in a manual,

” mechanical or electronic format or combination
thereof, trade lists, stock lists, registers, invoices,
cheques, bank statements, paying-in slips, accounts,
auditors reports or other documents in his possession
as may be specified in order to verify theentries in -
such books, documents and accounts ;

(®) toattend in person or by an authorized representative
at such place and on such date and at such time as
may be specified in the notice for the purpose of
being examined regarding the taxable activity
carried on or carried out by that person.

(5) For the purposes of this Act, a Deputy Commissioner
may give notice in writing to any person requiring him—

(a) toproduce or transmit to such Deputy Commissioner
within the period specified in such notice any
books of, accounts whether contained in a manual,
mechanical or electronic format or combination
thereof, trade list, stock lists, registers, invoices,
‘cheques, bank statements, paying in-slips, accounts,

: auditorsreportsorother documents in his possession
as may be specified in such notice ;


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 15
(b) toattend in person or by an authorized representative,
at such place and on such date and at such time as 7
may be specified in such notice so that he may be
examined on any such matter as may be specified
in such notice. *

(6) A person who attends in compliance with a notice
given under subsection (5) may be allowed by the
‘Commissioner-General any reasonable expenses necessarily
incurred by him in so attending.

(7) A Deputy Commissioner or an Assessor with the _
approval of a Deputy Commissioner, may retain inhis custody

. as long as such retention is necessary for the purpose of thi$
‘Act any books of accounts whether contained in a manual,
mechanical or electronic format or combination thereof, trade
lists, stock lists, registers, invoices, cheques; bank statements,
paying-in-slips, accounts, auditors reports or other documents
in his possession as may be specified in order to verify the
entries in such books, documents and accounts.

(8) An Assessor may give notice in writing to any person

. where he thinks necessary, requiring him to furnish within the
time specified in such notice—

(a) fuller or further returns ; or
(b) fuller or further information relating to any matter as
- will in the opinion of the Assessor be necessary or
relevant for the assessment to tax payable by such
person.

(9) Areturn, statement or form purporting to be furnished
lunder this, Act by or on behalf of any person shall for all
purposes be deemed to have been furnished by that person or
by his authority, as the case may be, unless the contrary is
proved, and any person signing such return, statement or form
shall be deemed to be congnizant of all-matters contained
therein, é


16 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
(10) Where any person fails to comply with the
. requirements of subsection (1) or fails to comply with the
requirements of a notice given to him by an Assessor
under subsection (3) directing him to furnish within the
time specified in such notice, a return containing such
particulars as the Assessor may require, the Commissioner-
General may—

(a) imposes on such person a penalty of a sum not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees, and give notice in
writing to such person of the imposition of such,
penalty ; *

(6) by notice in writing requige such person—

(i) to pay such penalty ; and
i) to furnish the return he is required to furnish
under subsection (1) if such return has not
been furnished or to comply with the
requirements of the notice given to him under
subsection (3) if such requirements have not
te been complied with, as the case may be,
. within such period as may be specified in
such notice. .

(11) The Commissioner-General may reduce or annul any
penalty imposed on any person under paragraph (a) of
subsection (10) if such person proves to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner-General that his failure to comply with the
requirments of subsection (1) or the direction under subsection
(3),as the case may be, was due to circumstances beyond his
control and that he has subsquently complied with such
requirements or direction.

(12) Where a penalty is imposed under subsection (10) for
failure to furnish a return under subsection (1) or to comply
with a direction under subsection (3) such person shall not be
liable to prosecution forany offence under section 68 (f)relating
to that return or notice.

Po


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 17
22. (1) A registered person shall, in respect of taxable Credit for input
supplies made by him, account forand pay the tax by reference  '2* against output
tosuch taxable periods at suchtimeandinsuchmannerasmay ‘*
be specified in this Act.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a registered
person is entitled at the end of each such period to credit for so
much of his input tax as is allowable under this Act. and then
to deduct such amount from any output tax that is due from
him.
(3) Where goods or services supplied to a registered
person, or goods imported by him, are used or to be used partly
for the purposes of a taxable actitivity carried on or carried out
by him and partly for other purposes, the tax on supplies and :
importations shall be apportioned so that only so much of the
tax on such supply or importation asisreferrabletohistaxable
activity shall be counted as his input tax.
. (4) Where any return is furnished under section 21, and if
atthe end of any taxable period to which the return relates, the
amount of the input tax exceeds the amount of the output tax
the excess of the imput tax shall not be refunded but shall be
set off against the output tax of the next succeeding taxable
period and so on. Any residue of such excess as has not been
‘so set off in the period of six months from the end of the period
in which such excess first arose shall subject to provisions of
section 58 be refunded and where it is not so refunded, the
Commissioner-General shall pay interest, at such rate as is
prescribed under section 59 in such amount, for the period
commencing on the expiration of one month from the end of
such taxable period in which the refund became due and F
‘ending on the date of the refund :
Provided, however, that where in any month in a taxable
period —
(@) the value of zero rated supplies was not less than fifty
per centum of the total taxable supplies forthat month,
such part of the excess of the input tax (inclusive of any


18 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 :
‘excess brought forward from a preceding month) as is
equivalent to the proportion that zero rated supplies-
bear to the total taxable supplies, or

(6) there is a excess of input tax in such month of such
taxable period in the case of a person, referred to in
paragraph (iii) of subsection (2) of section 21, during
the period referred to in item (xxvii) or (xxviii) to the
‘Schedule to this Act such excess, ;
shall be refunded, subject to the provisions of section
‘58 not later than one month immediately after the end
of the taxable period in which the excess arose. In the
event of failure to pay such refund within such period,
interest on such refund shall be payable from the date
onwhichthe refund becomesdueto the date of payment
thereof at such rate as may be prescribed under
section 59.

(5) Any input tax attributable to the supply of goods or

services shall not be deducted under subsection (2) in respect
fe of the following -—

() if the supply is in respect of motor vehicles, other
than motor cycles, bicycles, motor coaches
provided by an employer for the transportation of
his employees, motor vehicles used for excursion

__ tours, forthe transportation of tourists, hiringcars,
or for the transportation of any goods ;
ii) if the supply of goods or services is not connected
with the taxable activity ;
(iii) if the supply is not supported by a tax invoice, or a
customs goods declaration or other authenticated
. document issued by the Director-General, of
‘Customs.
‘Accounting basis. 23, ‘Every registered person shall account for tax on an
invoice basis : .


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 19

Provided however that, the Commissioner-General may
direct such person to account for tax on a payment basis on ”
such conditions as may be prescribed on an application made
in that behalf by a registered person.

2A. Inascertaining theamountoftax payableinany taxable Bad debs.
period, there shall be deducted an amount of tax corresponding
toany bad debt incurred in the taxable activity of a registered
person and which has become bad during such taxable period.

_ Theamountof tax deductible shall notexceed the amount paid
as tax ina previous taxable period in respect of the debt which
is to be written off :

Provided that if any amount is received in any taxable
period by that person on account of the bad debt so written off,
notwithstanding the provisions of section 33, the amount
received shall be treated as a taxable supply during the

_ taxable period in which it was received and shall be liable to
tax.

25. (1) Where a registered person, has issuedatax invoice Adjustment of ux
and accounted for an incorrect amountof tax by undercharging _ Y credit or debit-
or overcharging tax on a supply made to another registered "'**
person, he shall be entitled to issue to such other person a tax

+ debit note or a tax credit note, as the cas@ may be for the
purpose of adjusting the amount of tax so undercharged or
overcharged,

(2) Upon the issue of the tax debit note or tax credit note as
the case may be, in respect of a supply and in relation to the -
period in which such note was issued—

(@) the supplier shall pay as output tax such amountof the
tax that was chargeable in respect of the supply as
is in excess of the amount that was accounted for,
‘ordeduct as input tax such amountas was accounted
for as output tax as exceeds the amount of tax

ens chargeable ; and


20, Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
(b) the person to whom the supply was made shall pay as
| Output tax such amount of the tax that was
deducted by him as input tax as exceeds the proper
amount that should have been deducted or deduct
‘as input tax such amount as was deductible as -
exceeds the actual amount deducted by him, as the
case may be.

(3) The tax debit note or tax credit note referred to in

‘subsection (1) shall be in the specified form.
‘CHAPTER IV
PAYMENT OF TAX
Payment of tax. 26. (1) The tax in respect of any taxable period shall be
paid not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the
end of that taxable period. Any tax not so paid shall be deemed
tobe in default and the person by whom such tax is payable or
where any tax is payable by more than one person, each such
person shall be deemed to be a defaulter for the purposes of
this Act:

Provided however, where the value of the taxable supplies
for any taxable period exceeds five million rupees, or such
other amount as may be determined by the Minister by Order
published in the Gazette, the tax calculated as provided in
section 22 in respect of the taxable supplies made in every
month following such taxable period shall be paid not later
than the fifteenth day of the succeeding month until the value
of the taxable supplies ceases to exceed five million rupees or
such other amount as may be determied by the Minister and
any tax not so paid shall be deemed to be in default :

,


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 21
Provided further where a return for the first or the second #
‘month has not been furnished by any person in any taxable
period as provided for in section 21, the tax in default for such
month shall be deemed to be an amount equal to one-third of
the tax payable for sich taxable period. :
27. (1) Where any tax is in default, the defaulter shall, in Penalty for
addition to such tax in default pay as penalty— setae, .
(@) sum equivalent to ten per centum of the amount in
default ; and
(b) where the amount in default is not paid before the
fifteenth day of the month succeeding the month in
which such tax has begun to be in default, a further
‘sum, equivalent to two per centum of the amount in
default in respect of each period ending on the
fifteenth day of each succeeding month or part of
such period during which it is in default :
Provided however, that the total amount payable as penalty
under this subsection shall in no case exceed one hundred per
centum of the tax in default and any such amount may be
waived or reduced if the Commissioner-General is satisfied
that by reason of any special circumstances in which the
default occured waiver or reduction of such amount would be
+ just and equitable.
(2) Where upon the final determination of an appeal under
Chapter VI, any tax in defaultto which any sumorsumsunder’ ~
‘subsection (1) has or have been added, is reduced, then such
‘sum or sums shall be calculated on the tax so reduced.


22 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
CHAPTER V
E [ASSESSMENT OF TAX
Power of 28. (1) Where— .
a cake (a) any registered person who in the opinion of the
, 7 ~ . Assesor is chargeable with tax, fails to furnish a
return for any taxable period ; or

(6) any registered person, who is chargeable with tax,

furnishes a return in respect of any taxable period
but fails to pay the tax for that taxable period ; or
(©) any person requests the Commissioner-General in
writing to make any alteration or addition to any
return furnished by such person for any taxable
period, :

thé Assessor shall assess the amount of the tax, which such
person, in the judgment of the Assessor, ought to have paid for
that taxable period and shall, by notice in writing, require that
person to pay such amount forthwith. The amount so assessed
in respect of any person for a taxable period shall, be deemed
. to be the-amount of the tax payable by him for that taxable

period. .

(2) Anassessement made under subsection (1) in respect
of any person for any taxable period shall not affect the
liability of such person toa penalty under section 27 as though
the amount assessed was the amount of tax due from him for
that taxable period.

(3) Where, in the opinion of the Assessor, the amount
paid as tax for any taxable period by any person who has failed

. to furnish a return in respect of a taxable period is less than the
actual amount payable by that person for that taxable period,
the Assessor shall assess the amount which, in the judgement
of the Assessor, ought to have been paidiby such person and
shall, by notice in writing, require that person to pay on or
before a date specified in that notice, the difference between
the amount so assessed and the amount paid by that person.


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 23

(4) Where an assessment is made under subsection (3) in
respect of any person for any taxable period the difference
between the amount so assessed and the amount paid by that

+ person as tax for the taxable period as provided in section 26,
shall be the tax in default for that taxable period and accordingly
such person shall, from the date on which such person ought
tohave paid the tax for that taxable period, be liable in respect
of that amount to the penalty.

29. Where the Assessor does notacceptareturn furnished Assessor to state
by any person under section 21 for any taxable period and why be isnot
makesanassessmentoran additional assessmentundersection °°*Pting a return.
28 or under section 31 respectively on that person for that :
taxable period he shall communicate to such person by
registered letter sent through the post why he is not accepting
the return. .

30. Where the Assessor is of opinion that a registered Power of Assessor
person has madea taxable supply foravaluelessthantheopen t0determine open
market value or for no value in order to avoid the payment of ™#et value.
tax, he shall determine the value of such supply as the open
market value. .

31. (1) Where it appears to an Assessor that a person Additional
chargeable with tax has for any taxable period paid as tax an sssessment.
amount less than the proper amount of the tax payable by him
for that taxable period, or chargeable from him forthatperiod, -
the Assessor may, at any time, assess such person on the
additional amount at which, according to the judgement of
such Assessor, tax ought to have been paid by such person.

The Assessor shall give notice of assessment to such person.

(2) Where an assessment is made under subsection (1) in
respect of any person for any taxable period, the amount so
assessed shall be deemed to be the tax in default for that
taxable period and accordingly such person shall, from the
date on which such person ought to have paid the tax for that
taxable period be iableto the penalty inrespecttosuch amount.

32. The production of any document underthe hand ofthe — Evidence of
‘Commissioner-General purporting to be a copy of or extract retums and
from any return or assessment made under this Act shall be assessments.
admissible in all courts and shall be sufficient evidence of the

- Original.


24 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
Limitation of time. 33, (1) Where any registered person has furnished a
foressessment oF return in respect of any taxable period or has been assessed for
peel tax in respect of that period, it shall not be lawful for the

‘Assessor where an assessment —
‘ (a) has not been made, to make an assessment ; or

(b) has been made, to make an make additional
assessment,

after the expiration of three years from the end of the taxable.

period in respect of which the assessment was made or the

feturn was furnished as the case may be.

(2) Notwithstanding anything in subsection (1) where the
Assessoris of opinion thata person has wilfully or fraudulently
failed tomakea full and| true disclosure of all the material facts
necessary to determine the amount of tax payable by him for

*’ any taxable, period, it shall be lawful for the Assessor where
an assessment — :
(a) has not been made, to make an assessment at any
time; or 2
(6) has been made, to make an additional assessment at
any time.
CHAPTER VI
AppeaL
-Appeats tothe 34, -(1) Any registered person may, if he is dissatisfied
coeeonere with any assessment or additional assessment made in respect
: of him by an Assessor, or a penalty imposed under this Act,
appeal against such assessment or additional assessment or
penalty to the Commissioner-General within thirty days after
the service of notice of such assessment, additionakassessment
z or imposition of penalty as the case may be. Such person shall,
notwithstanding the appeal, pay the tax charged by such
assessment or additional assessment together with any penalty
imposed on him by this Act: =


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 25
Provided that the Commissioner-General, upon being
satisfied that, owing to absence from Sri Lanka, sickness or
other reasonable cause, the appellant was prevented from
appealing within such period, shall grant an extension of time
for preferring the appeal.

(2) Every appeal shall be preferred by a petition in
writing addressed to the Commissioner-General and shall
state precisely the grounds of such appeal. °

(3). Where the assessment or additional assessment
appealed against has been made in thte absence of a return, the
petition of appeal shall be accompanied by a return.

(4) Every person preferring an appeal under subsection
(1) against an assessment for any taxable period shall (unless
such person has done so already), pay to the Commissioner-
General the amount of the tax payable by such person on the
basis of the return furnished by him for such period together
with any penalty thereon accrued up to the date of such notice
of assessment, and shall attach, to the petition of appeal the
receipt in proof of such payment :

Provided that the Commissioner-General, upon being
satisfied that owing to serious financial hardship suffered by
the appellant at or about the time of such notice of assessment
or, owing toother reasonable cause, the appellant was prevented
from paying such tax and such penalty, may grantanextension
of time for the payment of such tax and penalty’ thereon
accrued up to the date of payment and the receipt furnished
within such extended time shall, for the purposes of this
subsection, be deemed to have been attached to the petition of F
appeal.

(5) Every petition of appeal which does not conform to
the provisions of subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) shall not be
valid.

(6) On receipt of a valid petition of appeal, the
Commissioner-General may cause further inquiry to be made
by an Assessor, and if in the course of such inquiry an
agreement is reached as to the matters specified in the petition
of appeal, the necessary adjustment of the assessment shall be
‘made.


26 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996

(7) Wherenoagreementis reached between the appellant
and the Assessor in the manner provided in subsection (6), the
Commissioner-General shall fix a time and place for the
hearing of the appeal.

(8) Every appellant shall attend before the Commissioner-
General at the time and place fixed for the hearing of the
appeal. The appellant may attend the hearing of the appeal in
person orby an authorized representative. The Commissioner-
General may, if he thinks fit, from time to time, adjourn the
hearing of an appeal for such time and place as he shall fix for
the purpose. In any case in which an authorized representative
attends on behalf of the appellant, the Commissioner-General
may adjourn the hearing of the appeal and may, ifhe considers
that the personal attendance of the appellant is necessary for
the determination of the appeal, require that the appellant shall
attend in person at the time and place fixed for adjourned
hearing of the appeal. If the appellant or his authorized
representative fails to attend at the time and place fixed for
hearing or any adjourned hearing of the appeal, or if the
appellant fails to attend in person when required so to attend
by the Commissioner-General, the Commissioner-General
shall dismiss the appeal :

Provided that, if the appellant within a reasoriable time
after the dismissal of an appeal satisfies the Commissioner-
General that he or his authorized representative was prevented
from due attendance at the hearing or at any adjourned hearing
of such appeal by reason of absence form Sri Lanka, sickness,or
other reasonable cause, the Commissioner-General may vacate
the order of dismissal and fix a time and place for the hearing
of the appeal :

Provided further, that every petition of appeal under this
Chaptershall be agreed to or determined by the Commissioner-
General within three years from the date on which such
petition of appeal is received by the Commissioner-General,
unless the agreement or determination of such appeal depends
on the furnishing of any document or the taking of any action
by any person other than the appellant or the Commissioner--


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 27
General or an Assessor. Where such appeal is not agreed toor
determined within such period the appeal shall deemed to :
have been allowed and the tax charged accordingly. The .
receipt of any appeal under this section shall be acknowledged
and the date of the letter of acknowledgment shall for the
purposes of this section be deemed to be the date of receipt of
such appeal :
: For the purposes of this proviso where an extension of time
_ has been granted to an appellant for the payment of tax under
subsection (4) the date of the receipt in proof of the payment
oftax shall be deemed to be the date of receipt of such Appeal.
(9) The Commissioner-General shall have power to £
summon any person whom he may consider able to give
evidence in respect of the appeal, to attend before him and
examine such person on oath or otherwise. Any person so
attending may be allowed by the Commissioner-General any
reasonable expenses necessarily incurred by such person in so
attending. .
- (10) Before making his determination on any appeal, the
‘Commissioner-General may, if he considers it necessary s0 to
do, by notice given in writing to any person require that person
to produce for examination, or to transmit to the
Commissioner-General within the period specified in such
notice, any such deeds, plans, instruments, books, accounts,
trade lists,stock lists, registers, cheques, paying in slips, ,
auditor's reports or other documents in his possession as may
be specified in such notice.
(11) Where the Commissioner-General hears the evidence
of the appellant or of any other person in respect of the appeal,
he shall maintain or caused to be maintained a record of such
evidence. : :
(12) In determining an appeal under this section the
Commissioner-General may confirm, reduce, increase or
annul the assessment appeaied against and shall give notice in
writing to the appellant of his determination on the appeal.
3-D41350
A £


28 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
‘Appeals tothe 3S. Any person aggrevied by the determination of the
Board of ‘Commissioner-General upon any appeal made to him under
Revie subsection (1) of section 34 may appeal from that
determination to the Board of Review constituted under the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, and the provisions of
that Act relating to appeals to such Board shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to, an appeal under this section.
‘Appeiona 36. (1) Thedecision of the Board of Review shall be final :
question of
Taw to Court
of Appeal. Provided that either the appellant or the Commissioner-
General may make an application requiring the Borad of
Review to state a case on a question of law for the opinion of
the Court of Appeal. :
. (2) The provisions of the Inland Revennue Act, No. 28 of
1979 relating to appeals to the Court of Appeal and to the
‘Supreme Courtshall, mutatis mutandis, apply toan application
and reference under this section.
CHAPTER VII
2 FINALITY OF ASSESSMENTS AND PENALTY FOR
. INCORRECT RETURNS
oot rag 37, Where no valid appeal has been preferred within the
sreetnts tobe | time specified in this Act against an assessment in respect of
final tax or where the amount of tax has been determined on appeal,
the assessment as made or reduced or increased or confirmed
‘on appeal, as the case may be, shall be final and conclusive for
all purposes of this Act as regards the amount of such tax :
Provided that nothing in this section shall prevent an
” Assessor from making an assessment or additional assessment
for any taxable period if it does not involve reopening any
matter which has been determined on appeal for that taxable
period. Tage


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 29°

38. Where in an assessment made on any person, the tax _Penaty for.”
exceeds, the tax paid by him as the amount due from him in” incomeet returns.
reéspect of the taxable supplies specified in his return and the
assessment is final and conclusive under section 37, the :
Commissioner-General may, unless the person proves to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner-General that there was no
fraud or wilful neglect involved in the disclosure ofthe taxable
supplies made by that person in such return, in writing, order
that person to pay, on or before a specified date, as penalty for i‘
making an incorrect return, a sum not exceeding twenty-five
thousand rupees and a sum equal to twice the amount of the
difference between the total tax claimed in the assessment and
the tax paid on the return,

CHAPTER VIII
: Recovery oF TAK 7° a

39. (1) For the purposes of this Chapter “ tax" includes Recovery of tax.
‘penalty imposed or incurred under this Act. |” :

(2) Whenever the Commissioner-General issues a se
certificate under section 42 or section 43 or a notice under 2
section 44, he shall at the same time issue to the defaulter,a
notification thereof by personal service or by registered letter
sent through the post or by telegraph, but the non-receipt of
such notification by the defaulter shall not. invalidate
proceedings under this section. i

40. Any tax in default shall be a first charge on all the Taxtobea
assets of the defaulter : shoes Te ieee

Provided that 2) fo: :

(such charge shall not extend to or affect any assets
sold by such person to a bona fide purchaser for
value priorto the seizure ofthe samein accordance
with the provisions of section 42 :

(ii) “as regards immovable property, the tax shall not

. rank in priority toany lease orencumbrancecreated

bona fide for value and registered prior to the date
of the seizure ; .


30 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
. iii) as regards movable property, where the tax for more
than four taxable periods is in default, the tax for
2 four taxable periods only to be selected by the
Commissiéner-General, shall rank in priority to
. any lien orencumbrancecreated bonafide for value
: prior to the date of default of such tax.
Notice to 41. (1) Where any tax is in default, the Commissioner. *
Se General shall, before proceeding to recover such tax, issue a
notice in writing to the defaulter stating—
(a) the particulars of such tax ; and
(b) that action is being contemplated to recover such tax.
- (2) If the defaulter has not appealed within the specified
time against the assessment in respect of which such tax is
charged, he may within thirty days of the date of such notice
make any objection tothe tax so charged tothe Commissioner-
General and the Commissioner-General shall notwithstanding
: the provisions of section 37 consider such objections and give
his decision thereon which shall be final.
Recovncy ies 42, (1) TheCommissioner-General may appoint persons
wae to be tax collectors for the purposes of this Act.
(2) Where any tax is in default, the Commissioner-
General may issue a certificate to a Divisional Secretary,
Assistant Divisional Secretary, Fiscal, Deputy Fiscal or tax
collector containing particulars of such tax and the name and
address of the defaulter, and the officer to whom such
certificates is issued shall be empowered and is hereby required
to cause the tax to be recovered form the defaulter named in
the certificate by seizure and sale of his movable property.
(3) The seizure referred to in subsection (2) shall be
effected in such manner as the said officer shall deem most
expedient in that behalf and any property so seized shall be
kept for seven days at the costs and charges of the defaulter.
Ifthe defaulter fails to pay the said tax in default together with
the costsand charges within the said seven days the Divisional
Secretary, Assistant Divisional Secretary, Fiscal, Deputy Fiscal
a or tax collector as the case may be shall cause such property _
to be sold by public auction,


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 31
(4) The’sum realized by the sale shall be applied— >
(i) firstly in payment of the costs and charges of seizing
keeping and selling the property ; and
Gi). secondly in satisfaction of the tax in default, and any
balance shall be paid to the owner of the property
i seized . a al, .
. (5) Itshall be lawful fora tax Collector to recover from the
defaulter reasonable expenses incurred by him in proceeding
against the defaulter under this section notwithstanding that
the seizure was not effected. Where cash is seized such ~
reasonable expenses shall be set off first from the amount so
seized. .
(6) Where any tax is in default, and the Commissiojer- :
General is of opinion that recovery by the means provided in ;
subsection (2) is impracticable or inexpedient, he may issue
certificate to a District Court having jurisdiction in any
district where the defaulter resides or in which any property
movable or immovable owned by the defaulter is situate
containing such particulars of tax and the name and address of
the person or persons by whom, the tax is payable, and the.
court shall there-upon direct a writ of execution to issue to the
Fiscal authorizing and requiring him to seize and sell allorany
of the property movable and immovable of the defaulter o¢*
* such part therof as he may deem necessary for recovery of the
tax, and the provisions of sections 226 to 297 of the Civil
Procedure Code shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such seizure
and sale. i
"For the purposes of this section “movable property” shall
include plant and machinery. * -
43. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is of opinion inproceedings for
any case that recovery of tax in default by seizute and sale is recovery before a
impracticable, or inexpedient or where the full amount of the Magistrate.
tax indefaulthas not been recovered, he may issueacertificate ~
containing particulars of such tax and the name and last known
place of business or residence of the defauilter, to a Magistrate
having jurisdiction in the division in which such place of


32 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
business orresidence of the defaulter is situate. The Magistrate
shall thereupon summon such defaulter before him to show
cause why further proceedings for the recovery of the tax
should not be taken against him, and in default of sufficient
cause being shown, the tax in default shall be deemed to be a
fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate on such defaulter
for an offence punishable with fine only or not punishable
with imprisonment and the provisions of subsection (1) of
section 291 (except paragraphs (a), (d) and (i) thereof), of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, relating to
default of payment of a fine imposed for such an offence shall
thereupon apply, and the Magistrate may make any direction
which, by the provisions of that subsection, he could have
made at the time of imposing such sentence :

Provided that nothing in this section shall authorize or
require the Magistrate in any proceeding thereunder toconsider,

. examine or decide the correctness of any statement in the
certificate of the Commissioner-General.

(2) Nothing in subsections (2) to (5) of section 291 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall apply

~ im any case referred to in subsection (1).

(3) "Inany case referred to in subsection (1) in which the
defaulter is sentenced to imprisonment in default of payment
of the fine deemed by that section to have been imposed on
him, the Magistrate may allow time for the payment of the
amount of the said fine or direct payment of that amount to be
made in instalments.

(4) The Courtmay require bail to be given as acondition
precedent oallowing timeunder subsection 1) forthe showing

‘cause as therein provided or under subsection (3) for the
payment of the fine ; and the provisions of Chapter XXXIV of
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall
apply where the defaulter is so required to be given bail.

(5) Where payment in instalments is directed under sub-
section (3) and default is made in the payment of any one
instalment, the same proceedings may be taken as if default
had been made in payment of all the instalments thenremaining
unpaid. z


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 33
44, (1) Where the tax payable by any person is in default Recovery of tx
and it appears to the Commissioner-General to be probable tof debts. .
that any person— a 7
(a) owes or is about to pay money to the defaulter or his
agent ; or
(b) holds money for or on account of the defaulter or his
agent ; or “
(c) holds money for oronaccount of some other person
P for payment to the defaulter or his agent ; or
(d) hasauthority from some other person to pay money to
the defaulter or his agent,
the Commissioner-General may give to such person notice in
writing (a copy of which shall be sent by post to the defaulter)-
requiring him to pay any such money not exceeding the
amount of the tax in default to the officer named in suchnotice.
The notice shall apply to all such moneys which are in his
hands or due from him at the date of receipt of such notice, or
‘come into his hands or become due from him or are about to .
be paid by him atany time within aperiodofthreemonthsafter
the date of such notice. :
(2) Any person who has made any payment in pursuance
of this section shall be deemed to have acted under the *
authority of the defaulter and of all other persons concerned,
and is hereby indemnified in respect of such payment against
all proceedings, civil or criminal, notwithstanding the |” 5
provisions of any written law, contract or agreement.
(3) Where any person to whom a notice has been given
under subsection (1) is unable to comply therewith owing to
the fact that moneys in question do not come into his hands or
custody or become due from him during the period referred to
in subsection (1), he shall within fourteen days of theexpiration
thereof give notice in writing to the Commissioner-General
appraising him of the facts.


34 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
. (4) Where any person to whom a notice has been given
under subsection (1) is unable to comply therewith and has’
failed to give notice to the Commissioner-General as provided
in subsection (3) or where such person has deducted or could
have deducted the tax to which the notice relates or any part
thereof and has notpaid over as required by the Commissioner-
General the amount of such tax or part thereof within fourteen
days after the expiration of the period referred to in sub-
section (1), such person shall, if he is an individul, be liable or
where such person is a company or body of persons, whether
corporate or unincorporate the secretary, manager, or the
principal officer of such company or body be personally
liable, for the whole of the tax which such person has been
required to deduct, and such tax may be recovered from such
+ individual, secretary, manager or other principal officer, as
the case may be, by all means provided in this Act.
(5) For the purposes of this section the expression
“defaulter”shall be deemed to include the agent of a person
who is in default and the provisions of this section shall apply
in any case where the tax which would have been payable by
= any person if he were alive is in default, and for the purpose
s of the application of these provisions in any such case, the
expression “defaulter” in subsection (1) means—
(a) the executor or administrator of such deceased
. person ; or
(6) any person who takes possesion of, or intermeddles
with, the property of such deceased person ; or
(©) any person who has applied or is entitled to apply to
a District Court for the grantor resealing of probate
or letters of administration in respect of the estate
of such deceased person.
ig 45. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is of opinion
ikaving Si Lanka, thatany person is about to or likely to leave Sri Lanka without
paying the tax due from him, the Commissioner-General may
issue a certificate containing particulars of such tax and the
name of such person to a Magistrate, who shall on receipt
thereof issue'a direction to the Inspector-General of Police to


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 35
takesuch measuresas may be necessary topreventsuch person
from leaving Sri Lanka without paying the tax or furnishing
security to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General for
payment thereof.

(2) Atthe time of issue of the certificate to the Magistrate
the Commissioner-General shall issue to such person a
notification thereof by personal service, or registered letter
sent through the post or telegraph ; but the non receipt of any
such notification by such person shall not invalidate
proceedings under this section, :

(3) The production of a certificate signed by the
Commissioner-General stating that the tax has been paid or
that security has been furnished for the payment of the tax or
payment of the tax to a police officer in charge of a police
station shall be sufficient authority for allowing such person ve
to leave Sri Lanka. .

(4) Any police officer to whom the amount of any tax
specified in such certificate has been paid shall forthwith pay - :
‘such amount to the Commissioner-General.

46. Where the Commissioner-General is of opinion that Use of more than
application of any one of the means of recovery provided in Sremeansof
this Act has failed or is likely to fail to secure payment of the

full amount of tax due from any person it shall be lawful for .
the Commissioner-General to proceed to recover any sum -
remaining unpaid, by any means of recovery provided in this
Act, notwithstanding that an order has been made by @
Magistrate under section 43 and carried in to effect.

47. The Commissioner-General may, by notice given in Power of
writing to any person, require that person within the period Commissioner:
specified in such notice to furnish any information which the ener 0 Orme
Commissioner-General may require for the purpose Of the recovery of ~
recovering any tax due from such person or any other person. x.


_ 36 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996

Recovery of tax 48.. (1) Where a body corporate has not paid any tax on or
foenibeoracie before the due date, it shall be lawful to proceed under all or
any of the provisions of this Chapter against a manager,
director, secretary or any other principal officer of such body
: corporate, whether such officer is responsible or not for such
default notwithstanding anything in any other written law

relating to such body corporate.

(2) Where a partnership or a joint venture has not paid any
taxon or before the due date, it shall be lawful to proceed under
all or any of the provisions of this Chapter against any partner
‘ora member of the joint venture, as the case may be, whether
such person is responsible or not for such default,
notwithstanding anything in any other written law.

Deeenee st 49, (1) The Commissioner-General may, by writing under

Genera's powers his hand, delegate to any Assessor any of the powers and

and functions. functions conferred on or assigned to the Commissioner-
General by this Chapter.

E (2) Every Assessor to whom any power or function has
been delegated under subsection (1) shall exercise ordischarge
that power or function subject to the general or special

: directions of the Commissioner-General.

: CHAPTER IX

. : Spectat Cases
‘Who may act for 50. Any act or thing required by or under this Act to be
incapacitated done by any person shall, if such person is an incapacitated
ait person, be deemed to be required to be done by the trustee of

such incapacitated person.

Precedant partner 51. Any act or thing required by or under this Act to be
acc niga done by any person shall, in the case of two or more persons

a in partnership, be deemed to be required to be done by the
precedent partner of such partnership :

a s (iF


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996-37 J

Provided that any person to whom a notice has been given
under the provisions of this Act as a precedent partner of a
partnership shall be deemed to be the precedent partner’
thereof unless he proves that he is not a partner of such
partnership or that some other person in Sri Lanka is the
precedent partner thereof.

52. (1) Thesecretary, manager, directororother principal Principal officer
officer of every company or body of persons, corporate or (0.ct on behalf
unincorporate, shall be liable to do all such acts, matters or [icberned
things as are required to be done under the provisions of this. .
‘Act by such company or body of persons :

Provided that any person to whom a notice has been given
under the provisions of this Act on behalf of a company or i
body of persons shall be deemed to be the principal officer
thereof unless he proves that he has no connection with that,
company or body of persons orthatsomeotherpersonresident
in Sri Lanka is the principal officer thereof. i

(2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
company or body of persons, corporate or unincorporate,
every person who at the time of the commission of the offence
was the secretary, manager,director or other principal officer = “-
ofthe company or body of persons shall be deemed to be guilty
ofthat offence unless he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge and that he exercised all such diligence
to prevent the commission of that offence as he ought to have

exercised having regard to the nature of his functions in such
capacity.

53. (1) Subject as hereinafter provided, where during the Liability to pay
course of a taxable period a person chargeable with tax ceases tax in the case of
to carry on or carry out any taxable activity in respect of (one Shiny,
which he is chargeable with such tax, he shall, notwithstanding
that he had ceased to carry on or carry out such taxable
activity, be liable to pay such tax for the period during which
he carried on or carried out that taxable activity during that
taxable period. ‘ S


38 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
(2) Where any person carrying on or carrying out a
taxable activity transfers the assets of such taxable activity to
any other person, resulting in a change of ownership of any
trade or business, tax -payable in respect of such taxable
activity for any period prior to the transfer may, if it cannot be
recovered from the transfer or be recovered from the transferee
notwithstanding that an assessment may not have been made
onthe transferee and the provisions of this Actas to collection
. and recovery of tax shall apply accordingly
Liability of 54. (1) Where any person chargeable with the tax dies,
~' executor the executor of such deceased person shall in respect of all
Pav a taxable periods prior to the date of death of such person be
chargeable with tax which such person would be chargeable
+ ifhe were alive, and shall be liable to do all acts, matters and
. things which such person if he were alive, would be liable to
do under this Act :
mi Provided that—

*  @ noproceedings shall be instituted againstthe executor
in respect of any act or default of the deceased
person;

: (b) noassessment or additional assessment inrespect ofa
period prior to the date of such person's death shall
be made after three years from the end of the

» taxable period in which the death occurred; and
(©) the liability of the executor under this section shall be
limited to the sum of —

()_ the deceased person’ sestate in his possession
orcontrol at the date when notice is given to
him that liability to tax will arise under this
section; and

Gii)__any part of the estate which may have passed
toa beneficiary. a

(2) Where an executor on behalf of the estate of a deceased
person carries on or carries out any taxable activity which is

a part of such estate, such executor sHall in respect of such

taxable activity, be chargeable with the tax with which such

person would be chargeable if he were alive.


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 39

55. Where any taxable activity in respect of which tax is _Lisbilty of certain
payable is carried on or carried out by any persononbehalfof Priterectat
any other person as the agent of such other person the first taxable activity
mentioned person shall be chargeable with the tax in respect [0 Lbetogging fv
of that taxable activity in like manner and to the like amount
as the second mentioned person would be chargeable under
this Act.

56. Where two or more persons act as trustees of atrustor Joint agents,
executors of a deceased person’s estate, they may be charged trustees and _
jointly and severally with the tax which they are chargeable °*®culors
under this Act and shall be jointly and severally liable for the
payment of such tax.

57. (1) Notwithstanding anything inthe Companies Act, Persons liable to
‘No. 17 of 1982, where a company is wound up and where any Pay 'ax upon
tax to which that company is liable cannot be recovered then liquidation of a
every person who was a director of the:company at any time Sisfution of @
during the period in respect of which such tax is payable shall ody of persons.
be jointly and severally liable for the payment of such tax
uniess he proves that the default in payment of tax cannpt be
attributed to any gross neglect, misfeasance or breach of duty
on his part in relation to the affairs of the company, and the
provisions of this Act as to collection and recovery of tax shall
apply accordingly.

CHAPTER X
REFUND oF TAX

58, (1) Where aregistered personmakesan application for — Refund of excess
arefund of any tax orany penalty paid by him in excess during tax.
the taxable period within three years immediately after the
end of the taxable period and satisfies the Commissioner-

General that such person has paid any tax or any penalty in
excess of the amount which he was liable to pay for that
period, such person shall be entitled to a refund of the amount
* paid in excess, subject to provisions of subsection (3):
Provided however,
(ian exporter; or :
« (ii) any registered person referred to in paragraph (iii) of
‘subsection (2) of section 21,


40 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996

shall be entitled to a refund of such tax or penalty paid in
excess within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt
of the application.

(2) Wherethrough death, incapacity, bankruptcy, liquida-
tion or other cause a registered person who would but for such
cause have been entitled to make a claim under subsection (1)
is unable to do so, his executor, trustee or receiver as the case

: may be, shall be entitled to a refund of any tax or penalty paid
in excess within the meaning of subsection (1) by such person
for the benefit of such person or his estate.

(3) Notwithstanding anything in aubsection (1) —

(a) where any registered person has failed to pay the
Commissioner-General in whole or in part, any tax
in respect of any taxable period, or a month in a

. taxable period, any amount of tax payable before
the due date may be set off after due notice to such
person against that unpaid tax, any amount or any
part of any amount otherwise refundable to that
person or any amount or part of any amount of
interest payable to that person under section 59,
and shall treat any amount so set off as a payment
received from such registered person ;

(b) Where any registered person, in respect of, any taxable
period or in a month in a taxable period has not
furnished areturn for any taxable period oramonth
in a taxable period, the Commissioner-General
may withhold payment of any amount otherwise
refundable or any amount of interest payable under
section 59 of this Act, until such registered person
has furnished such return,

Interest on 59. (1) Where any amount refundable under this Act to
eins a registered person has not been refunded within a period of
thirty days from the due date of such refund there shall be paid
by the Commissioner-General to such person interest on such
amount for the period commencing on the thirtieth day from
the due date up to the date of refund of the amount as is
required to be refunded by the Commissioner-General to such
person under this Act, at the rate prescibed by the Minister

from time to time. ‘


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 41
(2) Forthe purposes of this section “duedate” means the,
period ending ninety days—
(i) from the date of an agreement with an Assessor or
|. from the date of determination of an appeal in
respect of the assessment appealed against or ;
(ii) from the date on which aclaim, other than a claim for
a refund made in writing under subsection (4) of
section 22 was received from such person by the
‘Commissioner-General.
CHAPTER XI
DepucTION OF TAX FROM PAYMENTS
60. (1) Every person who makes any payment in Deduction of tax
pursuance of a contract to which he is a party or on behalf of fm payments.
any other person who is a party to a contact shall, whether or .
not such contract was entered into prior to the appointed date,
deduct from such payment, tax which shall be a percentage of
such payment at such rate as may be determined by the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette and the amount of
tax so deducted shall be a debt due from such person to the
Republic and shall be recoverable forthwith ormay beassessed
and charged upon such person in addition to any tax, if any,
payable by him under this Act: "I
Provided that where the total consideration payable for the
performance of such contract does not exceed one million
Tupees no such deduction shall be made.
(2) Any person who deducts tax in accordance with the
provisons of subsection (1) shall
(a) issueto the person from whose paymentthe deduction
is made a statement showing—
(i) the gross amount of such payment ;
ii) the rate and amount of tax so deducted; and
; ii) the net amount actually paid ;
(6) ‘remitwithin seven days of making such deduction the
, sum so deducted to the Commissioner-General
. together with a statement showing— :


a Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
(i) the name and address of the person to whom.
the payment was made and the registration
number of such person if any ;
ii) the gross amount of such payment; ,
~ (iii) the rate and amount of tax so deducted ;
(iv) the net amount actually paid; and
f (¥) thenameand address of the person who made
the payment and the registration number of
such person. :
(3) Where the taxable supplies of a person include a sum
from which tax has been deducted in accordance with
subsection (1) he shall be entitled on production of a
statement relating to such sum issued in accordance with
subsection, (2) toa set off against the tax payable by him, of
the amount showh on such statement as the amount of tax
deducted.
(4) For the purposes of this section “contract” means—
. (i) any contract in respect of construction work or
services of whatever nature not being acontract of
employment ; . ais tf
(ii) any contract for the supply of goods or services in
respect of any contract specified in paragraph (i) ;
(iii) any sub-contract in respect of any contract specified
in paragraph (i) or (ii) ;
* (iv) any contract for the provision of services including
a contract for the provision of services as an
: entertainer or artiste other than a contract of
employment ; or
(¥)_ any contract for the supply of cinematograph films.
(5). Any person who fails to deduct tax in terms of
subsection (1) or fails to remit under subsection (2) any tax to
the Commissioner-General shall be deemed to be in default
and the provisions of this Act relating to recovery of tax shall
: accordingly apply on any such default.


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 43.

(6) Any person who has made any deduction under
subsection (1) or any remittance in pursuance of subsection
(2) shall be deemed to have acted under the authority of the
person by whom the tax was payable and of all other persons,
concerned, and is hereby indeminified in respect of such
deduction or remittance, as the case may be, against all
proceedings, civil or criminal, notwithstanding the provisions a ‘
of any written law, contract or agreement, i

(7) Where any person has entered into (wo or more
contracts and the Assessor, having regard to the nature and the
Parties to such contracts, is of opinion that the persons to
whom the payments were made in respect of such contracts is
‘one and the same person or his agent, the sum paid or payable
shall be aggregated for the purposes of subsection (1).

CHAPTER XII
‘MisceuLancous

61. (1) Every notice required to be given by the signature and
Commissioner-General, a Deputy Commissioner or an service of notices.
Assessor under this Act shall bear the name of the
Commissioner-General or Deputy Commissioner or
Assessor, as the case may be, and every such notice shall be
valid if the name of the Commissioner-General, Deputy
Commissioner or Assessor is duly printed or signed thereon.

(2) Every notice given by virtue of this Actmay beserved
ona person either personally or by being delivered at, orsent
by post to, his last known place of abode or any place at which
he is, or was carrying on or carrying out a taxable activity
during the period to which the notice relates.

(3) Any notice sent by post shall be deemed to have been
served on the day on which it could have been received in the
ordinary course of post. -

(4) _ In proving service by: post it shall be sufficient to
prove that the letter containing the notice was duly addressed

. and posted, bay :

4-D41350


44 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
(5) Every name printed or signed on any notice or signed

on any certificate given or issued for the purposes of this Act,
which purports to be the name of the person authorized to give
or issue the same, shall be judicially noticed.

Validity of 62. (1) No notice, assessment, certificate or other

assessments. proceeding purporting to be in accordance with the provisions
of this Act shall be quashed or deemed to be void or voidable
for want of form or be affected by reason of a mistake, defect
or omission therein, if the same is in substance and effect in
conformity with, or according to, the intent and meaning of
this Act, and if the person assessed or intended to be assessed
oraffected thereby is designated therein according tocommon
intent and understanding.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),

‘an assessment shall not be affected or impugned—
(a) by reason of a mistake therein as to the name or
surname of the person chargeable, the amount of
the value of the taxable supplies or the amount of *
the tax charged ; or

(6) by reason of any variance between the assessment

and the notice thereof,

‘ if the notice of such assessment is duly served on the person
intended to be charged and containsin substance and effect the
particulars mentioned in paragraph (a) of this subsection.

Power to search 63. (1) Any officer of the Department of Inland Revenue

plied who is specially authorized by the Commissioner-General in

ar that behalf may, accompanied by a peace officer, do all or any
of the following acts :-—

(a) enter and search any building or place where he has
reason to believe that any books of account,
registers, records or other documents which in his,
opinion will be useful for or relevant to, any
proceeding under this Act may be found, and

: examine them if found ;


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 45
(b) seize any such books of account, registers, records or
other documents or place marks of identification
thereon or make extracts or copies therefrom ;
(©) make a note or an inventory of any other thing found
in the course of any search under this section which
in his opinion will be useful for, or relevant to, any
proceedings under this Act,
and the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.
15 of 1979, relating to searches shall apply so far as may be to
searches under this section.
In this subsection “peace officer” shall have the same
meaning as in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979.
(2) Before authorising any officer to exercise the powers
under subsection (1), the Commissioner-General shall record
the circumstances which necessitate the exercise of those
powers by that officer. “
(3) Where any officer authorized by the Commissioner-
General under subsection (1) seizes any book of account,
register, record or other document from any person, such
officer shall issue to that person a memorandum specifying :
the book, register, record or other document he has seized.
(4) Anybookofaccount, register, recordorotherdocument 5
seized under subsection (1) by any officer may be retained in
the possession of such officer as long as may be necessary for
a scrutiny of such book, register, record or other document or
for the institution of legal proceedings against the person to
‘whom such book, register, record or other document belongs.
64..(1) The Commissioner-General or any other officer Power to search
of the Department of Inland Revenue who is specially where taxable
s ash in setivity is carried
authorized in that behalf by the Commissioner-General in SSN eure
writing may do all or any of the following acts :—


46 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996

(a) emter and inspect any place or building where any
taxable activity is carried on or carried out by any
person for the purpose of ascertaining whether the

- provisions of this Act are being complied with ;

(6) open and examine any book of account, register,
tecord or any other document which may be found
therein and make an inventory of any of the articles
found therein ;

(©) examine and take copies of, or make extracts from,
any book of account, register, record’ or other
document found in such place or building ;

(d) take possession of any book of account, register,
record or other document or place marks of

Z identification thereon ;

() count and make a record immediately of the cash
found in such place or building ;

(require any person whom he finds in such place or
building to give such information within his
knowledge with respect to matters under this Act ;

(g) examine, either alone or in the presence of any other
person, as he thinks fit, with respect to matters
under this Act, every person whom he finds in such

|, Place or building. :
(2) Where an officerauthorized by the Commissioner
General under subsection (1), takes into his possession any
book of account, register, record or other document from any
person, such officer shall issue to that person a memorandum
. specifying the book, register, record or document he has taken
into his possession,

(3) Any book of account, register, record or other

‘ document taken into his possession under subsection (1) by
any officer may be retained in the possession of such officer
as long as may be, necessary for the purpose of scrutinizing

1 such book, register, record or document or for the institution
of legal proceedings against the person to whom such book,
register, récord or other document belongs. +


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 47
65. (1) Every registered person shall keep and maintain Keeping of
records in respect of the taxable activity carried on or carried "*eords.
‘out by him to enable the Commissioner-General or any other ~
officer authorized by the Commissioner-General on that be-
half to ascertain the liability for the payment of the tax.
(2) The form of the records, to be maintained under
subsection (1) and the particulars to be set forth therein shall
be as prescribed.
For the purpose of this section the term “records” includes—
(a) books of account (whether contained in a manual,
mechanical or electronic format or combination :
thereof) recording receipts or payments or income
or expenditure and also includes vouchers, bank
statements, invoices, tax invoices, tax credit notes,
tax debit notes, receipts and such other documents
as are necessary to verify the entries in any such
books of account ;
(b) details of any warehouse, godown or any other place
where stock of goods are kept and the stock of
goods kept in such warehouses, godown, or any
other place, as the case may be ;
(c) any listor record required to be maintained or keptin
accordance with provision of this Act or under any
regulations thereunder. .
CHAPTER XII a
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES .
Penal provisions
66. (1) Every person w relating to breach
(a) being a person required to take an oath and fails to of secrecy &.
take the oath of secrecy when so required under .
section 72 ; or :
(6) acts in contraventign of the provisions of section 72
or
(€) aids, abets or incites any other person to act in contra-
vention of any of the provisions of this Act,
5-D41350


48 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable
onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to’afine
not exceeding five thousand rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment. .
Penal provisions 67. Any person who—
relating to fraud.
(a) givesany false answer whether orally or in writting to
any question or request for information asked or.
© made in accordance with the provisions of this
+ Act; or
. (6) omits from a return made under this Act, any
particulars which he should have included in such
7 return ; or .
. (c) makes any false return or false entry in any return
’ made under this Act, .
and thereby evades or attemptstoevade tax or assists any other
: person to evade or to attempt to evade tax shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and shall be liable, after summary trial
before a Magistrate, to a fine consisting of—
(i) asum equal to twice the amount of tax so evaded or
attempted to be evaded for which heis liable under
. this Act for the taxable period in respect of which
the offénce was committed ; and
: (ii) asum not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees or
to imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
. imprisonment.
Penal provisions 68. Every person who—
relatingto = :
retums &e, (a) failstoapply forregistration as required under section
10; or
(6) fails to notify the Commissioner-General of any
matters required to be notified under section 19 ;0r
(6) fails to issue tax invoices as required by section 20
or


: Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 49
(@) issues more than one tax invoice for each taxable
supply ; or
(€) issues a tax invoice where such person is not entitled ,
to issue such tax invoice under section 20 ;
+ QP) fails to furnish a return under section 21 or comply
with a notice under section 21 ; or .
(g) having appeared before an offcer of the Department
of Inland Revenue in compliance with a notice
issued to him under section 21 or section 34 fails,
without suffcient cause, to answer any question
lawfully put to him by an officer acting under this, :
Act; or .
(h) givesany incorrect information relating to any matter
or thing affecting his own liability to tax or the
liability of any other person ; or
* (i) permits the payment to any other person, other than
the Commission-General of any amount to be paid
under section 44 ; or
() knowingly fails to make any deduction required
under section 60 or fails to comply with the
provisions of section 60 ; or
() wilfully obstructs ordelaysthe Commissioner General
or any other officer in the exercise of his power
under section 63 of 64 ; or
.  (D fails to maintain records as required under
section 65,
(m) not being a person registered under this Act, issues a
tax invoice, 7
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall be liable, é
‘onconviction after summary trail beforea Magistrate, toa fine
not exceeding ten thousand rupees, or to imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment. e
69. No prosecution in respect of an offence under this Prosecution tobe
. Chaptershall becommencedexceptatthe instance,orwiththe Wythe Coan”
= "sanction, of the Commissioner-General. sioner-General.


a "50 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
Compounding of 70, ‘The Commissioner-General may with the consent of
Sites the parties having regard to the circumstances in which any

offence under this Act was committed, compound such offence
for a sum not exceeding one third of the maximum fine
imposeable for such offence under the Act. Any sum received
by the Commissioner-General in compounding an offence
: under this section shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.
CHAPTER XIV :
ADMINISTRATION
Offices. ‘71. (1) The Commissioner-General shall be incharge of
the administration of this Act, assisted by such number of
Commissioners of Inland Revénue, Deputy Commissioners
. of Inland Revenue, Senior Assessors of Inland Revenue,
Assessors of Inland Revenue and Tax Officers of Inland
Revenue as may be necessary. .
(2) The Commissioner-General may authorise any
. “Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner to exercise, perform
ordischarge any power, duty or function which is conferred or
imposed on orassignedto, the Commissioner-General by this
Act.
(3) ACommissioner or a Deputy Commissioner of Inland
Revenue exercising, performing or discharging any power,
duty or function conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, the
Commissioner-General by any provision of this Act shall be
deemed for all purposes to be authorized to exercise, perform
or discharge that power, duty or function, until the contrary is
proved.
(4) A Commissioner of Inland Revenue or a Deputy
Commissioner of Inland Revenue may exercise, perform or
discharge any power, duty or function conferred or imposed
: on, or assigned to an Assessor by this Act. :


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 0f 1996 31.”

72, (1) Every person who is or has been employed or Offical Secrecy.”
‘engaged in carrying out or in assisting any person in carrying
‘out the provisions,of this Act shall preserve and aid in
preserving secrecy with regard to all matters relating to the
affairs of any person that may come to his knowledge in the .
performance of his duties under this Act, and shall not com-
municate any such matter to any person other than the person
to whom such matter relates or to the Minister or to the :
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the
subject of Finance or suffer or permit any person to have
access to any records in the possession, custody or control of”
the Commissioner-General.

(2) Every person employed in carrying out the provi-
sions of this Act shall, before acting under this Act, and the
Minister and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in

_- charge of the subject of Finance shall before acting under this:

Act take and subscribe before a Justice of the Peace an oath of
secrecy in the prescribed form.

(3) Noperson employed in carrying out the provisions of
this Act shall be required to produce in any court any return,
document or to divulge or communicate to any court any
matter or thing coming to his notice in the performance of his
duties under this Act, except as may be necessary for the
purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Actorany
other written law administered by the Commissioner-General.

(4) Notwithstanding anythig contained in this section
any officer of the Departmentof Inland Revenue may commu-
nicate any matter which comes to his knowledge in the
performance of his duties under this Act to any other officer
of the Department if the communication is necessary for the
performance of any duty under this Act or under any other
written law administered by the Commissioner-General and
the Commissioner-General may, notwithstanding anything in
the Evidence Ordinance relating to the proof of documents,
produce or cause to be produced in any Court, in any ,
proceedings under this Act, a copy of any return or document
received by him or in his possession under this Act or under
any other written law administered by him and certified by
him or on his behalf to be a correct copy =


$2 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34. of 1996

Provided that the Commissioner-General may produce or
cause to be produced the original of any such return or
document in any case where it is necessary to prove the
handwriting or the signature of the person who wrote, made,
signed or furnished such return or document, but only for the
purpose of such proof :

Provided, further that the Commissioner-General shall not
in any case be compelled to produce in any court either the
original of such document or return or copy of any particulars
contained in such document or return.

(8) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section
the Commissioner-General may permit the Auditor-General
or any officer of the Department of the Auditor-General duly
authorized by him in that behalf to have access to any records
or documents as may be necessary for the performance of his
official duties. The Auditor-General or any officer authorized
by him under this section shall be deemed to be a person
employed in carrying out the provision of this Act for the
purposes of subsection (2) of this section.

(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section
where it appears to the Commissioner-General from any
matter which comes to his knowledge in the performance of
his duties under this Act, that any person has committed an
offence under the Customs Ordinance or the Excise Ordinance
or Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989, he may
‘communicate with or deliver to the Commissioner of Excise
or the Director-General of Customs as the case may be, any
information relating to the commission of the offence or any
articles, books of accounts or any other documents necessary
or useful for the purpose of proving the commission of such
offence.

Fors. 73. The Commissioner-General may from time to time
specify the forms to be used for all or any of the purposes of
this Act, and any form so specified may from time to time be
amended or varied by the Commissioner-General or some
other form may be substituted by the Commissioner-General
in place of any form so specified or amended. .

1


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 $3
ss 74 (1) The Minister may make regulations to give effect Regulations.
——--- to the principles and provisions of this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall come into
operation on the date of its publication in the Gazette or on
such date as may be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation shall as soon as convenient after its
publication in the Gazette, be brought before Parliament for «
approval. Any such regulation which is not so approved shall
be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of disapproval but
without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder. A
Notification of the date on which aregulation is deemed to be
rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

CHAPTERXV*
“TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS :

© 75. (1) Every person whose turnover under the Turnover Transitional
Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981, for any quarter in the period of Provisions:
twelve months ending six months immediately proceeding the
appointed date exceeds two hundred thousand rupees shall if
such person is carrying on or carring out a taxable activity on :
such appointed date, be deemed to be a registered person for
the purposes of this Act and the provisions of this Act shall
apply to such person accordingly.

(2) Any person who is deemed to be a registered person
under subsection (1) may make a statement of objection, in
writing to the Commissioner-General within thirty days of the
receipt of the notice of such registration, indicating that his
taxable supplies for the period specified in subsection (1) do
not exceed the amount specified in section 10.

(3) Where the Commissioner-General is satisfied with the
statement he may cancel such registration notwithstanding the
provisions of section 16.

\


. 54 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34. of 1996 .
CHAPTER XVI
INTERPRETATION
Interpetation. 76. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires — ~
“Assessor” means an Assessor or a Senior Assessor
appointed under the Inland Revenue Act, No.28 of
1979;
“Authorized representative” shall have the meaning
assigned to it by the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of
1979 ;
“Board of Review” has the meaning assigned to it by the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979; ”

: “body of persons” means any body corporate or
unincorporate. Provincial Council, local authority,
any fraternity, fellowship, association or society
of persons, whether corporate or unincorporate 4
any partnership and includes any Government
department orany undertaking of the Government of
Sri Lanka ;

“Commissioner-General” means the Commissioner-
General of Inland Revenue appointed under the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, and includes a
Commissioner anda Deputy Commissioner specially
authorized by the Commissioner-General either
generally or for a specific purpose to act on behalf of

. the Commissioner-General ;

“Commissioner” means a Commissioner of Inland Revenue
appointed under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of
1979 ;

“company” means any company incorporated orregistered
under any law in force in Sri Lanka or elsewhere ;

“Director” means.a director as defined in the Companies

. Act, No. 17 of 1982 and includes a working

director ;

“Deputy Commissioner” means a Deputy Commissioner
of Inland Revenue appointed under the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 28 of.1979 ;

“executor” includes an administrator ;


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 55

“goods” meansall kinds of movable or immovable property -
but does not include money ;

“incapacitated person” means any minor, lunatic, idiot or
person of unsound mind ;

“Importation” includes the bringing into Sri Lanka of
goods from outside Sri Lanka by any person or
goods received from a customs bonded warehouse
and is deemed to include the purchase of goods on a
sale by the Director-General of Customs, the Sri
LankaPorts Authority orthe Commissioner-General,
for the levy of any tax and other dues ;

“input tax” in relation to a registered person, means —

(@) tax paid on the supply to a registered person of
any goods or services to be used by such
“person in carrying on or carrying outa taxable
activity 5 y .
(b) tax paid by him on the importation of goods
which are used by such person for the purpose
of making taxable supplies ; .

“ manufacture " means the making of an article, the :
assembling or joining of an article by whatever
process, adapting for sale any article, packaging,
bottling, putting into boxes, cutting, cleaning,
polishing, warpping, labelling or in any other way
preparing an article for sale other than in a wholesale
or retail activity ; .

“output tax” in relation to any regisrered person, means the
tax chargeable in respect of the supply of goods or
services made or deemed to be made by such person.

“open market value” in relation to the value of a supply of
goods or services at any date means theconsideration
in money which a similar supply would generally
fetch if supplied in similar circumstances at the date
in Sri Lanka, being a supply freely offered and made
between persons who are not associated persons,
excluding the excise duty payable under the Excise
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989 and the
national security levy payable under the National
Security Levy Act, no. 52 of 1991 ;


56 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
“ person " includes a company, or body of persons ;
“ prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made under
2 this Act ; .
“ registered person” means any person whois registered or
deemed to be registered under section 10 or section
12 of this Act and includes a person liable to be
¢ registered under this Act ;
“ specified” means specified by the Commissioner-General
of Inland Reveniue ;
“ supply of goods ” means the transfer of the right to:
. =i © dispose as owmner of movable or immovable
me, 7 Property ;
a “ supply of services ” means any supply which is not a
supply of goods ;
“supplier”, in relation to any supply of goods or services,
‘means the person making the supply ;
“ taxable period " means the period of three months
a commencing respectively on the firstday ofJanuary, ~ <
the first day of April, the first day of July and the first
- day of October of each year ;
“ taxable activity ” means — :

(a) any activity carried on or carried outasa business,
trade, profession or vocation other than in the
course 6f employment or every adventure or

. concern in the nature of a trade ;

(®) the provision of facilities to its members or

others for a consideration and the receipt of
. subscription in the case of a club, association
or organization ;

(© anything done in connection with the
‘commencement or cessation of any activity or
provision of facilities referred to in (a) ot (b) ;


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 57
(d) the hiring or leasing of any movable property or ‘
the renting or leasing of any immovable
property ;
(€) the exploitation of any intangible property such
as patents, copyrights or other similar assets ;
“taxable supply ” means any supply of goods or services
made or deemed to be made in Sri Lanka which is
chargeable with tax under this Act and includes a”
supply charged at the rate of zero per cent other than
a exempt supply.
SCHEDULE : :
(i) The supply of coconuts, desiccated coconuts, coconut fibre,
coconut poonac, copra, rubber, tea, green leaf, paddy,
: cardamons, cinamon, cloves, nutmeg, pepper or any other
unprocessed produce of any agricuitural, horticultural,
animal husbandry, poultry or fishing undertaking;
(ii) The import of potatoes, onions and chillies or the supply or
import of vegetable seeds ;
(iii) The supply or import of rice, rice flour, wheat, wheat flour
and all other grains;
(iv) The supply of bread other than fancy bread such as toasted
bread, garlic bread, french bread, banana bread, bread roll,
hard bread roll & see ;
(v) Thesupply orimport of milk or powdered or condensed milk.
excluding any article manufactured or produced from
milk ;
(vi). The supply of water other than in sealed containers or in
bottles ;
(vii) ‘The supply or import of pharmaceutical. products, or
ayurvedic, siddha, unani or homeopathic preparations, or _
‘any raw. material to be used in such production or prepara-
tion;
(viii) The supply of any services by an educational establishment
oF school to which grants from state funds are paid or to :
which such grants were earlier paid but are not paid at
Present;
(ix) The supply or import of any books other than newspapers, .
Periodicals or magazines;
(x) The supply or import of any dried fish and maldive fish;


538 Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
(xi) The supply or import of sugar, jaggery and sakkara;
(xii) The supply or import of kerosine, diesel and liquid petro-
eum gas;
(xiii) The supply or import of cement including clinker,
(xiv) ‘The supply or import of fertilizer including rock phosphate;
: (xv) The import of crude petroleum oil;

(xvi) The supply of the following financial services:—

: (a) The operation of any current, deposit or savings
account;
« (B) The exchange of currency;

(©) Theissue, payment, collection or transfer of ownership
of any note or order for payment, cheque, or letter
‘of credit;

(@) The issue, allotment, transfer of ownership, drawing
acceptance or endorsement of any debt security,
being any interest in or right to be paid money
owing by any person;

(€) The issue, allotment, or transfer of ownership of any
‘equity security or a participatory security;

(f) Underwriting or sub underwriting the issue of an equity
seurity, debt security or participatory security.

(g) The provision of any loan, advance or credit;

(i) Theprovision of the facility of instalment credit finance
in a hire purchase conditional sale or credit sale
agreement for which facility a separate charge is
made and disclosed to the person to whom the
supply is made ; :

@ Life insurance.

(xvii) ‘The import or supply of goods and services to Diplomatic
Missions, United Nations Organisation and its specialised
agencies, and the staffof those Missions and Organisations,
which or who under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
Relations (1961) relating to the privileges and immunities

E areentitleto these benefits provided that reciprocal benefits
are available to their counterparts from Sri Lanka and
identified as such by the Commissioner-General, including
the import under a temporary admission Camet for re-

. export;

(xvii) The import and supply of goods at Duty Free Shops for

payment in foreign currency;


Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 59

(xix) The import or supply of unused postage or revenue stamps
ofthe Government ofthe Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka;

(xx) The import of-any article entitled to duty free clearance
under the Passenger’ s Baggage (Exemptions) Regulations
made under section 107 of the Customs Ordinance or any
article cleared duty free re-importation certificate as
provided in Schedule A under the Customs Ordinance or .
any article clearedex-bond forre-exportor for useas ship
stores ;

(xxi) The import of goods by any organisation approved by the
Minister incharge of the subject of Finance and proved to ‘
his satisfaction to be gifts from persons or organizations
overseas for the relief of distress caused by natural or other
disasters ;

(xxii), The supply of aviation fuel, and burker fuel ;

(xxiii) The supply of public passenger transport services (other

3 than air or water transport, services for the transport of
tourists, or in the form of excursion tours or taxi services)
or the import or supply of a motor coach or chassis or a
body of a motor coach for such public passenger transport
services ; 5

(xxiv) ‘The import or supply of tractors to be used exclusively for
agricultural work ; 5

(xxv) The supply of sevices by a ship owner or aircraft owner, or
acharterer of aship oraircraftin their respective capacities
as an owner or charter ;

(xxvi) The supply of electricity upto 75 kwh per consumer
as defined under Electricity Act, No. 19 of 1950,
per month ;

(xxvii) Import by any person who has entered into an agreement —

(@) prior to May 16th, 1996 ; or g

(6) prior to the appointed date in respect of a project the

5 total cost of which is not less than Rs. 500 Million,

with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, under section 17
of Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978,
of any article whichis prescribed asa project elated article
to be utilised in the project specified in the agreement
‘during the project implementation periodtof such project
asspecifiedinsuchagreement oruptothedate of completion
of such project, which ever is earlier ;


60 _ Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34. of 1996
(xxviii) Import by any person who has entered into an agreement,
: with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, under section
- 17of Board of Investment of Sri lanka Law No. 4 of 1978,
. of any article which i prescribed asa project related article
to be utilised in the project specified in the agreement —
(@ for a period of three years, from the appointed
date, or
(©) until the completion of such project,
whichever is earlier;
(xxix) Import, by any person of any article which is prescribed as
-- project related article to be utilised in any prescribed
\ project where the total cost of the project is not less than
Rupees 500 million—
(@) foraperiod of three years from the appointed date.
or
-(®) upto the date of completion of such project, ~
H whichever is earlier ;
(xxx) Supply, in Sri Lanka, of architectural, engineering, quantity
surveying or construction management services by a non
. ‘ resident person within the meaning of the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 28 of 1979, toacompany with which an agreement
* has been entered into by the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka under section 17 of the Board of Investmetn of Sri
Lanka Law, No, 4of 1978, onor before the appointed date,
if the total cost of the project to which such agreement
relates is not less than US $ 50 Million or its equivalent ;
(xxxi) the supply of services by a person in Sri Lanka to another
person, to be consumed or utilized wholly, by such other
person outside Sir Lanka,
ec fesebed i 77. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
Rrconsisteney. and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
