Price : Rs. 5.50Postage : Rs. 4.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 04, 2003

[Certified on 4th April, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

PUBLIC SERVICE PROVIDENT FUND(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 17 OF 2003

Public Service Provident Fund (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 20031

2H 0176545,650 (02/2003)

L. D. O. 93/2002.

[Certified on 4th April, 2003]

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PUBLIC SERVICE PROVIDENT FUNDORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka.

1.This Act may be cited as the Public Service ProvidentFund (Amendment) Act, No. 17 of 2003.

2. Section 2 of the Public Service Provident FundOrdinance (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended by the insertion immediatelyafter subsection (4A) of that section, of the following newsubsection :

(4B) In respect of a person who holds a non-pensionable post in the service of theGovernment and who is entitled for a dailypay

(a) the total of the daily payments madeto such person during a calendarmonth or part thereof ; or

(b) the monthly allowance paid to suchperson in lieu of a salary for thatperiod,

shall be deemed to be the monthly salary of suchperson..

3.Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the insertion immediately after subsection (2) of thatsection, of the following new subsection :

(2A)The compulsory contribution of anon-pensionable employee referred to insubsection (4B) of section 2, shall be calculated,on the basis of the monthly salary received bysuch person in accordance with the aforesaidsubsection..

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 2 ofChapter 434.

Short title.

Public Service Provident Fund (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 20032

4.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following new subsection :

(1) Subject to the provisions of thisOrdinance, on the death of the contributor :

(a) if the amount payable does notamount to, or does not exceed invalue the sum specified by theprovisions of the Civil ProcedureCode (Chapter 101) as being thesum above which the institution oftestamentary proceedings ismandatory, the Director ofPensions shall pay such amount inthe manner prescribed, to theperson or persons nominated bythe deceased contributor for suchpurpose. If no such nomination hasbeen made, such amount can eitherbe paid by the Director of Pensionsto the person or persons entitled bylaw to receive the same or where acase for the settlement of the estateof the deceased contributor hasbeen filed, such amount shall bepaid to the credit of the case ;

(b) if the amount payable exceeds invalue the sum specified by theprovisions of the Civil ProcedureCode (Chapter 101) as being thesum above which the institution oftestamentary proceedings ismandatory, the Director ofPensions shall pay such amount tothe credit of the testamentary casefiled for the settlement of the estateof the deceased contributor :

Provided however, the Director of Pensionsmay at his discretion, where it appears thatimmediate financial relief is essential to the

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Public Service Provident Fund (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 20033

spouse or children or other dependants of thedeceased contributor for the settlement offuneral expenses, pay a sum not exceeding tenthousand rupees to the spouse or children orother dependants of the deceased contributor..

5.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofany inconsistency.

Public Service Provident Fund (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 20034

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.