PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

2nd Session 1957-58 yee
ra

Walawe Lands Act, No. 11
of 1958

Date of Assent: March 12, 1958

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
BurEAvU, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price : 13 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Walawe Lands Act, No. 11 of 1958 3
te DO. F2/67.

Hes

’ AN ACT TO MODIFY THE LAND ACQUISITION ACT,

No. 9
OF 1950, IN ITS APPLICATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF
THE ACQUISITION OF ANY UNCULTIVATED LAND IN THE
AREA SPECIFIED IN THE SCHEDULE TO THIS ACT.

[Date of Assent: March 12, 1958]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,

by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this pre-

gent Parliament assembled, and by ‘the authority of

the same, as follows: —

14. This Act may be cited as the Walawe Lands
Act, No. 11 of 1958.

2. The Land Acquisition Act, No. 9 of 1950, shall,
in its application for the purpose of the acquisition
of any uncultivated land in the area specified in the
Schedule to this Act, have effect as if—

() in section 42 of that Act,—

Ce

(i) for the words ‘* market value of that
land,’’, occurring in paragraph (qa)
of sub-section (1) of that section,
there were substituted the words
‘‘ market value of that land on the
day immediately preceding October

1, 1957, being the date of the
commencement of . the Walawe
Ganga Irrigation: Development
Scheme,’’, and

(ii) for the words ‘‘ market value of that
servitude,’’, occurring in paragraph
(b) of sub-section (1) of that section,
there were substituted the words
‘market value of that servitude on
the day specified in) paragraph (a)

of this sub-section, "’; and

(b) in section 44 of that Act, for the words and
figure “‘ after the notice under section 4
in respect of the land was given or
exhibited ’’, occurring in paragraph (f) of
that section, there were substituted the
es and figures “on or after October 1.
1957,”

I— J. N.R 21342-3,025 (1/53)

Short title.

Medification
of Land
Acquisition
Act, No. 9 of
1950, in ils
application

to acquisition
of any
uncultivated
land in the
area specified

in the Schedule

to this Act.


Interpretation.

4 Waluwe Lands Act, No. 11 of 1958

3. (1) In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires— P
‘land ”? includes land covered with water; and
‘unceultivated land’’ means any forest, waste

land or chena land.

(2) Any land in the area specified in the Schedule
to this Act which was a forest, waste land or chena:
land on October 1, 1957, shall, for the purposes of
this Act, be deemed to be an uncultivated land not-
withstanding that such land may have ceased after
such date to be a forest, waste land or chena Jand.

(3) The Government Agent of the Administrative
District in which any land in the area specified in
the Schedule to this Act wholly or mainly les shall
determine the question whether that land is an uncul-
tivated land within the meaning of this Act, and his
determination of that question shall be final and
conclusive and shall not be called in question 1n any
court.

SCHIEDULE.

All that area of land and water comprising parts of the
Divisional Revenue Officers’ Divisions of Kadawata and Meda
Korales, Atakalan Korale and Kolonna Korale in the Ratnapura
District,, Province of Sabaragamuwa, part of the Divisional
Revenue. Officer’s Division of \Wellawaya Division in the District
of Badulla, Province of Uva, and parts of the Divisional Revenue
Officers’ Divisions of Magam Pattuwa, Giruwa Pattu East and
Giruwa Pattu West in the Hambantota District, Southern
Province, and bounded as follows: —

North:— By a line drawn from the northern boundary of the
iDenegama Estate Factory north-eastwards and north-
westwards along the centre line of the footpath till it
‘meets the Peak Wilderness Sanctuary boundary, thence
‘along the said boundary south-eastwards and north-
eastwards to the centre line of Belihul Oya, thence
south-eastwards along the said centre line to the centre
line of the Public Works Department Road from
Colombo to Wellawaya, thence along the centre line
of the said road, north-eastwards, eastwards, south-
eastwards, north-eastwards and south-eastwards to 8
point on the centre line of the Punagala Oya.

East:—By a line drawn from the last-mentioned point along
the centre lines of Punagala Oya and Kuda Oya south-
westwards, south-eastwards, southwards, eastwards,


Walawe Lands Act, No. 11 of 1958 5

southwards and south-eastwards till it meets the centre
line of the Public Works Department Road from Ham-
bantota to Wellawaya, thence southwards, south-east-
wards, and south-westwards along the centre line of
the said road continued to a point on the low-water-
mark of the sea at Hambantota.

South:—By a line drawn from the last-mentioned point south-
westwards along the low-water-mark of the sea to the
point of confluence of the Kahanda Kalapuwa with

the sea.

West:—By a line drawn from the last-mentioned point north-
westwards, north-eastwards, north-westwards, and
southwards along the low-water-mark of the Kabanda
Kalapuwa to the centre of confluence of Ranna Oya
with the said Kalapuwa, thence north-westwards and
northwards along the said Ranna Oya till it merges into
Urubokka Oya, thence north-westwards, northwards,
westwards, north-westwards and westwards along the
centre line of Urubokka Oya to a point due west of
the centre of the junction of the roads at Julampitiya
and thence eastwards in a straight line to the centre
of the said junction, thence north-eastwards, and east-
wards along the centre line of the road to Galpotayaya
to the centre of its junction with the Wiraketiya-
Middeniya road, thence north-eastwards to Punchiridi-
goda Trig point, thence north-westwards to Bandara-
hinne ‘l'rig point, thence north-westwards to Wawulpane
Trig point, thence north-westwards to Geekiyanakanda
‘T'rig point, thence north-westwards to Kebjlitelanda
‘Trig point, thence north-eastwards to Yatipasgamuwa
Trig point, thence north-eastwards to the centre line
of the road from Balangoda to Uggalkaltota at the 6th
milepost, thence north-westwards along the centre line
of the said road to the second milepost on the said road,
and thence northwards to the starting point of the
northern limit of the area.
