PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATION BUILDING TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 11 OF 2013

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd April, 2013]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 26, 2013

1Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No.11 of 2013

Short title anddate ofoperation.

2PL 0071014,090 (03/2013)

[Certified on 23rd April, 2013]

L. D.O. 7/2013.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATION BUILDING TAX ACT, NO. 9 OF 2009

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Nation Building Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2013 and shall be deemed tohave come into operation from January 1, 2013, unlessdifferent dates of operation are specified in the relevantsections.

2.Section 3 of the Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of2009 as last amended by Act, No. 9 of 2012 (hereinafterreferred to as the principal enactment) is hereby furtheramended as follows :

(1)in subsection (3) of that section by the substitution inparagraph (iii) thereof, for the words, paid in thatquarter; of the words and figures paid in that quarterother than such excise duty paid on the importationwith effect from February 1, 2009;; and

(2)in subsection (4) of that section

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (iii) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the followingparagraph:

(iii)the liable turnover of such person fromthe supply of any goods or services otherthan services referred to in paragraph(iv) and which does not exceeds

(a)the sum of five hundred thousandrupees if such relevant quarter isany quarter commencing on orafter January 1, 2011 but prior toJanuary 1, 2013; and

Amendment ofsection 3 of Act,No. 9 of 2009.

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No.11 of 20132

(b)the sum of three million rupees ifsuch relevant quarter is anyquarter commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2013;;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (iv) thereof, forthe words twenty five million rupees. of thewords twenty five million rupees; and

(c)by the addition immediately after paragraph (iv)of the following new paragraph:

(v) such quarter is a quarter commencing onor after January 1, 2013 and the liable turnoverbeing turnover of any new business ofmanufacture of any article other than liquor ortobacco, or the provision of any service by anyindividual who is a citizen of Sri Lanka for aperiod of five years reckoned from the beginningof the year of assessment in which thecommercial operation commences, if suchindividual

(i)return from foreign employment on orafter January 1, 2013; and

(ii)invests his foreign earnings tocommence such business..

3.The First Schedule to the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 9 of 2012 is hereby further amended asfollows:

(1)In PART I of that schedule:

(a)by the substitution in item (i) for the wordmanufacture, of the word manufacturer;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (iv) of item (iv)for the words within a period of one year fromthe date of importation of such article to

Amendment ofFirst Schedule ofthe principalenactment.

3Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No.11 of 2013

Sri Lanka;, of the words within a period ofone year from the date of importation of sucharticle to Sri Lanka or within a period of ninetydays after the completion of such project;;

(c)by the substitution in item (xxxvi) for the wordsand figures cess of Rs. 75 per kilogram, ofthe words and figures cess at the rate specifiedin a Gazette Notification issued under the SriLanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of1979;

(d)by the substitution in item (xxxviii) for thewords artist thereof. of the words artistthereof;

(e)by the insertion immediately after item(xxxviii), of the following new items:-

(xxxix)solar panel modules, accessories orsolar home systems for the generationof solar power energy classifiedunder Harmonized CommodityDescription and Coding Numbers forcustom purposes at the point ofimportation;

(XL)coal;

(XLI)articles imported for anyinternational event approved by theMinister of Finance;

(XLII)gems imported subject to specialservice fee at the rate specified underparagraph (a) of section 6A of theCustoms Ordinance (Chapter 235),and any subsequent sale of suchgems as processed gem;

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No.11 of 20134

(XLIII)any gully bowser, machinery orequipment imported for the use ofgarbage disposal activities carriedout by any local authority, for thepurpose of provision of such servicesto the public as approved by theSecretary to the relevant lineMinistry;

(XLIV)any article manufactured by acompany identified as a StrategicDevelopment Project in terms ofsubsection (4) of section 3 of theStrategic Development Project Act,No. 14 of 2008 sold to anotherStrategic Development Project or toa specialized project approved by theMinister of Finance or to a companyregistered with Board of Investmentof Sri Lanka established under Boardof Investment Law, No. 4 of 1978, sofar as such articles are considered asimport replacement and suppliedduring the project implementationperiod; and

(XLV)any machinery or equipmentimported for the purpose ofgenerating electricity by the CeylonElectricity Board established underthe Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No.17 of 1969 or any institution whichhas entered into an agreement withthe Ceylon Electricity Boardto supply electricity, beingmachinery or equipment classifiedunder Harmonized CommodityDescription Coding Numbers forcustoms purposes and approved bythe Minister of Finance..

5Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No.11 of 2013

(2)In PART II of that schedule

(a) by the substitution in item (xxvi) for the wordsport or airline, of the words port or airport;and

( b) by the addition immediately after the item(xxxiv) of the following new items:-

(xxxv)any service provided by the CentralBank of Sri Lanka establishedunder the Monetary Law Act(Chapter 422); and

(xxxvi)any service provided free of chargeby any public corporation out of thefunds voted by Parliament from theConsolidated Fund or out of any loanarranged through the Government,on behalf of the Government..

4.Where the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenueor the Director-General of Customs as the case may be,collects under the provisions of section 4 or section 5respectively of the principal enactment the tax calculatedconsidering the provisions of this Act, during the periodcommencing from January 1, 2013 and ending on the dateon which the certificate of the Speaker is endorsed in respectof this Act from a person to whom the provisions of this Actapplies, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes tohave been, and to be, validly made:

Provided that the aforesaid provisions of this section shallnot affect any decision or order made by any Court or anyproceedings pending in any Court in respect of any taxcollected during the aforesaid period.

5.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Validation.

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No.11 of 20136

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.