PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

DEPARTMENT OF COAST GUARDACT, No. 41 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th August, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.50Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 07, 2009

1Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 2009

[Certified on 06th August, 2009]

L.D.O. 29/2007.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEPARTMENT OFCOAST GUARD; TO SPECIFY THE FUNCTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OFCOAST GUARD; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH

OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS it is expedient to provide for the establishmentof a multi-mission service to be called the Coast GuardService for the purpose of ensuring the security of the coastalareas, the Maritime Zones, the territorial waters of Sri Lankaand the high seas:

AND WHEREAS the Department of Coast Guard shall,assist in preventing, the entry and exit of illegal immigrantsand emigrants, the trafficking of narcotic drugs andpsychotropic substances, the detection and seizure ofcontraband and weapons; be entrusted with providingassistance to ships which meet with distress at sea and topersons found aboard such ships, to provide assistance inensuring maritime traffic safety, protect the marineenvironment, prevent and combat maritime disasters, co-operate with domestic and foreign organizations for thepurpose of protecting national interests in all such areas andthereby ensuring national security and protecting thenational economy and the national integrity of Sri Lanka:

BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Department of CoastGuard Act, No. 41 of 2009.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COAST GUARD

2.(1) There shall be a Department of Coast Guard whichshall be under the control of a Director-General of CoastGuard.

Preamble.

Short title.

Department ofCoast Guard.

2PL 0041134,200 (06/2009)

Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 20092

(2) The Department of Coast Guard shall be charged withthe implementation of the powers, duties and functionsspecified in this Act and be responsible for the proper andefficient functioning of the Coast Guard Service.

3.There shall be established in accordance with theprovisions of this Act, a service to be called the Coast GuardService, which shall be charged with the function of lawenforcement in the coastal areas, the maritime zones of SriLanka and the high seas.

PART II

DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COAST GUARD

4.The functions of the Department of Coast Guard shallbe

(a)to prevent illegal fishing in the coastal areas of SriLanka and the protection of fishermen includingrendering assistance at sea;

(b)to assist the Customs and other relevant authoritiesin combating anti-smuggling and anti-immigrationoperations;

(c)to initiate action to prevent and manage piracy atsea;

(d)to co-operate with the law enforcement agenciesand the armed forces by taking necessary measuresfor the suppression of destructive terrorist activitiesoccuring in the maritime zones and the territorialwaters of Sri Lanka;

(e)to prevent transboundary movement of narcotics,by sea;

(f)to assist the relevant authorities in ensuring safetyof life and property at sea;

Establishment ofthe Departmentof Coast Guard.

Duties andfunctions of theDepartment ofCoast Guard.

3Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 2009

(g)to participate in search and rescue operations forhuman beings in times of natural catastrophes andto assist in salvage operations in relation to vesselsand other goods after such catastrophes and otheraccidents at sea;

(h)to assist in the preservation and protection ofmaritime and marine environment;

(i)to assist the relevant authorities in theimplementation and monitoring of measuresrequired for the prevention and control of marinepollution and other disasters which occur at sea;

(j)to assist in the conservation of marine species;

(k)to disseminate information including warnings byradio or any other means in times of naturalcatastrophes; and

(l)the performance of such other functions as may fromtime to time be conferred on it or assigned to it, bythe Government.

5.(1) The Department of Coast Guard shall havethe power to

(a)stop, enter, board, inspect and search any place,structure, vessel or aircraft and to arrest and detainany vessel or aircraft;

(b)demand the production of any licence, permit,record, certificate or any other document and toinspect such licence, permit, record, certificate orother document or make copies of or take extractsfrom such licence, permit, record, certificate or otherdocument;

(c)investigate any offence which it has reason tobelieve is being committed or is about to becommitted or has been committed;

Powers of theDepartment ofCoast Guard.

Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 20094

(d)exercise the right of hot pursuit;

(e)examine and seize or dispose of any fish or anyarticle, device, goods, vessel, air craft or any otheritem relating to any offence which has beencommitted or it has reasonable grounds to believethat such offence has been committed; and

(f)arrest any person whom it has reason to believe hascommitted an offence under any written law of SriLanka for the time being in force.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), novessel shall be arrested or detained within the territorialwaters if the passage of that vessel within the territorialwaters, is an innocent passage.

For the purpose of this section, the passage of a vessel isan innocent passage if the passage is not prejudicial to thepeace, good order or security of Sri Lanka.

6.Every Coast Guard officer of the Department of CoastGuard shall be deemed to be a peace officer within themeaning and for the purposes, of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

7.Coast Guard officers may carry arms in so far as thesame is necessary for the performance of their duties. Thecategories of arms Coast Guard officers may carry shall be asprescribed.

8.A Coast Guard officer may, when necessary for theperformance of his duties

(a)direct the shipmaster or other person commandinga vessel to produce the ships official papers whichare required to be kept aboard;

Members of theDepartment ofCoast Guarddeemed to bepeace officers.

Carrying ofArms.

Coast Guardofficers Right tovisit and inspecta vessel.

5Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 2009

(b)stop, visit and inspect the vessel for the purpose ofascertaining her identity, port of registry, name ofthe ship master, last port or place of departure, portor place of destination or nature of the cargo ; or

(c)question the crew and passengers on mattersnecessary for the performance of his duties.

9.Every Coast Guard officer shall when acting underthis Act, be in uniform and on demand declare his office andproduce to the person against whom he is acting or fromwhom he seeks any information, the official identity card orother identification documents issued by the Department ofCoast Guard.

10.Nothing contained in this Act shall be construed topermit the Department of Coast Guard or its personnel to betrained or organised as a military establishment or to functionas such.

PART III

ADVISORY COUNCIL

11.The Minister shall appoint an Advisory Council,which shall consist of the following:

(a)the following ex-officio members :

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Defence or hisrepresentative;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Fisheries or hisrepresentative;

Identification.

Department ofCoast Guard orits personnel notto be trained as amilitaryestablishment.

AdvisoryCouncil.

Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 20096

(iii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance or hisrepresentative;

(iv)Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Ports and Shippingor his representative;

(v)Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Environment andNatural Resources or his representative;

(vi)Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Coast Guard or hisrepresentative;

(vii)the Commander of the Navy ;

(viii)the Inspector-General of Police ; and

(ix)Director-General of the Department of CoastGuard ;

(b)the Minister may whenever it appears to him to benecessary, co-opt for service in the Advisory Councilany official whose services are required by theCouncil in connection with any specific matterunder consideration by the Council.

12.The Advisory Council shall conduct an annualreview of the activities of the Department of Coast Guardand submit a comprehensive report to the Minister. TheCouncil shall also recommend to the Minister, the policieswhich in the opinion of the Council ought to be implementedby the Department of Coast Guard. The Council shall alsowhenever required to do so, advice the Minister in respect ofany matter on which their advice is sought.

Functions of theAdvisoryCouncil.

7Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 2009

13.The Advisory Council may for the purpose ofcarrying out the purposes of this Act, make rules specifyingthe procedure to be followed at its meetings, the quorumand agenda for its meetings and the manner of submission ofreports.

14.Notwithstanding anything contained in any otherwritten law, where a person is arrested under this Act, noprosecution shall be instituted against that person exceptby or with the written consent of the Attorney-General.

PART IV

GENERAL

15.The officers of the Depertment of Coast Guard shallbe paid such remuneration as may be determined by theMinister in consultation with the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance and such remuneration shall be chargedto the Consolidated Fund.

16.(1) At the request of the Department of Coast Guard,any officer in the public service may, with the consent ofthat officer and the Chairman of the Public ServiceCommission, be temporarily appointed to the staff of theDepartment of Coast Guard for such period as may bedetermined by the Department or be permanently appointedto such staff.

(2) Where any officer of the public service is appointedto the staff of the Department as specified in subsection (1),such appointment shall be on terms and conditions whichare not less favourable to those which such officer wasenjoying on the day immediately prior to the date of suchappointment and from and after the date of such appointmentall matters relating to such officer shall be governed by theprevailing government regulations as may be applicablefrom time to time.

Rules.

Prosecution.

Remuneration ofofficers &c,

Appointment ofpublic officersto theDepartment ofCoast Guard.

Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 20098

(3) Where the Department of Coast Guard employs anyperson who has agreed to serve the government for a specifiedperiod, such period of service to the Department by thatperson, shall be regarded as service to the Government forthe purpose of discharging the obligation for such agreement.

17.(1) At the request of the Department of Coast Guard,any officer or servant of any public corporation may, withthe consent of such officer or servant and the governingboard of such officer or servant be temporarily appointed tothe staff of the Department for such period as may bederermined by the Department, on such terms and conditionsas may be agreed upon by the Department and the governingboard of such corporation.

(2) Where any person is appointed under subsection (1)to the staff of the Department such person shall be subject tothe same disciplinary control as any other member of thestaff.

18.Any Coast Guard officer who acts in contraventionof the provision of this Act or any other written law, in thecarrying out of his duties shall be guilty of an offence andshall be, liable to be tried by a Magistrate and punished withsuch punishment as is specified for such offence.

19.(1) The Minister may on the recommendation of theAdvisory Council make regulations for giving effect to theprinciples and provisions of the Act and in respect of mattersrequired by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of whichregulations are authorized or required to be made.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1), regulations may be made inrespect of any or all of the following matters :

(a)the constitution, governance, qualifications,command and discipline of the Department of CoastGuard ;

Offences.

Regulations.

Appointment ofofficers andservants ofpubliccorporations tothe staff of theDepartment ofCoast Guard.

9Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 2009

(b)the recruitment of persons to the Department ofCoast Guard ;

(c)the conditions of service of members of theDepartment of Coast Guard ;

(d)the rank, powers and authority of officers,subordinate officers and other persons ;

(e)the dismissal, retirement, release promotion ordischarge from the Department of Coast Guard ofofficers, subordinate officers and other enrolledpersons ;

(f)any other matter which is to be or may be prescribedor in respect of which this Act makes no provisionor makes insufficient provision which in the opinionof the Minister, is necessary for the properimplementation of this Act.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

20.The Coast Guard Unit established pursuant to adecision of the Cabinet of Ministers and presently attachedto the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, shall,with effect from the date of the coming into operation of thisAct, stand transferred to the Ministry of Defence, PublicSecurity, Law and Order, along with all personnel, propertyand other assets.

Transfer of theCoast GuardUnit attached tothe Ministry ofFisheries andAquaticResources.

Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 200910

21.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

22.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Coast Guard officer means any person attached tothe regular service of the Department of CoastGuard;

maritime zones shall have the same meaning as inthe Maritime Zones Law, No. 22 of 1977 ;

territorial waters shall have the same meaning as inthe Constitution.

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

11Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.