PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

REHABILITATION OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES .
ACT, No. 29 OF 1996.

{Certified on 12th November, 1996]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 15,1996

-
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price: 1.05 , Postage : Rs. 2.00


#

" Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises Act, No. 29 of 1996

(Certified on 12th November, Ginzee
L. D —O, 54/96

AN Act TO PROVIDE FOR THE REHABILITATION OF PRIVATISED
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES

WHEREAS certain Public Corporations and Government Preamble.
Owned Business Undertakings, were converted into Public’
Companies under the Conversion of Public Corporations or
Government Owned Business Undertakings into Public
Companies Act, No. :23 of 1987 and all the shares of such

companies were allotted to the Secretary of the mTCASURY to be

held for and on behalf of the State :

AND WHEREAS in furtherance of the policy of
privatization, all or a majority of, the shares held by the
Government in some of such companies were transferred to .
other persons, or the Government has ceased to have control
over the management and administration of some of such
companies or over property belonging to such companies :

en

_ AND WHEREAS the business undertakings of some of
such companies have failed resulting in non-employment, _—
retrenchment, non-payment of wages and amNY dues, of,
workers of such conipanies

AND WHEREAS it ~ necessary and expedient, in the .
interest of national economy, and for the purpose of securing - eek
recognition of, and respect for, the rights of. the workers of .
such companies and upgrading the production of such-
companies to meet the just requirements of the general welfare
ofademocratic society, forthe Governmentto take appropriate
Steps to rehabilitate, such companies :

NOW THEREFORE beit enacted by the Parliament of the
- Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri ee as follows -

1. This “Act may be cited as the Rehabilitation of Public — Short title.
_- Enterprises Act, No. 29 of 1996. .
2—D 041365 — 7,355 (96/09) |


Order vesting
the manage-
ment and

administration

of a privatised
public enter-
prise in the
Government.

2 - Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises Act, No. 29 of 1996

2. (1) Where the President is of opinion that in any
privatised public enterprise there is, or is likely to be, —

(a) a cessation of, or a substantial reduction in the work of
any of the units constituting the business undertaking
. Of such enterprise ; and

(b) non-employment or retrenchment of the workers of
such enterprise or of a substantial number of such
workers or, the non-payment of wages or statutory
dues of, such workers or of a substantial number of
such workers, .

as a result only of any act or omission of the Board of Directors
of such privatised public enterprise the President may, by
Order published in the Gazette vest in the Government, the
administration and management of the affairs of such priva-

~ tised public enterprise and so long as such Order is in force the

possession and control of all the immovable and movable
property of such privatised public enterprise and its rights and
liabilities shall vest in the Government.

(2) An Order made under subsection (1) in respect of a
privatised public enterprise shall have the effect of authorising
the Competent Authority appointed to manage and administer

‘the affairs of such enterprise to take possession and control of

all immovable and movable property and the assets of such
enterprise and to use such property for the purposes of such |
enterprise.

(3) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall be laid
before Parliament within four months of the date specified in .
such Order and if Parliament is not in session within fifty days
of the commencement of the session next ensuing, by a motion

that such Order be approved.


Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises Act, No. 29 of 19% 3

(4) Where - ,

-(a) Parliament refuses, within the period referred to in
subsection (3) to approve an Order made under
subsection (1);

_(b) an Order made under subsection (1) is laid before
Parliament within the period réferred to in subsec-
_ ion (3) but is not approved by Parliament within a
period of four months calculated from the expiration

of the period referred to in subsection (3) ;

(c) an Order made under subsection (1) is not laid before
Parliament within the period referred to in subsec-
tion (3),

such.Order shall be deemed to have been revoked with effect
from the date on which Parliament refuses to approve such

Order or the date of expiration of the period referred to in.
subsection (3), or paragraph (b) of. this subsection, as the .

case may be.

(5) Where an Order made under subsection (1) is deemed
to have been revoked by reason of the operation of the
provisions of subsection (4), the rights and liabilities of the
privatised public enterprise in respect of which such Order
was made shall be deemed not to have vested in the Government
and the Competent Authority appointed to manage and ad-

minister the affairs of such privatised public enterprise shall.
forthwith hand over the management of such‘enterprise to the |

Chairman of the Board of Directors of such enterprise or to a

person authorised by such Chairman. The Competent Author- —

ity shall cause an inventory to be prepared of the immovable
property, plant, machinery and stock in.trade of such enter-
prise at the time of such mone over.

3. (1) Where the management and control of a priva-

. tised public enterprise is vested in the Government, by an -

Order made under section 2 the President shall appoint a
Competent Au thority to manage and administer the affairs of
that enterprise.
2

Appointment of
Competent

Authority.


4 Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises Act, No. 29 of 1996

(2) A Competent Authority appointed under subsection
(1) to manage and administer the affairs of a privatised public
enterprise shall take possession of the property of that enter-
prise, and shall cause an inventory to be prepared, in the
presence of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of such
enterprise, or any agent duly authorised by him, if such person
if available, of the immovable property, plant,-machinery and

stock in trade of such enterprise, at the ume of such taking - ~

Over,

@) The Competent Authority in the discharge of his
functions and the exercise of his powers under this Act, shall
be subject to such general and special directions as the
President may from time to time issuc, having regard to the
need to safeguard, and secure recognition of , the rights of the
workers of that ene Epnise:

(4) Where the Competent Authority takes over thei man-
agement and administration of the affairs of a privatised
‘. public enterprise, the Competent Authority shall —

- (a) exercise, perform and discharge with respect to such
enterprise, all the powers, duties and functions con-
ferred or imposed on, or assigned to , the Board of

_Directors of such enterprise by or under any written
~ law or by -the articles of association of such
"enterprise ;

(b) recommence any business activities of such enterprise.
which have ceased to function ;

(c) restructure such enterprise so as to enhance its com-
mercial viability ;

+ (d) infuse the resources necessary to achieve the objec-
' tives referred to in paragraph (b) and paragraph (c);
_(e) eusure the maintenance of proper accountting systems
in such enterprise;

(f) secure the due payment of wages to the workers of
such enterprise and due compliance by such enter-
prise, of all its statutory dues in relation to. such
workers ;


Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises Act. No. 29 of 1996 ° 5

(g) meet all costs and expenses incurred in the manage-
ment and administration of the affairs of such enter-
prise ;

(h) do such other acts as are nenessaty or incidental to give
effect to the above.

(5) During the period for which the management and
administration of the affairs of a privatised public enterprise
is taken over by the Competent Authority, it shall not be
lawful for any director of the Board of Directors of such

enterprise, unless expressly authorised to do so by the Com- ©

petent Authority, to exercise, perform and discharge any
powers, duties and functions with respect to such enterprise:

4. Where an Order made under section 2 is approved by
Parliament within the period referred to in subsection (3) or
subsection (4) (b) of that section, the shares held by the share-
holders of the privatised public enterprise in respect of which
such Order was made, shall, with effect from the date of such
approval, and other than in cases where such shares are

already held by the Secretary to the Treasury, vest in the _

Secretary to the Treasury for and on behalf of the Goremmical

5. (). ‘The President shall appoint, for the purposes of
this Act, a compensation tribunal consisting of the Chief
-Valuer and two other perschs who appear to the President to

have wide experience and shown capacity in the valuation of

property.

(2) +The share holders of a privatised public enterprise on
‘the day immediately preceding the date on which the shares in
such enterprise were vested in the Secretary to the Treasury
under section 4 shall be entitled to reasonable compensation
in respect of such bape Se

(3) Where an Order made sins subsection ( 1), of section
2 is deemed to have been revoked by reason of the operation
of the provisions of subsection (3) of that section, the priva-
tised public enterprise in respect of which such Order was

' Vesting of

shares ofa :
privatised
public enter- -
prise in the
Secretary to the
Treasury.

Appointment of
compensation

* gibunal. °


6. Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises Act, No. 29 of 1996

made shall be entitled to compensation for any loss of profits
during the period commencing on the date of such Order and
ending. on the date on which such Order is deemed to have
been revoked.

(4) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance may

make regulations with regard to the manner of assessment of

'. compensation payable to share- holders entitled to compensa-

. tion under subsection (2) and to privatised public enterprises

~ entitléd to compensation under subsection (3) and the mode
and manner in which such compensation shall be paid.

_ (5) All claims to compensation under this Act shall be
made to the compensation tribunal appointed under subsec-
tion (1) and such tribunal shall make its award on every such

_ Claim within six months of the date on which such claim is
received by such tnibunal.

(6) Any person who is aggrieved by the award made by

. the compensation tribunal may appeal against such award to

the Court of Appeal on a question of law within fourteen days .
from the date on which the award was communicated to such, ~
person, with the leave of the Court of Appeal first had and
obtained. The provisions of the Civil Procedure Code relating

_ toappeals to the Court of Appeal from orders of District courts
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the making and hearing of
appeals under this section.

(7) All sums awarded as compensation under this Act
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

_ Offences. °6. Any person _

(a) who refuses or fails to deliver possession to the Com-
petent Authority of any property of a privatised
public enterprise the management and administra-
tion of the affairs of which is vested in the Govern-
ment by an Order under this Act ; or


Rehabilitation of Piiblic Enterprises Act, No. 29 of 1996. 7

(b) who wilfully or negligently destroys , damages or
disables, or causes to be destroyed or damaged or .
disabicd, or wilfully conceals or puts away, or causes
to be concealed or put away any property of, any such
enterprise ;

(c) who prevents or obstructs, or directly or indirectly
causes any other person to prevent or obstruct, the
Competent - ‘Authority in taking over the manage-
ment of, “or? taking possession or control of, any:
property: of, any such enterprise;

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to °-
imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding
ten years or to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to
both such fine and imprisonment.

7. For the avoidance of doubts it ,is hereby declared that Applicability of
the provisions of the Public Enterprises Reform Commission pana able
of Sri Lanka Act, No.1 of 1996,-shall apply to and in relation :- Enterprises
to any privatised public enterprise the shares of which are’ Geom _
vested in the Secretary of the Treasury under section 4, Sri Lanka Act,

No. 1 of 1996.

8. (1) ‘he Minister in charge of the subject of Finance —_ Regulations.
may make regulations in respect of all matters in regard to -
which regulations are required or authorised to be made.

_ (2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be pub-
: lished i in the Gazette and shall come into operationonthedate . . ‘.
of such publication or on such later date as may be specified : “
- inthe regulation. ~

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not so
. approved shall deemed to be rescinded as from the date of

oe


Duration of this
Act.

Application of
the Act. ©

Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsist-
ency.

Interpretation. -

8 Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises Act, No. 29 of 1996

disapproval but without prejeudice.' to anything previously
done thereunder,

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed under subsection (3) to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.

9. The provisions of this Act, shall be operative fora

period of six months from the dae of its commencement.

10. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that
the provisions of this Act shall not apply to any privatised
public enterprise—

_ (a) which has been incorporated or constituted under the
law of ; or

(b) any shareholder of which is a national of,

~ any country which has entered into a treaty or agreement with

Sri Lanka to which Article 157 of the Constitution applies.

11. Intheeventofany inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail,

12. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“Competent Authority” means a Competent Authority
appointed under section 3 ;

“person” includes any body of persons corporate or
‘unincorporate.; —

“privatised public enterprise” means a company all the
shares of which were allotted to the Secretary to the -
Treasury in terms of subsection (3) of section 2 of the
Conversion of Public Corporations or Government
Owned Business undertakings into Public Compa- .
nies Act, No. 23 of 1987, and —


a ‘

Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises Act, No. 29 of 1996 9

(a) where all or the, majority of such shares have been
transferred by the Secretary to the Treasury prior to
january 10, 1996 to any other person aienetxens
subsequent transfers if any ; or ; ;

(b) the Government has ceased to have effective control
of the administration and management of the affairs _
of such company ;

-

“public corporation” means any corporation, board or other
body which was or is established by or under any
written law other than the Companies Act, No. 17 of
1982, with funds or capital wholly or partly provided
by the Government by way of ean loan or other-
wise.


- Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180

(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,

‘TransworKs House, Lotus RoaD, CoLoms0 01 before 15th December each year in respect
of the year following. .—
