PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 85.00Postage : Rs. 35.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th of September, 2022]

SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTION LEVYACT, No. 25 OF 2022

1Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

Short title anddate ofoperation

L.D.-O. 81/2021

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF A LEVY

KNOWN AS THE SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTION LEVY ON THE LIABLE

TURNOVER OF EVERY PERSON TO WHOM THIS ACT APPLIES; AND TO

PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Social SecurityContribution Levy Act, No. 25 of 2022 and shall come intooperation on the First day of October 2022.

PART I

IMPOSITION OF SOCIAL SECURITYCONTRIBUTION LEVY

2. The provisions of this Act shall apply to every person(in this Act referred to as a taxable person) who -

(a)imports any article;

(b)carries on the business of manufacture of any article;

(c)carries on the business of providing a service ofany description; or

(d)carries on the business of wholesale or retail sale ofany article including importation and sale of sucharticle other than a sale by the manufacturer of thatarticle being a manufacturer to whom the provisionsof paragraph (b) applies.

3. (1) A levy known as the Social Security ContributionLevy (in this Act referred to as the levy) shall, subject tothe provisions of this Act, be charged from every taxableperson for every quarter (in this Act referred to as the relevant

Persons towhom this Actapplies

Imposition ofthe SocialSecurityContributionLevy

[Certified on 20th of September, 2022]

2Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

quarter) on or after October, 1, 2022 in respect of the liableturnover, specified in the Second Schedule hereto, at therate of 2.5 per centum, in the following manner:-

(a)In case of a taxable person referred to in paragraph(a) of section 2, the levy shall be charged in respectof the liable turnover of such person arising fromthe importation of such article; and

(b)In case of a taxable person referred to in paragraph(b), (c) or (d) of section 2, the levy shall be chargedin respect of the liable turnover of such person.

(2) For the purposes of this Act, turnover-

(a)with reference to a taxable person referred to inparagraph (a) of section 2, arising from theimportation from any article means, the value ofthat article ascertained for the purpose of the ValueAdded Tax under section 6 of the Value Added TaxAct, No. 14 of 2002, but does not include the valueof any exempted article referred to in Part IA of theFirst Schedule;

(b)with reference to any taxable person referred to inparagraph (b) of section 2, and to any relevantquarter means, the sum receivable whether receivedor not, in that quarter, of any article manufacturedand sold in Sri Lanka by such person other thanany exempted article referred to in Part IA of theFirst Schedule;

(c)with reference to any taxable person referred to inparagraph (c) of section 2 and to any relevant quartermeans

3Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(i)the sum receivable whether received or not,from the supply in Sri Lanka of any financialservices by any person carrying on the businessof supplying any financial services in Sri Lankabut does not include the exempted servicesreferred to in Part II of the First Schedule;

(ii)the value of any service arising from thebusiness of real estate and improvementascertained under subsection (7) of section 5of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002for the purpose of the said Act but does notinclude the exempted services referred to inPart II of the First Schedule; and

(iii)the sum receivable, whether received or not,from the provision of any service in Sri Lankaother than the services referred to insubparagraphs (i) and (ii) and any exemptedservice referred to in Part II of the FirstSchedule; and

(d)with reference to any taxable person referred to inparagraph (d) of section 2 and to any relevantquarter means the sum receivable, whether receivedor not, from the wholesale or retail sale of any articlein Sri Lanka other than any exempted article referredto in Part IB of the First Schedule.

(3) The turnover specified in subsection (2) for therelevant quarter of any taxable person shall not include

(a)any bad debt incurred by such person in that quarter:

Provided however, any bad debt recovered in anyrelevant quarter, shall be included in the turnover of thatrelevant quarter; or

(b)any Value Added Tax under the Value Added TaxAct, No. 14 of 2002 paid for that relevant quarter; or

4Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(c)any rebate paid under the Export DevelopmentRebate in relation to any international event asapproved by the Minister.

PART II

REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT

4. (1) Every taxable person, other than a taxable personreferred to in paragraph (a) of section 2, who, carries on orcarries out any activity referred to in section 2 (in this Actreferred to as a taxable activity) shall be required to beregistered under this Act by making an application for suchpurpose to the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue(in this Act referred to as the Commissioner-General) inthe specified form-

(a)not later than fifteen days from the date of operationof this Act, in the case of a taxable person whoseaggregate of the turnover, within the twelve monthsperiod immediately prior to the date of operationof this Act, exceeded one hundred and twentymillion rupees;

(b)not later than fifteen days from the date on whichthe aggregate of the turnover for a quarter exceedsor is likely to exceed thirty million rupees, in thecase of a taxable person to whom paragraph (a)does not apply.

(2) Where the Commissioner-General is of the opinionthat the turnover of any person referred to in subsection (1)relates to a single isolated transaction, such turnover may beexcluded in calculating the total turnover of such person forthe purpose of registration under this section.

(3) The Commissioner-General shall-

Taxable personsto be registered

5Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(a)upon receipt of an application by any person undersubsection (1); or

(b)where an application has not been received undersubsection (1), but the Commissioner-General is ofthe opinion, having regard to the nature of theactivities carried on or carried out by such person,that such person is required to be registered underthis Act,

register such person with effect from such date as theCommissioner-General may determine (in this Act referredto as a registered person).

5. (1) Any registered person may make an application inthe specified form to the Commissioner-General to have hisregistration cancelled, at any time after the lapse of a periodof twelve months following the date of registration, where-

(a)such registered person has ceased to carry on orcarry out a taxable activity referred to in section 2;or

(b)the aggregate turnover of such registered personduring each immediately preceding four quartersof the relevant quarter does not exceed hundredand twenty million rupees.

(2) The Commissioner-General-

(a)shall, on receipt of an application under subsection(1); or

(b)may at any time,

and upon being satisfied with the provisions of paragraphs(a) and (b) of subsection (1) cancel such registration.

Cancellation ofregistration

6Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(3) The Commissioner-General may refuse to cancel theregistration of any person, where the Commissioner-Generalis not satisfied that the conditions specified in paragraph (a)or (b) of subsection (1) exist.

(4) Where the Commissioner-General cancels theregistration of a taxable person, he shall inform such personof the date of cancellation of the registration by registeredpost or by electronic means.

6. Notwithstanding the cancellation of registrationunder section 5, a taxable person shall be liable for any actdone or omitted to be done under this Act while he remaineda registered person under this Act.

7. Every registered person shall notify the Commissioner-General in writing or by electronic means of any change

(a)of the name, address and place at which any taxableactivity is carried on or carried out by such person;

(b)of the nature of the taxable activity carried on orcarried out by such person;

(c)of the person authorized to sign returns and otherdocuments in respect of any activity carried on orcarried out by such person; and

(d)of ownership of the taxable activity carried on orcarried out by such person,

not later than fourteen days after the occurrence of suchchange.

Liability notaffected bycancellation ofregistration

Registeredtaxable personto notify certainchanges

7Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

PART III

RETURNS AND INFORMATION

8. (1) Every registered person shall furnish to theCommissioner-General a return either in writing or byelectronic means for every quarter on or before the twentiethday of the month after the end of each relevant quarter. Everysuch return shall be in the form specified by theCommissioner-General.

(2) Every registered person who furnishes such returnunder subsection (1) which is not in such form shall bedeemed for the purposes of this Act, not to have furnished areturn as required by subsection (1).

(3) The Assistant Commissioner shall issue a notice to aperson referred to in subsection (2) requiring such person tofurnish within fourteen days of receipt of such notice, a returnas specified in subsection (1).

(4) The Assistant Commissioner shall acknowledgereceipt of the return only upon receipt of a proper return asspecified in subsection (1) which shall be considered a validreturn for the purposes of this Act.

(5) For the purposes of obtaining full information inrespect of the turnover of any registered person, the AssistantCommissioner may give notice in writing or by electronicmeans to such person requiring him

(a)to produce for examination or transmit to theAssistant Commissioner, within the period specifiedin such notice any books of accounts whethercontained in a manual, mechanical or electronicformat or combination thereof, trade lists, stocklists, registers, invoices, cheques, bank statements,paying-in-slips, accounts, auditors reports or otherdocuments in his possession as may be specified inorder to verify the entries in such books, documentsand accounts; or

Returns andinformationto be furnished

8Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(b)to attend in person or by an authorizedrepresentative at such place and on such date andat such time as may be specified in the notice forthe purpose of being examined regarding thetaxable activity carried on or carried out by thatperson.

(6) An Assistant Commissioner may retain in his custodyas long as such retention is necessary for the purpose of thisAct any books of accounts whether contained in a manual,mechanical or electronic format or combination thereof, tradelists, stock lists, registers, invoices, cheques, bank statements,paying-in-slips, accounts, auditors reports or otherdocuments in his possession as may be specified in order toverify the entries in such books, documents or accounts.

(7) A return, statement or form purporting to be furnishedunder this Act by or on behalf of any registered person shallfor all purposes be deemed to have been furnished by thatperson or by his authority, as the case may be, unless thecontrary is proved, and any registered person signing suchreturn, statement or form shall be deemed to be cognizant ofall matters contained therein.

(8) Where any registered person fails to comply with theprovisions of this section or fails to comply with therequirements of a notice given to such person, theCommissioner-General may

(a)impose on such person a penalty of a sum notexceeding fifty thousand rupees; and

(b)give notice in writing or by electronic means tosuch person of the imposition of such penalty andrequire such person

(i)to pay such penalty; and

9Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(ii)to comply with the requirements of this sectionwithin such period as may be specified in suchnotice.

(9) The Commissioner-General may reduce or annul anypenalty imposed on any registered person under paragraph(a) of subsection (8) if such person proves to the satisfactionof the Commissioner-General that his failure to comply withthe provisions of this section was due to circumstancesbeyond his control and that he has subsequently compliedwith the provisions.

PART IV

ASSESSMENT OF LEVY

9. (1) Where-

(a)any registered person who, in the opinion of theAssistant Commissioner is chargeable with the levy,fails to furnish a return for the relevant quarter; or

(b)any registered person, who is chargeable with thelevy, furnishes a return in respect of any relevantquarter but fails to pay the levy fully or partly forthat relevant quarter; or

(c)any registered person requests the Commissioner-General in writing or by electronic means to makeany alteration or addition to any return furnishedby such person for the relevant quarter,

the Assistant Commissioner may assess the amount of thelevy, which such person, in the opinion of the AssistantCommissioner, ought to have paid for that relevant quarterand shall, by notice in writing or by electronic means, requiresuch person to pay such amount forthwith. The amount soassessed in respect of such person for the relevant quartershall, be deemed to be the amount of the levy payable byhim for that relevant quarter.

Power ofAssistantCommissioner tomake assessment

10Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(2) The notice issued under subsection (1) may refer anypenalty imposed under section 18.

(3) Where an assessment is made under subsection (1)the difference between the amount so assessed and theamount paid by such person as the levy for the relevantquarter shall be the levy in default for that relevant quarter.

10. (1) Where it appears to the Assistant Commissionerthat a registered person chargeable with the levy has, for therelevant quarter, paid as levy an amount less than the dueamount of the levy payable by him or chargeable from himfor that quarter, the Assistant Commissioner may, assess suchperson at the additional amount at which, according to theopinion of the Assistant Commissioner, the levy ought tohave been paid by such person. The Assistant Commissionershall give such person a notice of such assessmentaccordingly.

(2) Where an assessment is made under subsection (1),the amount so assessed shall be deemed to be the levy indefault in respect of such person for that relevant quarterand accordingly such person shall, from the date on whichsuch person ought to have paid the levy for that relevantquarter, be liable to the penalty in respect to such amount asspecified in section 18.

11. Where the Assistant Commissioner does not accept areturn furnished by any registered person and makes anadditional assessment on such person for the relevant quarterunder section 10, the Assistant Commissioner shallcommunicate to such person in writing or by electronicmeans the reasons therefor.

12. Where the Assistant Commissioner is of the opinionthat a registered person has -

(a)sold any article or provided any service for a valueless than the open market value of such article orservice or for no value; or

Additionalassessments

AssistantCommissioner tostate reasons

Power of theAssistantCommissioner todetermine theopen marketvalue

11Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(b)entered into a transaction, between two associatedpersons, in respect of which the sale of any articleor the provision of any service has been made,

in order to avoid the payment of the levy, the AssistantCommissioner shall, having regard to the circumstances ofsuch transaction and the time period of the sale of sucharticle or the provision of such service determine the openmarket value of such article or service on which the levyshall be charged.

13. Where the Assistant Commissioner is of the opinionthat any transaction which reduces or would have the effectof reducing the amount of levy payable by any person isartificial or fictitious or that any disposition is not in factgiven effect to, he may disregard any such transaction ordisposition and the parties to the transaction or dispositionshall be assessable accordingly.

14. The production of any document in writing or byelectronic means, under the hand of the Commissioner-General purporting to be a copy of or extract from any returnor assessment made under this Act shall be admissible in allcourts and shall be sufficient evidence of the original.

15. (1) Where any registered person has furnished a returnunder section 8 in respect of the relevant quarter for levy inrespect of any period, it shall not be lawful for the AssistantCommissioner, to make an additional assessment after theexpiration of three years from the end of the relevant quarterin respect of which the return is furnished.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1)where the Assistant Commissioner is of the opinion that aperson has willfully or fraudulently failed to make a full andtrue disclosure of all the material facts necessary to determinethe amount of levy payable by him for any relevant quarter,it shall be lawful for the Assistant Commissioner to make anadditional assessment at any time.

Certaintransactions anddispositions tobe disregarded

Evidence ofreturns andassessments

Limitation oftime foradditionalassessment

12Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

PART V

PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF THE LEVY

16. Every registered person shall account for levy on anaccrual basis.

17. (1) Every registered person shall, notwithstandingthat no assessment has been made on such person for therelevant quarter, pay

(a) the levy payable for the first month of that quarteron or before the twentieth day of the second monthof that quarter;

(b) the levy payable for the second month of that quarteron or before the twentieth day of the third month ofthat quarter;

(c) the levy payable for the third month of that quarteron or before the twentieth day of the monthimmediately succeeding the end of the relevantquarter,

to the Commissioner-General, in such manner as may bespecified by him.

(2) Any levy not paid as set out in subsection (1) shall bein default and the registered person by whom such levy ispayable or where any levy is payable by more than oneperson, each such person shall be deemed to be a defaulterfor the purposes of this Act.

18. (1) Where the payment of any levy is in default, thedefaulter shall, in addition to such levy in default pay aspenalty

(a)a sum equivalent to ten per centum of the amountin default; and

(b)where the amount in default is not paid before thelast day of the month succeeding the month in whichsuch levy has begun to be in default, a further sum,equivalent to two per centum of the amount indefault in respect of each period ending on the lastday of each succeeding month or part of such periodduring which it is in default:

Accountingbasis

Payment of thelevy

Penalty fordefault

13Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

Provided however, that the total amount payable aspenalty under this subsection shall in no case exceed onehundred per centum of the levy in default and any suchamount may be waived or reduced if the Commissioner-General is satisfied that by reason of any specialcircumstances in which the default occurred waiver orreduction of such amount would be just and equitable.

(2) Where upon the final determination of an appeal underPart VII, any levy in default to which any sum or sums undersubsection (1) has or have been added is reduced, then suchsum or sums shall be calculated on the levy so reduced.

19. (1) The Director General of Customs shall collectfrom every taxable person, the levy chargeable from suchperson in respect of every article imported by such person,at the time such article is imported, and shall make anendorsement on the import invoice relating to such articlespecifying the amount so collected.

(2) Any amount collected under subsection (1) shall bedeemed to be the levy chargeable in respect of the turnoverarising from the importation of such article and shall bedeemed to have been paid by such person to theCommissioner-General on the day on which such amountwas so collected.

(3) Any amount collectible under subsection (1) shall,for the purpose of collection and recovery of such amountand notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, bedeemed to be customs duty chargeable under the CustomsOrdinance (Chapter 235) and accordingly, the provisions ofthe Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) shall apply to thecollection and recovery of such amount.

(4) Where any article imported into Sri Lanka is sold

(a)by the Commissioner-General;

(b)by the Director General of Customs for the recoveryof any duty, levy or any charge collectible underthe Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235); or

Collection of thelevy by theDirector-Generalof Customs

14Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(c)by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority established by theSri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979, forthe recovery of any dues collectible under that Act,

the purchaser of such article shall be deemed to be a personreferred to in paragraph (a) of section 2, and the provisionsof this Act shall apply to such person accordingly.

20. The turnover arising from any Islamic financialtransaction shall be subject to levy in a similar manner asequivalent in substance to non-Islamic financial transactions.

PART VI

APPEALS

21. (1) Any registered person or any person whoseregistration has been cancelled under this Act may, if he isdissatisfied with any assessment, additional assessment orpenalty, as the case may be, made in respect of him underthis Act, appeal against such assessment, additionalassessment or penalty, as the case may be, to theCommissioner-General within thirty days after the serviceof notice of such assessment, additional assessment orimposition of penalty, as the case may be. Such person shall,notwithstanding such appeal, pay the levy charged by suchassessment or additional assessment together with anypenalty imposed on him by this Act.

(2) The Commissioner-General, upon being satisfied that,owing to absence from Sri Lanka, sickness or other reasonablecause, the appellant was prevented from appealing withinthe time period specified in subsection (1), shall grant anextension of time for preferring the appeal.

(3) Every appeal shall be preferred to the Commissioner-General by a petition in writing or by electronic means andshall state precisely the grounds of such appeal.

Islamic financialtransactions

Appeals to theCommissioner-General

15Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(4) The receipt of every appeal shall be acknowledgedwithin thirty days of its receipt and where so acknowledged,the date of the letter of acknowledgement shall for thepurpose of this section, be deemed to be the date of receiptof such appeal:

Provided however, if the receipt of any appeal is notacknowledged as specified in this subsection, such appealshall be deemed to have been received by the Commissioner-General on the day on which it was delivered to theCommissioner-General.

(5) Where the appeal against the assessment has beenmade in the absence of a return, the appeal shall beaccompanied by a return with the proof of payment of thelevy and penalty due on such return.

(6) Every person preferring an appeal under subsection(1) shall unless such person has already done so, pay to theCommissioner-General the amount of the levy payable bysuch person on the basis of the return furnished by him forthe relevant quarter together with any penalty thereonaccrued up to the date of such notice of assessment, andshall attach, to the appeal a receipt in proof of such payment:

Provided however, the Commissioner-General, uponbeing satisfied that owing to serious financial hardshipsuffered by the appellant at or about the time of such noticeof assessment or, owing to other reasonable cause theappellant was prevented from paying such levy and penalty,may grant an extension of time for the payment of such levyand penalty thereon accrued up to the date of payment, andthe receipt furnished within such extended time shall, forthe purposes of subsections (1), (5) and (6), be deemed tohave been attached to the appeal.

(7) Every appeal which was not made within the periodspecified in subsection (1) or does not conform to theprovisions of subsections (3), (5) and (6) shall not be valid.

16Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(8) Upon receipt of a valid appeal, the Commissioner-General may cause inquiry to be made by an AssistantCommissioner, other than the Assistant Commissioner whomade such assessment against which the appeal is preferredand if, in the course of such inquiry, an agreement is reachedas to the matters specified in the appeal, the necessaryadjustment of the assessment shall be made.

(9) Where no agreement is reached between the appellantand the Assistant Commissioner in the manner specified insubsection (8), the Commissioner-General shall fix a timeand place for the hearing of the appeal.

(10) The appellant may attend the hearing of the appealin person or by an authorized representative. TheCommissioner-General may, if he thinks fit, from time totime, adjourn the hearing of an appeal for such time andplace as he shall fix. In any case in which an authorizedrepresentative attends on behalf of the appellant, theCommissioner-General may adjourn the hearing of the appealand may, if he considers that the personal attendance of theappellant is necessary for the determination of the appeal,require that the appellant shall attend in person at the timeand place fixed for the adjourned hearing of the appeal. Ifthe appellant or his authorized representative fails to attendat the time and place fixed for the hearing or any adjournedhearing of the appeal, or if the appellant fails to attend inperson when required so to attend by the Commissioner-General, the Commissioner-General shall dismiss the appeal:

Provided however, if the appellant, within a reasonabletime after the dismissal of an appeal, satisfies theCommissioner-General that he or his authorizedrepresentative was prevented from due attendance at thehearing or at any adjourned hearing of such appeal by reasonof absence from Sri Lanka, sickness, or other reasonablecause, the Commissioner-General may vacate the order ofdismissal and fix a time and place for the hearing of theappeal.

17Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(11) The Commissioner-General shall have power tosummon any person, whom he may consider able to giveevidence in respect of the appeal, to attend before him andexamine such person on oath or otherwise. Any person soattending may be allowed by the Commissioner-General anyreasonable expenses necessarily incurred by such person inso attending.

(12) The Commissioner-General may -

(a)before making his determination on any appeal, ifhe considers it necessary so to do, require anyperson, by notice given in writing or by electronicmeans to produce for examination, or to transmit tothe Commissioner-General within the periodspecified in such notice, any such deeds, plans,instruments, books of accounts, trade lists, stocklists, registers, cheques, paying-in-slips, auditorsreports or other documents in his possession as maybe specified in such notice;

(b)obtain the assistance of a Commissioner, a SeniorDeputy Commissioner, a Deputy Commissioner oran Assistant Commissioner who is familiar with theissues involved in such hearing of an appeal.

(13) Where the Commissioner-General hears the evidenceof the appellant or of any other person in respect of theappeal, he shall maintain or cause to be maintained a recordof such evidence.

(14) In determining an appeal under this section, theCommissioner-General may confirm, reduce, increase orannul the assessment appealed against and shall give noticein writing or by electronic means to the appellant of hisdetermination on the appeal.

18Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(15) Every appeal preferred under this section, shall beagreed to or determined by the Commissioner-General,within a period of two years from the date on which suchappeal is received by the Commissioner- General, unless theagreement or determination of such appeal depends on

(a)the decision of a competent court on any matterrelating to or connected with or arising from suchappeal and referred to it by the Commissioner-General or the appellant; or

(b)the furnishing of any document or the taking ofany action -

(i)by the appellant, upon being required to do soby the Commissioner-General or an AssistantCommissioner by notice given in writing tosuch appellant (such notice being given notlater than six months prior to the expiry of twoyears from the date on which the appeal isreceived by the Commissioner-General); or

(ii)by any other person, other than theCommissioner-General or an AssistantCommissioner.

(16) For the purposes of subsection (15) where anextension of time has been granted to an appellant for thepayment of the levy, the date of receipt in proof of thepayment of levy shall be deemed to be the date of receipt ofsuch appeal.

(17) Where any appeal is not agreed to or determinedwithin the period specified in subsection (15), the appealshall be deemed to have been allowed and levy chargedaccordingly.

19Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

22. Any person aggrieved by the determination of theCommissioner-General under section 21 may appeal againstsuch determination to the Tax Appeals Commissionestablished under the Tax Appeals Commission Act, No. 23of 2011.

23. Where

(a)no valid appeal to the Commissioner-General hasbeen preferred under this Part against an assessmentor an additional assessment, such assessment oradditional assessment; or

(b)the Commissioner-General has determined theamount of the levy on appeal, the assessment made,reduced, increased or confirmed, as the case maybe, on such appeal,

shall be treated as final for all purposes of this Act:

Provided however, subject to the limitation of timespecified in section 15, nothing in this section shall preventan Assistant Commissioner from making an assessment oradditional assessment for any relevant quarter if it does notinvolve any matter which has already been determined onappeal.

PART VII

RECOVERY OF LEVY

24. (1) For the purposes of this Part levy includes thepenalty imposed under this Act.

(2) Whenever the Commissioner-General issues orsubmits, as the case may be, a certificate under section 27 or28 or a notice under section 29, he shall at the same timeissue to the defaulter a notification thereof by personal service

Appeals to theTax AppealsCommission

Finality ofassessment

Recovery oflevy

20Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

or by registered post or by telegraph or electronic means sohowever, the non-receipt of such notification by the defaultershall not invalidate proceedings under this section.

25. Any levy in default shall be a first charge on all theassets of the defaulter:

Provided that,

(a)such charge shall not extend to or affect any assetssold by such person to a bona fide purchaser forvalue, prior to the seizure of the same in accordancewith the provisions of section 27;

(b)as regards immovable property, the levy shall notrank in priority to any lease or encumbrance createdbona fide for value and registered prior to the dateof the seizure; or

(c)as regards movable property, where the levy for therelevant quarters for more than five years is indefault, the levy for relevant quarters within fiveyears only to be selected by the Commissioner-General, shall rank in priority to any lien orencumbrance created bona fide for value prior tothe date of default of such levy.

26. (1) Where any levy is in default, the Commissioner-General shall, before proceeding to recover such levy, issuea notice in writing or by electronic means to the defaulterstating

(a)the particulars of such levy; and

(b)that action is being contemplated to recover suchlevy.

(2) Where an assessment has been made and the defaulterhas not appealed within the specified time period against

Levy to be afirst charge

Notice todefaulter

21Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

the assessment in respect of which such levy is charged, hemay, within thirty days of the date of such notice make anyobjection to the Commissioner-General in respect of thelevy so charged and the Commissioner-General shallnotwithstanding the provisions of section 23 consider suchobjections and give his decision thereon which shall befinal.

27. (1) Where any levy is in default, the Commissioner-General may issue a certificate to a Divisional Secretary, anAssistant Divisional Secretary, a Fiscal, a Deputy Fiscal or alevy collector containing particulars of such levy and thename and address of the defaulter empowering the officer towhom such certificate is issued to recover or required tocause the levy to be recovered from the defaulter named inthe certificate by seizure and sale of his movable property.

(2) The seizure referred to in subsection (1) shall beeffected in such manner as the said officer shall deem mostexpedient in that behalf and any property so seized shall bekept for seven days at the costs and charges of the defaulter.If the defaulter fails to pay the said levy in default togetherwith the costs and charges within the said seven days, theDivisional Secretary, the Assistant Divisional Secretary, theFiscal, the Deputy Fiscal or the levy collector, as the casemay be, shall cause such property to be sold by publicauction.

(3) The sum realized by the sale shall be applied

(i)firstly in payment of the costs and charges ofseizing, keeping and selling the property; and

(ii)secondly in satisfaction of the levy in default,

and any balance shall be paid to the defaulter.

Recovery oflevy by seizureand sale

22Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(4) Where the Commissioner-General is of the opinionthat recovery of any levy by the means specified insubsection (2) is impracticable or inexpedient, he may submita certificate to the District Court having jurisdiction in thedistrict where the defaulter resides or in which any propertymovable or immovable owned by the defaulter is situated,containing such particulars of levy and the name and addressof the defaulter, and the Court shall thereupon issue a writ ofexecution to the Fiscal authorizing and requiring him toseize and sell all or any of the property movable andimmovable of the defaulter or such part thereof as he maydeem necessary for recovery of the levy, and the provisionsof sections 226 to 297 of the Civil Procedure Code shall,mutatis mutandis, apply to such seizure and sale.

(5) For the purposes of this section, movable propertyshall include plant and machinery whether fixed to a buildingor not.

28. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is of the opinionin any case that recovery of levy in default by seizure andsale is impracticable or inexpedient or where the full amountof the levy in default has not been recovered, he may submita certificate containing particulars of such levy and the nameand last known place of business or residence of the defaulter,to a Magistrate having jurisdiction in the division in whichsuch place of business or residence of the defaulter is situated.

(2) (a) The Magistrate shall thereupon summon suchdefaulter before him to show cause as to why furtherproceedings for the recovery of the levy should not be takenagainst him.

(b) If sufficiant cause is shown, the levy in default shallbe deemed to be a fine imposed by a sentence of theMagistrate on such defaulter for an offence punishable withfine only or not punishable with imprisonment and theprovisions of subsection (1) of section 291 (exceptparagraphs (a), (d) and (i) thereof) of the Code of Criminal

Proceedings forrecovery beforea Magistrate

23Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, relating to default of paymentof a fine imposed for such an offence, shall thereupon apply,and the Magistrate may make any direction which, by theprovisions of that subsection, he could have made at thetime of imposing such sentence.

(c) Nothing in subsections (2) to (5) of section 291 of theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall applyin any case referred to in this subsection.

(d) In any case referred to in this subsection, the Magistratemay grant time for the payment of the fine in installments.

(3) Nothing in this section shall authorize or require theMagistrate in any proceeding thereunder to consider,examine or decide the correctness of any statement in thecertificate of the Commissioner-General or to postpone ordefer such proceeding for a period exceeding thirty days, byreason only of the fact that an appeal is pending against theassessment in respect of which the levy in default is charged.

(4) The Court may be required bail to be given as acondition precedent allowing time under subsection (2) forshowing cause for the payment of the fine and the provisionsof Chapter XXXIV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979 shall apply where the defaulter is so requiredto be given bail.

(5) Where payment of the fine is directed to pay ininstallments under paragraph (d) of subsection (2) and defaultis made in the payment of any one installment, the sameproceedings may be taken as if default had been made inpayment of all the installments then remaining unpaid.

29. (1) Where the levy payable by any person is in defaultand it appears to the Commissioner-General to be probablethat any person

Recovery oflevy out of debts

24Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(a)owes or is about to pay money to the defaulter orhis agent;

(b)holds money for or on account of the defaulter orhis agent;

(c)holds money for or on account of some other personfor payment to the defaulter or his agent; or

(d)has authority from some other person to pay moneyto the defaulter or his agent,

the Commissioner-General may give such person, a noticein writing or by electronic means, a copy of which shall besent by post to the defaulter, requiring him to pay any suchmoneys not exceeding the amount of the levy in default tothe officer named in such notice.

(2) The notice shall apply to all such moneys which arein the hands of such person or due from such person at thedate of receipt of such notice, or come into his hands orbecome due from him or are about to be paid by him at anytime within a period of three months after the date of suchnotice.

(3) Any person who has made any payment in pursuanceof this section shall be deemed to have acted under theauthority of the defaulter and of all other persons concerned,and shall be indemnified in respect of such payment againstall proceedings, civil or criminal, notwithstanding theprovisions of any written law, contract or agreement.

(4) Where any person to whom a notice has been givenunder subsection (1), is unable to comply therewith owingto the fact that moneys in question do not come into hishands or custody or become due from him during the periodreferred to in subsection (2), he shall within fourteen days ofthe expiration thereof give notice in writing to theCommissioner-General appraising him of the facts.

25Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(5) Where any person to whom a notice has been givenunder subsection (1) is unable to comply therewith and hasfailed to give notice to the Commissioner-General as requiredby subsection (4) or where such person has deducted or couldhave deducted the levy to which the notice relates or anypart thereof and has not paid over as required by theCommissioner-General the amount of such levy or partthereof within fourteen days after the expiration of the periodreferred to in subsection (2), such person shall, if he is anindividual, be liable or where such person is a company, orbody of persons, whether corporate or unincorporated thesecretary, manager or the principal officer of such companyor body be personally liable, for the whole of the levy whichsuch person has been required to deduct, and such levy maybe recovered from such individual, secretary, manager orother principal officer, as the case may be, by all meansprovided for in this Act.

(6) For the purposes of this section, the expressiondefaulter shall be deemed to include the agent of a personwho is in default and the provisions of this section shallapply in any case where the levy which would have beenpayable by any person if he were alive is in default, and forthe purpose of the application of these provisions in anysuch case, the expression defaulter in subsection (1)means

(a)the executor or administrator of such deceasedperson; or

(b)any person who takes possession of, or intermeddleswith, the property of such deceased person; or

(c)any person who has applied or is entitled to applyto a District Court for the grant or resealing ofprobate or letters of administration in respect of theestate of such deceased person.

26Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

30. (1) Where the Commissioner-General is of the opinionthat any person is about to or likely to leave Sri Lanka withoutpaying the levy due from him, the Commissioner-Generalmay submit a certificate containing particulars of such levyand the name of such person to a Magistrate, who shall onreceipt thereof issue a direction to the Inspector-General ofPolice to take such measures as may be necessary to preventsuch person from leaving Sri Lanka without paying the levyor furnishing security to the satisfaction of theCommissioner-General for payment thereof.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall, at the time ofsubmission of the certificate to the Magistrate, issue to suchperson a notification thereof by personal service, or registeredpost or telegraph or by electronic means but the non-receiptof any such notification by such person shall not invalidateproceedings under this section.

(3) The production of a certificate signed by theCommissioner-General stating that the levy has been paidor that security has been furnished for the payment of thelevy or payment of the levy to an officer in charge of apolice station shall be sufficient authority for allowing suchperson to leave Sri Lanka.

(4) Any officer in charge of a police station to whom theamount of any levy specified in such certificate has beenpaid shall forthwith pay such amount to the Commissioner-General.

31. Where the Commissioner-General is of the opinionthat application of any one of the means of recovery specifiedin this Act has failed or is likely to fail to secure payment ofthe full amount of levy due from any person, he may proceedto recover any sum remaining unpaid, by any means ofrecovery specified in this Act, notwithstanding that an orderhas been made by a Magistrate under section 28 and carriedinto effect.

Use of morethan one meansfor the recoveryof levy

Recovery oflevy frompersons leavingSri Lanka

27Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

32. (1) Where a body corporate has not paid any levy onor before the due date as specified in section 17, it shall belawful to proceed under all or any of the provisions of thisAct against a manager, director, secretary or any otherprincipal officer of such body corporate, as if such officer isresponsible for such default unless he proves the contrary tothe satisfaction of the Commissioner-Generalnotwithstanding anything in any other written law relatingto such body corporate.

(2) Where an unincorporated body of persons has notpaid any levy on or before the due date as specified in section17, it shall be lawful to proceed under all or any of theprovisions of this Act against any partner or office-bearer ofsuch unincorporated body of persons as if he is responsiblefor such default unless he proves the contrary to thesatisfaction of the Commissioner-General, notwithstandinganything in any other written law.

33. The Commissioner-General may, by notice given inwriting or by electronic means to any person, require thatperson within the period specified in such notice to furnishany information which the Commissioner-General mayrequire for the purpose of recovering any levy due from suchperson or any other person.

34. The Commissioner General shall not commence anyaction under sections 27, 28, 29 and 32 of this Act, for therecovery of levy in default where a period of five years haslapsed from the completion of three months from the end ofthe relevant quarter in which the assessment by which suchlevy was charged or levied becomes final and conclusiveunder section 23.

35. (1) The Commissioner-General may, by writing underhis hand, delegate to any Assistant Commissioner any of thepowers or functions conferred on or assigned to theCommissioner-General by this Part.

Recovery oflevy from theprincipal officerand others

Power ofCommissioner-General toobtaininformation forthe recovery oflevy

Time limit forthe recovery ofa levy in default

Commissioner-General todelegate powersand functions

28Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(2) Every Assistant Commissioner to whom any power orfunction has been delegated under subsection (1) shallexercise or discharge such power or function subject to thegeneral or special directions of the Commissioner-General.

36. Any registered person who has paid any levy or penaltyin excess of any amount which he was liable to pay for anyrelevant quarter shall be treated as an advance payment madefor any quarter succeeding the relevant quarter.

PART VIII

LIABILITY OF CERTAIN PERSONS TO PAY LEVY

37. (1) Where any registered person chargeable with thelevy dies, the executor of such deceased person shall, inrespect of all relevant quarters prior to the date of death ofsuch person, be chargeable with levy which such personwould be chargeable if he were alive, and shall be liable todo all acts, matters and things which such person if he werealive, would be liable to do under this Act:

Provided that,

(a)no proceedings shall be instituted against theexecutor in respect of any act or default of action ofthe deceased person;

(b)no assessment or additional assessment in respectof a period prior to the date of such persons deathshall be made after three years from the end of therelevant quarter in which the death occurred; and

(c)the liability of the executor under this section shallbe limited to the sum of

(i)the deceased persons estate in his possessionor control at the date when notice is given to

Liability ofexecutor to paylevy

Levy or penaltypaid in excess tobe treated as anadvancepayment

29Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

him that liability to levy will arise under thissection; and

(ii)any part of the estate which may have passedto a beneficiary.

(2) Where an executor on behalf of the estate of a deceasedperson carries on any taxable activity which is a part of suchestate, such executor shall, in respect of such taxable activity,be chargeable with the levy with which such person wouldbe chargeable if he were alive.

38. (1) Where any taxable activity in respect of whichlevy is payable is carried on or carried out by any person onbehalf of any other person as the agent of such other person,the first mentioned person shall be chargeable with the levyin respect of that taxable activity in like manner and to thelike amount as the second mentioned person would bechargeable under this Act.

(2) All the liable turnover of a non-resident person shallbe assessable either directly or in the name of his agent, in orderived from Sri Lanka, whether such agent has the receiptof such turnover or not, and the levy in terms of this Act soassessed whether directly or in the name of the agent shallbe recoverable in the manner provided for in this Act, out ofthe assets of the non-resident person or from the agent. Wherethere are more agents than one, they may be assessed jointlyor severally in respect of the liable turnover of the non-resident person and shall be jointly and severally liable forlevy thereon, in terms of this Act.

39. Where two or more persons act in the capacity astrustees or executors of a deceased persons estate, they maybe charged jointly and severally with the levy with whichthey are chargeable in the capacity under this Act and shallbe jointly and severally liable for the payment of such levy.

Liability ofcertain personsto pay levy inrespect of ataxable activitynot belonging tothem

Trustees andexecutors

30Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

40.(1) Notwithstanding anything in the CompaniesAct, No. 7 of 2007, where a company is wound up and whereany levy to which that company is liable cannot be recovered,then, every person who was a director of the company at anytime during the period in respect of which such levy ispayable shall be jointly and severally liable for the paymentof such levy unless such person proves that the default inpayment of the levy cannot be attributed to any gross neglect,malfeasance or breach of duty on his part in relation to theaffairs of the company, and the provisions of this Act relatingto collection and recovery of levy shall apply accordingly.

(2) Where a body of persons is dissolved and where anylevy to which that body of persons is liable cannot berecovered, then, every person who was a partner or an office-bearer of such body of persons at any time during the periodin respect of which such levy is payable shall be jointly andseverally liable for the payment of such levy unless he provesthat the default in payment of the levy cannot be attributedto any gross neglect, malfeasance or breach of duty on hispart in relation to the affairs of such unincorporated bodyand the provisions of this Act relating to collection andrecovery of levy shall apply accordingly.

41.Any act or thing required by or under this Act to bedone by any person shall, if such person is an incapacitatedperson, be deemed to be required to be done by the trustee ofsuch incapacitated person.

42.Any act or thing required by or under this Act to bedone by any person shall, in the case of two or more personsin partnership, be deemed to be required to be done by theprecedent partner of such partnership:

Provided that, any person to whom a notice has beengiven under the provisions of this Act as a precedent partnerof a partnership shall be deemed to be the precedent partnerthereof unless he proves that he is not a partner of suchpartnership or that some other person in Sri Lanka is theprecedent partner thereof.

Who may act forincapacitatedpersons

Persons liable topay levy uponliquidation of acompany ordissolution of abody of persons

Precedentpartner to act onbehalf ofpartnership

31Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

43.(1) The secretary, manager, director or other principalofficer of every company or body of persons shall be liableto do all such acts, matters or things as are required to bedone under the provisions of this Act by such company orbody of persons:

Provided however, any person to whom a notice has beengiven under the provisions of this Act on behalf of a companyor body of persons shall be deemed to be the principal officerthereof unless he proves that he has no connection withsuch company or body of persons or that some other personresident in Sri Lanka is the principal officer thereof.

(2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by acompany or body of persons, every person who at the timeof the commission of the offence was the secretary, manager,director or other principal officer of the company or body ofpersons shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unlesshe proves that the offence was committed without hisknowledge and that he exercised all such diligence to preventthe commission of that offence as he ought to have exercisedhaving regard to the nature of his functions in such capacity.

PART IX

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

44.Every person who-

(a) being a person required to take an oath fails totake an oath of secrecy when so required undersection 58;

(b) acts in contravention of the provisions ofsection 58; or

(c) aids, abets or incites any other person to act incontravention of any of the provisions of thisAct,

Principal officerto act on behalfof a company orbody of persons

Offencesrelating tobreach ofsecrecy &c.

32Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

commits an offence under this Act and shall on convictionafter summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding six months or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

45.Any person who

(a) gives any false answer whether orally or inwriting or by electronic means to any questionor when requested to furnish information inaccordance with the provisions of this Act;

(b) omits from a return made under this Act, anyparticulars which he should have included insuch return;

(c) makes any false return or false entry in anyreturn made under this Act;

(d) submits false documents for onlineregistration, uploading incorrect informationfor registration or submitting false documentsunder the electronic filing system permittedunder the revenue administration and themanagement information system,

and thereby evades or attempts to evade levy or assists anyother person to evade or to attempt to evade levy commitsan offence under this Act, and shall be liable, after summarytrial before a Magistrate, to a fine consisting of

(i)a sum equal to twice the amount of levy so evadedor attempted to be evaded for which he is liableunder this Act for the relevant quarter in respect ofwhich the offence was committed; and

Offencesrelating to fraud

33Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(ii)a sum not exceeding twenty five thousand rupeesor to imprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding six months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

46.Every person who

(a) fails to apply for registration as requiredunder section 4;

(b) fails to notify the Commissioner-General ofany matters required to be notified undersection 7;

(c) fails to furnish a return under section 8;

(d) having appeared before an officer of theDepartment of Inland Revenue in compliancewith a notice issued to him under section 8fails, without sufficient cause, to answer anyquestion lawfully put to him by an officeracting under this Act;

(e) gives any incorrect information relating toany matter or thing affecting his own liabilityto levy or the liability of any other person;

(f) pays the amount under section 29 to any otherperson other than the officer named in thenotice;

(g) wilfully obstructs or delays theCommissioner-General or any other officerin the exercise of his power under section 51or 52; or

(h) fails to maintain records as required undersection 53,

Offencesrelating toreturns &c.

34Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

commits an offence under this Act, and shall on convictionafter summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a finenot exceeding twenty five thousand rupees, or toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingsix months or both such fine and imprisonment.

47.No prosecution in respect of an offence under thisPart shall be commenced except at the instance, or with thesanction of the Commissioner-General.

48.The Commissioner-General may with the consentof the parties and having regard to the circumstances inwhich any offence under this Act was committed, compoundsuch offence for a sum not exceeding one third of themaximum fine imposed for that offence under this Act. Anysum received by the Commissioner-General in compoundingan offence under this section shall be credited to theConsolidated Fund.

PART X

MISCELLANEOUS

49.(1) Every notice to be given by the Commissioner-General, a Deputy Commissioner-General, SeniorCommissioner, Commissioner, Senior DeputyCommissioner, Deputy Commissioner or an AssistantCommissioner under this Act shall bear the name of theCommissioner-General, the Deputy Commissioner-General,Senior Commissioner, Commissioner, Senior DeputyCommissioner, Deputy Commissioner or an AssistantCommissioner, as the case may be, and every such noticeshall be valid if the name of the Commissioner-General, theDeputy Commissioner-General, the Senior Commissioner,the Commissioner, the Senior Deputy Commissioner, theDeputy Commissioner or the Assistant Commissioner is dulyprinted or signed thereon.

Prosecution tobe with thesanction of theCommissioner-General

Compoundingof offences

Signature andservice of notice

35Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(2) Every notice given by virtue of this Act may be servedon a person either personally, by electronic means deliveredat, or sent by post to, his last known place of abode or anyplace at which he is, or during the period to which the noticerelates, was carrying on or carrying out a taxable activity.

(3) Any notice sent by post shall be deemed to have beenserved on the day on which it could have been received inthe ordinary course of post.

(4) In proving service by post it shall be sufficient toprove that the letter containing the notice was duly addressedand posted.

50.(1) Any notice, assessment, certificate or otherproceeding under this Act shall not be quashed, or deemedto be void or voidable, for want of form, or be affected byreason of a mistake, defect or omission therein, if the same isin substance and effect in conformity with, the intent andmeaning of this Act, and if the person assessed or intendedto be assessed or affected thereby is designated thereinaccording to common intent and understanding.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1)an assessment shall not be affected or impugned by reasonof

(a)a mistake therein as to the name or surname ofperson chargeable, the amount of the value of theliable turnover or the amount of the levy charged;or

(b)any variance between the assessment and the noticetherefor,

if notice of such assessment is duly served on the personintended to be charged and contains in substance and effectthe particulars set out in paragraph (a) of this subsection.

Validity ofassessments

36Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

51.(1) Any officer of the Department who is speciallyauthorized by the Commissioner-General in that behalf may,accompanied by a peace officer, where necessary, do all orany of the following acts:-

(a)enter and search any building or place where he hasreason to believe that any books of accounts,registers, records or other documents, which in hisopinion will be useful for or relevant to anyproceeding under this Act may be found, andexamine them if found;

(b)seize any such books of accounts, registers, recordsor other documents or place marks of identificationthereon or make extracts or copies therefrom; and

(c)make a note or an inventory of any other thingfound in the course of any search under this sectionwhich in his opinion will be useful for, or relevantto, any proceedings under this Act, and theprovisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No.15 of 1979, relating to searches shall apply, sofar as may be, to searches under this section.

(2) In this subsection peace officer shall have the samemeaning as in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of1979.

(3) Before authorizing any officer to exercise the powersunder subsection (1), the Commissioner-General shall recordthe circumstances which necessitate the exercise of suchpowers by such officer.

(4) Where any officer authorized by the Commissioner-General under subsection (1) takes into his possession anybook of accounts, register, record or other document fromany person, such officer shall issue to such person amemorandum specifying the book, register, record or otherdocument he has taken into his possession.

Power to searchbuildings orplaces

37Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(5) Any book of account, register, record or other documenttaken into his possession under subsection (1) by any officermay be retained in the possession of such officer as long asmay be necessary for a scrutiny of such book, register, recordor other document or for the institution of legal proceedingsagainst the person to whom such book, register, record orother document belongs.

52.(1) The Commissioner-General or any other officerof the Department who is specially authorized in that behalfby the Commissioner-General in writing may do all or anyof the following acts:-

(a)enter and inspect any place or building where anytaxable activity is carried on or carried out by anyperson for the purpose of ascertaining whether theprovisions of this Act are being complied with;

(b)open and examine any book of account, register,record or any other document which may be foundtherein and make an inventory of any of the articlesfound therein;

(c)examine and take copies of, or make extracts from,any book of account, register, record or otherdocument found in such place or building;

(d)take possession of any book of account, register,record or other document or place marks ofidentification thereon;

(e)count and make a record immediately of the cashfound in such place or building;

(f)require any person whom he finds in such place orbuilding to give such information within hisknowledge with respect to matters under this Act;and

Power to searchwhere taxableactivity iscarried on orcarried out

38Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(g)examine, either alone or in the presence of any otherperson, as he thinks fit, with respect to matters underthis Act, every person whom he finds in such placeor building.

(2) Where an officer authorized by the Commissioner-General under subsection (1) takes into his possession anybook of account, register, record or other document fromany person, such officer shall issue to that person amemorandum specifying the book, register, record ordocument he has taken into his possession.

(3) Any book of account, register, record or other documenttaken into his possession under subsection (1), by any officermay be retained in the possession of such officer for a periodnot exceeding three years from the date of taking suchpossession for the purposes of scrutinizing such book,register, record or document or for the institution of legalproceedings against the person to whom such book, register,record or other documents belongs:

Provided however, where the Commissioner-General hasinstituted action in case of wilful evasion under sections 45or 46, as the case may be, such book, register, record ordocument may be retained as long as it is required for thepurposes of such prosecution.

53.(1) Every registered person shall keep and maintainrecords in respect of the taxable activity carried on or carriedout by such person to enable the Commissioner-General orany other officer authorized by the Commissioner-Generalin that behalf to ascertain the liability for the payment of thelevy.

(2) The form of the records to be maintained undersubsection (1) and the particulars to be submitted thereinshall be specified by the Commissioner-General.

Keeping ofrecords

39Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(3) For the purpose of this section records includes-

(a) books of accounts, (whether contained in amanual, mechanical or electronic format orcombination thereof) recording receipts ofpayments, income or expenditure, and alsoincludes vouchers, bank statements, invoice,tax invoices, tax credit notes, tax debit notes,receipts and such other documents as arenecessary to verify the entries in any suchbooks of account;

(b) details of any warehouse, go-down or any otherplace where stock of goods are kept and thestock of goods kept in such warehouses, go-down, or any other place, as the case may be;and

(c) any list or record required to be maintained orkept in accordance with the provisions of thisAct or under any regulations made thereunder.

PART XI

ADMINSTRATION PROVISIONS

54.(1) The Commissioner-General shall be in chargeof the administration of this Act, assisted by such number ofDeputy Commissioner-Generals, Senior Commissioners,Commissioners, Senior Deputy Commissioners, DeputyCommissioners and Assistant Commissioners of the InlandRevenue Department (in this Act referred to as theDepartment) as may be necessary for the purpose of givingeffect to the provisions of this Act.

(2) (a) The Commissioner-General may authorize anyDeputy Commissioner-General, Senior Commissioner,Commissioner, Senior Deputy Commissioner, DeputyCommissioner or Assistant Commissioner of the Department

TheAdministrationof the Act

40Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

to exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty or functionwhich is conferred or imposed on, or assigned to theCommissioner-General by this Act.

(b) A Deputy Commissioner-General, SeniorCommissioner, Commissioner, Senior DeputyCommissioner, Deputy Commissioner or AssistantCommissioner of the Department exercising, performing ordischarging any power, duty or function conferred orimposed on, or assigned to the Commissioner-General byany provision of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes tobe authorized to exercise, perform or discharge that power,duty or function, until the contrary is proved.

(3) A Commissioner or a Senior Deputy Commissioner ofthe Department may exercise, perform or discharge anypower, duty or function conferred or imposed on, or assignedto, an Assistant Commissioner by any provision of this Act.

55.The Commissioner-General may, from time to time,specify the forms to be used for the purposes of this Act, andany form so specified may, from time to time, be amendedby the Commissioner-General.

56.For the purposes of this Act, the Minister may, onthe recommendation of the Commissioner- General makeregulations authorizing or facilitating the use of datamessages, electronic records, electronic documents orelectronic communications for matters specified in section8 of the Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006.

57.The Commissioner-General may pay, from sumsappropriated for that purpose by Parliament, such sums ofmoney as he considers reasonable in the circumstances ofthe case, to any individual who provides information whichresults in the assessment of the levy payable and paid byany other person.

Forms

Use of electroniccommunications

CommissionerGeneral maypay rewards toinformants

41Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

58.(1) Every person having a duty under this Act orbeing employed in the administration of this Act, shall regardas secret and confidential all information received in anofficial capacity in relation to a taxable person, and maydisclose that information only to the following persons:-

(a)the employees of the Department and of theDepartment of Customs in the course, and for thepurpose, of carrying out their duties;

(b)the Minister assigned the subject of Finance in thecourse, and for the purpose of carrying out thesupervision of the Department;

(c)the Auditor-General or any officer of the AuditorGenerals Department authorized by the Auditor-General, only when such disclosure is necessary forthe purposes of official duties;

(d)any tax authority of a foreign country, in accordancewith an international agreement entered into with aspecific authority;

(e)the Attorney-General for the purpose of anycriminal or civil proceeding where actions areinstituted by the State or actions filed against theState or where the opinion or advice of theAttorney-General has been sought in writing bythe Department;

(f)a Court, in a proceeding to establish the tax liabilityor responsibility of a registered person in respect ofan offence;

(g)the Land Reform Commission, only when suchdisclosure is necessary for the purposes of officialduties;

Official secrecy

42Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(h)the Head of the Department of Foreign Exchangefor the purpose of prosecuting for violations of theForeign Exchange Act, No.12 of 2017;

(i)a Commission of Inquiry appointed under theCommissions of Inquiry Act, No.17 of 1948 in aninvestigation into the affairs of any person or thespouse or child of such person; and

(j)the Commission to Investigate Allegations ofBribery or Corruption established under theCommission to Investigate Allegations of Briberyor Corruption Act, No.19 of 1994.

(2) A person who receives information under subsection(1) shall maintain secrecy of such information except to theminimum extent that any disclosure under this Act ispermitted.

(3) The obligation as to secrecy imposed by this sectionshall continue to apply in respect of any personnotwithstanding that such person ceases to be appointedunder or employed in carrying out the provisions of thisAct.

PART XII

GENERAL

59. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof matters authorised by this Act to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall comeinto operation on the date of its publication in the Gazetteor on such date as may be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation shall within three months after itspublication in the Gazette, be brought before Parliament for

Regulations

43Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

approval. Any such regulation which is not so approvedshall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date ofdisapproval but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder. A notification of the date on which aregulation is deemed to be rescinded shall be published inthe Gazette.

60.In this Act, unless the context otherwiserequires

article includes any goods, material or any agriculturalor horticultural produce;

Assistant Commissioner means an AssistantCommissioner of Inland Revenue appointed undersection 97 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017and includes Deputy Commissioner;

authorised representative shall have the same meaningas in the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

body of persons shall have the same meaning as in theInland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

business includes trade, profession or vocation;

Commissioner-General shall have the same meaningas in the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

Deputy Commissioner means the Deputy Commissionerof Inland Revenue appointed under section 97 of theInland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

Freight Forwarder shall have the same meaning as inthe Licensing of Shipping Agents, FreightForwarders, Non Vessel Operating Common Carriersand Container Operators Act, No.10 of 1972;

Interpretation

44Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

importation excludes bringing any article in thepersonal baggage of the passenger into Sri Lanka[baggage shall have the same meaning as in section107A of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)];

manufacture means any process for

(a) making an article;

(b) assembling or joining any article whether bychemical process or otherwise;

(c) adapting for sale any article; and

(d) packaging, bottling, putting into boxes, cuttinginto pieces, cleaning, polishing, wrapping,labeling, or in any other way whatsoeverpreparing for sale any article otherwise than ina retail store for the purpose of sale in suchstore exclusively and directly to the consumer;

Minister means the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance under Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution;

non-resident persons means persons who are notresident persons under section 69 of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

open market value in relation to any sale of article orprovision of service at any date, means, theconsideration in money which a similar sale orprovision would generally fetch if sold or provided insimilar circumstances at that date in Sri Lanka, beinga sale or provision freely offered and made betweenpersons who are not associated persons;

partnership shall have the same meaning as in the InlandRevenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

45Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

person shall have the same meaning as in the InlandRevenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

quarter means the period of three months commencingon the first day of January, April, July or October ofany year;

registered distributor in relation to any manufactureror producer of any goods in Sri Lanka means anyperson or partnership appointed by such manufactureror producer for the sale in the wholesale market, ofsuch goods, at such price as may be determined bysuch manufacturer or producer, from time to time;

service includes any business of real estate andimprovement thereon; and

supply of financial services shall have the same meaningassigned to such expression under section 25F of theValue Added Tax Act, No.14 of 2002.

61.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

FIRST SCHEDULE

[Section 3(2)(a) and (b)]

PART IA

EXEMPTED ARTICLES

1. Any article exported by the manufacturer;

2. Any article not being a plant, machinery or fixture importedby any person exclusively for the use in, or for, the manufactureof any article for export;

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

46Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

3. Any article sold by a taxable person to any exporter, if theCommissioner-General is satisfied on the production of anydocumentary evidence that such article or any other articlemanufactured, of which such article is a constituent part, has infact been exported from Sri Lanka by such exporter directlyor through a trading house established for export purposes;

4. Any article which is imported, is proved to the satisfaction ofthe Commissioner- General, that such article is imported to SriLanka for

(a) the display at an exhibition;

(b) the temporary use in Sri Lanka in any project approvedby the Minister;

(c) the purposes of repairs to that article to be carried out inSri Lanka;

(d) any other similar purpose, and is to be re-shipped, withina period of one year from the date of importation ofsuch article to Sri Lanka or within a period of ninetydays after the completion of such project; or

(e) producing any cinematographic film or teledrama inSri Lanka and taking out of Sri Lanka for furtherprocessing or printing with the approval of the NationalFilm Corporation;

5. Any article imported, if proved to the satisfaction of theDirector-General of Customs, that such article was, prior to itsimportation, taken out of Sri Lanka for repairs;

6. Any spare part imported by any airline or shipping company,if proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General, thatsuch spare part is to be used for the maintenance of any aircraftor ship, used in international traffic and owned or chartered bysuch airline or shipping company;

7. Any article sold, to the United Nations Organization or to anyspecialized agency of such organization or to the diplomaticmission of any foreign Government or to any member of thediplomatic staff of such mission or to any other person approvedby the Minister on the recommendation of the Minister ofForeign Affairs as being of the status of a diplomatic mission;

8. Any article imported if such article is subject to the SpecialCommodity Levy charged under the Special Commodity LevyAct, No. 48 of 2007;

47Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

9. Fertilizer;

10. Petroleum and petroleum products other than lubricantsclassified under Harmonized Commodity Description andCoding Numbers for Customs purpose;

11. L.P. Gas;

12. Pharmaceuticals identified under Harmonized CommodityDescription and Coding Numbers for Customs purpose;

13. Tea supplied by the Manufacturer being a manufacturerregistered with the Sri Lanka Tea Board established by the SriLanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of 1975, to any registeredbroker for sale at the Colombo Tea Auctions;

14. Any article for the use in any project approved by the relevantMinister and by the Minister in charge of the subject of Financetaking into consideration the economic benefit to the countryand where the tax in respect of such project is borne by theGovernment;

15. Bitumen classified under HS Code No. 2714;

16. Raw materials or packing materials imported for themanufacture of pharmaceuticals subject to the approval of therelevant authority;

17. Plant, machinery or equipment imported on temporary basisfor the use of large-scale infrastructure development projectsapproved by the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance asbeing of beneficial for the economic development of Sri Lanka,on condition that goods will be re-exported after the completionof work;

18. Foreign currency notes imported, being notes classified underHS Codes 4907.00.90;

19. Raw materials or packing materials imported for themanufacture of ayurvedic preparations which belong to theAyurveda Pharmacopoeia or ayurveda preparation subject tothe approval of the relevant authority;

20. Pure-bred breeding animals under HS 0102.10 orHS 0104.20.10, milking machines under HS 8434.10, dairymachinery under HS 8434. 20 and spare parts under HS8434.90, at the point of importation;

21. Solar panel modules, accessories or solar home systems for thegeneration of solar power energy classified under HarmonizedCommodity Description and Coding Numbers for Customspurposes at the point of importation;

48Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

22. Coal;

23. Any article manufactured by a company identified as a StrategicDevelopment Project in terms of subsection (4) of section 3 ofthe Strategic Development Project Act, No. 14 of 2008 sold toanother Strategic Development Project or to a specialized projectapproved by the Minister of Finance or to a company registeredwith Board of Investment of Sri Lanka established under theBoard of Investment Law, No. 4 of 1978, so far as such articlesare considered as import replacement and supplied during theproject implementation period; and

24. Any machinery or equipment imported or purchased locallyfor the purpose of generating electricity by the CeylonElectricity Board established under the Ceylon Electricity BoardAct, No. 17 of 1969 or any institution which has entered intoan agreement with the Ceylon Electricity Board to supplyelectricity, being machinery or equipment classified underHarmonized Commodity Description and Coding Numbersfor Customs purposes and approved by the Minister of Finance.

PART IB

[Section 3(2)(d)]

EXEMPTED ARTICLES

1. Pharmaceuticals;

2. Any article which is subject to the Special Commodity Levyunder the provisions of the Special Commodity Levy Act, No.48 of 2007, where such article is sold by the importer of sucharticle without any processing except for adaption for sale;

3. any article exported;

4. petrol, diesel or kerosene sold in a filling station;

5. L.P. Gas; and

6. fresh milk, green leaf, cinnamon or rubber (latex, crepe orsheet rubber) purchased from any local manufacturer or localproducer.

PART II

EXEMPTED SERVICES

1. Generation of electricity and supply of electricity other thanthe supply of electricity by Ceylon Electricity Board establishedunder the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969;

49Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

2. Medical services;

3. Supply of water;

4. Transportation of goods and passengers;

5. Services provided to any exporter of any article, being servicesdirectly related to improving the quality and character of sucharticle;

6. Services of sewing garments provided to any exporter of suchgarments;

7. Services of a freight forwarder and a shipping agent licensedunder the Licensing of Shipping Agents, Freight Forwarders,Non Vessel Operating Common Carriers, and ContainerOperators Act, No. 10 of 1972 or courier services in so far assuch services are in respect of the exporter of any article fromSri Lanka;

8. Services provided by a public corporation, in so far as suchservices are in respect of the exportation of any article fromSri Lanka;

9. Services of an auctioneer, broker, insurance agent orcommission agent of any local product to the extent of thebrokerage receivable by such auctioneer or broker, orcommission receivable by such insurance agent or commissionagent, as the case may be;

10. Services of

(a) a travel agent in respect of inbound tours operated;or

(b) a hotel, guest house, restaurant or other similarbusinesses,

where the payment for such services is received in foreigncurrency through a bank and such agent, hotel, guest house,restaurant or other similar business is registered with theSri Lanka Tourism Development Authority;

11. Client support services provided over the internet, telephoneor by an enterprise, exclusively for the provision of suchservices, to one or more identified clients outside Sri Lanka,for payment in foreign currency;

12. The business of life insurance;

13. Distribution, production and supply of any cinematographicfilms primarily for exhibition in cinemas;

14. Exhibiting films in a cinema;

15. Any service provided to the United Nations Organization orto any specialized agency of such organization or to thediplomatic mission of any foreign Government or to anymember of the diplomatic staff of such mission or to any otherperson approved by the Minister on the recommendation ofthe Minister of Foreign Affairs as being of the status of adiplomatic mission;

50Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

16. Any service rendered in or outside Sri Lanka to any person orpartnership outside Sri Lanka for the utilization out ofSri Lanka for payment in foreign currency, if such foreigncurrency is remitted to Sri Lanka through a bank;

17. Services provided to any specific project carried on, out offoreign funds or donations received by the Government, asapproved by the Minister considering the economic benefit tothe country;

18. Any service provided by the Central Bank of Sri Lankaestablished under the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422);

19. Any service provided free of charge by any public corporationout of the funds voted by Parliament from the ConsolidatedFund or out of any loan arranged through the Government, onbehalf of the Government;

20. Services provided by any Government Department, Ministryor any Local Authority;

21. Services provided by foreign consultancies for the large-scaleinfrastructure development projects being projects which havebeen approved by the Minister of Finance, as beneficial for theeconomic development of Sri Lanka;

22. Services provided in relation to ship building for theinternational market for payments made in foreign currency;and

23. Any service provided by the Employees Trust Fund, ProvidentFund, Pension Fund, Pension Trust Fund and Gratuity Fund.

SECOND SCHEDULE[Section 3(1)]LIABLE TURNOVER

Liable Turnover

1. Importation of any article [Section 2 (a)]

2. Manufacture of any article [Section 2 (b)]

3. Providing a service [Section 2 (c)]

(a) Supply of Financialservices

100% of the turnover referred toin section 3(2)(a)

85% of the turnover referred toin section 3(2)(b)

100% of the Value additionattributable to financial servicesreferred to in section 3(2)(c)(i)

51Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

(b) Land and improvements

(c) Services other than (a)and (b)

4. Wholesale and retail sale

(a) Sale of any article by aregistered distributor inrelation to any manufactureror producer of any goods inSri Lanka; and

(b) Wholesale or retail sale otherthan item (a) above includingimportation and sale

The value additionattributable to such financialservices shall be computedfor the payment of levy onthe business of financialservices for the purpose ofthis Act by applying theattributable method referredto in Chapter IIIA of theValue Added Tax Act, No.14 of 2002:

Provided however, thatin calculating the valueaddition attributable to suchfinancial service, where theamount of profits for eachrelevant quarter cannot beaccurately ascertained, suchamount may be estimated onthe basis of availableinformation. The estimatedamount shall be adjusted toreflect the actual amountwith the audited statementof accounts on yearly basisand such adjustment shall besubmitted within six monthsafter the closing date of therelevant accounting period;

100% of the turnoverreferred to in section3(2)(c)(ii); and

100% of the turnoverreferred to in section3(2)(c)(iii).

25% of the turnover referredto in section 3(2)(d)

50% of the turnoverreferred to in section 3(2)(d)

52Social Security Contribution LevyAct, No. 25 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.