Price : Rs. 12.25 Postage : Rs. 6.75

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MEDIATION (SPECIAL CATEGORIES OFDISPUTES) ACT, No. 21 OF 2003

[Certified on 30th July, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 01, 2003

1Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

2H 0176608,650 (02/2003)

[Certified on 30th July, 2003]

L.D.O. 30/2002.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF MEDIATIONBOARDS FOR SETTLEMENT THROUGH MEDIATION OF SPECIAL

CATEGORIES OF DISPUTES; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO.

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Mediation (SpecialCategories of Disputes) Act, No. 21 of 2003.

2.(1)The provisions of this Act shall apply in regardto the settlement through mediation of such categories ofdisputes as shall be determined by the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

(2)In specifying such categories the Minister shalltake into consideration the need to provide for the meaningfulresolution of disputes relating to social and economic issues.

3.The Minister shall, from time to time by Orderpublished in the Gazette, specify the area (hereinafter referredto as the Special Mediation Board Area) within which thesettlement of disputes shall be carried out under the provisionsof this Act, in respect of any one or more of the categories ofdisputes determined under section 2.

4.(1)Upon the publication of an Order under section3, the Mediation Boards Commission shall, subject to theprovisions of subsection (2), take all necessary steps to appointa Panel of Mediators (hereinafter referred to as the Panel)in respect of each Special Mediation Board Area. Theprovisions contained in the Schedule to this Act shall applyin respect of the selection and appointment of members ofthe Panel.

Appointment ofPanel ofMediators.

SpecialMediation BoardAreas.

Subject andmatters in respectof which the Actshall apply.

Short title.

2Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

(2)A person to be eligible to be appointed undersubsection (1) as a member of a Panel shall be required tohave such qualifications as shall be prescribed for that purposeby the Minister, who shall in prescribing such qualificationshave regard to the expertise required of members to beappointed to such Panel, taking into consideration the natureof the categories of disputes determined by the Minister undersection 2. Different qualifications may be prescribed in respectof the different categories of disputes determined under thatsection.

(3)The Mediation Boards Commission shall appoint oneof the members of the Panel appointed in respect of eachSpecial Mediation Board Area, to be the Chairman of suchPanel.

5.(1) A member of a Panel shall hold office for aperiod of three years from the date of appointment and shallthereafter be eligible for a re-appointment.

(2)A member of a Panel shall be paid such remunerationas shall be determined by the Minister in consultation withthe Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

6.The Mediation Boards Commission may makeappointments to fill any vacancies occurring in themembership of a Panel, and every person so appointed shallhold office for the unexpired period of the term of office ofthe member whom he succeeds.

7.(1)Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), aperson may make an application to the Chairman of the Panelappointed for any Special Mediation Board Area, for thesettlement by mediation of any dispute arising in respect ofany one or more of the categories of disputes determinedunder section 2 of this Act, and arising wholly or partly withinsuch Special Mediation Board Area :

Jurisdiction of theSpecial MediationBoards.

Filling ofvacancies in aPanel.

Term of officeand remunerationpayable tomembers of aPanel.

3Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

Provided that where any dispute referred to suchChairman

(a)involves any movable or immovable property, theapplication shall be made to the Chairman of thePanel appointed for the Special Mediation BoardArea within which such movable property is kept orimmovable property is situated ;

(b)involves a contract, the application shall be made tothe Chairman of the Panel appointed for the SpecialMediation Board Area within which such contractwas made ; and

(c)involves a matter which constitutes a cause of actionin a court of law, the application shall be made tothe Chairman of the Panel appointed for the SpecialMediation Board Area within the territorial limitsof the court having jurisdiction in respect of suchaction.

(2)Every application shall be accompanied by adocument evidencing the fact that the prescribed fee has beenpaid in the prescribed manner.

8.(1)Where a Panel has been appointed under this Actin respect of a Special Mediation Board Area, no proceedingsin regard to a dispute arising wholly or partly within sucharea in respect of any one or more of the categories of disputesdetermined under section 2, where the monetary value of thesubject matter of such dispute is less than such sum as shallbe specified by the Minister by Order published in the Gazette,shall be instituted in or entertained by a court of first instance,unless it is accompanied by a certificate of non-settlementissued under paragraph (a) of section 14 or subsection (2) ofsection 17.

(2)Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),where a party to a dispute referred to in that subsection praysfor relief in the form of any provisional remedy under Part V

No action to beinstituted withouta certificate ofnon-settlement.

4Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

of the Civil Procedure Code, or where a party to any disputein respect of which an application has been made under section7 subsequently institutes an action in any court in respect ofthat dispute including a prayer for a provisional remedy underPart V of the Civil Procedure Code, the court may entertainand determine such action in so far as it relates only to thegrant of such provisional remedy, and shall after suchdetermination

(a)where no application has been made under section7 in respect of the dispute constituting the cause ofaction before it, refer such dispute to the Chairmanof the appropriate Panel for mediation ; or

(b)where an application has been made under section7 in respect of the dispute, direct the Chairman, ofthe appropriate Panel where a Board has not yet beenconstituted, or the appropriate Board, as the casemay be, to continue mediation in respect of thatdispute.

(3) Nothing contained in subsection (1) shall precludeany party to the dispute from making an application to aMediation Board established under the Mediation Boards Act,No. 72 of 1988, unless the monetary value of the subjectmatter of such dispute in relation to which the applicationwas made, exceeds twenty-five thousand rupees in value.

9.Where an action is filed in any civil court havingjurisdiction over a Special Mediation Board Area or anapplication is made to any labour tribunal having jurisdictionover a Special Mediation Board Area, in regard to any disputearising in respect of any one or more of the categories ofdisputes determined under section 2 of this Act, such courtor tribunal as the case may be, may with the written consentof the parties to that dispute, refer the dispute to the Chairmanof the Panel appointed for that Special Mediation Board Area,for the purpose of settlement of such dispute by mediation.

Reference bycourt or labourtribunal.

5Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

10.(1)Upon receipt of an application under section 7or upon a reference made to him under section 9, the Chairmanshall ascertain from the parties to the dispute, their preferencesas to the manner of constituting a Mediation Board and shallin accordance with the preferences expressed, either

(a)constitute a Mediation Board under subsection (2) ;or

(b)allow the parties to the dispute to select apre-constituted Mediation Board under subsection(3).

(2)Where all the parties to the dispute express apreference for the constitution of a Mediation Board undersubsection (1), the Chairman of the Panel shall, constitute aMediation Board (hereinafter referred to as the Board) ofthree members, consisting of

(a)one member selected by each party to the dispute ;and

(b)one member selected by the members selected underparagraph (a),

from the Panel appointed for that Special Mediation Boardarea :

Provided however, that where the parties to the disputereferred to in paragraph (a) or the members referred to inparagraph (b) are unable to agree as to their respectiveselections, the Chairman of the Panel shall make the necessaryselection :

Provided further, that where any party to a dispute referredto in paragraph (a), expresses in writing, his unwillingness tomake a selection under that paragraph, such selection shallbe made by lot drawn by the Chairman of the Panel. Wheresuch party for any reason, objects to the member first selectedby the drawing of lots, the Chairman shall make a furtherselection by drawing lots.

Constitution ofMediation Board.

6Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

(3)Where all the parties to the dispute express apreference for the reference of the dispute in respect of whichthe application or reference is made, to a pre-constitutedBoard, the Chairman of the Panel shall allow the parties toselect any Board from among the Boards, each consisting ofthree members, (including a Chief Mediator appointed by theChairman), previously constituted by the Chairman, from thePanel appointed for that Special Mediation Board Area.

(4)Where all the parties to the dispute express apreference for reference of the dispute to a Mediation Boardconstituted under subsection (2), the member selected underparagraph (b) of that subsection shall act as the Chief Mediatorof the Board (hereinafter referred to as the Chief Mediator) :

Provided that where the Chairman of the Panel is selectedas a member of the Board, the Chairman shall act as its ChiefMediator.

(5)Upon the constitution or selection as the case maybe, of the Board, the Chairman of the Panel shall refer thedispute in respect of which the application or reference hasbeen made to such Board for settlement by mediation.

11.Where any dispute is referred to any Board undersubsection (5) of section 10, it shall be the duty of such Boardby lawful means to endeavour to bring the parties to thedispute to an amicable settlement and to remove with theirconsent wherever practicable, the real cause of the grievancebetween them so as to prevent a recurrence of the dispute,and for this purpose shall

(a)notify the parties concerned and such other personsas the Board may consider necessary, to be presentat a mediation conference either together orindividually at a specified time and place, and shallstate in such notification that if any one of the partiesfails to be present at such conference, the absenceof such party concerned shall be stated in thecertificate of non-settlement issued or in the reportsubmitted to court, under section 14 ;

Duties of a Board.

7Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

(b)require any person notified to be present to bring toany such conference any witnesses or documentswhich may be of assistance in arriving at a settlement;

(c)convene as many mediation conferences as may benecessary to arrive at a settlement ;

(d)comply with the procedure as prescribed which isrequired to be observed in the conduct of mediationsessions ;

(e)maintain confidentiality in respect of all evidencegiven, documents submitted and of any other mattersthat are revealed or discussed during the conduct ofmediation sessions ;

(f)obtain where necessary advice of any person whohas special knowledge or expertise pertaining to thesubject matter of the dispute in instances where theBoard considers it necessary and helpful in arrivingat a settlement ;

(g)endeavour to reach a settlement which is acceptableto both parties to the dispute ; and

(h)complete its proceedings within the time limitspecified in section 15 and in the event of failure todo so, issue a certificate of non-settlement or submita report to court, as the case may be, under section14.

12.It shall be the duty of every party to a dispute broughtbefore a Board for settlement by mediation to

(a)disclose fully and honestly all matters which arerelevant and necessary for reaching a settlement ;

(b)refrain from revealing any information of aconfidential nature disclosed or discussed at amediation session.

Duties of partiesto a dispute.

8Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

13.(1) Where the parties to a dispute agree to asettlement, the terms of the settlement shall be reduced towriting and be signed by the Chief Mediator and such parties,and the Board shall

(a)where the settlement is in respect of any disputebrought before the Board by an application madeunder section 7, issue immediately, a copy thereofto each of the parties to the dispute ; and

(b)where the settlement is in respect of any disputereferred by a court or a labour tribunal under section9, forward to such court or labour tribunal as thecase may be, a copy thereof and also issue a copy toeach of the parties to the dispute.

(2)Where a copy of the settlement is forwarded to anycourt or labour tribunal under paragraph (b) of subsection(1), such court or labour tribunal as the case may be, shall,after issuing notice to the parties to the dispute

(a)in the case of a reference by a court, enter a decree ;or

(b)in the case of a reference by a labour tribunal makean Order,

in accordance with such settlement.

14.Where the parties to a dispute do not agree to asettlement, the Board shall

(a)in the case of a dispute referred to the Board uponan application made under section 7, issue acertificate of non-settlement in the prescribed formsigned by the Chief Mediator, stating that suchdispute has been referred to such Board and that ithas not been possible to settle the dispute bymediation and stating therein the reasons for non-settlement ;

Where settlementis reached.

Where nosettlement ispossible.

9Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

(b)in the case of a dispute referred by any court or labourtribunal for settlement under section 9, report to suchcourt or labour tribunal as the case may be, in theprescribed form signed by the Chief Mediator, thatit has not been possible to settle the dispute bymediation and stating therein the reasons for non-settlement.

15.(1) The Board shall, in respect of every disputebrought before it for settlement by mediation, endeavour tocomplete its deliberation and bring about a settlement or issuea certificate of non-settlement as the case may be, within sixtydays of the constitution of such Board in accordance with theprovisions of section 10.

(2)The procedure to be observed in the conduct of amediation session by a Board shall be as prescribed.

16.The members of a Board shall in the conduct of amediation session, be bound by a Code of Conduct as shallbe prescribed.

17.(1) Where in any dispute referred to a Board inpursuance of any application made under section 7 is settled,and one of the parties to the settlement thereafter fails tocomply with, or violates the terms of such settlement at anytime, the other party shall forthwith report such failure orviolation as the case may be, to the Board.

(2)The Board shall upon receipt of a report undersubsection (1), notify the parties to the settlement and suchother persons as it may consider necessary, to be present at aspecified time and place and shall endeavour to resolve anydifferences that may have arisen between them and shall assistthem to enter into a fresh settlement. Where the resolution ofsuch differences is not possible, the Board shall issue acertificate of non-settlement in the prescribed form, signedby the Chief Mediator, stating that it has not been possible tosettle such dispute and also stating the reasons for such non-settlement.

Time limit withinwhich Boardmust act.

Failure to complywith or violationof settlement.

Members to bebound by a Codeof conduct.

10Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

18.(1)A certificate of non-settlement purporting to beissued under paragraph (a) of section 14 or subsection (2) ofsection 17, and signed by the Chief Mediator, may be producedin evidence in any action or proceeding instituted in any court,although such person is not called as a witness.

(2)The court may presume that the signature on anycertificate of non-settlement is genuine and that the personsigning it held the office he professed to hold at the time hesigned it :

Provided that, if in any case the court is of opinion on theapplication of any party or otherwise, and for reasons to berecorded, that it is necessary that the Chief Mediator shouldbe present to give evidence at any proceedings before suchcourt, such Chief Mediator shall be summoned as a witnessfor the purpose only of giving evidence relating to the signingof such certificate .

19.No attorney-at-law, agent or any other person shallbe entitled or permitted to appear on behalf of any party to adispute in any matter before a Board :

Provided however that representation before a Board

(a)of one spouse by another spouse ; or

(b)of a minor or other person under any disability, byhis parent, guardian or curator,

shall be permitted.

20.(1)Every person who makes a statement before aBoard shall, in respect of such statement, be entitled to all theprivileges which a witness giving evidence before a court oflaw is entitled to in respect of such evidence.

(2)No statement made by any person before a Boardshall be admissible in evidence in any civil or criminalproceedings.

Certificates ofnon-settlementreceivable inevidence.

Privilege ofwitnesses.

Representation.

11Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

21. In computing the period of prescription in regard toany cause of action, the period commencing on the date onwhich an application is made to the Chairman of a Panel inrespect of the dispute constituting such cause of action, andending on the date of the certificate issued under paragraph(a) of section 14 or subsection (2) of section 17 in respect ofthat dispute, shall be disregarded, notwithstanding anythingto the contrary in any other written law.

22.A Board may, in carrying out its duties underparagraph (a) of section 11 and subsection (2) of section 17require the assistance of any Grama Seva Niladhari appointedfor a Grama Seva Niladharis division within the SpecialMediation Board Area, to communicate any notification toany party to a dispute or other person, and such Grama SevaNiladhari shall when so required, render all such assistanceas may be necessary in that regard to such Board.

23.The members of every Board constituted under thisAct shall, so long as they are acting as such members, bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning of the PenalCode, and every proceeding before such Board shall bedeemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning ofthat Code.

24.Every Board constituted under this Act shall bedeemed to be a Scheduled Institution within the meaning ofthe Bribery Act and the provisions of that Act shall beconstrued accordingly.

25.No act or proceeding of a Board shall be deemed tobe invalid by reason only of a defect in the constitution of theBoard.

26.(1) Where parties have agreed under a mediationagreement to refer any dispute for mediation and such disputeis a dispute coming within any one or more of the categoriesof disputes determined under section 2 of this Act,

Prescription.

Grama SevaNiladhari to assistthe Board.

Members ofBoard deemedto be publicservants.

Board deemedto be aScheduledInstitution,

Defect in theconstitution of theBoard not toinvalidate actsand proceedingsof the Board.

Where there is amediationagreement, noaction to beinstituted withoutsufficient proof ofnon-settlement.

12Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

not withstanding anything in any other written law to thecontrary, no proceedings in regard to such dispute shall beinstituted or be entertained by a court, unless sufficientdocumentary proof is submitted to the effect that such disputehas been referred to mediation and a settlement has not beenpossible.

(2)The provision of, subsection (1) shall not apply inrespect of any action, where a party to a dispute referred to inthat subsection prays for relief in the form of any provisionalremedy under Part V of the Civil Procedure Code, and a courtmay entertain and determine such action, only in so far as itrelates to the grant of such provisional remedy.

(3)For the purpose of this section, a mediation agreementmay be in the form of a mediation clause in a contract or inthe form of a separate agreement, by which the parties agreeto refer for settlement by mediation all or any dispute whichmay arise between them, in respect of a defined legalrelationship whether contractual or otherwise.

27.(1)The Minister may make regulations in respectof any matter in respect of which regulations are authorizedby this Act to be made or required by this Act to be prescribed.

(2)Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3)Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette bebrought before Parliament for approval and any regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(4)Notification of the date on which any regulation shallbe deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

28.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Regulations.

13Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

29.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requiresMediation Board Commission means the Mediation BoardCommission appointed under the Mediation Boards Act,No. 72 of 1988.

SCHEDULE[Section 4(1)]

1.The Commission shall select persons possessing such qualificationsas prescribed by the Minister under subsection (2) of section 4 and shallprior to appointing them as members of a Panel, send such persons to followa preliminary training course in mediation skills and techniques.

2.On completion of the preliminary training referred to in item 1, theperson or persons conducting the course shall submit to the Commission, areport in respect of each of the persons who followed the training course.Such report shall comment on the aptitude, knowledge and skills of thetrainees to function as a mediator.

3.Upon receipt of the reports referred to in item 2, the Commissionshall, having considered the contents of each of such reports, appoint forevery Special Mediation Board Area

(a)a Panel of Mediators consisting of not less than twelve persons ;

(b)such number of additional members to any such Panel as may beconsidered necessary from time to time ;

(c)such number of members as may be required to fill any vacanciesin the Panel.

4.(1) Where the Chairman or any member vacating office either onthe expiration of his term of office or for any other reasons, is on the date ofhis vacation of office inquiring into any dispute, his vacation of office shalltake effect on the date on which he completes such inquiry.

(2)Where for any reason no person is appointed to succeed a membervacating his office, the outgoing member shall, notwithstanding his vacatingoffice, continue as a member of the Panel until the appointment of hissuccessor or until the Commission determine otherwise.

5.(1) The Chairman or any member may

(a)resign his office by letter addressed to the Commission ;

(b)be removed from office by the Commission without assigningany reason therefor.

(2)The Chairman or any member who has resigned or has been removedfrom office, shall not be eligible for re-appointment.

Interpretation.

14Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes)Act, No. 21 of 2003

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.