PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
ord Session 1967-68 et

f «f
Al 3/9

© )
~
=)

F oreign Exchange Entitlement

Certificates
Act, No. 28 of 1968

Date of Assent: June 22, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOVERNMENT Press, CeEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price : 45 cents Postage: 10 cents


Foreign Eachange Entitlement Certificates
Act, No. 28 of 1968

L. D.—O. 18/68.

AN ACT TO MAKE THE NECESSARY LEGAL PROVISION FOR
THE ESTABLISHMENT ANI OPERATION BY THE
GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON, THROUGH ITS AGENT THE
CENTRAL BANK OF CEYLON, OF A SCHEME OF FOREIGN
EXCHANGE ENTITLEMENT CERTIFICATES, AND TG
PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: June 22, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
and the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows: —

4. (1) This Act may be cited as the Foreign
Exchange Entitlement Certificates Act, No. 28 of
1968.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall be deemed, for
all purposes, to have come into operation on May 6,
1968.

2. The

Government is hereby authorized to

. . establish and operate, under and in accordance with

the provisions of this Act, a Scheme to enable the
issue, purchase, sale, surrender, or disposal in any
other manner, of foreign exchange entitlement
Certificates. Such Scheme is in this Act referred to
as ‘‘ the Scheme ’’.

8. The authority vested in the Government by
section 2 shall be exercised by the Central Bank as
the agent of the Government, and accordingly such
Bank may, in its capacity as such agent, exercise,
discharge and perform, subject to such directions as
may from time to time be issued in that behalf by the
Minister of Finance, all such powers, functions and
duties as may be necessary for the purposes of the
establishment and operation of the Scheme, and of
carrying out and giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act.

%, (1) Subject to such terms as may be approved
by the Minister of Finance from time to time and
notified in the Gazette, the Central Bank is hereby
‘authorized to issue Certificates from time to time,
either directly or on its behalf through any commercial

1°-——IT_ 13641-4,710 (5/68)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Authority of the
Government to
establish and
operate a
Scheme for the
issue, &c., of
foreign exchange
entitlement
Certificates.

Authority
vested in the
Government by
section 2 to be
exercised by the
Central Bank.

Authority of the
Central Bank
to issue
Certificates,

and form, &c.,
of such
Certificates.


2 Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates
Act, No. 28 of 1968

bank. The form, design, inscription, dimensions and
other characteristics of such Certificates shall be as
determined by the Central Bank from time to time.
(2) Every Certificate—
(w) shall bear the signature in facsimile of
the Chief Accountant of the Central
Bank, and such number of manual
signatures as may be determined by
directions;
(>) shall be stated on the face thereof to be
issued by, or for and on behalf of the
Central Bank;
(c) shall be valid for such period as_ shall
be specified therein; and
(zd) shall bear on the face of it an amount
expressed in terms of Ceylon rupees.

Entitlement 5. The holder of a valid Certificate shall he

of the holder = entitled, upon the surrender thereof to an authorized

of a valid f

Certificate. dealer, to purchase foreign exchange for such
purposes, and subject to such terms, as may be
approved by the Government from time to time and
notified in the Gazette.

6. (1) Any person who, without the authority of _

the Central Bank,—
(a) cuts, perforates, or in any other way whatso-
ever mutilates any Certificate; or
(b) prints, stamps, or draws anything upon any
Certificate, or affixes any seal or stamp to or
. upon any Certificate: or i
(c) attaches or affixes to or upon any Certificate
anything in the nature or form of an
advertisement,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
(2) Any person who forges any Certificate shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act.

7. All expenses incurred in the administration of
oe this Act, and in particular but without prejudice to
of this Act. the generality of the foregoing provisions of this

section, all expenses incurred in the establishment
and operation of the Scheme and the printing of
Certificates and the payment to commercial banks of
such commissions or fees as may be determined by the

Central Bank, shall be paid out of the Consolidated
Fund. 7

Offences.


Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates 3
Act, No. 28 of 1968

8. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be
opened and maintained in the Central Bank in the
name of the Government an account to be called the
‘‘Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
Account ’’, in this Act referred to as ‘‘ the
Account *’.

(2) There shall be credited to the Account all such
sums of money as may, from time to time, be with-
drawn from the Consolidated Fund for the purpose of
being credited to the Account, and all other sums
received by the Central Bank for and on behalf of the
Government in the course of the administration of
this Act.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Account all the
expenses referred to in section 7.

(4) Any monies lying in the Account may be
transferred to the Consolidated Fund from time to
time as determined by the Minister of Finance.

9. (1) The Central Bank may issue directions for
the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the
~ principles and provisions of this Act to commercial
banks, authorized dealers, approved acceptors or
other persons.

(2) In particular, but without prejudice to the
geuerality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1),
the Central Bank may issue directions to commercial
banks, authorized dealers, approved acceptors or
other persons for or in respect of all or any of the
following matters :—

(2) any matter for which directions are authorized
by this Act to be issued;

(b) any matter relating to the establishment and
operation of the Scheme in respect of which
the provisions of this Act need to be
supplemented; and

(c) any matter connected with or incidental to any
of the aforesaid matters.

(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply
’ with any direction issued by the Central Bank under
this Act shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

Opening of a
special account
in the Central
Bank for the
purposes of
this Act.

Directions by
Central Bank.


Penalties for
offences.

Offences by
bodies of
persons.

Offences to

be cognizable.

Prosecution
by, or with
the sanction
of, the
Central
Bank.

Powers, &c.,
of Central
Bank, vested
a the
Monetary
Board.

Powers, &c.,

exercisable.

4 Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates
Act, No. 28 of 1968

10. (1) Any person who is guilty of an offence
under this Act shall be liable, on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding two
years or to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees,
or to both such imprisonment and such fine.

(2) Any person who attempts to commit, or does
any act preparatory to the commission of, any offence
under this Act shall be deemed to be guilty of such
offence.

41. Where a person convicted of an offence under
this Act is a body of persons, then,—

(a) if such body is a firm, every person who at the
time of the commission of the offence was a
partner of that firm; or

(b) if such body is a body corporate, every person
who at the time of the commission of the
offence was a director or other officer of such

body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he
proves that the offence was committed without his
knowledge, or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.

12. All offences under this Act shall be cognizable
offences within the meaning and for the purposes of
the Criminal Procedure Code.

18. No prosecution for an offence under this Act
shall be instituted except by, or with the written
sanction of, the Governor of the Central Bank.

44. The powers, duties and functions of the
Central Bank under this Act shall vest in the Monetary
Board, and accordingly any such power, duty or
function may be exercised, performed and discharged
by the Monetary Board. .

45. Any power, duty or function of the Central
Bank under this Act which is vested in the Monetary
Board by section 14, may be exercised, performed or
discharged on its behalf by the Governor of the Central
Bank, or by any officer of the Bank acting under the

eneral or special directions of the Governor of the

entral Bank.


Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates 5
Act, No. 28 of 1968

46. The Governor of the Central Bank may accept
from any person who is reasonably suspected of
having committed an offence under this Act, by way of
composition for the offence which may have been

-. committed, either such sum of money, not exceeding

one hundred thousand rupees, as may be specified in
a notice sent by post or otherwise delivered to such
person by the Governor if the sum as specified is
tendered by such person before the expiry of fourteen
days after the date of such notice, or the sum so
specified and such additional amount, not exceeding
ten per centum of the sum so specified, as may be
determined by the Governor, if the sum so specified
and the additional amount so determined are tendered
by such person before the expiry of twenty-eight days
after the date of such notice. Any sum so accepted
by the Governor shall be credited by him to the
Account.

47. (1) Where in any proceedings in any court it
has to be determined whether a document purporting
to be a foreign exchange entitlement Certificate is
an imitation of such a Certificate, a certificate under
the hand of the Governor of the Central Bank or, if
the Governor is temporarily absent from duty or
» .temporarily unable to perform his functions and
duties, a certificate under the hand of the Deputy
Governor for the time being acting as the chief
executive officer of the Central Bank, to the effect
that such document is an imitation of a foreign
exchange entitlement Certificate issued by, or for and
on behalf of the Central Bank of Ceylon, shall be
received in those proceedings as conclusive evidence
of the fact that such document is an imitation of a
foreign exchange entitlement Certificate.

(2) The Governor or the Deputy Governor of the
Central Bank who issues a certificate under this
section shall not be examined or cross-examined with
respect to that certificate.

(3) Every certificate issued under this section shall
be in the following form : —

Ls» a oon eens , Governor of the
Central Bank of Ceylon, */Deputy Governor for
the time being acting as the chief executive officer
of the Central Bank of Ceylon, do hereby certify
that I have examined the document marked .........
which purports to be a foreign exchange entitlement

Power to
compound,

Conclusive
evidence of
imitation of
a Certificate.


Special
provisions
relating to
the grant of
permission,
&c., under
the Exchange
Control Act.

Interpretation.

6 Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates
Act, No. 28 of 1968

Certificate issued for an amount of ..............eee.
and bearing number ............... and dated ............
and that such document is an imitation of a foreign
exchange entitlement Certificate and is not a foreign
exchange entitlement Certificate issued by, or for
and on behalf of the Central Bank of Ceylon.

SISMAtUIS? ave scewiticwend tones

Date! sisivewmrnceess
(*Delete inapplicable words).

48. Any permission, consent or authority granted
by the Controller of Exchange under the Exchange
Control Act may be made conditional on the surrender
of any foreign exchange entitlement Certificate or
Certificates.

49. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—
‘‘ approved acceptor ’’ means a person authorized
by the Controller of Exchange to accept
foreign exchange;

‘© authorized dealer ’? means a commercial bank for
the time being authorized under section 4 of
the Exchange Control Act;

‘Central Bank’? means the Central Bank of .
Ceylon established under the Monetary Law
Act;

‘Certificate’? means a foreign exchange
entitlement Certificate;

‘“ Chief Accountant of the Central Bank ’’ includes
the person for the time being acting as the
Chief Accountant of the Central Bank;

‘commercial bank ’’ has the same meaning as in
section 127 (1) of the Monetary Law Act;

‘* foreign exchange entitlement Certificate ’? means
a foreign exchange entitlement Certificate
issued by, or for and on behalf of the Central
Bank under this Act, and which authorizes
the holder of such Certificate, upon the
surrender thereof during the period of its
validity to any authorize dealer, to purchase
foreign exchange for such purposes, and
subject to such terms, as may be approved
by the Government from time to time and
notified in the Gazette;


Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates 7
Act, No. 28 of 1968
‘* Governor ’’ means the Governor of the Central
Bank, and includes the Deputy Governor for
the time being acting as the chief executive
officer of that Bank;

99

‘terms ’’ includes conditions;

‘this Act’? includes any directions issued
thereunder;

““ valid Certificate ’? means a Certificate which is
for the time being valid.

20. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition
to and not in derogation of the provisions of the
Monetary Law Act or the Exchange Control Act:

Provided, however, that in the event of any conflict
or inconsistency between the provisions of this Act
and the provisions of the Monetary Law Act or the
Exchange Control Act, the provisions of this Act shall
to the extent of such conflict or inconsistency prevail
over the provisions of the Monetary Law Act or the
Exchange Control Act.

This Act to
prevail over
the Monetary
Law Act or
the Exchange
Control Act.
