PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

MOTOR TRAFFIC (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 5OF 1998

[Certified on 27th March, 1998}

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of March 27, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs, 5.75 Postage : Rs. 2.50


Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 1998
{Certified on 27th March, 1998}
L.D.—-O. 66/96
AN ACT TO AMEND THE Motor TRAFFIC ACT

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Motor Traffic
(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 1998.

2. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 213 of the Motor Traffic Act and
shall have effect as sections 213a and 2138 respectively of
that Act :- :

“National 213. (1) There shall be a National Couricil

Council for for Road Safety consisting of a Chairman and

Road Safety. not more than seventeen other members
appointed by the Minister and consisting of —

(a) a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of
Education, appointed after consultation
with the relevant Minister ;

(b

—

a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subjects of
Finance and Planning, appointed after
consultation with the relevant Minister ;

(c) a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subjects of
Provincial Councils and Local
Government appointed after consultation
with the relevant Minister ;

(d) a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of
Highways, appointed after consultation
with the relevant Minister ;

*

2—D 045784—8,550 (97/10)

Short title.

Insertion of new
sections 2134 and
2138 in Chapter
203.


2

Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 1998

(e)

—

(g

(h)

0)

(i)

(k)

a representative of the University of
Moratuwa deemed to have been
established under the Universities Act,
No. 16 of 1978, appointed after
consultation with the University Grants
Commission established under that
Act;

a representative of the Urban
Development Authority established by the
Urban Development Authority Act, No.
41 of 1978, appointed after consultation
with the relevant Minister ;

a representative of the Road Development
Authority established by the Road
Development Authority Act, No. 73 of
1981, appointed after consultation with
the relevant Minister ;

a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister ;

arepresentative of the National Transport
Commission established by the National
Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of
1991 ;

a representative of the Department of
Motor Traffic ;

a representative of the Sri Lanka Central
Transport Board established by the

Transport Board Law, No. 19 of 1978 ;

0)

(m)

a representative of the Ceylon Society for
the Prevention of Accidents ;

a representative of the Transport Medical
Institute ;


Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 1998 3

{n) a representative of the Automobile
Association of Ceylon, established by
Automobile Association of Ceylon
(Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of 1957;

a representative of the Department of
Police, appointed after consultation with
the Inspector-General of Police ;

(o

—

—

(p

a representative of the Colombo
Municipal Council, appointed after
consultation with the Mayor of that
Council ; and

(q) the Controller of Insurance or his
representative.

(2) Every member of the National Council
for Road Safety shall, unless he vacates office
earlier by death, resignation by letter in that behalf
addressed to the Minister or removal from office
by the Minister under subsection (3), hold office
for such period not exceeding three years as may
be specified by the Minister in his letter of
appointment. Any member vacating office by
effluxion of time shall be eligible for
reappointment.

(3) The Minister may remove from office any
member of the National Council for Road Safety
without assigning any reason therefor.

(4) In the event of the vacation of office of
any member the Minister shall appoint another
Person to succeed such member and the member
So appointed shall hold such office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of his
predecessor.

(5) The Chairman of the National Council for
Road Safety may summon meetings of such
Council whenever he may deem it necessary, SO
however, that he shall summon a meeting thereof
at least once in every three months :


4 Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 1998

Road Safety
Fund.

Provided however that, such Chairman shall
summon a meeting of such Council, whenever
he is requested in writing to do so by not less
than six members, of such Council.

(6) The quorum for any meeting of the
National Council for Road Safety shall be eight.

(7) Regulations may be made providing for
the conduct of business by the National Council
for Road Safety and prescribing the procedure to
be followed at meetings of such Council. Subject
to such regulations, and the provisions of sub-
section (6), the National Council for Road Safety
may regulate its own procedure.

(8) No act or proceeding of the National
Council for Road Safety shall be invalid by reason
only of the existence of any vacancy therein or
any defect in the appointment of any member
thereof.

(9) The Minister may give the National
Council for Road Safety such general or special
directions in writing as to the discharge of its
functions and the National Council for Road
Safety shall give effect to such directions.

(10) The functions of the National Council
for Road safety shall be as prescribed.

2138. (1) Every insurer or person who issues
a policy of insurance or security, as the case may
be, in respect of third party risks, under Part VI
of this Act, shall deduct from the premium paid
to him for such policy of insurance or security, as
the case may be, such sum as is equal to the
prescribed sum and shall cause the sum so
deducted to be tiansmitted to the Fund established
under s'**scction (2).


Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 1998 5

(2) There shall be a Fund to be called the
Road Safety Fund (hereinafter in this section
referred to as the “Fund”), The Fund shall be
administered and managed by the National
Council for Road Safety.

(3) There shail be paid into the Fund—

(a) all sums transmitted to the Fund under
subsection (1); and

(b) allsum sreceived by the Fund as donations
Or grants.

(4

—

There shall be paid out of the Fund-

(a) all sums required to implement
programmes for the promotion of Road
Safety and accident prevention or to carry
Out other prescribed activities, approved
by the National Council for Road Safety;

(6) all sums required to provide financial
assistance to persons killed or injured as
a result of motor vehicle accidents or their
dependants, in instances in which such
motor vehicles have not been identified:
and

(c) all sums required to meet the
administrative expenses of the National
Council for Road Safety.

(5) For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby
declared that all sums donated to the Fund are
sums donated to a fund established by the
Government, within the meaning of section 31
of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979,”.

3. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

’ Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PusuicaTions Bureau, No. 32, TransworKs House,
Lotus Roap, Cotomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
