PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF TAXATION(INCORPORATION) (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 13 OF 2023

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 21st of August, 2023]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 25, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation(Incorporation) (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2023

L.D.O. (Inc.)21/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF TAXATION(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 21 OF 2000

WHEREAS the Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation wasincorporated by the Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2000:

AND WHEREAS the Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation wishesto change its name and that certain amendments be made tothe aforesaid Act for the purpose of more effectually carryingout the objects of the said Corporation:

AND WHEREAS the Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation hasapplied that amendments be made to the aforesaid Act and itwill be for the public advantage to grant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Institute ofTaxation (Incorporation) (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2023.

2.In every context in which the Sri Lanka Institute ofTaxation is mentioned in the Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2000 (hereinafter referred to asthe principal enactment) or in any rule, notice or otherdocument made or issued thereunder, there shall, unless thecontext otherwise requires, be substituted for the wordsSri Lanka Institute of Taxation of the words CharteredInstitute of Taxation of Sri Lanka.

3.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (e) ofthat section of the following paragraph:-

Generalamendmentto the Act,No. 21 of2000

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment

Short title

Preamble

[Certified on 21st of August, 2023]

2Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation(Incorporation) (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2023

(ea)to formulate a welfare scheme for thebenefit of the members of the Corporationin accordance with the rules made undersection 8 of the Act;; and

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (o) of that section andsubstitution therefor of the following paragraph:-

(o)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminatethe services of officers and servants of theCorporation and exercise disciplinarycontrol over them and to pay them suchsalaries, allowances and gratuities inaccordance with the rules made undersection 8 of the Act;.

4.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) in paragraph (b) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words other publication acceptable to theCouncil; of the words other publicationacceptable to the Council; or; and

(2) by the addition immediately after paragraph (b) ofthat section of the following new paragraph:-

(c) a person who possesses any otherqualification in the field of finance ortaxation as may be specified by the rules madeunder section 8 of the Act...5.Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that subsectionand the substitution therefor of the followingparagraph:-

Amendmentof section 6of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section 8of theprincipalenactment

3Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation(Incorporation) (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2023

(a)the classification of membership,admission, withdrawal, expulsion orresignation of members and fees, payableby each class of members or for qualifyingexaminations or approved courses of studyor any other services provided by theCorporation, under the provisions of theAct;;

(2)in paragraph (d) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the word appointment, of thewords the terms and conditions of theappointment,; and

(3)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (d) ofthat subsection of the following paragraph:-

(da)the qualifications and disqualifications tobe a member of the Council and theCorporation;.

6. Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substitutedtherefor:

9. Where any member of the Corporation is-

(a)a fellow member, he shall be entitledto use after his name, the lettersFCIT;

(b)an associate member, he shall beentitled to use after his name, theletters ACIT;

(c)an honorary fellow member, he shallbe entitled to use after his name, thetitle Honorary FCIT; or

Use ofletters or titlesafter name

Replacement ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment

4Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation(Incorporation) (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2023

(d)an honorary associate member, heshall be entitled to use after his name,the title Honorary ACIT..

7.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words use titles orletters after his name FTII (Sri Lanka) or Honorary ATII (SriLanka) of the words use titles or letters after his nameFCIT, ACIT, Honorary FCIT or Honorary ACIT.

8. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 13 and shall have effect as section13A of the principal enactment:-

13A. The members of the Council, officersand servants of the Corporation shall not beliable for any act done or purported to be doneor any omission made in good faith during theexercise, performance or discharge of theirpowers, duties or functions under this Act,provided that such immunity shall not extendto-

(a)liability for a criminal offence underany written law for the time beign inforce;

(b)any act done in contravention of theprovisions of this Act, or any otherapplicable written law, or anyregulation made thereunder..

9. (1) Every contract, agreement or other instrument ordocument whatsoever made, issued or executed prior to thedate of commencement of this Act, and subsisting on thatdate by or in favour of the Sri Lanka Institute of Taxationshall be deemed, from and after the date of commencementof this Act, to be and to have been made, issued or executedby or in, favour of the Chartered Institute of Taxation ofSri Lanka.

Amendmentof section 10of theprincipalenactment

Insertion ofnew section13A in theprincipalenactmentMembers ofthe Councilofficers, andservants oftheCorporationnot to beliable for actsdone in goodfaith

Saving forcontracts etc

5Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation(Incorporation) (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2023

(2) All suits, actions, appeals and other legal proceedingsinstituted by or against the Sri Lanka Institute of Taxationand pending on the day immediately prior to the date of thecommencement of this Act, shall not abate or bediscontinued, and may be continued or enforced by or againstthe Chartered Institute of Taxation of Sri Lanka.

10.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

6Sri Lanka Institute of Taxation(Incorporation) (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.