PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CARRIAGE BY AIR ACT, No. 29 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 28th of September, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 28.00Postage : Rs. 60.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

Short title andthe date ofoperation.

[Certified on 28th of September, 2018]

L.D.O. 35/2012

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE CONVENTION FOR THE UNIFICATION OF

CERTAIN RULES FOR INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE BY AIR; AND TO

PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

WHEREAS the Convention for the Unification of CertainRules for International Carriage by Air was done at Montrealon the Twenty eighth day of May One Thousand NineHundred and Ninety-Nine:

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka intends to accede to the aforesaidConvention:

AND WHEREAS it is necessary to make legal provisions togive effect to Sri Lankas obligations under the aforesaidConvention:

NOW THEREFORE, BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Carriage by Air Act,No. 29 of 2018 and shall come into operation on such date asthe Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, certifies asthe date on which the Convention for the Unification ofCertain Rules for International Carriage by Air (hereinafterreferred to as the Convention) adopted at Montreal on May28, 1999 enters into force in respect of Sri Lanka.

2.The Articles contained in the Schedule to this Act,being the provisions of the Convention shall in so far as theyrelate to the rights and liabilities of carriers, passengers,consignors, consignees and other persons and subject to theprovisions of this Act have the force of law in Sri Lanka inrelation to any carriage by air to which the Convention applies,irrespective of the nationality of the aircraft performing thatcarriage.

Preamble.

Provisions of theConvention forthe Unificationof Certain Rulesfor InternationalCarriage by Airto apply toSri Lanka.

2Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

3.(1) The Minister may, from time to time by Notificationpublished in the Gazette specify any reservation under Article57 of the Convention as may be declared to the Depositary.

(2) The Minister may, from time to time by Order publishedin the Gazette notify the States and territories of the StatesParties to the Convention and the reservations made by suchStates Parties, and agreed stopping place within the territory ofnon-State Parties.

4. Notwithstanding anything contrary in any written law,no action for compensation shall be instituted against thecarrier under any contract or in tort or otherwise except subjectto the provisions of the Convention and such limits of liabilitiesas are set out therein.

5.(1) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shallmutatis mutandis apply to such carriage by air, not beinginternational carriage by air as defined therein.

(2) Nothing in PART II (WARSAW-HAGUE CARRIAGEBY AIR CONVENTION) of the Air Navigation (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 55 of 1992 shall apply in respect of anycarriage by air to which the Convention applies.

6.Upon the receipt of any notification relating to anyrevision of limits under Article 24 of the Convention, theMinister may, from time to time by Order published in theGazette, specify the limits of liability as may be reviewed bythe Depositary.

7.In the case of aircraft accidents resulting in death orinjury of passengers, the carrier shall make advance paymentsas provided by Article 28 of the Convention.

Notification ofreservations andStates Parties.

Action forcompensation.

Modification ofConvention.

Review of limits.

Advancepayments.

3Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

8.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires-

Minister means the Minister to whom the subjectof Civil Aviation is assigned.

9.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

4Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

SCHEDULE(Section 2)

CONVENTION FOR THE UNIFICATION OF CERTAIN RULESFOR INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE BY AIR(Montreal, 28 May 1999)

CHAPTER I

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 1 - Scope of Application

1.This Convention applies to all international carriage of persons,baggage or cargo performed by aircraft for reward. It applies equally togratuitous carriage by aircraft performed by an air transport undertaking.

2.For the purposes of this Convention, the expressioninternational carriage means any carriage in which, according to theagreement between the parties, the place of departure and the place ofdestination, whether or not there be a break in the carriage or atranshipment, are situated either within the territories of two StatesParties, or within the territory of a single State Party if there is anagreed stopping place within the territory of another State, even if thatState is not a State Party. Carriage between two points within theterritory of a single State Party without an agreed stopping place withinthe territory of another State is not international carriage for thepurposes of this Convention.

3.Carriage to be performed by several successive carriers is deemed,for the purposes of this Convention, to be one undivided carriage if ithas been regarded by the parties as a single operation, whether it hadbeen agreed upon under the form of a single contract or of a series ofcontracts, and it does not lose its international character merely becauseone contract or a series of contracts is to be performed entirely withinthe territory of the same State.

4.This Convention applies also to carriage as set out in ChapterV, subject to the terms contained therein.

Article 2 - Carriage Performed by State and Carriage ofPostal Items

1.This Convention applies to carriage performed by the State orby legally constituted public bodies provided it falls within the conditionslaid down in Article 1.

2.In the carriage of postal items, the carrier shall be liable only tothe relevant postal administration in accordance with the rules applicableto the relationship between the carriers and the postal administrations.

5Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

3.Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Article, the provisionsof this Convention shall not apply to the carriage of postal items.

CHAPTER II

DOCUMENTATION AND DUTIES OF THE PARTIES RELATING TO THE CARRIAGE OF

PASSENGERS, BAGGAGE AND CARGO

Article 3 - Passengers and Baggage

1.In respect of carriage of passengers, an individual or collectivedocument of carriage shall be delivered containing:

(a)an indication of the places of departure and destination;

(b)if the places of departure and destination are within theterritory of a single State Party, one or more agreed stoppingplaces being within the territory of another State, anindication of at least one such stopping place.

2.Any other means which preserves the information indicated inparagraph 1 may be substituted for the delivery of the document referredto in that paragraph. If any such other means is used, the carrier shalloffer to deliver to the passenger a written statement of the informationso preserved.

3.The carrier shall deliver to the passenger a baggage identificationtag for each piece of checked baggage.

4.The passenger shall be given written notice to the effect thatwhere this Convention is applicable it governs and may limit the liabilityof carriers in respect of death or injury and for destruction or loss of, ordamage to, baggage, and for delay.

5. Non-compliance with the provisions of the foregoing paragraphsshall not affect the existence or the validity of the contract of carriage,which shall, nonetheless, be subject to the rules of this Conventionincluding those relating to limitation of liability.

Article 4 - Cargo

1.In respect of the carriage of cargo, an air waybill shall bedelivered.

2.Any other means which preserves a record of the carriage to beperformed may be substituted for the delivery of an air waybill. If suchother means are used, the carrier shall, if so requested by the consignor,

6Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

deliver to the consignor a cargo receipt permitting identification of theconsignment and access to the information contained in the recordpreserved by such other means.

Article 5 - Contents of Air Waybill or Cargo Receipt

The air waybill or the cargo receipt shall include:

(a)an indication of the places of departure and destination;

(b)if the places of departure and destination are within theterritory of a single State Party, one or more agreed stoppingplaces being within the territory of another State, anindication of at least one such stopping place; and

(c)an indication of the weight of the consignment.

Article 6 - Document relating to the Nature of the Cargo

The consignor may be required, if necessary, to meet the formalitiesof customs, police and similar public authorities to deliver a documentindicating the nature of the cargo. This provision creates for the carrierno duty, obligation or liability resulting therefrom.

Article 7 - Description of Air Waybill

1.The air waybill shall be made out by the consignor in threeoriginal parts.

2.The first part shall be marked for the carrier; it shall besigned by the consignor. The second part shall be marked for theconsignee; it shall be signed by the consignor and by the carrier. Thethird part shall be signed by the carrier who shall hand it to the consignorafter the cargo has been accepted.

3.The signature of the carrier and that of the consignor may beprinted or stamped.

4.If, at the request of the consignor, the carrier makes out the airwaybill, the carrier shall be deemed, subject to proof to the contrary, tohave done so on behalf of the consignor.

Article 8 - Documentation for Multiple Packages

When there is more than one package:

(a)the carrier of cargo has the right to require the consignor tomake out separate air waybills;

7Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

(b)the consignor has the right to require the carrier to deliverseparate cargo receipts when the other means referred to inparagraph 2 of Article 4 are used.

Article 9 - Non-Compliance with Documentary Requirements

Non-compliance with the provisions of Articles 4 to 8 shall notaffect the existence or the validity of the contract of carriage, whichshall, nonetheless, be subject to the rules of this Convention includingthose relating to limitation of liability.

Article 10 - Responsibility for Particulars of Documentation

1.The consignor is responsible for the correctness of the particularsand statements relating to the cargo inserted by it or on its behalf in theair waybill or furnished by it or on its behalf to the carrier for insertionin the cargo receipt or for insertion in the record preserved by the othermeans referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 4. The foregoing shall alsoapply where the person acting on behalf of the consignor is also theagent of the carrier.

2.The consignor shall indemnify the carrier against all damagesuffered by it, or by any other person to whom the carrier is liable, byreason of the irregularity, incorrectness or incompleteness of theparticulars and statements furnished by the consignor or on its behalf.

3.Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article,the carrier shall indemnify the consignor against all damage suffered byit, or by any other person to whom the consignor is liable, by reason ofthe irregularity, incorrectness or incompleteness of the particulars andstatements inserted by the carrier or on its behalf in the cargo receipt orin the record preserved by the other means referred to in paragraph 2 ofArticle 4.

Article 11 - Evidentiary Value of Documentation

1.The air waybill or the cargo receipt is prima facie evidence ofthe conclusion of the contract, of the acceptance of the cargo and ofthe conditions of carriage mentioned therein.

2.Any statements in the air waybill or the cargo receipt relatingto the weight, dimensions and packing of the cargo, as well as thoserelating to the number of packages, are prima facie evidence of thefacts stated; those relating to the quantity, volume and condition of thecargo do not constitute evidence against the carrier except so far asthey both have been, and are stated in the air waybill or the cargoreceipt to have been, checked by it in the presence of the consignor, orrelate to the apparent condition of the cargo.

8Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

Article 12 - Right of Disposition of Cargo

1.Subject to its liability to carry out all its obligations under thecontract of carriage, the consignor has the right to dispose of the cargoby withdrawing it at the airport of departure or destination, or bystopping it in the course of the journey on any landing, or by calling forit to be delivered at the place of destination or in the course of thejourney to a person other than the consignee originally designated, orby requiring it to be returned to the airport of departure. The consignormust not exercise this right of disposition in such a way as to prejudicethe carrier or other consignors and must reimburse any expensesoccasioned by the exercise of this right.

2.If it is impossible to carry out the instructions of the consignor,the carrier must so inform the consignor forthwith.

3.If the carrier carries out the instructions of the consignor forthe disposition of the cargo without requiring the production of thepart of the air waybill or the cargo receipt delivered to the latter, thecarrier will be liable, without prejudice to its right of recovery from theconsignor, for any damage which may be caused thereby to any personwho is lawfully in possession of that part of the air waybill or the cargoreceipt.

4.The right conferred on the consignor ceases at the momentwhen that of the consignee begins in accordance with Article 13.Nevertheless, if the consignee declines to accept the cargo, or cannotbe communicated with, the consignor resumes its right of disposition.

Article 13 - Delivery of the Cargo

1.Except when the consignor has exercised its right under Article12, the consignee is entitled, on arrival of the cargo at the place ofdestination, to require the carrier to deliver the cargo to it, on paymentof the charges due and on complying with the conditions of carriage.

2.Unless it is otherwise agreed, it is the duty of the carrier to givenotice to the consignee as soon as the cargo arrives.

3.If the carrier admits the loss of the cargo, or if the cargo hasnot arrived at the expiration of seven days after the date on which itought to have arrived, the consignee is entitled to enforce against thecarrier the rights which flow from the contract of carriage.

9Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

Article 14 - Enforcement of the Rights of Consignorand Consignee

The consignor and the consignee can respectively enforce all therights given to them by Articles 12 and 13, each in its own name,whether it is acting in its own interest or in the interest of another,provided that it carries out the obligations imposed by the contract ofcarriage.

Article 15 - Relations of Consignor and Consignee or MutualRelations of Third Parties

1. Articles 12, 13 and 14 do not affect either the relations of theconsignor and the consignee with each other or the mutual relations ofthird parties whose rights are derived either from the consignor or fromthe consignee.

2.The provisions of Articles 12, 13 and 14 can only be varied byexpress provision in the air waybill or the cargo receipt.

Article 16 - Formalities of Customs, Police or other PublicAuthorities

1.The consignor must furnish such information and suchdocuments as are necessary to meet the formalities of customs, policeand any other public authorities before the cargo can be delivered to theconsignee. The consignor is liable to the carrier for any damage occasionedby the absence, insufficiency or irregularity of any such information ordocuments, unless the damage is due to the fault of the carrier, itsservants or agents.

2.The carrier is under no obligation to enquire into the correctnessor sufficiency of such information or documents.

CHAPTER III

LIABILITY OF THE CARRIER AND eXTENT OF cOMPENSATION FOR DAMAGE

Article 17 - Death and Injury of Passengers - Damage toBaggage

1.The carrier is liable for damage sustained in case of death orbodily injury of a passenger upon condition only that the accidentwhich caused the death or injury took place on board the aircraft or inthe course of any of the operations of embarking or disembarking.

2.The carrier is liable for damage sustained in case of destructionor loss of, or of damage to, checked baggage upon condition only thatthe event which caused the destruction, loss or damage took place on

10Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

board the aircraft or during any period within which the checkedbaggage was in the charge of the carrier. However, the carrier is notliable if and to the extent that the damage resulted from the inherentdefect, quality or vice of the baggage. In the case of unchecked baggage,including personal items, the carrier is liable if the damage resultedfrom its fault or that of its servants or agents.

3. If the carrier admits the loss of the checked baggage, or if thechecked baggage has not arrived at the expiration of twenty-one daysafter the date on which it ought to have arrived, the passenger isentitled to enforce against the carrier the rights which flow from thecontract of carriage.

4. Unless otherwise specified, in this Convention the term baggagemeans both checked baggage and unchecked baggage.

Article 18 - Damage to Cargo

1.The carrier is liable for damage sustained in the event of thedestruction or loss of or damage to, cargo upon condition only that theevent which caused the damage so sustained took place during thecarriage by air.

2.However, the carrier is not liable if and to the extent it provesthat the destruction or loss of, or damage to, the cargo resulted fromone or more of the following:

(a)inherent defect, quality or vice of that cargo;

(b)defective packing of that cargo performed by a person otherthan the carrier or its servants or agents;

(c)an act of war or an armed conflict;

(d)an act of public authority carried out in connection with theentry, exit or transit of the cargo.

3.The carriage by air within the meaning of paragraph 1 of thisArticle comprises the period during which the cargo is in the charge ofthe carrier.

4.The period of the carriage by air does not extend to any carriageby land, by sea or by inland waterway performed outside an airport. If,however, such carriage takes place in the performance of a contract forcarriage by air, for the purpose of loading, delivery or transhipment,any damage is presumed, subject to proof to the contrary, to have beenthe result of an event which took place during the carriage by air. If a

11Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

carrier, without the consent of the consignor, substitutes carriage byanother mode of transport for the whole or part of a carriage intendedby the agreement between the parties to be carriage by air, such carriageby another mode of transport is deemed to be within the period ofcarriage by air.

Article 19 Delay

The carrier is liable for damage occasioned by delay in the carriageby air of passengers, baggage or cargo. Nevertheless, the carrier shallnot be liable for damage occasioned by delay if it proves that it and itsservants and agents took all measures that could reasonably be requiredto avoid the damage or that it was impossible for it or them to take suchmeasures.

Article 20 Exoneration

If the carrier proves that the damage was caused or contributed to bythe negligence or other wrongful act or omission of the person claimingcompensation, or the person from whom he or she derives his or herrights, the carrier shall be wholly or partly exonerated from its liabilityto the claimant to the extent that such negligence or wrongful act oromission caused or contributed to the damage. When by reason of deathor injury of a passenger compensation is claimed by a person other thanthe passenger, the carrier shall likewise be wholly or partly exoneratedfrom its liability to the extent that it proves that the damage was causedor contributed to by the negligence or other wrongful act or omission ofthat passenger. This Article applies to all the liability provisions in thisConvention, including paragraph 1 of Article 21.

Article 21 - Compensation in case of Death or Injury ofPassengers

1.For damages arising under paragraph 1 of Article 17 notexceeding 100,000 Special Drawing Rights for each passenger, thecarrier shall not be able to exclude or limit its liability.

2.The carrier shall not be liable for damages arising under paragraph1 of Article 17 to the extent that they exceed for each passenger100,000 Special Drawing Rights if the carrier proves that:

(a)such damage was not due to the negligence or other wrongfulact or omission of the carrier or its servants or agents; or

(b)such damage was solely due to the negligence or other wrongfulact or omission of a third party.

12Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

Article 22 - Limits of Liability in Relation to Delay,Baggage and Cargo

1.In the case of damage caused by delay as specified in Article 19in the carriage of persons, the liability of the carrier for each passengeris limited to 4,150 Special Drawing Rights.

2.In the carriage of baggage, the liability of the carrier in the caseof destruction, loss, damage or delay is limited to 1,000 Special DrawingRights for each passenger unless the passenger has made, at the timewhen the checked baggage was handed over to the carrier, a specialdeclaration of interest in delivery at destination and has paid asupplementary sum if the case so requires. In that case the carrier will beliable to pay a sum not exceeding the declared sum, unless it proves thatthe sum is greater than the passengers actual interest in delivery atdestination.

3.In the carriage of cargo, the liability of the carrier in the case ofdestruction, loss, damage or delay is limited to a sum of 17 SpecialDrawing Rights per kilogram, unless the consignor has made, at thetime when the package was handed over to the carrier, a specialdeclaration of interest in delivery at destination and has paid asupplementary sum if the case so requires. In that case the carrier will beliable to pay a sum not exceeding the declared sum, unless it proves thatthe sum is greater than the consignors actual interest in delivery atdestination.

4.In the case of destruction, loss, damage or delay of part of thecargo, or of any object contained therein, the weight to be taken intoconsideration in determining the amount to which the carriers liabilityis limited shall be only the total weight of the package or packagesconcerned. Nevertheless, when the destruction, loss, damage or delayof a part of the cargo, or of an object contained therein, affects thevalue of other packages covered by the same air waybill, or the samereceipt or, if they were not issued, by the same record preserved by theother means referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 4, the total weight ofsuch package or packages shall also be taken into consideration indetermining the limit of liability.

5.The foregoing provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Articleshall not apply if it is proved that the damage resulted from an act oromission of the carrier, its servants or agents, done with intent to causedamage or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probablyresult; provided that, in the case of such act or omission of a servant oragent, it is also proved that such servant or agent was acting within thescope of its employment.

13Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

6.The limits prescribed in Article 21 and in this Article shall notprevent the court from awarding, in accordance with its own law, inaddition, the whole or part of the court costs and of the other expensesof the litigation incurred by the plaintiff, including interest. The foregoingprovision shall not apply if the amount of the damages awarded,excluding court costs and other expenses of the litigation, does notexceed the sum which the carrier has offered in writing to the plaintiffwithin a period of six months from the date of the occurrence causingthe damage, or before the commencement of the action, if that is later.

Article 23 - Conversion of Monetary Units

1.The sums mentioned in terms of Special Drawing Right in thisConvention shall be deemed to refer to the Special Drawing Right asdefined by the International Monetary Fund. Conversion of the sumsinto national currencies shall, in case of judicial proceedings, be madeaccording to the value of such currencies in terms of the Special DrawingRight at the date of the judgment. The value of a national currency, interms of the Special Drawing Right, of a State Party which is a Memberof the International Monetary Fund, shall be calculated in accordancewith the method of valuation applied by the International MonetaryFund, in effect at the date of the judgment, for its operations andtransactions. The value of a national currency, in terms of the SpecialDrawing Right, of a State Party which is not a Member of theInternational Monetary Fund, shall be calculated in a manner determinedby that State.

2.Nevertheless, those States which are not Members of theInternational Monetary Fund and whose law does not permit theapplication of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article may, at thetime of ratification or accession or at any time thereafter, declare thatthe limit of liability of the carrier prescribed in Article 21 is fixed at asum of 1,500,000 monetary units per passenger in judicial proceedingsin their territories; 62,500 monetary units per passenger with respectto paragraph 1 of Article 22; 15,000 monetary units per passenger withrespect to paragraph 2 of Article 22; and 250 monetary units perkilogram with respect to paragraph 3 of Article 22. This monetary unitcorresponds to sixty-five and a half milligrams of gold of millesimalfineness nine hundred. These sums may be converted into the nationalcurrency concerned in round figures. The conversion of these sums intonational currency shall be made according to the law of the Stateconcerned.

3.The calculation mentioned in the last sentence of paragraph Iof this Article and the conversion method mentioned in paragraph 2 ofthis Article shall be made in such manner as to express in the national

14Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

currency of the State Party as far as possible the same real value for theamounts in Articles 21 and 22 as would result from the application ofthe first three sentences of paragraph 1 of this Article. States Partiesshall communicate to the depositary the manner of calculation pursuantto paragraph 1 of this Article, or the result of the conversion inparagraph 2 of this Article as the case may be, when depositing aninstrument of ratification, acceptance, approval of or accession to thisConvention and whenever there is a change in either.

Article 24 - Review of Limits

1.Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 25 of thisConvention and subject to paragraph 2 below, the limits of liabilityprescribed in Articles 21, 22 and 23 shall be reviewed by the Depositaryat five-year intervals, the first such review to take place at the end ofthe fifth year following the date of entry into force of this Convention,or if the Convention does not enter into force within five years of thedate it is first open for signature, within the first year of its entry intoforce, by reference to an inflation factor which corresponds to theaccumulated rate of inflation since the previous revision or in the firstinstance since the date of entry into force of the Convention.The measure of the rate of inflation to be used in determining theinflation factor shall be the weighted average of the annual ratesof increase or decrease in the Consumer Price Indices of the Stateswhose currencies comprise the Special Drawing Right mentioned inparagraph 1 of Article 23.

2.If the review referred to in the preceding paragraph concludesthat the inflation factor has exceeded 10 percent, the Depositary shallnotify States Parties of a revision of the limits of liability. Any suchrevision shall become effective six months after its notification to theStates Parties. If within three months after its notification to the StatesParties a majority of the States Parties register their disapproval, therevision shall not become effective and the Depositary shall refer thematter to a meeting of the States Parties. The Depositary shallimmediately notify all States Parties of the coming into force of anyrevision.

3.Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, the procedurereferred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be applied at any timeprovided that one-third of the States Parties express a desire to thateffect and upon condition that the inflation factor referred to inparagraph 1 has exceeded 30 percent since the previous revision orsince the date of entry into force of this Convention if there has beenno previous revision. Subsequent reviews using the procedure described

15Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

in paragraph 1 of this Article will take place at five-year intervalsstarting at the end of the fifth year following the date of the reviewsunder the present paragraph.

Article 25 - Stipulation on Limits

A carrier may stipulate that the contract of carriage shall be subject tohigher limits of liability than those provided for in this Convention orto no limits of liability whatsoever.

Article 26 - Invalidity of Contractual Provisions

Any provision tending to relieve the carrier of liability or to fix alower limit than that which is laid down in this Convention shall be nulland void, but the nullity of any such provision does not involve thenullity of the whole contract, which shall remain subject to the provisionsof this Convention.

Article 27 - Freedom to Contract

Nothing contained in this Convention shall prevent the carrierfrom refusing to enter into any contract of carriage, from waiving anydefences available under the Convention, or from laying down conditionswhich do not conflict with the provisions of this Convention.

Article 28 - Advance Payments

In the case of aircraft accidents resulting in death or injury ofpassengers, the carrier shall, if required by its national law, make advancepayments without delay to a natural person or persons who are entitledto claim compensation in order to meet the immediate economic needsof such persons. Such advance payments shall not constitute arecognition of liability and may be offset against any amountssubsequently paid as damages by the carrier.

Article 29 - Basis of Claims

In the carriage of passengers, baggage and cargo, any action fordamages, however founded, whether under this Convention or in contractor in tort or otherwise, can only be brought subject to the conditionsand such limits of liability as are set out in this Convention withoutprejudice to the question as to who are the persons who have the rightto bring suit and what are their respective rights. In any such action,punitive, exemplary or any other non-compensatory damages shallnot be recoverable.

16Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

Article 30 - Servants, Agents - Aggregation of Claims

1. If an action is brought against a servant or agent of the carrierarising out of damage to which the Convention relates, such servant oragent, if they prove that they acted within the scope of their employment,shall be entitled to avail themselves of the conditions and limits ofliability which the carrier itself is entitled to invoke under thisConvention.

2. The aggregate of the amounts recoverable from the carrier, itsservants and agents, in that case, shall not exceed the said limits.

3. Save in respect of the carriage of cargo, the provisions ofparagraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply if it is proved that thedamage resulted from an act or omission of the servant or agent donewith intent to cause damage or recklessly and with knowledge thatdamage would probably result.

Article 31 - Timely Notice of Complaints

1. Receipt by the person entitled to delivery of checked baggage orcargo without complaint is prima facie evidence that the same has beendelivered in good condition and in accordance with the document ofcarriage or with the record preserved by the other means referred to inparagraph 2 of Article 3 and paragraph 2 of Article 4.

2. In the case of damage, the person entitled to delivery mustcomplain to the carrier forthwith after the discovery of the damage,and, at the latest, within seven days from the date of receipt in the caseof checked baggage and fourteen days from the date of receipt in thecase of cargo. In the case of delay, the complaint must be made at thelatest within twenty-one days from the date on which the baggage orcargo have been placed at his or her disposal.

3. Every complaint must be made in writing and given or dispatchedwithin the times aforesaid.

4. If no complaint is made within the times aforesaid, no action shalllie against the carrier, save in the case of fraud on its part.

Article 32 - Death of Person Liable

In the case of the death of the person liable, an action for damageslies in accordance with the terms of this Convention against thoselegally representing his or her estate.

17Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

Article 33 Jurisdiction

1. An action for damages must be brought, at the option of theplaintiff, in the territory of one of the States Parties, either before thecourt of the domicile of the carrier or of its principal place of business,or where it has a place of business through which the contract has beenmade or before the court at the place of destination.

2. In respect of damage resulting from the death or injury of apassenger, an action may be brought before one of the courts mentionedin paragraph 1 of this Article, or in the territory of a State Party inwhich at the time of the accident the passenger has his or her principaland permanent residence and to or from which the carrier operatesservices for the carriage of passengers by air, either on its own aircraft,or on another carriers aircraft pursuant to a commercial agreement,and in which that carrier conducts its business of carriage of passengersby air from premises leased or owned by the carrier itself or by anothercarrier with which it has a commercial agreement.

3. For the purposes of paragraph 2

(a) commercial agreement means an agreement, other thanan agency agreement, made between carriers and relatingto the provision of their joint services for carriage ofpassengers by air;

(b) principal and permanent residence means the one fixedand permanent abode of the passenger at the time of theaccident. The nationality of the passenger shall not be thedetermining factor in this regard.

4. Questions of procedure shall be governed by the law of the courtseized of the case.

Article 34 Arbitration

1. Subject to the provisions of this Article, the parties to the contractof carriage for cargo may stipulate that any dispute relating to theliability of the carrier under this Convention shall be settled byarbitration. Such agreement shall be in writing.

2. The arbitration proceedings shall, at the option of the claimant,take place within one of the jurisdictions referred to in Article 33.

3. The arbitrator or arbitration tribunal shall apply the provisions ofthis Convention.

18Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

4. The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall bedeemed to be part of every arbitration clause or agreement, and anyterm of such clause or agreement which is inconsistent therewith shallbe null and void.

Article 35 - Limitation of Actions

1. The right to damages shall be extinguished if an action is notbrought within a period of two years, reckoned from the date of arrivalat the destination, or from the date on which the aircraft ought to havearrived, or from the date on which the carriage stopped.

2. The method of calculating that period shall be determined by thelaw of the court seized of the case.

Article 36 - Successive Carriage

1. In the case of carriage to be performed by various successivecarriers and falling within the definition set out in paragraph 3 ofArticle 1, each carrier which accepts passengers, baggage or cargo issubject to the rules set out in this Convention and is deemed to be oneof the parties to the contract of carriage in so far as the contract dealswith that part of the carriage which is performed under its supervision.

2. In the case of carriage of this nature, the passenger or any personentitled to compensation in respect of him or her can take action onlyagainst the carrier which performed the carriage during which theaccident or the delay occurred, save in the case where, by expressagreement, the first carrier has assumed liability for the whole journey.

3. As regards baggage or cargo, the passenger or consignor willhave a right of action against the first carrier, and the passenger orconsignee who is entitled to delivery will have a right of action againstthe last carrier, and further, each may take action against the carrierwhich performed the carriage during which the destruction, loss, damageor delay took place. These carriers will be jointly and severally liable tothe passenger or to the consignor or consignee.

Article 37 - Right of Recourse against Third Parties

Nothing in this Convention shall prejudice the question whether aperson liable for damage in accordance with its provisions has a rightof recourse against any other person.

19Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

CHAPTER IV

COMBINED CARRIAGE

Article 38 - Combined Carriage

1. In the case of combined carriage performed partly by air andpartly by any other mode of carriage, the provisions of this Conventionshall, subject to paragraph 4 of Article 18, apply only to the carriage byair, provided that the carriage by air falls within the terms of Article 1.

2. Nothing in this Convention shall prevent the parties in the case ofcombined carriage from inserting in the document of air carriageconditions relating to other modes of carriage, provided that theprovisions of this Convention are observed as regards the carriage byair.

CHAPTER V

CARRIAGE BY AIR PERFORMED BY A PERSON OTHER THANTHE CONTRACTING CARRIER

Article 39 - Contracting Carrier - Actual Carrier

The provisions of this Chapter apply when a person (hereinafterreferred to as the contracting carrier) as a principal makes a contractof carriage governed by this Convention with a passenger or consignoror with a person acting on behalf of the passenger or consignor, andanother person (hereinafter referred to as the actual carrier) performs,by virtue of authority from the contracting carrier, the whole or part ofthe carriage, but is not with respect to such part a successive carrierwithin the meaning of this Convention. Such authority shall be presumedin the absence of proof to the contrary.

Article 40 - Respective Liability of Contracting and Actual Carriers

If an actual carrier performs the whole or part of carriage which,according to the contract referred to in Article 39, is governed by thisConvention, both the contracting carrier and the actual carrier shall,except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, be subject to the rules ofthis Convention, the former for the whole of the carriage contemplatedin the contract, the latter solely for the carriage which it performs.

Article 41 - Mutual Liability

1. The acts and omissions of the actual carrier and of its servants andagents acting within the scope of their employment shall, in relation tothe carriage performed by the actual carrier, be deemed to be also thoseof the contracting carrier.

20Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

2. The acts and omissions of the contracting carrier and of itsservants and agents acting within the scope of their employment shall,in relation to the carriage performed by the actual carrier, be deemed tobe also those of the actual carrier. Nevertheless, no such act or omissionshall subject the actual carrier to liability exceeding the amounts referredto in Articles 21, 22, 23 and 24. Any special agreement under whichthe contracting carrier assumes obligations not imposed by thisConvention or any waiver of rights or defences conferred by thisConvention or any special declaration of interest in delivery at destinationcontemplated in Article 22 shall not affect the actual carrier unlessagreed to by it.

Article 42 - Addressee of Complaints and Instructions

Any complaint to be made or instruction to be given under thisConvention to the carrier shall have the same effect whether addressedto the contracting carrier or to the actual carrier. Nevertheless,instructions referred to in Article 12 shall only be effective if addressedto the contracting carrier.

Article 43 - Servants and Agents

In relation to the carriage performed by the actual carrier, anyservant or agent of that carrier or of the contracting carrier shall, if theyprove that they acted within the scope of their employment, be entitledto avail themselves of the conditions and limits of liability which areapplicable under this Convention to the carrier whose servant or agentthey are, unless it is proved that they acted in a manner that prevents thelimits of liability from being invoked in accordance with this Convention.

Article 44 - Aggregation of Damages

In relation to the carriage performed by the actual carrier, theaggregate of the amounts recoverable from that carrier and thecontracting carrier, and from their servants and agents acting within thescope of their employment, shall not exceed the highest amount whichcould be awarded against either the contracting carrier or the actualcarrier under this Convention, but none of the persons mentioned shallbe liable for a sum in excess of the limit applicable to that person.

Article 45 - Addressee of Claims

In relation to the carriage performed by the actual carrier, an actionfor damages may be brought, at the option of the plaintiff, against thatcarrier or the contracting carrier, or against both together or separately.If the action is brought against only one of those carriers, that carriershall have the right to require the other carrier to be joined in theproceedings, the procedure and effects being governed by the law ofthe court seized of the case.

21Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

Article 46 - Additional Jurisdiction

Any action for damages contemplated in Article 45 must be brought,at the option of the plaintiff, in the territory of one of the States Parties,either before a court in which an action may be brought against thecontracting carrier, as provided in Article 33, or before the court havingjurisdiction at the place where the actual carrier has its domicile or itsprincipal place of business.

Article 47 - Invalidity of Contractual Provisions

Any contractual provision tending to relieve the contracting carrieror the actual carrier of liability under this Chapter or to fix a lower limitthan that which is applicable according to this Chapter shall be null andvoid, but the nullity of any such provision does not involve the nullityof the whole contract, which shall remain subject to the provisions ofthis Chapter.

Article 48 - Mutual Relations of Contracting and Actual Carriers

Except as provided in Article 45, nothing in this Chapter shall affectthe rights and obligations of the carriers between themselves, includingany right of recourse or indemnification.

CHAPTER VI

OTHER PROVISIONS

Article 49 - Mandatory Application

Any clause contained in the contract of carriage and all specialagreements entered into before the damage occurred by which theparties purport to infringe the rules laid down by this Convention,whether by deciding the law to be applied, or by altering the rules as tojurisdiction, shall be null and void.

Article 50 - Insurance

States Parties shall require their carriers to maintain adequateinsurance covering their liability under this Convention. A carrier maybe required by the State Party into which it operates to furnish evidencethat it maintains adequate insurance covering its liability under thisConvention.

Article 51 - Carriage Performed in Extraordinary Circumstances

The provisions of Articles 3 to 5, 7 and 8 relating to thedocumentation of carriage shall not apply in the case of carriageperformed in extraordinary circumstances outside the normal scope ofa carriers business.

22Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

Article 52 - Definition of Days

The expression days when used in this Convention means calendardays, not working days.

CHAPTER VII

FINAL CLAUSES

Article 53 - Signature, Ratification and Entry into Force

1. This Convention shall be open for signature in Montreal on May1999 by States participating in the International Conference on AirLaw held at Montreal from 10 to 28 May 1999. After 28 May 1999, theConvention shall be open to all States for signature at the Headquartersof the International Civil Aviation Organization in Montreal until itenters into force in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Article.

2. This Convention shall similarly be open for signature by RegionalEconomic Integration Organisations. For the purpose of this Convention,a Regional Economic Integration Organisation means anyorganisation which is constituted by sovereign States of a given regionwhich has competence in respect of certain matters governed by thisConvention and has been duly authorized to sign and to ratify, accept,approve or accede to this Convention. A reference to a State Party orStates Parties in this Convention, otherwise than in paragraph 2 ofArticle 1, paragraph 1(b) of Article 3, paragraph (b) of Article 5,Articles 23, 33, 46 and paragraph (b) of Article 57, applies equally toa Regional Economic Integration Organisation. For the purpose ofArticle 24, the references to a majority of the States Parties and one-third of the States Parties shall not apply to a Regional EconomicIntegration Organisation.

3. This Convention shall be subject to ratification by States and byRegional Economic Integration Organisations which have signed it.

4. Any State or Regional Economic Integration Organisation whichdoes not sign this Convention may accept, approve or accede to it atany time.

5. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accessionshall be deposited with the International Civil Aviation Organization,which is hereby designated the Depositary.

23Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

6. This Convention shall enter into force on the sixtieth day followingthe date of deposit of the thirtieth instrument of ratification, acceptance,approval or accession with the Depositary between the States whichhave deposited such instrument. An instrument deposited by a RegionalEconomic Integration Organisation shall not be counted for the purposeof this paragraph.

7. For other States and for other Regional Economic IntegrationOrganisations, this Convention shall take effect sixty days followingthe date of deposit of the instrument of ratification, acceptance, approvalor accession.

8. The Depositary shall promptly notify all signatories and StatesParties of:

(a) each signature of this Convention and date thereof;

(b) each deposit of an instrument of ratification, acceptance,approval or accession and date thereof;

(c) the date of entry into force of this Convention;

(d) the date of the coming into force of any revision of the limitsof liability established under this Convention;

(e) any denunciation under Article 54.

Article 54 Denunciation

1. Any State Party may denounce this Convention by writtennotification to the Depositary.

2. Denunciation shall take effect one hundred and eighty daysfollowing the date on which notification is received by the Depositary.

Article 55 - Relationship with other Warsaw Convention Instruments

This Convention shall prevail over any rules which apply tointernational carriage by air:

1. between States Parties to this Convention by virtue of those Statescommonly being Party to

(a)the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules relating toInternational Carriage by Air Signed at Warsaw on 12 October1929 (hereinafter called the Warsaw Convention);

24Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

(b)the Protocol to Amend the Convention for the Unification ofCertain Rules Relating to International Carriage by Air Signedat Warsaw on 12 October 1929, Done at The Hague on28 September 1955 (hereinafter called The Hague Protocol);

(c)the Convention, Supplementary to the Warsaw Convention,for the Unification of Certain Rules Relating to InternationalCarriage by Air Performed by a Person Other than theContracting Carrier, signed at Guadalajara on 18 September1961 (hereinafter called the Guadalajara Convention);

(d)the Protocol to Amend the Convention for the Unification ofCertain Rules Relating to International Carriage by Air Signedat Warsaw on 12 October 1929 as amended by the ProtocolDone at The Hague on 28 September 1955, Signed atGuatemala City on 8 March 1971 (hereinafter called theGuatemala City Protocol);

(e)additional Protocol Nos. 1 to 3 and Montreal Protocol No. 4to amend the Warsaw Convention as amended by The HagueProtocol or the Warsaw Convention as amended by both TheHague Protocol and the Guatemala City Protocol, Signed atMontreal on 25 September 1975 (hereinafter called theMontreal Protocols); or

2. within the territory of any single State Party to this Conventionby virtue of that State being Party to one or more of the instrumentsreferred to in sub-paragraphs (a) to (e) above.

Article 56 - States with more than One System of Law

1. If a State has two or more territorial units in which differentsystems of law are applicable in relation to matters dealt with in thisConvention, it may at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance,approval or accession declare that this Convention shall extend to all itsterritorial units or only to one or more of them and may modify thisdeclaration by submitting another declaration at any time.

2. Any such declaration shall be notified to the Depositary and shallstate expressly the territorial units to which the Convention applies.

3. In relation to a State Party which has made such a declaration:

(a) references in Article 23 to national currency shall be construedas referring to the currency of the relevant territorial unit ofthat State; and

(b) the reference in Article 28 to national law shall be construedas referring to the law of the relevant territorial unit of thatState.

25Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

Article 57 Reservations

No reservation may be made to this Convention except that a StateParty may at any time declare by a notification addressed to theDepositary that this Convention shall not apply to:

(a) international carriage by air performed and operated directlyby that State Party for non-commercial purposes in respectto its functions and duties as a sovereign State; and/or

(b) the carriage of persons, cargo and baggage for its militaryauthorities on aircraft registered in or leased by that StateParty, the whole capacity of which has been reserved by oron behalf of such authorities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, havingbeen duly authorized, have signed this Convention.

DONE at Montreal on the 28th day of May of the year one thousandnine hundred and ninety-nine in the English, Arabic, Chinese, French,Russian and Spanish languages, all texts being equally authentic. ThisConvention shall remain deposited in the archives of the InternationalCivil Aviation Organization, and certified copies thereof shall betransmitted by the Depositary to all States Parties to this Convention, aswell as to all States Parties to the Warsaw Convention, The HagueProtocol, the Guadalajara Convention, the Guatemala City Protocoland the Montreal Protocols.

26Carriage by Air Act, No. 29 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.