PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC ‘OF
| SRI LANKA

PUBLIC SERVICE _
MUTUAL PROVIDENT
ASSOCIATION (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 13 OF 1996

[Certified on 9th July, 1996} =
Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 12, 1996

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF COVEXNMMENT PRINFING, @TI LANKA

_—,,

"£0 BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNAGEXY PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price; 45 cents. ° Postage: Rs. 2.06


Public Service Mutual Provident Assoctation
(Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 1996

[Certified on 9th July, 1996]
L. D.—O 2/95 2

An ACT 10 AMEND THE Pustic Service MuruAL PROVIDENT

ASSOCIATION ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by. the Parliament of the ‘Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :— 7

1. This Act may he cited as the Public Service Mutual °

Provident Association (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 1996:

2 Section 4 of the Public Service Mutual Provident
Association Ordinance (hereinafter ‘referred to as the
“principa! enactment”) .is hereby amended, by the repeal
of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of that section . and
the substitution, of the following mew paragraph
therefor :—

“(c) eleven members of the corporation to be ‘elected
once a year at the annual genera! meeting, subject
to the condition that no such member ghall hold
office for a period of more than three years in
succession and that if in service, they should be
officers stationed within the administrative limits
of the Municipality of Colombo or the administra-

tive limits of the Urban Council of Sri Jayawar- |

denapura, Kotte.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the period of

three years shall be deemed ‘to commence on the ,

date of the annual general meeting at which the
member is first elected to the - committee of
management and end on the date of the annual
general meeting held in the third year following
the date on which the member was first elected. ”.

8. Section 11 of the principal enactmen: is hereby
amended by the substitution for the ‘words, “ Municipality
of Colombo”, of the words “ Municipality of Colombo
or within the administrative limits of the Urban Council of
Sri Jayawardenepura, Kotte”, wherevér those words occur
in that section.

4. Section 15 of the principal enactment, is hereby amen-

ed in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section as
follows :—

(a) by the substitution in the proviso to sub-paragraph’

(iv) of that paragraph for the words “ whichever is
less, and”, of the words “whichever is less, ”,

Chapter 8&4. il

Amendment
of section
11 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section
15 of the
principal
enactment.


2 Public Service Mutual oroyident Association
(Amendment) Act, No, 13 of 1996

(b) by the substitution in sub-)qragraph (v) of. that
paragraph for the words “the celebration of
festivals.”, of the words “the celebration of
festivals, and”; and

(c) by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph (v)
of that paragraph, of the following new sub
paragraph :—

“ (vi) the purchase of a land or a building, for the
purpose of dwelling or for construction of a
building for the purpose of dwelling, swhier
however, to the rules of the corporation.”.

& Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substiiu-
tien for the words “ requisition of fifty or nore members”,
of the words “requisition of two hundred or more
members ™,

6. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall

prevail.
