PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 20.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 04, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st of October, 2022]

REGISTRATION OF DOCUMENTS (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 32 OF 2022

1Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 2022

Short title

[Certified on 31st of October 2022]

L.D.O. 2/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE REGISTRATION OF DOCUMENTS ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 117)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Registration of Documents(Amendment) Act, No. 32 of 2022.

2. Section 32 of the Registration of Documents Ordinance(Chapter 117) (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection: -

(1) (a) A person (hereinafter referred to as thecaveator) who

(i) has a right, title or interest; or

(ii) claims to have a right, title or interest,

to a land, an undivided land, a land parcel ora condominium parcel (hereinafter in thissection referred to as the land) may presentfor registration a caveat substantially inForm VIII of the Second Schedule heretorequiring him to be served a notice of thepresentation for registration of anyinstrument affecting such land.

(b) Every caveat presented for registration shall

(i) be in duplicate and accompanied by anaffidavit of the caveator together with acertificate issued by an Attorney-at-law

Amendment ofsection 32 ofChapter 117

2 Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 2022

substantiating the right, title or interestin the land or claims to a right, title orinterest in the land of the caveator;

(ii) be accompanied by such number ofcopies of the notice set out in Form Xof the Second Schedule hereto togetherwith stamped envelopes, to be servedon the owners of the land whose namesand addresses are given in the relevantvolume and folio in which such land isregistered, where the caveator is not theowner;

(iii) be accompanied by a certified copy ofthe original of the Power of Attorneyduly registered with the RegistrarGeneral or the Registrar of the relevantLand Registry or the Registrar of Title(hereinafter in this section referred toas the Registrar) where the caveatoris a holder of a Power of Attorney(hereinafter in this section referred toas the attorney); and

(iv) contain the name, signature and theNational Identity Card number or thepassport number or the driving licencenumber and address of the caveator inSri Lanka at which notices relating tothe caveat shall be served, the date ofthe caveat, the names and addresses ofthe persons to whom the notice of thecaveat shall be sent where the caveatoris not the owner, the right, title or interestin the land claimed by the caveator,grounds in support of the claim and thedescription of the land, including theboundaries, indicating the correctvolume and folio in which such land,is registered.

3Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 2022

(c) For the purpose of this section-

(i) caveator includes a body of persons, abeneficiary under any trust affecting aland, the lawful guardian or the nextfriend of a minor or of a person of unsoundmind or mentally deficient person, anattorney of a person, a judgementcreditor, an executor or an administratorof an estate of a deceased, or a legal heir,or an intended purchaser who has enteredinto an agreement with the owner of aland or a developer of a land;

(ii) condominium parcel means acondominium parcel registered under theRegistration of Title Act, No.21 of 1998in terms of section 10 of the ApartmentOwnership Law, No.11 of 1973 orregistered under this Ordinance; and

(iii) interest includes an interest arising froman unregistered deed or instrumentrelating to a land which is incapable ofimmediate registration, a trust, aninheritance either by testate or intestatesuccession, instruments relating to amortgage or an agreement to sell, co-ownership, an ownership arising from acondominium parcel or the estate of aminor, or of a person of unsound mind ormentally deficient person.;

(2) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (1)thereof, of the following new subsections: -

(1A) The Registrar, on being satisfied thatall required documents and information referredto in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) areprovided by the caveator, shall acknowledge

4 Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 2022

the receipt of such caveat and record theprescribed particulars referred to in subsection(1) of section 27.

(1B) Upon the acknowledgement, theRegistrar shall forthwith notify the persons,whose names and addresses have beenfurnished by the caveator under subparagraph(iv) of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) and shallmake an endorsement in the Remark Columnby inserting the date and the names of thepersons to whom and the addresses to whichthe notices referred to in subparagraph (ii) ofparagraph (b) in subsection (1) were sent.;

(3) by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection: -

(3) A caveat shall be in force for amaximum period of two years.;

(4) in subsection (4) thereof, by the substitution for thewords The notice to be given to the caveator shallbe in the prescribed form, of the words and figuresWhere an instrument affecting the same landdescribed in the caveat has been subsequentlypresented for registration, a notice shall be given tothe caveator in Form XI of the Second Schedulehereto;

(5) in subsection (5) thereof, by the substitution for thewords a competent court within thirty days of thewords a competent court within sixty days.

3.Section 33 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords seizure priority notice, caveat, or lis pendens,of the words seizure priority notice or lis pendens;

Amendment ofsection 33 of theprincipalenactment

5Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 2022

(2) by the addition immediately after subsection (1)thereof, of the following new subsection: -

(1A) (a) A caveat may be withdrawnor cancelled, as the case may be, at therequest in writing -

(i) by the caveator;

(ii) by an attorney;

(iii) upon the death of a caveator, byan executor, administrator, or alegal heir;

(iv) by the guardian or next friend ofa minor of a person of unsoundmind or mentally deficient personon whose interest the caveat waslodged, on the death or removalof the guardian, by the successoror by the minor upon the minorattaining the age of majority;

(v) where there are joint caveators,and upon the death of one or moreof them, by the surviving caveatoror caveators;

(vi) where the caveator is adjudicateda bankrupt, by the OfficialAssignee;

(vii) where the caveator is a bodycorporate and is in liquidation,and the estate or interest claimedby the caveator has becomevested in the liquidator appointedby court, by the liquidator or bythe Official Receiver; or

6 Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 2022

(viii) where an order has been issuedby a competent court on an estatewhich is the subject of a caveat,by a Fiscal officer, or any otherperson receiving the rights undersuch order.

(b) on receipt of the instrument forwithdrawal under paragraph (a) hereof,the Registrar shall

(i) cancel the entry of the caveat inthe register in the aforesaidmanner and setting out the datethereof, and

(ii) notify the persons or body ofpersons, whose right, title orinterest for registration of aninstrument was affected by suchcaveat.;

(3) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (2)thereof, of the following new subsection: -

(2A) Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other written law, anysummons, notice, decree nisi or order inrelation to any proceeding under subsection(2) on a caveat, shall be served to the addressof the caveator in Sri Lanka referred to insub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 32.;

(4) by the addition, immediately after subsection (3)thereof, of the following new subsection:

(4) The Registrar shall not register acaveat of the same caveator in respect ofthe same land or same iterest in the land,in respect of which registration of caveatwas cancelled under subsection (3)..

7Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 2022

4.Section 50 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words, require, but suchSchedule may be altered or added to by regulation, of thewords require..

5.The Second Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows:

(1) by the repeal of Form VIII thereof, and the substitutiontherefor, of the following new Form:

FORM VIII[section 32(b)]

FORM OF THE CAVEAT

Take notice that, I, ............. (full name and the address ofthe caveator) bearing (NIC/passport/ driving licence)no.. require to be served with notice of thepresentation for registration of any instrument affectingland.. (owned by me / owned by other- specify the right/title/ or interest) referred to in the Schedule hereto.

And I further declare that I present this caveat in my behalf/in behalf of ... (where the caveator is not theowner) on the following ground/s.

Title under deed noUnder the last will ofOther (specify) .

And I appoint (the address in Sri Lanka) as the place atwhich notices relating hereto shall be sent.

..

(Signature of the caveator/hisAttorney-at-Law or notary/attorney)

Date

Signed by the above-named.. in the presence of (fullname and address of the two witnesses)

1. Signature of the first witness2. Signature of the second witness

Amendment tosection 50 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofthe SecondSchedule to theprincipalenactment

8 Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 2022

Schedule

(describe land as in section 13 andprevious registration, if known); and

(2) by the insertion immediately after Form IX of thatSchedule, of the following new Forms: -

FORM X

[section 32(1)(b)(ii)]

NOTICE TO AN OWNER OF A PROPERTY IN RESPECTOF WHICHA CAVEAT HAS BEEN LODGED

Take notice that a caveat has been lodged by of in respect of the property named. bearingassessment no and registered underfolio. of volume .. at this land registry.

(signature)

.Registrar of Landsof..

Date :.......................

FORM XI

[section 32(4)]

NOTICE TO THE CAVEATOR OF AN INSTRUMENTPENDING REGISTRATION

You are hereby notified that the instrument specified in theSchedule hereto is pending registration in volume andfolio.. of . at this Land Registry, as opposedto caveat No dated.. submitted by you.

(signature)

.Registrar of Landsof..

Date :.......................

9Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 2022

DeedNature of the Name of theDescription PartiesNo.deed/Notary whoof the Landinstrumentattested the(as per thedeed/Schedule)instrument

6.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

..

10 Registration of Documents (Amendment)Act, No. 32 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.