PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA NATIONAL COMMISSIONFOR THE UNESCO ACT, No. 38 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 02nd of July, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 48.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 05, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

Preamble

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL

COMMISSION FOR THE UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC

AND CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (UNESCO); AND FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS Sri Lanka obtained the membership of the United

Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization

(hereinafter referred to as the UNESCO) in 1949, embracing

the vision of UNESCO to contribute to the building of a

culture of peace, eradication of poverty, sustainable

development and inter cultural dialog through education,

sciences, culture, communication and information:

AND WHEREAS Article VII of the Constitution of the

UNESCO mandates each member to form a National

Commission to function as agencies of liaison between the

national government including the relevant public, semi-

governmental, private and civil organization and the

UNESCO and contribute in the advancement of the

objectives of the UNESCO and in the implementation of the

programmes in support of the UNESCO priorities:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka National

Commission for the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024.

L.D.O. 46/2008

Short title

[Certified on 02nd of July, 2024]

2Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA NATIONAL COMMISSION

FOR THE UNESCO

2. (1) There shall be established a Commission whichshall be called the Sri Lanka National Commission for theUNESCO (hereinafter referred to as the Commission).

(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3. The objects of the Commission shall be-

(a)to assume, alone or in collaboration with otherbodies, the responsibility for

(i)operation of all the UNESCO funded orrelated activities in Sri Lanka;

(ii)initiation, co-sponsorship and endorsementof all the UNESCO resolutions, guidelines,conventions and other instruments at theUNESCO Executive Board and the UNESCOGeneral Conference;

(iii)Sri Lankas active participation in thesub-regional, regional and internationalUNESCO activities, ensuring benefit topeople of Sri Lanka without anydiscrimination;

(iv)submitting nominations to the UNESCOregistries.

Objects of theCommission

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaNationalCommission forthe UNESCO

3Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(b)to link the relevant ministries, governmentdepartments, semi government, non-governmentand private agencies, institutions, organizationsand intellectuals and the people of Sri Lankaeffectively with the the UNESCO programmes andactivities securing the intellectual, scientific,artistic or administrative resources and capacitiesavailable in Sri Lanka;

(c)to develop international cooperation andpartnerships for Sri Lanka as envisaged in Article IIof the the UNESCO Constitution

(i)in the planning and execution of activitiesentrusted to the UNESCO which areundertaken with the assistance oforganizations of the United Nations familyand other international institutions andprogrammes;

(ii)to promote mutually beneficial UNESCOprogrammes with the UNESCO affiliatedbodies and other international organizationsby conducting international, regional andsub-regional activities with a view toachieving the objectives of the UNESCO;

(d)to facilitate the exchange of information in areasrelated to education, science, culture,communication and information through local,regional and global programmes organized by theUNESCO and acting as a clearing house forinformation in the related fields and disseminatinginformation to arouse public interest in those areas;

(e)to introduce the UNESCO conventions and otherinternational instruments to relevant Ministries forratification and follow up;

4Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(f)to facilitate technical assistance to and capacitybuilding in Sri Lanka through the the UNESCOsystem; and

(g)to contribute to the the UNESCOs vision ofmaintenance of peace, security and the commonwelfare of mankind by participating in the activitiesof the UNESCO through education, science, culture,communication and information which are the mainpillars of foundation of the UNESCO.

4. The powers, duties and functions of the Commissionshall be to

(a)develop and sustain international liaison,coordination, consultations and advocacy with allof the UNESCO system and activities;

(b)ensure appropriate representations and facilitateinformed interventions by Sri Lanka at the theUNESCO General Conference, Executive Boardmeetings, summits, conferences andintergovernmental meetings;

(c)inform stakeholders, implement and monitor theUNESCO conventions, resolutions and similarinstruments;

(d)initiate, fund, coordinate and monitor the UNESCOrelated programmes, Centres, Sites, Cities,Networks, Associations, Clubs, and Chairs in SriLanka in collaboration with the Sri Lankanstakeholders and support with technical assistanceand capacity building through the UNESCOsystem;

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Commission

5Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(e)appoint National committees, steering committees,working committees, expert committees andconsultants in the UNESCO areas of competencewith specific terms of reference to support activitiesof the Commission and decide on appropriateremuneration for the committee members orconsultants;

(f)celebrate the UNESCO declared days, years anddecades, as relevant to Sri Lanka with stakeholders;

(g)disseminate information on and recommendcandidates for the UNESCO awards, fellowships,the UNESCO chairs, study grants and otherprogrammes;

(h)obtain reports, information and data relating to allsuch matters as may be necessary to enable theCommission to effectively exercise, perform anddischarge any of its powers, duties and functionsunder this Act, from government and non-governmental institutions in Sri Lanka;

(i)exercise disciplinary control, including dismissal,over the officers and employees of the Commission;

(j)erect, rent, equip and maintain such buildings andmemorials including offices, libraries, pavilions,meeting halls and conference halls and the UNESCOplaques as are necessary for the discharge of itsfunctions;

(k)exercise sufficient authority in financialmanagement to enable it to carry out efficiently thefunctions of the Commission and to increase itsparticipation in the activities of the UNESCO;

6Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(l)authorize, certify and permit relevant stakeholdersto conduct activities relevant to the UNESCOmandate;

(m)approve and issue operating manuals, guidelinesand regulations to direct and facilitate theoperations of the Secretariat;

(n)disseminate information to the mass and digitalmedia to reach out to the general public, individualsand institutions concerned on any aspect of theUNESCOs objectives, programmes and activities;

(o)receive and mobilize local (government or private)funds or foreign funds for the implementation ofthe UNESCO programmes:

Provided that, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other provisions of this Act, theCommission shall obtain the prior written approvalof the Department of External Resources in respectof all foreign funds;

(p)pay annual and other membership or subscriptionfees to the UNESCO and the UNESCO affiliatedbodies;

(q)enter into and perform all such contracts andMemorandum of Understandings (MOUs) as maybe necessary for the exercise, performance anddischarge of the powers, duties and functions of theCommission and conduct joint or independentstudies, researches, deliberations and consultationson matters of interest to the UNESCO;

(r)outsource money for appropriate payments incompliance with the relevant financial regulations,research, data collating or any other services oractivities necessary for the smooth and efficientdischarge of the duties and functions of theCommission;

7Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(s)have the ownership of all research, any material ordata collected by any person for the purposes ofthis Act and be responsible for the protection ofsuch research, material or data;

(t)administer and coordinate the UNESCO activitiesand permit the use of the UNESCO approved logowith the UNESCO listed sites and items andactivities and charge fees for such services;

(u)open and maintain, current, savings and deposit orfixed accounts in any bank or banks and investsuch funds as are not immediately required for thepurposes of the Commission in such securities as itmay determine;

(v)accept gifts, contributions, grants or donations fromlocal or foreign sources, whether in cash orotherwise, for the purpose of discharging thefunctions of the Commission:

Provided that, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other provisions of this Act, theCommission shall obtain prior written approval ofthe Department of External Resources in respect ofall foreign grants, gifts or donations;

(w)impose a levy on every visitor to the UNESCOheritage sites and biosphere reserves and other theUNESCO sites in Sri Lanka, calculated at such rateas may be prescribed by the Minister inconsultation with the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance;

(x)acquire and hold, take or give on lease, mortgageor hire, pledge or sell or otherwise dispose of, anymovable or immovable property, for the purpose ofdischarging the functions of the Commission; and

8Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(y)enter into and perform all such contracts as may benecessary for the exercise, performance anddischarge of the powers, duties and functions of theCommission.

5. The Commission shall consist of -

(a)the following ex- officio members, namely -

(i)the Minister or Deputy Minister or StateMinister as the case may be, in charge of thesubject of Education;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministeror an Additional Secretary of such Ministry;

(iii)the Secretary to the Treasury or his nomineenot below the rank of Deputy Secretary tothe Treasury;

(iv)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Foreign Affairs or anAdditional Secretary of such Ministry;

(v)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Vocational Trainingor his nominee not below the rank of anAdditional Secretary ;

(vi)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Higher Education orhis nominee not below the rank of anAdditional Secretary;

(vii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Science andTechnology or his nominee not below therank of an Additional Secretary;

Constitution ofthe Commission

9Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(viii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Ocean or his nomineenot below the rank of an Additional Secretary;

(ix)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Environment or hisnominee not below the rank of an AdditionalSecretary;

(x)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Culture or his nomineenot below the rank of an Additional Secretary;

(xi)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of documentary heritageor his nominee not below the rank of anAdditional Secretary;

(xii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Mass Media or hisnominee not below the rank of an AdditionalSecretary;

(xiii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Social Services or hisnominee not below the rank of an AdditionalSecretary;

(xiv)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassingned the subject of Forest Conservationor his nominee not below the rank of anAdditional Secretary;

(xv)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Wildlife Conservationor his nominee not below the rank of anAdditional Secretary;

10Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(xvi)an officer of the Central Cultural Fundnominated by the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned the subject ofCulture;

(xvii)the Conservator-General of Forest appointedunder section 58 of the Forest ConservationOrdinance (Chapter 451);

(xviii)the Director-General of Wildlife appointedunder section 68 of the Fauna and FloraProtection Ordinance (Chapter 469);

(xix)the Secretary-General of the Sri LankaNational Commission for the UNESCO; and

(xx)the six Chairpersons of the six NationalCommittees established under section 15 ofthis Act; and

(b)six members appointed by the Minister from amongpersons who have distinguished themselves in thefields of education, natural sciences, social andhuman sciences, culture, and communication andinformation (hereinafter referred to as theappointed members).

6. (1) The Minister shall be the Chairperson of theCommission.

(2) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister shall bethe Vice Chairperson of the Commission.

(3) The Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson shall holdoffice of the Commission, so long as he holds the office byvirtue of which he has been appointed to the Commission.

Chairperson andViceChairperson ofthe Commission

11Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(4) Where the Chairperson is temporarily unable toexercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions of his office due to ill health, other infirmity,absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the ViceChairperson may act as the Chairperson in addition to hisnormal duties as the Vice Chairperson.

7. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed orcontinuing as an appointed member of the Commission, ifhe -

(a)is or becomes a member, of Parliament, anyProvincial Council or any local authority;

(b)is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)is a person who, having been declared an insolventor a bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or in anyother country, is an undischarged insolvent orbankrupt;

(d)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any othercountry found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(e)is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by a court of Sri Lanka or any other country;

(f)holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by, or on behalf of the Commission;

(g)has any financial or other interest as is likely toaffect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Commission; or

(h)is absent from three consecutive meetings of theCommission without the permission of theCommission.

Disqualificationsfor beingappointed orcontinuing as amember of theCommission

12Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

8. Every appointed member of the Commission shall,unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a period of three years from the dateof his appointment and shall, unless he has been removedfrom office be eligible for re-appointment for not more thanone further term, whether consecutive or otherwise.

9. (1) Any appointed member of the Commission may atany time, resign his office by letter in that behalf addressedto the Minister, and such resignation shall take effect fromthe date on which the resignation is accepted in writing bythe Minister.

(2) The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove anyappointed member from office. An appointed member whohas been removed from office shall not be eligible forre-appointment as a member of the Commission or to servethe Commission in any other capacity.

(3) In the event of the vacation of office by death,resignation or removal of any appointed member, theMinister shall subject to the provisions of section 5(b)appoint another person to fill such vacancy and such personshall hold office for the un-expired period of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

(4) Where any appointed member of the Commission istemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office onaccount of ill health or any other cause or if he is absent fromSri Lanka for a period of not less than three months, theMinister shall subject to the provisions of section 5(b)appoint any other person to act in place of such memberduring his absence.

(5) Where any appointed member of the Commission failsto attend three consecutive meetings of the Commissionwithout notifying his absence in advance to the Commission,such member shall be deemed to have vacated his office andthe Minister shall appoint another person to fill such vacancysubject to the provisions of section 5(b).

Terms of officeof the appointedmembers of theCommission

Removal,resignation etc.of appointedmembers

13Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

10. The Commission shall have the General Conferenceevery year to deliberate and resolve the following matters ofthe Commission:-

(a)recommend to the government on the UNESCOrelated activities including supporting, signing,ratification and adoption of the UNESCOconventions, agreements and major initiatives;

(b)recommend and approve the strategic plan of theNational Commission in line with the UNESCOsmajor programmes;

(c)recommend and approve activities and budgets ofthe Secretariat and approval of annual action planand the annual budget of the National Commission;

(d)adoption of annual report and the responses toAuditor Generals report;

(e)monitor and evaluate the performance of theNational Commission and recommend and approveincentives for the staff of the Secretariat;

(f)delegation of powers to the Secretary-General ofthe National Commission as deemed necessary; and

(g)make recommendations on study and consultativereports produced by the Secretariat.

11. (1) The quorum for any meeting of the Commissionshall be not less than one third of its total membership andevery meeting of the Commission shall be presided by theChairperson. In the absence of the Chairperson from anymeeting of the Commission, any member elected by themembers present shall preside at such meeting of theCommission.

(2) A meeting of the Commission may be held -

Quorum and theMeetings of theCommission

GeneralConference ofthe Commission

14Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(a)by the number of members who constitute a quorumbeing assembled at the place, date and timeappointed for the meeting; or

(b)by means of audio - visual communication by whichall members participating and constituting aquorum can simultaneously see and hear everyparticipating member for the duration of themeeting; or

(c)by the combination of both (a) and (b).

(3) All questions for decision at any meeting of theCommission shall be decided by the vote of the majority ofthe members present and voting at such meeting. In the caseof an equality of votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition tohis vote, have a casting vote.

(4) The Commission shall meet at least once in everyyear. However, special or extraordinary general meetingsmay be convened, if and when required by the Chairpersonof the Commission.

12. The Commission may act, notwithstanding anyvacancy among its members, and any act or proceeding ofthe Commission shall not be, or deemed to be, invalid byreason only of the existence of any vacancy among itsmembers or any defect in the appointment of a memberthereof.

13. The members of the Commission shall be remuneratedin such manner and at such rates as may be determined bythe Minister with the concurrence of the Minister assignedthe subject of finance.

14. (1) The seal of the Commission

(a)shall be in the custody of such person as theCommission may decide from time to time;

Acts orproceedings ofthe Commissiondeemed not tobe invalid byreason of anyvacancy

Remuneration ofmembers of theCommission

Seal of theCommission

15Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(b)may be altered in such manner as may be determinedby the Commission; and

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument or documentexcept with the sanction of the Commission and inthe presence of two members of the Commissionwho shall sign the instrument or document in tokenof their presence.

(2) The Commission shall maintain a register of theinstruments and documents to which the seal of theCommission has been affixed.

15. (1) The Commission may, on the recommendation ofthe Secretary-General, the appoint such number of NationalCommittees, experts and consultants as it considersnecessary or expedient to assist in the exercise, performanceand discharge of the powers, duties and functions conferredon, assigned to or imposed on the Commission by this Act.

(2) The National Committees appointed under subsection(1) shall be

(a)the UNESCO National Committee on Education;

(b)the UNESCO National Committee on NaturalSciences;

(c)the UNESCO National Committee on Social andHuman Sciences;

(d)the UNESCO National Committee on Culture;

(e)the UNESCO National Committee onCommunication and Information; and

(f)the UNESCO intersectoral National Committee(falling within the UNESCO mandate).

Establishment ofthe NationalCommittees

16Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(3) There shall be a Chairperson or Co-Chairpersons foreach National Committee appointed by the Commission onthe recommendation of the Secretary-General of theCommission.

(4) The members of the National Committees appointedunder subsection (2), shall possess such qualifications andexpertise in a particular field to effectively address the termsof reference of such relevant Committees.

(5) Every member of a National Committee shall, unlesshe vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal,hold office for a period of three years from the date of hisappointment and shall, unless he has been removed fromoffice, be eligible for re-appointment for not more than onefurther term, whether consecutive or otherwise.

(6) In the event of the vacation of office by death,resignation or removal of any member, the Commission shall,on the recommendation of the Secretary-General, appointanother person to fill such vacancy and such person shallhold office for the unexpired period of the term of office ofthe member whom he succeeds.

(7) Where any member of a National Committee istemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office onaccount of ill health or any other cause or if he is absent fromSri Lanka for a period of not less than three months, theCommission on the recommendation of the Secretary-Generalshall appoint any other person to act in place of such memberduring his absence.

(8) Where any member of a National Committee fails toattend three consecutive meetings of a National Committeewithout notifying his absence in advance to the Commission,such member shall be deemed to have vacated his office andthe Commission on the recommendation of theSecretary-General shall appoint another person to fill suchvacancy.

17Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(9) The members of every National Committee expertsand consultants appointed under subsection (1), shall bepaid such allowances and be reimbursed for any expensesincurred in connection with the carrying out of any dutiesassigned, as the Commission may determine with theconcurrence of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

16. The duties and functions of the National Committeesestablished under section 15 shall be to

(a)advise and support the Commission to effectivelyimplement the activities of the Commission andaddress any issue related to the UNESCOs areas ofcompetence;

(b)study, deliberate, resolve and makerecommendations on national policy, position andimplementation of international the UNESCOinitiatives, conventions, programmes and itemspresented to the UNESCO General Conference andthe Executive Board;

(c)assist the Secretary-General guided by theUNESCOs strategic areas, programmes anddocuments to develop, implement and monitorProgrammes and projects of the Commission in therelevant areas;

(d)make recommendations on the annual action planand budget of each specialised area covered by aNational Committee; and

(e)do any other activity in support of the UNESCOactivities as may be decided by the Commission onthe recommendation of the Secretary-General.

17. The Commission may, from time to time, appointad hoc committees for specified purposes consisting of suchnumber of memberships of the Commission or other persons,or both with such powers, duties and functions as may bedetermined by the Commission.

Duties andfunctions of theNationalCommittees

Appointment ofad hocCommittees

18Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

PART II

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SECRETARIAT AND THE APPOINTMENT OF THESECRETARY-GENERAL, DEPUTY SECRETARY-GENERAL AND

THE STAFF OF THE COMMISSION

18. (1) There shall be established a Secretariat (hereinafterreferred to as the Secretariat) to assume, alone or incollaboration with other bodies, the responsibility toimplement all decisions, directives, operations and financesof the Commission and to initiate, support, implement,manage, monitor and evaluate all activities related to thisAct.

(2) The Commission may in writing and subject to suchconditions as may be specified therein, delegate to theSecretary-General of the Commission appointed undersection 19, the powers, duties and functions conferred onthe Commission under section 4 and the Secretary-Generalof the Commission shall exercise, perform and dischargesuch powers, duties and functions in the name and on behalfof the Commission.

(3) The Commission may, notwithstanding anydelegation made under subsection (2), by itself exercise,perform or discharge any power, duty or function so delegatedand may at any time revoke any such delegation.

19. (1) The Minister shall appoint a person who shallhave not less than twenty years of academic or professionalexperience in the fields of education, natural sciences, socialand human sciences, culture, communication andinformation or international relations, as theSecretary-General of the Commission (in this Act referred toas the Secretary-General).

Establishment ofthe Secretariat ofthe Commission

Appointment ofthe Secretary-General of theCommission

19Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(2) The Secretary-General shall be the Chief ExecutiveOfficer of the Commission and shall be responsible forplanning, executing, managing and monitoring alloperations and affairs on behalf of the Commission, throughthe Secretariat including

(a)providing a strategic vision and direction for theoverall structure and operations of the Secretariat;

(b)recruitment and management of staff to the cadrepositions as approved by the Commission;

(c)appointing such National Committees, ad hoccommittees, experts and consultants in theUNESCO areas of competence with specific termsof reference to support activities and assignmentsof the Secretariat and recommend to theCommission on appropriate remunaration for thecommittee members, experts and consultants;

(d)operational, administrative and financialmanagement of the Commission;

(e)the administration of the UNESCO ScholarshipFund established under the UNESCO ScholarshipFund Act, No. 44 of 1999;

(f) the submission of the annual action plan and theannual budget prepared in accordance with theannual work programme of the Commission,assigned with the UNESCOs programmes andactivities;

(g)preparing of the manual of procedures andnecessary revisions from time to time for the smoothfunctioning of the Commission and the Secretariat;

20Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(h)the management of the fund of the Commission;and

(i)the administration and management of the propertyof the Commission.

(3) The Secretary-General shall be entitled to be presentand speak at any meeting of the Commission, or any otherCommittee established under this Act.

(4) The Secretary-General may

(a)delegate any of the functions of theSecretary- General to the Deputy Secretary-Generalor any other officer of the Secretariat as seemappropriate for the smooth discharge ofresponsibilities;

(b)with the approval of the Commission acquire andauthorize such rights, privileges, powers, licensesand authorities as may be necessary for theperformance and discharge of the duties andfunctions;

(c)with the approval of the Commission enter intoagreements with institutions whether in Sri Lankaor abroad having objects wholly or partly similarto those of the UNESCO and the Commission forcollaborative activities and the exchange oftechnical personnel;

(d)with the approval of the Commission and inconsultation with the respective committees,nominate, support and fund suitable experts toattend the UNESCO meetings; and

(e)collect, print and publish reports, periodicals, booksand papers on subjects relevant to the UNESCOpriorities.

21Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(5) The Secretary-General may be paid such remunerationin such manner and at such rates as may be determined bythe Minister with the concurrence of the Minister assignedthe subject of finance.

20. (1) The Minister shall appoint a person who shallhave not less than fifteen years of academic or professionalexperience in the fields of education, natural sciences, socialand human sciences, culture, communication,administration or finance as the Deputy Secretary-Generalof the Commission (in this Act referred to as the DeputySecretary- General).

(2) The Deputy Secretary-General shall assist theSecretary-General to exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, duties and functions of the Commission and carryout the duties assigned by the Secretary-General.

(3) The Deputy Secretary-General shall function as theSecretary to the the UNESCO General Conference of theCommission.

(4) The Deputy Secretary-General may be paid suchremuneration in such manner and at such rates as may bedetermined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister assigned the subject of finance.

21. (1) The Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General shall hold office for a period of four years and shallbe eligible for re-appointment for not more than one furtherterm of office whether consecutive or otherwise.

(2) The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove theSecretary-General or the Deputy Secretary-General fromoffice after considering and affording an opportunity to theSecretary-General or the Deputy Secretary-General as thecase may be, to respond to any allegations made againstthem.

Appointment ofthe DeputySecretary-General of theCommission

Term of officeof the Secretary-General and theDeputySecretary-General

22Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(3) The office of the Secretary-General and the DeputySecretary-General shall become vacant upon the death,removal from office or resignation by letter addressed to theMinister.

(4) If any vacancy occurs in the office of theSecretary-General, the Minister may appoint the DeputySecretary-General to perform the duties of theSecretary-General, until an appointment is made to suchpost.

22. (1) The Secretary-General may, with the concurrenceof the Commission, appoint such number of officers andemployees as he may consider necessary for the efficientexercise and discharge of its powers and functions, with theprior written approval of the Department of ManagementServices.

(2) The Commission may, in respect of the officers andemployees appointed under subsection (1), exercisedisciplinary control over or dismiss such officers andemployees and determine the terms and conditions ofemployment of such officers and employees.

(3) The officers and employees appointed to theCommission shall be remunerated in such manner and atsuch rates, in consultation with the Minister assigned thesubject of finance and shall be subject to such conditions ofservice as may be determined by the Commission, inaccordance with the provisions of this Act and the rulesmade thereunder.

(4) The Commission may establish and regulate providentfund schemes for the benefit of the officers and employeesof the Commission who may be recruited outside of thegovernment service and may make contributions to any suchscheme.

Staff of theCommission

23Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(5) Where any person is temporarily appointed to thestaff of the Commission under subsection (1) such personshall be subject to the same disciplinary control as any othermember of the staff of the Commission.

23. (1) At the request of the Commission and with theconcurrence of the Minister, any officer in the public servicemay, with the consent of that officer and of the Public ServiceCommission, be temporarily assigned to the staff of theCommission for such period as may be determined by theCommission with like consent, or be permanently appointedto such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyassigned to the staff of the Commission, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to, and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply, to and in relation to such officer.

24. (1) At the request of the Commission, any officer orother employee of any higher educational institutionestablished under the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 may,with the consent of that officer or the employee and theprincipal executive officer of that higher educationalinstitution, be temporarily appointed to the staff of theCommission. Such appointment shall be for a period as maybe determined by the Commission or with like consent bepermanently appointed to such staff, on such terms andconditions including those relating to pension or providentfund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Commission andsuch principal executive officer.

Appointment ofpublic officers tothe staff of theCommission

Appointment ofofficers fromhighereducationalinstitutions tothe Commission

24Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

(2) Where any person is temporarily appointed to thestaff of the Commission under subsection (1) such personshall be subject to the same disciplinary control as any othermember of the staff of the Commission.

PART III

FINANCE

25. The initial capital of the Commission

(a)shall be such sum as may be determined byParliament by resolution; and

(b)may be increased by such amounts as may beauthorized by an Appropriation Act or by anyresolution of Parliament.

26. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund.

(2) The Fund of the Commission shall comprise of -

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by Parliament;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theCommission by way of interest on investments,donations, gifts or grants from any sourcewhatsoever, whether within or outside Sri Lanka:

Provided however, the Commission shall obtainthe prior written approval of the Department ofExternal Resources of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance, in respect of allforeign grants, gifts or donations made and loans,donations, gifts, bequests and grants received from

Capital of theCommission

The Fund of theCommission

25Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

any source within Sri Lanka shall be credited to theConsolidated fund and shall thereafter, with theapproval of the Parliament, be credited to the Fundof the Commission;

(c)all sums of money received as income frominvestments made by the Commission; and

(d)all such money levied as fees and contributions.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of theCommission -

(a)all such sums of money as are required to defrayany expenditure incurred by the Commission inthe exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Act; and

(b)all such sums of money as are required to be paidout of the Fund by or under this Act.

27. Any moneys belonging to the Commission may beinvested by the Commission in such manner as may bedeemed appropriate subject to such directions as may begiven by the Minister.

28. (1) The financial year of the Commission shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Commission shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Commission.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to, and in relation to the audit of the accounts ofthe Commission.

Investment ofthe moneys ofthe Commission

Financial yearand Audit ofaccounts of theCommission

26Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

PART IV

GENERAL

29. (1) The Minister may, from time to time, give suchgeneral or special directions in writing to the Commissionas to the exercise, performance and discharge of the powers,duties and functions of the Commission and it shall be theduty of the Commission to comply with such directions.

(2) The Minister may, from time to time, order all or anyof the activities of the Commission or the Secretariate to beinvestigated and reported upon by such person or persons ashe may specify, and upon such order being made, theCommission and the Secretariate shall afford all such facilitiesand furnish all such information to such person or persons asmay be necessary to give effect to such Order.

30. The Commission shall, within a period of six monthsafter the closure of each financial year, submit a report givinga full account of its activities during that year to the Ministerwho shall cause such report to be placed before Parliament,prior to the end of the year next following the year to whichsuch report relates.

31. All members of the Commission, officers andemployees of the Commission shall be deemed to be publicservants within the meaning and for the purpose of the PenalCode (Chapter 19).

32. The provisions of Chapter I of Part III under theHeading Offences relating to Bribery or Corruption of theAnti- Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023, shall mutatis mutandisbe deemed to be applicable to or in relation to, the provisionsof this Act.

Directions of theMinister

Commissionreport to beplaced beforeParliament

All members ofthe Commissionetc. deemed tobe publicservants

Provisions of theAnti-CorruptionAct, No.9 of2023 to beapplied

27Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

33. (1) Any expense incurred by the Commission in anysuit or prosecution brought by or against the Commissionbefore any court shall be paid out of the Fund of theCommission, and any costs paid to, or recovered by, theCommission in any such suit or prosecution shall be creditedto the Fund of the Commission.

(2) Any expenses incurred by any person in any suit orprosecution brought against him before any court in respectof any act which is done by him under this Act, or on thedirection of the Commission shall, if the court holds thatsuch act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund theCommission, unless such expense is recovered by him insuch suit or prosecution.

34. (1) The Commission may make rules in respect of

(a)the appointment, employment and dismissal ofvarious officers and their powers, duties andfunctions;

(b)the procedure to be observed at the summoningand holding of meetings, annual general meetingand extraordinary meetings of the Commission;

(c)the administration and management of the affairsof the Commission; and

(d)all matters in respect of which, rules are required orauthorized to be made under this Act.

(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall beapproved by the Minister.

(3) Every rule approved by the Minister shall, within threemonths from its publication in the Gazette, be brought beforeParliament for its notice.

Protection foraction takenunder this Act oron the directionsof theCommission

Rules

28Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

35. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed orauthorized to be made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette, and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, withinthree months from its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any such regulation, whichis not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as fromthe date of disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded under subsection (3), shall bepublished in the Gazette.

36. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

expert means a professional with specialisedcompetence in any one of the areas of theUNESCO programmes;

Minister means the Minister assigned the subjectof Education under Article 44 or 45 of theConstitution;

UNESCO means the United Nations Educational,Scientific and Cultural Organization;

UNESCO system means the UNESCOheadquarters, regional offices, field offices,National Offices, liaison offices,

Regulations

Interpretation

29Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

Commissions, Networks, Category 01 andCategory 02 centers, UNESCO Heritage sites,Biosphere reserves, UNESCO Cities andUNESCO Clubs, Associations and Chairs andany other additions to the system by theUNESCO resolutions;

UNESCO activities means programmes, projectsand all other activities carried out by theUNESCO system;

Stakeholders of the Commission meansgovernment institutions, semi-governmentalinstitutions, Non-governmental Institutions,Statutory bodies, Private Institutions,Associations, international organizations,Individuals and Intellectuals engaged in theUNESCO areas of Competencies in Sri Lanka;

UNESCO areas of competencies meansEducational, Scientific and Cultural, Socialand Human Sciences and Communicationand Information areas;

UNESCO Programmes means the UNESCO areasof competence and includes Education,Natural Sciences, Social and Human Sciences,Culture and Communication andInformation.

37. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

30Sri Lanka National Commissionfor the UNESCO Act, No. 38 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.