PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 22.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 19, 2021

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th of November, 2021]

MINIMUM RETIREMENT AGE OF WORKERSACT, No. 28 OF 2021

1Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

[Certified on 17th of November, 2021]

L.D. O. 27/2021

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE MINIMUM RETIREMENT AGE AT WHICH AN

EMPLOYER MAY RETIRE ANY WORKER AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Minimum RetirementAge of Workers Act, No. 28 of 2021.

PART 1

MINIMUM RETIREMENT AGE

2.Notwithstanding the provisions of any other writtenlaw, a contract of service, collective agreement or any otherform of contract of service, the minimum retirement age of aworker who has not attained the age of fifty two years on thedate of operation of this Act or who is recruited after the dateof coming into operation of this Act shall be upon suchworker attaining the age of sixty years (hereinafter referredto as the minimum retirement age):

Provided that, the minimum retirement age of a workerwho has reached the age of fifty two years or above, on thedate of coming into operation of this Act, shall be deemed tobe the age as specified in Schedule I.

3. (1) Any employer who employs fifteen or more workersshall not retire any worker other than the workers specifiedin Schedule II, and any worker engaged in any trade oroccupation as shall be prescribed by regulation, from timeto time, in keeping with the nature of the work until suchworker attains the minimum retirement age:

Provided that, any employer may prematurely retireany worker in terms of the provisions of the contract of serviceor the collective agreement on following grounds:-

Short title

Minimumretirement age

Prematureretirement

2Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

Term of contractof service & etc.contrary to theprovisions ofthis Act to bevoid

Complaints totheCommissioner-General againstprematureretirement

(a)where any registered medical practitioner registeredunder the Medical Ordinance (Chapter 105) hascertified that a worker is permanently incapacitateof engaging in work due to some sickness;

(b)where the service of a worker has been terminatedas a result of any disciplinary inquiry and thedecision of such termination has not been revisedby law;

(c)upon closure or the destruction of an establishmentdue to any natural cause; or

(d)with the prior written approval of the Commissioner-General under the provisions of the Termination ofEmployment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act,No. 45 of 1971.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply toany employer who has employed fifteen workers or less thanthat on an average within the twelve months period prior tothe retirement of any worker.

(3) Any worker who wishes on his own to vacate his jobprior to the minimum retirement age may on his own do so.

4.Any retirement age specified in a contract of service,collective agreement or any other form of contract of serviceentered into before or on or after the date of operation of thisAct, as less than the minimum retirement age shall subject tothe provisions of section 3 be deemed to be void and theminimum retirement age as specified in this Act shall applyin respect thereof.

PART 11

COMPLAINTS AND INQUIRIES

5. (1) Any worker who has been prematurely retired bythe employer other than in the manner specified in subsection(1) of section 3, may within two months from the date ofsuch retirement, complain in writing to the Commissioner-General in respect of such retirement.

3Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

(2)Where any worker has made a complaint to theCommissioner-General under subsection (1), theCommissioner-General shall, conduct an inquiry and withintwo months from the date of receipt of such complaint granthis final determination on the complaint.

(3)Upon an inquiry under subsection (2), if theCommissioner-General is satisfied that-

(a)the complaint made by the worker is notsubstantiated with supporting evidence, or suchpremature retirement is in accordance with theprovisions of subsection (1) of section 3, theCommissioner-General shall dismiss suchcomplaint; or

(b)the worker has been prematurely retired by hisemployer contrary to the provisions of this Act, theCommissioner-General shall by notice issued byhim to the employer, direct the employer

(i) to reinstate such worker from the date of suchnotice, in the same capacity in which the workerwas employed prior to such retirement and topay him his wages and all other benefits fromthe date of such retirement; or

(ii) where the Commissioner-General is of theopinion that reinstatement is impractical dueto the closure of the establishment orcommencement of liquidation process of theestablishment in which such worker wasemployed, to pay the worker compensation interms of the formula determined by theCommissioner-General as specified in section6D of the Termination of Employment of

4Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

Application tothe Court ofAppeal

Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, No.45 of1971, based on the last paid wages to suchworker up to the date of closure of suchestablishment or the date of commencement ofliquidation of such establishment, as the casemay be, in lieu of reinstatement.

(4)Where any worker has prior to coming into operationof this Act made a complaint in terms of the IndustrialDisputes Act (Chapter 131) or the Termination ofEmployment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, No.45of 1971 to the Commissioner-General, a Labour Tribunal,an arbitrator or an Industrial Court against prematureretirement and a final determination has not been made onsuch complaint by the Commissioner-General, LabourTribunal, arbitrator or Industrial Court, the Commissioner-General has no power to inquire into a complaint made underthis Act:

Provided that, if the worker has made a complaint interms of the Industrial Disputes Act (Chapter 131) or theTermination of Employment of Workmen (SpecialProvisions) Act, No.45 of 1971 against the prematureretirement, such worker shall not be entitled to make acomplaint under this Act.

6.(1) An employer who is dissatisfied with a decision ofthe Commissioner-General made under section 5 may makean application to the Court of Appeal against such decision,for the issue of an order in the nature of a writ. An employerwho makes such application shall furnish to theCommissioner-General, a security in cash, where the orderfor which is subject to such application directs

(a)only the payment of a sum of money to the worker,of an amount equal to such sum;

5Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

Administrationof the Act

Powers of theCommissioner-General

(b)both the payment of a sum of money to the workerand his reinstatement, of an amount equal to suchsum and twelve times the monthly salary or wagesof such worker that was at the time his contract ofservice was terminated. In the case of a daily paidworker, monthly salary or wages shall be twenty-six times the daily wages of such worker.

(2)The Court of Appeal shall not entertain an applicationfor the issue of an order in the nature of a writ where suchapplication is not accompanied by a certificate of theCommissioner-General to the effect that the applicant hasfurnished the security in cash.

(3)The Commissioner-General shall cause all moniesfurnished as security under this section, to be deposited inan account bearing interest, in any approved bank inSri Lanka. The security shall be released to the relevantparties in terms of the final determination of the Court ofAppeal or of the Supreme Court, as the case may be.

PART III

ADMINISTRATION OF THE ACT AND POWERS OF THECOMMISSIONER-GENERAL

7. The Commissioner-General of Labour shall be in chargeof the administration of this Act and may delegate any of hispowers, duties and functions under this Act to any officer ofthe Labour Department as authorized by the Commissioner-General of Labour.

8. (1) The Commissioner-General shall for the purposes ofany inquiry in respect of a complaint made under section 5,have the following powers of a District Court -

(a)to summon and compel the attendance of witnesses;

(b)to compel the production of documents; or

6Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

(c)to require the evidence of any witness to be givenon oath or affirmation or cause to be administeredby an officer authorized in that behalf by theCommissioner-General an oath or affirmation toevery such witness.

(2)The Commissioner-General may by notice in writingserved on any employer direct such employer to furnish tohim before a date as specified in such direction-

(a)a return relating to all his workers or any class ordescription of such workers and any particulars asthe Commissioner-General may require for thepurposes of this Act;

(b)such information or explanation as theCommissioner-General may require in respect ofany particulars stated in any return furnished bysuch employer; or

(c)certified true copies of the whole or any part of anyregister or record maintained by such employer.

(3)Every person who

(a)fails without cause to appear before theCommissioner-General at the time and placementioned in the summons issued by theCommissioner-General; or

(b)refuses to be sworn or affirmed as a witness beforethe Commissioner-General or any officer authorizedby the Commissioner-General in that behalf;

(c)refuses to extend the assistance required by theCommissioner-General as necessary for entry orinspection or the exercise of his powers; or

7Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

(d)hinders or obstructs the Commissioner-General inthe exercise of the powers conferred on theCommissioner-General; or

(e)refuses to produce any register or record of wagesor give any information which the Commissioner-General requires him to produce or give under thepowers conferred on the Commissioner-General; or

(f)makes or causes to be made any register or record ofwages which is false in any material particular, orproduces or causes or knowingly allows to beproduced any such register or record to theCommissioner-General acting under the powersconferred on him, knowing the same to be false; or

(g)furnishes any information to the Commissioner-General acting under the powers conferred to him,knowingly the same to be false; or

(h) (i)fails without cause, or with cause which in theopinion of the Commissioner-General isunreasonable, to appear before theCommissioner-General at the time and placementioned in any summons issued by theCommissioner-General; or

(ii)refuses or fails without cause or with causewhich in the opinion of the Commissioner-General is unreasonable, to produce and showto the Commissioner-General any documentwhich is in his possession or power and whichis in the opinion of the Commissioner-Generalnecessary for arriving at the truth of the mattersbeing inquired into by the Commissioner-General; or

(iii)refuses to be affirmed or sworn in as a witnessbefore the Commissioner-General; or

8Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

(iv)defaults in complying with any direction givenby the Commissioner-General, or who whencalled upon to furnish a return knowinglymakes or furnishes or caused to be furnished afalse return or a return containing any falsestatement,

under this section, commits an offence and shall be liable onconviction thereof after summary trial before a Magistrateto a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingsix months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

9.Any notice which is required by this Act to be servedon or given to any person shall if it is not served on or givenpersonally to such person, be deemed to have been dulyserved on or given to such person if it is sent to him byregistered post addressed to the usual or last known place ofabode or business of such person.

10.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are stated or required by this Act to beprescribed or in respect of all matters for which regulationsare required or authorized to be made by this Act.

(2)Every regulation made by the Minister under thissection shall be published in the Gazette and shall comeinto operation upon such publication or on such later dateas may be specified in the regulation.

(3)Every regulation made by the Minister under thissection shall within three months from its publication in theGazette, be brought before Parliament for approval. Anyregulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to berescinded from the date of such disapproval but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

Service ofnotices

Regulations

9Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

PART IV

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

11.Any employer who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) of section 3 commits an offence and shall onconviction be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousandrupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

12.(1) An employer who fails to comply with a directionspecified in the notice issued by the Commissioner-Generalunder section 5, commits an offence and shall be liable onconviction after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine notless than five thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding six months or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

(2)The burden of proof that the employer has compliedwith the directions of the notice issued by the Commissioner-General under section 5 shall lie on such employer.

(3)Upon conviction of an employer under this section,such employer shall

(a)pay in addition to the fine such employer is liableto pay under subsection (1), an additional fine ofone hundred rupees in respect of each day hecontinues to fail to comply with such direction afterconviction;

(b)pay to the worker the wages, benefits orcompensation under paragraph (b) of subsection(3) of section 5, which would have been payable tosuch worker if such worker had been in employmentwithout being retired for the period commencingon the date specified in the notice issued undersection 5 and ending on the date of conviction ofsuch employer;

Prematureretirement

Non-compliancewith thedirections ofCommissioner-General

10Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

(c)where the worker attains the minimum retirementage prior to the date of conviction of such employer,pay to the worker the wages, benefits orcompensation until the date on which he attainsthe minimum retirement age.

(4)Any sum which an employer is liable to pay underparagraph (b) of subsection (3) may be recovered by theorder of the Court by which such employer was convicted asif it were a fine imposed on the employer by that Court andthe amount so recovered shall be paid to the worker.

13. Where any offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then, if such body

(a)is a body corporate, every director and officer ofthat body corporate;

(b)is a firm, every partner of that firm ;

(c)if such body of persons is a trade union, every officerof that trade union; and

(d)is a body other than a firm or trade union andunincorporated, the president, manager, secretaryand every officer of such body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence:

Provided that, no such person shall be deemed to beguilty of an offence under this Act, if such person provesthat such offence was committed without his knowledge orhe exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission ofsuch offence.

14.Where any person Contempt againsttheCommissioner-General

Offencescommitted by abody ofpersons

11Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

(a)insults or intimidates the Commissioner-Generalduring the progress of any inquiry conducted bythe Commissioner-General under this Act; or

(b)interferes with the lawful process of such inquiryconducted by the Commissioner-General,

such person commits the offence of contempt against theCommissioner-General.

15.Every offence under this Act shall be triablesummarily by a Magistrate having jurisdiction in thedivision of the place where the worker was last employed.

16.The proceedings at any inquiry held by theCommissioner-General for the purposes of this Act shall beconducted by the Commissioner-General in any manner notinconsistent with the principles of natural justice.

17.(1) Where any employer is charged with an offenceunder this Act, such employer shall upon complaint dulymade by him in accordance with the provisions of section136 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979and on giving to the prosecution not less than three daysnotice of his intention, be entitled subject to the provisionsof Chapter XIV of that Act to have any other person whomhe charges as the actual offender, brought before the court,and if after commission of the offence by such other personhas been proved, the employer proves to the satisfaction ofthe court that he has used due diligence to enforce theprovisions of this Act and that such other person hascommitted the offence without his knowledge, consent orconnivance, then, that such other person shall be convictedof the offence and the employer shall be exempt from anypunishment in respect of the offence.

Offences underthis Act to betried summarily

Proceedings ofinquiry by theCommissioner-General to benot inconsistentwith theprinciples ofnatural justice

Special defenseopen to a personcharged with anoffence underthis Act

12Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

(2)Where in any case referred to in subsection (1), acomplaint is made by an employer against any other person

(a)the prosecution against such other person shall beconducted by or on behalf of the employer;

(b)any witness called by the prosecution in theproceedings against such other person may be crossexamined by any officer authorized in that behalfby the Commissioner-General; and

(c)pending the determination of the proceedingsagainst such other person, the proceedings in theprosecution of the employer shall be adjourned.

18.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Commissioner-General means the Commissioner-General of Labour and includes any AdditionalCommissioner-General of Labour,Commissioner of Labour, Deputy Commissionerof Labour, an Assistant Commissioner of Labouror any Labour Officer;

employer means any person who employs anyworker or causes to be employed any worker onbehalf of any other person and includes a bodyof employers whether such body is a firm,company, corporation, trade union or a bodyunincorporated, but does not include the stateor Government or any such other person or suchbody which are excluded from any provision orany regulation made under the provisions of thisAct;

employment of casual nature means anemployment of a worker not in excess ofhundred and eighty days in any one calendaryear;

Interpretation

13Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

fixed term employment means a written contractof employment for a fixed term of time, specifiedin days, months or years between an employerand a worker and includes a consecutive fixedterm contract entered into with the sameindividual where such contract is specificallylinked to the performance of a particular task orproject and the employer retains the services ofsuch worker after the end of such fixed termcontract without entering into a newemployment for more than twelve calendarmonths, which shall be deemed to haveextended for a length of time identical to theexisting fixed term employment contract;

probationary worker means a worker who worksfor a period of not exceeding 180 days withinwhich such period the employer has the solediscretion to decide whether such worker issuitable for a particular position and if not maydecide to extend such period for a maximumperiod of hundred and eighty days, and doesnot include a worker if such worker has beenemployed in the same post or performed the samework previously on any contract of service withthat employer;

seasonal employment contract means a writtencontract of employment between an employerand a worker in respect of a specified seasonalwork for a time to be specified in such contractin days or months and entered into on an actualor other basis and which shall not be deemedindefinite term contract if the time ofengagement in each twelve month period shallnot exceed six months;

worker shall have the same meaning assigned tothe term workman in the Industrial DisputesAct (Chapter 131);

14Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

wages means the basic salary or salary and the costof living allowance or any other similarallowance.

19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

SCHEDULE Isection 2

54 or above and below 55 years57 years53 or above and below 54 years58 years52 or above and below 53 years59 yearsBelow 52 years60 years

SCHEDULE IIsection 3(1)

1.Any worker in the public sector.

2.Any worker in any statutory body established under writtenlaw.

3.Any worker of Government owned business undertakingsregistered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007.

4.Any worker in any Provincial Council or Local Authority.

5.Any worker recruited by any registered society within themeaning of the Cooperative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972.

6.Any worker of a charitable institution that has been identifiedby section 68 of the Inland Revenue Act, No, 24 of 2017.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Minimum Retirement AgeAge of worker as at the date of cominginto operation of the MinimumRetirement Age ofWorkers Act

15Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

7.Any worker entered into any contract of service for training inany trade or occupation.

8.Any apprentice or trainee in any wages board established underthe Wages Boards Ordinance (Chapter 136).

9.Any apprentice or trainee covered by the Tertiary andVocational Education Act, No. 20 of 1990 or the Employmentof Trainees (Private Sector) Act, No. 8 of 1978.

10.Any worker who enters into and works under a fixed termemployment contract or casual employment contract.

11.Any worker who enters into and works under a contract offixed term employment with an employer.

12.Any worker who enters into and works under a seasonalemployment contract with an employer.

13.Any part time worker who enters into contract of service withan employer.

14.Any probationary worker who enters into contract of servicewith an employer.

15.Any daily paid worker who engages in an employment ofcasual nature.

16.Any student who serves under a contract for a temporary termof employment during study leave.

17.Any domestic service.

18.Any worker who serves under a contract for an assignmentbasis employment, entered into with an employer.

16Minimum Retirement Age of WorkersAct, No. 28 of 2021

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.