PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 18, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th of February, 2022]

PROHIBITION OF ANTI-PERSONNEL MINES ACT, No. 3 OF 2022

1 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

Preamble

Short title

[Certified on 17th of February, 2022]

L.D.O. 40/2018

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONVENTION ON

THE PROHIBITION OF THE USE, STOCKPILING, PRODUCTION ANDTRANSFER OF ANTI-PERSONNEL MINES AND ON THEIR DESTRUCTION;

AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

WHEREAS a Convention on the Prohibition of the Use,Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-PersonnelMines and on Their Destruction was concluded by theDiplomatic Conference on an International Total Ban onAnti-Personnel Land Mines at Oslo on September 18, 1997:

WHEREAS the Convention was acceded to on behalf of theGovernment of Sri Lanka on December 13, 2017:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary for theGovernment of Sri Lanka to make legislative provision togive effect to Sri Lankas obligations under the aforesaidConvention:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Prohibition ofAnti-Personnel Mines Act, No. 3 of 2022.

PART I

PRELIMINARY

2.The provisions of this Act shall apply to the actsspecified in section 3 done by-

(a) any person within Sri Lanka and on board any shipor aircraft registered in Sri Lanka; or

(b) any citizen of Sri Lanka, outside Sri Lanka.

Application ofthis Act

2 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

3.(l) Except as provided for in this Act, a person shallnot-

(a) receive, use, develop, produce, import, export, sell,expose for sale, purchase, supply, transport, acquire,possess, retain, stockpile or transfer an anti-personnel mine; and

(b) modify or convert an anti-personnel mine into anyother form of an explosive.

(2) Any person who acts in contravention of this sectioncommits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to afine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingten years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

4.(1) A member of the armed forces or a police officermay, in the course of his employment or duties, receive, use,develop, produce, transport, acquire, possess, retain, ortransfer an anti-personnel mine authorized under section 5for the purposes of developing, or training persons in,techniques of mine detection, mine clearance, minedeactivation, or mine destruction.

(2) Subject to the provisions of section 11, a member ofthe armed forces or a police officer may, in the course of hisemployment or duties, seize, receive, transfer, acquire orretain an anti-personnel mine for the purposes of deactivatingor destroying such anti-personnel mine.

5.(1) For the purposes of developing, or training personsin, techniques of mine detection, mine clearance, minedeactivation, or mine destruction, the Minister may fromtime to time, by notice published in the Gazette authorizethe retention or transfer of a number of anti-personnel mines.

Offences

Exceptions

Minister mayauthorize ananti-personnelmine forcertainpurposes

3 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

(2) The number of anti-personnel mines authorized undersubsection (1) shall not exceed the minimum numberabsolutely necessary for the above-mentioned purposes.

6.(1) A member of the armed forces or a police officerwho receives, uses, develops, produces, transports, acquires,possesses, retains, or transfers an anti-personnel mine shall-

(a) as soon as practicable, send information on suchactivities to the Minister in such form and manner,as may be determined by the Minister;

(b) keep records in relation to such anti-personnel mineand the purpose to which such anti-personnel mineis put;

(c) prepare, from those records, periodic reports relatingto such anti-personnel mine in a form determinedby the Minister; and

(d) send those periodic reports to the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister at intervals as may beprescribed.

(2) The Minister may call for special reports from suchmember of the armed forces or police officer who has sentinformation to the Minister under paragraph (a) of subsection(1), in the prescribed circumstances.

(3) A member of the armed forces or a police officer who,without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply withsubsections (1) and (2) commits an offence.

7.A member of the armed forces or a police officer whoknowingly, in the preparation of any document under section6 makes a statement or omits any matter which misleads inmaterial particulars in the document commits an offence.

Supply ofinformation

misleadingstatements anddocuments

4 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

PART II

DESTRUCTION OF AN ANTI-PRESONNEL MINE

8.The Secretary shall ensure the destruction of all theanti-personnel mines owned or possessed by the Governmentexcept the number of anti-personnel mines authorized undersection 5.

9.(1) The Secretary shall make every effort to identifyor cause the identification of areas within the land owned orcontrolled by the State or government institution where anti-personnel mines are known or suspected to be emplaced.

(2) Upon the identification of areas under subsection (1),the Secretary shall make best endeavours to mark theperimeter and, monitor and protect by fencing or other meansto ensure the effective exclusion of public, until all the anti-personnel mines are destroyed.

10.(1) Where any person finds an anti-personnel mine,such person shall inform a member of the armed forces or apolice officer immediately.

(2) The person referred to in subsection (1) shall take allreasonable steps to ensure that the anti-personnel mine willnot be exploded before a member of the armed forces orpolice officer arrives at the relevant premises.

11.(1) Where a member of the armed forces or policeofficer has reasonable grounds to suspect that an anti-personnel mine is on any private premises, such officer may

(a) with the consent of the person in charge of thepremises, enter and search such premises at allreasonable times;

(b) make such anti-personnel mine safe from being animmediate danger;

Obligation toprovideinformation

Anti- personnelmines owned orpossessed by theGovernment

Anti- personnelmines in theState land

Anti- personnelmine in privatepremises

5 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

(c) affix a warning relating to the anti-personnel minein a conspicuous position to a thing or place nearsuch anti-personnel mine;

(d) take into custody any article or document in relationto the anti-personnel mine found or suspected to bein such premises;

(e) seize, remove and detain any anti-personnel mine,if it is reasonably practicable to do so;

(f) question any person occupying such premises; or

(g) do any act or thing necessary or convenient to bedone to carry out an investigation into the anti-personnel mine found or suspected to be in suchpremises.

(2) The duties referred to in subsection (1) shall beperformed by the member of the armed forces or policeofficer in accordance with such manner and procedures asmay be prescribed.

(3) Where a member of the armed forces or police officerhas reasonable grounds to suspect that an anti-personnelmine is on any private premises, such member of armed forcesor police officer shall as soon as practicable inform theSecretary of such suspicious.

(4) The person in charge of any private premises referredto in subsection (1) shall provide such assistance as may berequired by such member of the armed forces or police officerin performance of his duties under paragraph (a) ofsubsection (1).

(5) Where the person in charge of any premises referred toin subsection (1) refuses to allow the member of the armedforces or a police officer to enter and search such premises,the member of the armed forces or the police officer shall

6 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

enter and search the premises referred to in subsection (1)under a warrant issued under section 13 in respect of thatpremises.

12.(1) A person who finds an anti-personnel mine andfails to inform such matter to a member of the armed forcesor a police officer commits an offence.

(2) A person who resists or obstructs a member of thearmed forces or a police officer in the performance of dutiesunder section 11 commits an offence.

(3) A person who fails to act in accordance with thewarning given under paragraph (c) of subsection (1) ofsection 11 commits an offence.

PART III

GENERAL PROVISIONS

13.Where a Magistrate is satisfied by information onoath that there is reason to suspect that

(a) an anti-personnel mine is received, used, developed,produced, imported, exported, sold, exposed forsale, purchased, supplied, transported, acquired,possessed, retained, stockpiled or transferred to anypremises in contravention of the provisions of thisAct; or

(b) any article or document directly or indirectlyrelating to or connected with any transaction ordealing which is, or any intended transaction ordealing which, if carried out, would be an offenceunder this Act, is in any premises,

he may grant a search warrant authorizing any member ofarmed forces or police officer named in the warrant, at anytime or times within one month from the date of the warrant,

Offences

Warrant

7 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

to enter, with or without his assistants, if need be by force,the premises named in the warrant, and to search the premisesand any person found therein.

14.The High Court established by Article 154P of theConstitution for the Western Province holden in Colomboshall notwithstanding anything in any other law, haveexclusive jurisdiction to hear, try and punish the offencesunder this Act.

15.(1) Every person who contravenes or fails to complywith any provision of this Act or any regulation madethereunder, or any direction given under this Act commitsan offence under this Act.

(2) Every person who attempts to commit or abet thecommission of an offence under this Act commits the sameoffence and shall be liable to the same punishment.

(3) Every person who commits an offence under this Actfor which no other punishment is expressly provided in thisAct, shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceedingfive hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding five years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

16.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons then-

(a) if the body of persons is a body corporate, everyperson who at the time of commission of the offencewas a director, general manager, secretary or othersimilar officer of that body; or

(b) if that body of persons is not a body corporate,every person who at the time of commission of theoffence was a member of that body,

commits that offence.

High Court totry offencesunder this Act

General penalty

Offencescommitted bybody of persons

8 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

17.(1) The Court which convicts any person of anoffence under this Act, may impose any of the penaltieshereinbefore specified and may, if it thinks fit, order that allor any articles in respect of which the offence was committed,and any thing used for the conveyance of such articles areliable to be forfeited to the State.

(2) An order for forfeiture imposed under subsection (1)shall take effect-

(a) where no appeal is preferred to the Court of Appealagainst the order of forfeiture, on the expiration ofthe period within which an appeal may be preferredto the Court of Appeal against such order offorfeiture;

(b) where an appeal had been preferred to the Court ofAppeal against such order of forfeiture, and noappeal is preferred to the Supreme Court againstthe order of the Court of Appeal affirming orupholding such order of forfeiture, on the expirationof the period within which an appeal may bepreferred to the Supreme Court from such order ofthe Court of Appeal; or

(c) where an appeal had been preferred, to the Court ofAppeal against such order of forfeiture, and anappeal has been preferred to the Supreme Courtfrom the determination of the Court of Appeal onthe first mentioned appeal, upon the determinationof the Supreme Court affirming or upholding theorder of forfeiture.

(3) The provisions of Chapter XXXVIII of Part IX of theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall applyin relation to the disposal of any article forfeited to the Stateunder subsection (1).

Forfeiture

9 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

18.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof matters for which regulations are authorized or requiredto be made or to be prescribed by this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister maymake regulations for all or any of the following purposes-

(a) the procedures to be complied with in relation toentering and searching premises suspected ofcontaining an anti-personnel mine;

(b) the manner and procedures of detention, seizing,removal and destruction of an anti-personnel mineand document;

(c) the manner and procedures to be followed to takeinto custody of any article or document in relationto the anti-personnel mine;

(d) the forms and content of records;

(e) the period for which such records are to be kept;

(f) the form and content of periodic reports to beprovided;

(g) the circumstances in which special reports arerequired and the form and content of such specialreports;

(h) the time within which such periodic reports andspecial reports are to be made; and

(i) the persons who are to sign such periodic reportsand special reports.

Regulations

10 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall within aperiod of three months after its publication in the Gazette,be brought before Parliament for approval. Any regulationwhich is not so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(5) A Notification of the date of disapproval shall bepublished in the Gazette.

19.The provisions of the Mutual Assistance in CriminalMatters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall apply in respect ofproviding assistance to any country or intergovernmentalorganization as declared under that Act for the purpose ofinvestigation and prosecution of an offence under this Act.

20.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires-

anti-personnel mine means a mine designed tobe exploded by the presence, proximity orcontact of a person and that will incapacitate,injure or kill one or more persons. Minedesigned to be detonated by the presence,proximity or contact of a vehicle as opposedto a person, that are equipped with anti-handling devices, are not considered anti-personnel mines as a result of being soequipped;

armed forces mean Army, Navy and Air Forceraised and maintained under Army Act(Chapter 357), Navy Act (Chapter 358) and AirForce Act (Chapter 359) respectively;

Interpretation

Assistance to aCountry etc.

11 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

convention means the Convention on theProhibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Productionand Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and onTheir Destruction concluded by the DiplomaticConference on an International Total Ban onAnti-Personnel Land Mines at Oslo onSeptember 18, 1997;

government institution includes any Ministry,government department, public corporation,local authority, business or other undertakingwithin the meaning of Conversion ofGovernment Owned Business Undertakingsinto Public Corporations Act, No. 22 of 1987,company registered or deemed to be registeredunder the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, inwhich the Government, a public corporation,or any local authority holds more than fiftyper centum of the shares and any Ministry orDepartment of any Provincial Council or anyAuthority established by or created by aProvincial Council;

mine means ammunition designed to be placedunder, on or near the ground or other surfacearea and to be exploded by the presence,proximity or contact of a person or a vehicle;

Minister means the Minister to whom this Act isassigned under Article 44 or 45 of theConstitution;

police officer shall have same meaning as in thePolice Ordinance (Chapter 53);

public corporation means any corporation, boardor other body which was or is established by orunder any written law other than theCompanies Ordinance, with funds or capitalwholly or partly provided by the Governmentby way of grant, loan or otherwise;

12 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

secretary means the Secretary to the Ministry ofthe Minister; and

transfer involves, in addition to the physicalmovement of an anti-personnel mine into orfrom national territory, the transfer of title toand control over the mine, but does not involvethe transfer of territory containing emplacedanti-personnel mine. 21.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency

13 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel MinesAct, No. 3 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.