PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MERCHANT SHIPPING (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 17 OF 2019

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 02nd of October, 2019]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 28.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 04, 2019

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

Short title.

[Certified on 02nd of October, 2019]

L.D.O 31/2015

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MERCHANT SHIPPINGACT, NO. 52 OF 1971

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Merchant Shipping(Amendment) Act, No. 17 of 2019.

2.Section 138 of the Merchant Shipping Act, No. 52of 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment)is hereby amended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of the definition of the expressioncertificate, and the substitution therefor, of thefollowing new definitions:

certificate means, unless the contextotherwise requires, the appropriatecertificate as may be prescribed byregulations made under sections143(1)(b), 144(1)(b), 144(2)(a) and144(2)(b) as the case may be;

Code means, an instrument made mandatoryunder the Convention;;

(2)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionConvention, and the substitution therefor, of thefollowing new definition:-

Convention means, the InternationalConvention for the Safety of Life at Sea1974, Protocol of 1988 as amended fromtime to time and any subsequentamendment made to such Protocol;;

Amendment ofsection 138 ofthe Act, No. 52of 1971.

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 20192

(3)by the repeal of the definition of the expressioncountry to which the Convention applies, andthe substitution therefor, of the following newdefinition:-

country to which the Convention appliesmeans, a country which is a contractingGovernment to the Convention;;

(4)by the repeal of the definition of the expressioninternational voyage, and the substitutiontherefor, of the following new definition:

international voyage means, a voyage between- (a) a port or place in Sri Lanka and a port orplace outside Sri Lanka; or

(b) a port or place in a country to which theConvention applies (other than Sri Lanka)and a port or place in any other country orterritory which is outside Sri Lanka..

3.Section 139 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following:

(1) The Minister may make such regulationsas he considers necessary or expedient to giveeffect to and for the better carrying out of theobjectives and purposes of this Part and to providegenerally for safety at sea and for carrying out theConvention, Codes, any Annexes thereto and anyamendments or replacements of such Convention,Codes and Annexes and for ships which the

Amendment ofsection 139 ofthe principalenactment.

3Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

Convention does not apply and without prejudiceto the generality of such powers, may makeregulations making provision for-

(a)inspection and survey of ships, surveys oflife-saving appliances and otherequipment of ships, surveys of radioinstallation of ships, surveys of structure,machinery, equipment and otherinstallations of ships;

(b)maintenance of condition after survey;

(c)issue or endorsement of certificates andtheir availability, acceptance andqualification;

(d)forms of certificates and records ofequipment;

(e)duration and validity of certificates issuedby Sri Lanka or issued by countries towhich the Convention applies;

(f)control of ships when in a port or place inSri Lanka;

(g)safety investigation of marine casualtiesand marine incidents;

(h)the construction-structure, subdivisionand stability of ships, their equipment,machinery and electrical installations, fireprotection, fire detection and fireextinction in passenger and cargo ships,the general fire precautions to be taken onsuch ships and special fire safety measuresfor passenger ships;

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 20194

(i)life-saving appliances and arrangements;

(j)radio communications;

(k) safety of navigation;

(l)carriage of cargoes and oil fuels;

(m)carriage of dangerous goods;

(n) nuclear ships;

(o)management of safe operation of ships;

(p) safety measures for high-speed craft;

(q)special measures to enhance maritimesafety;

(r)special measures to enhance maritimesecurity;

(s)additional safety measures for bulk carriers;

(t)safety measures for ships operating in Polarwaters;

(v)such other matters as are to be prescribedunder this part;

(w)any other matters generally giving effectto the provisions of the Convention,Codes, any Annex thereto and anyamendments of such Convention, Codesand Annexes..

5Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords fine not exceeding one thousand rupees.,of the words a fine not exceeding five millionrupees..

4.Section 143 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following :

(1) (a) A passenger ship shall not go to sea on avoyage to or from any port or place in Sri Lanka, ora Sri Lanka passenger ship shall not perform aninternational voyage, unless there are in forceConvention certificates prescribed by regulations.

(b) A passenger ship shall not perform a voyagefrom one port or place in Sri Lanka to another suchport or place in Sri Lanka, unless there are in forcecertificates as may be prescribed by regulations.;

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding two hundredrupees, of the words a fine not exceeding onemillion rupees.

5.Section 144 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsections (1) and (2) thereof andthe substitution therefor, of the following:

(1)(a) A cargo ship to which the Conventionapplies shall not go to sea on a voyage to or fromany port or place in Sri Lanka, or a Sri Lanka cargoship which the Convention applies shall not performan international voyage, unless there are in forceConvention certificates as may be prescribed byregulations.

Amendment ofsection 143 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 144 ofthe principalenactment.

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 20196

(b) A cargo ship of five hundred tons gross ormore shall not perform a voyage from one port orplace in Sri Lanka to another such port or place inSri Lanka, unless there are in force certificates asmay be prescribed by regulations.

(2)(a) A cargo ship to which the Conventiondoes not apply shall not go to sea on a voyage to orfrom any port or place in Sri Lanka, or a Sri Lankacargo ship which the Convention does not applyshall not perform an international voyage, unlessthere are in force valid certificates as may beprescribed by regulations and in the case of foreignships, such equivalent certificates as are acceptableto the Director -General of Merchant Shipping.

(b) A cargo ship of less than five hundred tonsgross shall not perform a voyage from one port orplace in Sri Lanka to another such port or place inSri Lanka, unless there are in force certificates asmay be prescribed by regulations.;

(2)in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding one thousandrupees., of the words a fine not exceeding fivemillion rupees..

6.Section 152 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees., ofthe words a fine not exceeding three million rupees..

7.Section 155 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words a fine notexceeding three thousand rupees,, of the words a fine notexceeding ten million rupees,.

Amendment ofsection 152 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 155 ofthe principalenactment.

7Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

8.Section 156 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words a fine notexceeding three thousand rupees,, of the words a fine notexceeding ten million rupees,.

9.Section 157 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsections (1) and (2) thereof andthe substitution therefor, of the following:-

(1) Every ship shall be supplied with suchinformation as prescribed by regulations as isnecessary for the accurate guidance as to thestability of the ship under varying conditions ofservice.

(2) The information required by subsection (1)shall be in such form as may be prescribed.;

(2) in subsection (4) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding one thousandrupees., of the words a fine not exceeding fivemillion rupees..

10.Section 158 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding two hundred rupees., of thewords a fine not exceeding one million rupees..

11.Section 159 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the definitions of the expressionsConvention certificate, Convention of 1966 andConvention country, and the substitution therefor, of thefollowing new definitions:

Amendment ofsection 156 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 157 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 158 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 159 ofthe principalenactment.

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 20198

Convention means, the International Conventionon Load Lines, 1966 as modified by the Protocolof 1988 and any subsequent amendment made tosuch Protocol;

Convention certificate means, a certificate issuedin accordance with the Convention;

Convention country means, a country which is acontracting Government to the Convention;.

12.Section 160 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following:-

(b) new ships of less than 24 metres in length;.

13.Sections 161 and 162 of the principal enactmentare hereby repealed and the following substituted therefor:-

161. In this part, international voyagemeans a voyage between-

(a)a port or place in Sri Lanka and aport or place outside Sri Lanka; or

(b)a port or place in a country to whichthe Convention applies (other thanSri Lanka) and a port or place in anyother country or territory which isoutside Sri Lanka:

Provided, however, that in determining theports between which a voyage is made noaccount shall be taken of any deviation by aship from her intended voyage which is duesolely to such stress of weather or such othercircumstance that neither the master nor owner

Amendment ofsection 160 ofthe principalenactment.

Replacement ofsections 161 and162 of theprincipalenactment.Definitionofinternationalvoyage.

9Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

nor the charterers (if any) of the ship couldhave prevented or forestalled.

162. In this part, new ship means, a shipthe keel of which is laid, or which is at a similarstage of construction, on or after

(a)in the case of a ship registered in orflying the flag of a country which isa Convention country (other than SriLanka), the date from which thepresent Convention has entered intoforce; and

(b)in the case of any other ship, the 25thday of January, 1972..

14.Section 164 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof-

(a)by the substitution for the words and figuresConvention of 1966,, of the wordConvention,.

(b)by the repeal of paragraphs (h), (i), and (j)thereof and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:-

(h)control of ships when in a port of SriLanka;

(i)safety investigation of marinecasualties and marine incidents;

(j)forms of certificates;

(k)verification of compliance;

Definition ofnew ship.

Amendment ofsection 164 ofthe principalenactment.

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 201910

(l)zones, areas and seasonal periods;

(m)repairs, alterations and modification;

(n)maintenance of condition aftersurvey;

(o)the validity of certificatesissued under the Convention byGovernments, other than theGovernment of Sri Lanka;

(p)such other matters as are to beprescribed under this Part; and

(q)any other matters generally forgiving effect to the provisions of theConvention and any amendments ofsuch Convention..

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding one thousandrupees., of the words a fine not exceeding fivemillion rupees..

15.Section 166 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding two hundred rupees., of thewords a fine not exceeding one million rupees..

16.Section 167 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees, and toan additional fine (not exceeding ten rupees for eachcentimeter by which the load line is submerged) as the courtmay think fit to impose., of the words a fine not exceedingthree million rupees, and to an additional fine (not exceedingone hundred thousand rupees for each centimeter by whichthe load line is submerged) as the court may think fit toimpose..

Amendment ofsection 166 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 167 ofthe principalenactment.

11Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

17.Section 168 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words a fine notexceeding two hundred rupees., of the words a fine notexceeding one hundred thousand rupees..

18.Section 169 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words and figures International LoadLine Certificate (1966);, of the words International LoadLine Certificate;.

19.Section 171 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding two hundred rupees., of thewords a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees..

20.Section 172 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding fifty rupees., of the wordsa fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees..

21.Section 173 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words and figuresInternational Load Line Certificate (1966);, of the wordsInternational Load Line Certificate;.

22.Section 174 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution forthe words a fine not exceeding two hundred rupees., of thewords a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees..

23.Section 175 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words fine not exceeding five hundred rupees, and toan additional fine (not exceeding ten rupees for eachcomplete centimeter whereby the load line is submerged) asthe court may think fit to impose., of the words fine not

Amendment ofsection 168 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 169 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 171 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 172 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 173 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 174 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 175 ofthe principalenactment.

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 201912

exceeding three million rupees, and to an additional fine(not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees for eachcomplete centimeter whereby the load line is submerged) asthe court may think fit to impose..

24.Section 205 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords any port in Sri Lanka, of the words anyport or place in Sri Lanka;

(2) in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords any port in Sri Lanka, of the words anyport or place in Sri Lanka; and

(3) in subsection (4) thereof, by the substitution for thewords a fine not exceeding three thousand , ofthe words a fine not exceeding five million.

25.Section 207 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following:-

(1) Where any ship, being in any port or place inSri Lanka, is found to be an unsafe ship, is, by reasonof the defective condition of such ships hull,equipment, machinery, under manning, overloadingor improper loading or any other condition that isnot consistent with the Conventions as may beprovided in this Act, unfit to proceed to sea withoutserious damage to human life having regard to thenature of the service for which such ship is intended,such ship may be provisionally detained for thepurpose of being surveyed or rectifying the defectivecondition and either finally detained or releasedunder section 208..

26.The following new Part is hereby insertedimmediately after PART VII of the principal enactment, andshall have effect as PART VIIA of that enactment :-

Amendment ofsection 205 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 207 ofthe principalenactment.

Insertion of PartVIIA to theprincipalenactment.

13Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

Interpretation.

PART VII A

PREVENTION OF POLLUTION FROM SHIPS

Chapter 1

PRELIMINARY

215A. In this Part

certificate means a certificate issuedin accordance with theConvention;

Convention means InternationalConvention for the Prevention ofPollution from Ships, 1973 asmodified by the Protocol of 1978and the Protocol of 1997 and anysubsequent amendment made tosuch Protocols;

country to which the Conventionapplies means a country which isa contracting Government to theConvention;

International voyage means a voyagebetween

(a)a port or place in Sri Lankaand a port or place outsideSri Lanka; or

(b)a port or place in a countryto which the Conventionapplies (other thanSri Lanka) and a port orplace in any other countryor territory which is outsideSri Lanka; and

ship means a vessel of any typewhatsoever operating in the marineenvironment and includeshydrofoil boats, air-cushionvehicles, submersibles, floatingcraft and fixed or floatingplatforms.

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 201914

215B. The Minister may make regulationsin respect of

(a)any matter relating to the issuance ofcertificates and, recognition ofcertificates issued under the authorityof a country to which the Conventionapplies;

(b)the form of certificates to be issuedunder this Part; and

(c)such other matters as are to beprescribed under this Part.

Chapter 2

CERTIFICATE

215C. (1) A ship shall not go to sea on avoyage to or from any port or place in Sri Lankaor any Sri Lanka ship shall not perform aninternational voyage, unless there is in forcein respect of the ship a certificate issued underthis Part.

(2) If any ship goes or attempts to go to seain contravention of subsection (1), the owneror the master of the ship shall be guilty of anoffence and on conviction thereof, shall beliable to imprisonment for a term not exceedingone year or to a fine not exceeding one hundredthousand rupees or to both such imprisonmentand fine.

215D. In the event of any amendment orreplacement of any provisions of theConvention affecting the nature of thecertificate referred to in subsection (1) of section215C, the Minister may by Order direct thatsuch subsection shall have effect as if therewere substituted therefor references to suchother certificate, appropriate to the Conventionas so amended, as the Minister may by suchOrder prescribe.

Prohibitionon shipssailingwithoutcertificateissued underthis Part.

Variation ofcertificate onamendmentofConvention.

Regulations.

15Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

215E. The master of every ship shall produceto the relevant officer, at the time a clearancefor the ship is demanded for voyage, thecertificate referred to in subsection (1) of section215C, to be in force when the ship goes to seaand, a clearance shall not be granted and theship may be detained, until the said certificateis so produced.

215 F. (1) The owner, the master or the agentof a ship requiring the issue of a certificatereferred to in subsection (1) of section 215Cshall apply for the ship to be surveyed,examined or investigated by the relevantauthority to the effect that the condition of theship and its equipment are in good order.

(2) The relevant authority conducting thesurvey, examination or investigation shall, ifhe is satisfied that the condition of the ship andits equipment are in good order, complete adeclaration of survey, examination orinvestigation in a form prescribed by regulation.

(3) The declaration of survey, examinationor investigation shall be sent forthwith by therelevant authority to the Director-General ofMerchant Shipping.

215G. Upon receipt of the declaration ofsurvey, examination or investigation of a shipreferred to in section 215F, the Director-Generalof Merchant Shipping shall, if satisfied that therelevant provisions of this Part and theregulations made thereunder have beencomplied with, issue such certificate to such ship.

215H. A certificate shall not remain in force

(a)for longer than such period asmay be specified in thecertificate, or as may beprescribed; or

Production ofcertificate.

Survey,examinationorinvestigation.

Issue ofcertificate.

Period ofvalidity ofcertificate.

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 201916

(b)after notice has been given tothe owner, master or agent thatthe Director-General ofMerchant Shipping hascancelled the certificate undersection 215I and shall notremain in force during theperiod of any suspensionmade under such section.

215I. (1) The Director-General of MerchantShipping may cancel or suspend a certificaterelating to any ship where he has reason tobelieve that

(a)any declaration of survey,examination or investigation onwhich the certificate was foundedhas been made fraudulently orerroneously;

(b)the certificate has been issued on falseor erroneous information; or

(c)since the making of the declaration ofsurvey, examination or investigation,the condition of the ship or itsequipment has sustained any damage,or is otherwise insufficient.

(2) In every such case, the Director-Generalof Merchant Shipping may require the ownerto have the ship again surveyed, examined orinvestigated and to obtain a further declarationof survey, examination or investigation beforethe reissue of the certificate or the grant of afresh certificate in lieu thereof.

215J. The Director-General of MerchantShipping shall inform the owner, master oragent of the ship that the certificate has beencancelled or suspended.

Cancellationorsuspensionof certificate.

Informationrelating tocancellationorsuspension.

17Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

215K. (1) A certificate issued under theauthority of a country to which the Conventionapplies to the effect that the condition of theship and its equipment are in good order, shallbe accepted by the Director-General ofMerchant Shipping and, regarded for allpurposes covered by the Convention as havingthe same validity as a certificate issued by suchcountry.

(2) Every ship shall be required to hold thecertificate referred to in subsection (1), whilein the ports or offshore terminals under thejurisdiction of Sri Lanka.

(3) Where the ship does not carry a validcertificate, the Director-General of MerchantShipping shall take such steps to ensure thatthe ship shall not sail until it may proceed tosea without presenting an unreasonable threatof harm to the marine environment:

Provided, the Director-General ofMerchant Shipping may grant such a shippermission to leave the port or offshore terminalfor the purpose of proceeding to the nearestappropriate repair yard available..

27.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 321 of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as sections 321A, 321B and 321C of thatenactment:

321A. (1) The Director-General of MerchantShipping may, with the concurrence of theMinister issue such implementing standardsfor the compliance with the minimum technicalstandards of the provisions of any Conventionor Protocol as provided in this Act, as may be

Recognitionof certificateissuedoutsideSri Lanka.

Implementingstandards.

Insertion of newsections 321A,321B and 321Cin the principalenactment.

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 201918

required for the implementation of theprovisions of this Act or regulations madethereunder.

(2) It shall be the duty of all persons inrespect of whom any implementation standardsare issued under subsection (1) to comply withthe same.

321B. (1) Where the Director- General ofMerchant Shipping has sufficient evidence tobelieve that any person has acted incontravention of the provisions of this Act orany regulation, rule, order or direction madethereunder, he may

(a)on the recommendation of the panelappointed under section 321D of thisAct; and

(b)in the case of a first offender, havingregard to the circumstances in whichthe offence was committed,

if it is appropriate to impose a penalty, cause anotice to be served in a form prescribed byregulation on such person, requiring him toappear within a period of one month of the dateof the receipt of such notice and show causewhy a penalty should not be imposed on him.

(2) Where the person on whom the notice isserved admits that he acted in contraventionof the provisions of this Act or any regulation,rule, Order or direction made thereunder withina period of one month of the date of receipt ofsuch notice, the Director-General of MerchantShipping shall impose on that person amonetary penalty not exceeding one third ofthe maximum fine that could be imposed underthis Act to which such person would be liable,if convicted by a court.

Imposition ofa penalty.

19Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

(3) (a) Where the person on whom the noticeis served, appears within a period of one monthof the date of receipt of such notice and statesthat he has a cause to show against theimposition of the penalty, the Director-Generalof Merchant Shipping may proceed forthwithto hear and decide the matter.

(b) Where the Director-General of MerchantShipping is not satisfied with reasons given,he may after assigning reasons therefor, imposethe penalty specified in subsection (2) of thissection.

(4) Where the Director-General of MerchantShipping imposes a monetary penalty on anyperson under this section for any contraventionof the provisions of this Act or any regulationmade thereunder, he shall cause the decisionto be served on such person, in a formprescribed by regulation.

(5) Any person aggrieved by the decisionof the Director-General of Merchant Shipping,may appeal to the Secretary of the Ministry ofthe Minister to whom implementation of theprovisions of this Act is assigned, (hereinafterreferred to as the Secretary) within a periodof thirty days from the date of receipt of suchdecision made under subsection (3).

(6) The Secretary shall make a decision onany such appeal taking into consideration thedecision of the Director-General of MerchantShipping and the circumstances in which theoffence was committed, and may either

(a)allow, alter or vary the decision of theDirector-General of MerchantShipping and direct the Director-General of Merchant Shipping to actaccordingly; or

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 201920

(b)disallow the appeal for reasons statedtherein.

(7) The Director-General of MerchantShipping shall comply with any directionissued to him by the Secretary within a periodof fourteen days from such direction and shallcommunicate the direction of the Secretary tothe person aggrieved by his decision.

(8) Every notice under this section shall besent under registered post, and if sent underregistered post or exhibited in the last knownplace of abode, it shall be deemed to have beenserved on that person.

(9) Notwithstanding anything contained inthis Act, no suit or prosecution shall lie in anycourt regarding the same offence, where thealleged offender has admitted the commissionof such offence and paid such penalty.

(10) Any person aggrieved by the decisionof the Secretary may prefer an appeal to theCourt of Appeal within thirty days from thedate of communication of such decision, onquestion of law.

321C. (1) Upon the lapse of one month ofthe decision made under subsections (4) or (10)of section 321B, where the person on whomsuch decision is made makes default in thepayment of penalty, the Director-General ofMerchant Shipping shall issue a Certificate ina form determined by the Director-General ofMerchant Shipping together with certified copyof the notice and decision served on suchperson to the Magistrate having jurisdictionin the division in which the violation occurred.

Recovery ofpenalty.

21Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

(2) The Magistrate shall, thereupon, summonsuch person who makes default in the paymentof penalty under subsection (1) before him toshow cause why further proceedings for therecovery of the sum due under this Act shouldnot be taken against him, and in default ofsufficient cause being shown, such sum shallbe deemed to be a fine imposed by a sentenceof the Magistrate on such person for an offencepunishable with imprisonment and theprovisions of section 291 (except paragraphs(a), (d) and (i) of subsection (1) thereof) of theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979relating to the default of payment of a fineimposed for such an offence shall thereuponapply and the Magistrate may make anydirection which, by the provisions of thatsubsection, he could have made at the time ofimposing such sentence.

321D. (1) There shall be appointed by theDirector-General of Merchant Shipping inconsultation with the Secretary a panel ofexperts consisting of five persons who havethe knowledge and experience in the fields ofmarine navigation, marine engineering,administration, law or accountancy.

(2) It shall be the function of such panel ofexperts to make recommendations to theDirector-General of Merchant Shipping oncircumstances under which he shall impose amonetary penalty on any person.

(3) The Minister shall pay suchremuneration as he shall determine inconsultation with the Minister to whom thesubject of Finance is assigned to members ofthe panel..

Panel ofExperts.

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 201922

28.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 323 of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as section 323A of that enactment:

323A. The Director General of Merchantshipping may exempt such ship or class ordescription of ship from any specifiedrequirement contained in or prescribed inregulations made under this Act , if he issatisfied that such exemption is within thescope of the relevant Convention..

29.Section 330 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following substituted therefor:

330. Until other provision is made thereforby regulations made under this Act

(a)the provisions of the InternationalConvention for the Safety of Life atSea 1974, Protocol of 1988 asamended from time to time and anysubsequent amendment made to suchProtocol shall have effect asregulations made under section 139,and shall take effect with suchmodification as may be necessary toadapt them to the circumstances ofSri Lanka; and any reference thereinto the Administration shall beconstrued as a reference to the DirectorGeneral of Merchant Shipping, or tosuch other person or officer as theDirector-General of MerchantShipping may for such purposesappoint;

(b)the provisions of the InternationalConvention on Load Lines, 1966 asmodified by the Protocol of 1988 andany subsequent amendment made to

Insertion of newsection 323A inthe principalenactment.

Power ofexemption.

Replacement ofsection 330 ofthe principalenactment.Applicationofinternationalconventions.

23Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 2019

such Protocol, shall have effect asregulations made under Part VI of thisAct, and shall take effect with suchmodification as may be necessary toadapt them to the circumstances ofSri Lanka;

(c)the provisions of the InternationalConvention on Tonnage Measurementof Ships, 1969 shall have effect asregulations made under section 44,and shall take effect with suchmodification as may be necessary toadapt them to the circumstances of SriLanka; and

(d)the provisions of the InternationalConvention for the prevention ofpollution from ships, 1973, asmodified by the Protocol of 1978 andthe Protocol of 1997 and anysubsequent amendment made to suchProtocols shall have effect asregulations made under section 215B,and shall take effect with suchmodification as may be necessary toadapt them to the circumstances ofSri Lanka..

30.Notwithstanding the repeal of the definition of theexpression Convention in sections 138 and 159 of theprincipal enactment, every regulation made in relation tothe repealed Conventions in force on the date ofcommencement of this Act, in so far as such regulation is notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shall be deemedto have been made under this Act.

31.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Savings.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Merchant Shipping (Amendment)Act, No. 17 of 201924

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.