PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATION BUILDING TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 10 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st March, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2011

1Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2011

Short title.

[Certified on 31st March, 2011]

L. D.O. 15/2011.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATION BUILDING TAX ACT NO. 9 OF 2009

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Nation Building Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 2011 and shall be deemed tohave come into operation from January 1, 2011.

2.Section 2 of the Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of2009 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) ishereby amended in subsection (1) of that section, by thesubstitution in substction (c) thereof, for the words a serviceof any description., of the following :

a service of any description; or

(d)carries on the business of wholesale or retail sale ofany article other than such sale by the manufacturerof that article being a manufacturer to whom theprovisions of paragraph (b) applies..

3.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution for all the words and figuresfrom every person to whom this Act applies,calculated to in the following manner:-, ofthe words every person to whom this Actapplies, calculated at the appropriate ratespecified in the Second Schedule to this Act, inthe following manner:

(b)in paragraph (ii) thereof, by the substitution forthe words and figures paragraph (b) or (c) ofsubsection (1), of the words paragraphs (b),(c) or (d) of subsection (1)

Amendment ofthe section 2 ofthe Act No. 9 of2009.

Amendment ofthe section 3 ofthe principalenactment.

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 20112

(2)in subsection (2) of that section

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (i) thereof,for the words and figures under section 6 ofthe Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002; ofthe words and figures under section 6 of theValue Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002, but doesnot include the value of any excepted articlereferred to in the First Schedule to this Act;;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (ii) thereof,for the words of every article manufacturedby such person; of the words of any articlemanufactured by such person, other than anyexcepted article referred to in the First Scheduleto this Act;;

(c)by the substitution in paragraph (iii), for thewords any service referred to in thatparagraph., of the following:

any service referred to in that paragraph,other than any excepted service referred to inthe First Schedule to this Act;

(iv)with reference to any person referred to inparagraph (d) of subsection (1) of section2 and to any relevant quarter means thesum receivable whether received or notfrom the sale in that quarter, of any article,other than

(1) pharmaceuticals;

(2) any article subject to the SpecialCommodity Levy under the SpecialCommodity Levy Act, No. 48 of2007, where such article issubsequently sold by the importer ofsuch article; and

3Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2011

(3) gems or jewellery, if sold on thepayment of foreign currency by anyperson authorized by the Central Bankof Sri Lanka to accept payment inforeign currency..

(3)in subsection (3) of that section

(a) by the substitution, for the words and figuresin paragraph (ii) or (iii) of that section of thewords and figures in paragraph (ii), (iii) or(iv) of that section;

( b) by the addition immediately after paragraph(iii) thereof, of the following paragraphs:

(iv)rebate paid under the ExportDevelopment Rebate in relation to anyinternational event as be approved bythe Minister of Finance;

(v)any turnover from the supply of anygoods or services in relation to anyinternational events as approved bythe Minister of Finance (with effectfrom May 12, 2010)..

(4)in subsection (4) thereof,

(a)by the substitution for the words and figuresparagraph (b) or paragraph (c) of subsection(1) of section 2, of the words and figuresparagraph (b), paragraph (c) or paragraph (d)of subsection (1) of section 2;

(b)in paragraph (i), by the substitution for thewords liable turnover of such person for thatrelevant quarter does not exceeds of the

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 20114

words and figures such quarter is a relevantquarter which commenced prior to January 1,2011 and the liable turnover of such personfor that relevant quarter does not exceed;;

(c)in paragraph (ii) thereof

(i) by the substitution for the words thatrelevant quarter optional Value AddedTax of the words and figures that relevantquarter which commenced prior to January1, 2011, Optional Value Added Tax;

(ii) by the substitution for the words andfigures Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of2002. of the following:

Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002;

(d)by the addition immediately after paragraph(ii) of the following new paragraphs :

(iii) such relevant quarter is any quartercommencing on or after January 1, 2011and the liable turnover of such person fromthe supply of any goods or services otherthan services referred to in paragraph (iv)and paragraph (v), does not exceed thesum of five hundred thousand rupees; and

(iv) such quarter is a quarter commencing onor after January 1, 2011 and the liableturnover of such person from

(a) operating a hotel, guest house,restaurant or other similarbusiness;

5Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2011

(b) the processing of any locallyprocured agricultural producein the preparation for sale;

(c) providing educational servicesby any institution establishedlocally for that purpose; or

(d) supply of labour (manpower),

and which do not exceed the sum oftwenty five million rupees..

4.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

4. Every person referred to in paragraph(b), paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of subsection(1) of section 2 to whom this Act applies,shall,notwithstanding that no assessment has beenmade on such person for any relevant quarter,pay

(i)the tax payable for the first month of thatquarter on or before the twentieth day ofthe second month of that quarter;

(ii)the tax payable for the second month ofthat quarter on or before the twentiethday of the third month of that quarter;

(iii)the balance tax payable for that quarteron or before the twentieth day of themonth immediately succeeding the endof the relevant quarter, calculated bydeducting the tax paid under paragraphs(i) and (ii) from the tax payable for thatquarter,

to the Commissioner-General, in such manneras may be specified by him in that behalf..

Replacement ofthe section 4 ofthe principalenactment.Payment ofthe tax

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 20116

5.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

6.Where any person to whom this Actapplies, utilizes wholly or partly any goodspurchased from a manufacturer registered forpayment of tax under this Act or imported byhimself, in the manufacture of goods liable totax under this Act, such manufacturer shall beentitled to tax credit in respect or such tax paidon such goods in proportion to the value ofgoods manufactured by such person which areliable to tax under this Act..

6.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 6 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 6A of that enactment :

6A. (1)The turnover from the business ofany Islamic Financial Transaction shall bechargeable to tax in terms of the provisions ofthis Act.

(2)The Commissioner - General of InlandRevenue shall in order to determine the extentof liability to tax of any particular IslamicFinancial Transaction, issue from time to time,such rules and guidelines as may be requiredfor the purpose of -

(a) identifying the circumstanceswhich would amount to anIslamic Financial Transaction ;and

(b) ascertaining the profits andincome arising out of anyIslamic Financial Transaction..

Replacement ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Tax Credits.

Insertion of newsection 6A in theprincipalenactment.

Turnoverfrom IslamicFinancialTransactionsto bechargeable totax.

7Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2011

7.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in the definition of the expression article, by thesubstitution for the words any agricultural orhorticultural produce, but does not include anyexcepted article, of the words any agricultural orhorticultural produce, but for any period ended priorto January 1, 2011 does not include any exceptedarticle;

(2)in the definition of the expression service, by thesubstitution for the words does not include anyexcepted service, of the words for any periodended prior to January 1, 2011 does not includeany excepted service,

(3)in the definition of the expression person, by thesubstitution for the words any company, body ofpersons or any partnership, of the words anycompany, body of persons or any partnership.

8.The Schedule to of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the renaming of the SCHEDULE hereto as theFIRST SCHEDULE;

(2)in Part I of such Schedule

(a)in item (xiii), by the substitution for the wordspharmaceuticals; and, of the wordspharmaceuticals;

(b)in item (xv), by the substitution for the wordsborne by the Goverment of the words borneby the Government ;

Amendment ofthe Schedule tothe principalenactment.

Amendment ofthe section 10 ofthe principalenactment.

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 20118

(c)by the addition immediately after item (xv)thereof of the following items:

(xvi)any goods imported or supplied to aspecified project carried on, out offoreign funds or donations received bythe Goverment,as approved by theMinister considering the economicbenefit to the country.

(xvii)bitumen classified under HS codeNo. 2714 ;

(xviii)any article imported or sold by anysociety registered under Co- operativeSocieties Act, No. 5 of 1972 or underthe respective statutes enacted by theProvincial Councils providing for suchregistration or Lak Sathosa Limitedregistered under the Companies Act,No. 7 of 2007 ;

(xix)tractors classified under HS codes8701.10. 10, 8701. 10. 90, 8701. 90. 10and 8701.90.20 ;

(xx)raw materials or packing materialsimported for the manufacture ofpharmaceuticals subject to the approvalof the relevant authority ;

(xxi) gold imported (effective from March1, 2010) ;

(xxii)plant, machinery or equipmentimported on temporary basis for the useof large scale infrastructuredevelopment projects approved by the

9Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2011

Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance as being of benefical for theeconomic development of Sri Lanka,on condition that goods will be re-exported after the completion of work(effective from July 1, 2010);

(xxiii)foreign currency notes imported, beingnotes clssified under HS Codes4907.00.90 (effective from June 1,2010) ;

(xxiv)raw materials or packing materialsimported for the manufacture ofayurvedic preparations which belongto the Ayurveda Pharmacopoeia orayurveda preparation subject to theapproval of the relevant authority ;

(xxv)pure-bred breeding animals under HS0102.10 or HS 0104.20.10, milkingmachines under HS 8434.10, dairymachinery under HS 8434. 20 and spareparts under HS 8434.90, at the point ofimportation. (effective from18.01.2011);

(xxvi)import of samples in relation tobusiness which is worth not more thanrupees twenty- five thousand, subjectto which terms and conditions asprescribed by the Director - General ofCustoms..

(3)in Part II of that Schedule

(a)in item (vii), by the substitution for the wordsservices of a construction contractor, notbeing a sub-contractor, insofar as, of thefollowing words and figures:

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 201110

Services

(i)prior to January 1, 2011, of aconstruction contractor, not being asub-contractor; or

(ii)on or after January 1, 2011, of aconstruction contractor or sub-contractor,

in so far as;

(b)in item (xii), by the substitution for the wordsoperating a hotel, guest house, restaurant orother similar business, of the words andfigures For any period ended prior to January1, 2011, operating a hotel, guest house,restaurant or other similar business;

(c)in item (xiii), by the substitution for the wordslocal produce, of the words localproduce;

(d)in item (xxiii), by the substitution for thewords Act, No. 34 of 2002,, of the wordsAct, No. 34 of 2002;;

(e)by the addition, immediately after the item(xxiii), the following new items :

(xxiv) the services provided by foreignconsultancies for the large scaleinfrastructure development projectsbeing projects which have beenapproved by the Minister of Finance,as beneficial for the economicdevelopment of Sri Lanka (effectivefrom July 1, 2010)

11Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2011

(xxv) services provided to any specificproject carried on, out of foreign fundsor donations received by theGovernment, as approved by theMinister considering the economicbenefit to the country;

(xxvi) services provided to the port or airlinein relation to internationaltransportation;

(xxvii) services provided in relation to shipbuilding for the international marketfor payments made in foreigncurrency;

(xxviii) telecommunication services;

(xxix) supply of locally developed soft ware;

(xxx) services provided by any GovernmentDepartment, Ministry or anyundertaking fully owned by theGovernment;

(xxxi) services provided by Sri LankanAirlines Ltd.;

(xxxii) services provided by Mihin Air (Pvt.)Ltd.;

(xxxiii) services provided by Air LankaCatering Services Ltd.;

(xxxiv) services provided by any societyregistered under the Co-operativeSocieties Law No. 5 of 1972 or underany Statute enacted by a ProvincialCouncil, or Lak Sathosa Limited,registered under the Companies Act,No. 7 of 2007;

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 201112

9.The following new Schedule, as the Second Schedule,is added immediately after the First Schedule:

SECOND SCHEDULE[Section 3]

Tax Rates of Nation Building Tax payable by any person towhom this Act applies

PART I

For the period ending on April 30, 2009on the liable turnover 01 per centum.

PART II

For the period commencing on May 1, 2009 butprior to December 31, 2010

(1) on the liable turnover (other than in respectof turnover from the sale of rice manufacturedfrom locally procured paddy for the periodfrom July 1, 2009 to December 31, 2010)

03 per centum.

(2)on the liable turnover from rice manufacturedout of locally procured paddy for the periodfrom July 1, 2009 to December 31, 2010

1.5 per centum.

PART III

For any quarter commencing on or after January 01, 2011

(1)on the liable turnover (other than anyturnover from the wholesale or retail sale) ofany article

02 per centum.

(2)on the liable turnover from wholesale or retailsale of any article

(a)three fourth of liable turnover of anydistributorNil

Addition ofSecondSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

13Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2011

(b)one half of the liable turnover from(the wholesale or retail sale of) anyarticle other than any turnover of adistributorNil

(c)the balance liable turnover

02 per centum.

For the purposes of Part III of theSecond Schedule the expressiondistributor, shall have the samemeaning as is assigned to it in section13 of the Economic Service ChargeAct, No. 13 of 2006..

10.The Commissioner-General shall transfer 33 1/3 percentum of the total sum collected as Nation Building Tax tothe respective Provincial Council within such intervals andin such proportions as the Secretary to the Treasury may,from time to time, taking into consideration the requiredbudget of each such Council, direct.

11.Any person or partnership carrying on an enterprise,having an annual turnover of a sum not exceeding rupeesone hundred million who is liable to pay the NationBuilding Tax under this Act and who has defaulted in thepayment of such Nation Building Tax as is payable by himunder this Act in respect of any taxable quarter ending on orbefore December 31, 2010 due to the existence generally ofany conflict environment or due to any financial constraintsof such person or partnership shall be exempted from thepayment of such charge as is in default under this Act:

Provided that, the Commissioner - General of InlandRevenue shall on a request made in that behalf, issue tosuch person or partnership a Certificate of Exemption inrespect of the sum in default:

Provided futher, the person or partnership to whom theCertificate of Exemption is issued shall simultaneouslyforward to the Commissioner - General of Inland Revenue,a written assurance to the effect that such person or

Apportionmentof revenue tothe ProvincialCouncils,

Exemption ofcertain small andmediumenterprises fromthe payment oftaxes payable bythem .

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 201114

partnership will be responsible for the payment of all sumswhich may become payable by him under this Act, in respectof any future taxable quarter commencing on or after January1, 2011.

12.Where the Commissioner - General of InlandRevenue or the Director - General of Customs as the casemay be collects under the provisions of section 4 or section5 respectively of the principal enactment, the levy calculatedat the rate specified in section 3 of this Act, during the periodcommencing on January 1, 2011 and ending on the date ofthe coming into operation of this Act from a person to whomthe provisions of this Act applies, such collection shall be,deemed for all purposes to have been, and to be, validlymade, and the Commissioner - General of Inland Revenueand the Director - General of Customs , as the case may be,are hereby indemnified against all actions, civil or criminalin respect of such collection.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof aninconsistency.

Indemnity.

15Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.