PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, NO. 15 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st March, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 10.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 03, 2009

1Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2009

[Certified on 31st March, 2009]

L.D.O. 52/2008.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2009.

2.(1) Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of2002, (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment)is hereby amended as follows:

(a)in sub-paragraph (iii) of subsection (1) of thatsection, by the substitution for the words and figuresany taxable period commencing on or after January1, 2005 of the words and figures, any taxableperiod commencing on or after January 1, 2005,but prior to January 1, 2009;

(b)in subparagraph (v) of subsection (1) of that sectionby the repeal of all the words and figures from (v)for any taxable period upto the words the FourthSchedule of this Act and the substitution thereforof the following:

(v)(i)for any taxable period commencing onor after January 1, 2005 but prior toJanuary 1, 2009, at the rate of fifteen percentum (Standard rate) (of which the TaxFraction is 3/23) on the value of suchgoods or services supplied or goodsimported other than in respect of thefollowing:

(a)goods or services chargeable withtax at zero per centum; and

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 2 of Act,No. 14 of 2002.

2PL 003784 4,250 (03/2009)

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20092

(b)goods or services specified in theFourth Schedule of this Act;

(ii)for any taxable period commencingon or after January 1, 2009, at the rateof twelve per centum, (Standard rate)(of which the Tax Fraction is 3/28) onthe value of such goods or servicessupplied or goods imported other thanin respect of

(a)goods or services chargeable withtax at zero per centum; and

(b)goods or services specified in theFourth Schedule of this Act;.

(c)by the repeal of paragraph (d) of subsection (2) ofthat section and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:

(d)on the supply with the approval of ExportDevelopment Board established by the SriLanka Export Development Board Act, No.40 of 1979 with the concurrence of theMinister of the Ministry in charge of thesubject of finance

(i) of any goods manufactured in Sri Lankaby such suppliers and supply by suchsupplier to any manufacturer to beutilized for the purpose of manufactureof goods other than the goods referred toin paragraph (c) of this subsection bysuch manufacturers who are registeredwith the Export Development Board asexporters; or

(ii) of any service by such suppliers providedto any manufacturer which results in theimprovement of the quality, character orvalue of any goods manufactured by such

3Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2009

manufacturer of goods for export who isregistered with Export DevelopmentBoard as an exporter, being a serviceprovided by such suppliers approved bythe Export Development Boardestablished under the Sri Lanka ExportDevelopment Board Act, No. of 40 of1979 as a supply of services identifiedfor this purposes,

Until such time as the activities of suchmanufacturers or service providers aremonitored by the Export Development Boardwith the approval of the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject of Financeand the Export Development Board, furnishesthe reconciliation on the disposal of suchgoods on a quarterly basis as stipulated bythe Commissioner-General to the satisfactionof the Commissioner-General, that suchfinished products are in fact exported by therecipient of the supplies..

3.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal of allthe words and figure from (10) (1) every personwho, upto the words to exceed one million andeight hundred thousand rupees and the substitutiontherefor of the following:

10. (1) Every person who

(i)on or after August 1, 2002, but prior to January1, 2009, carries on or carries out any taxableactivity in Sri Lanka shall be required to beregistered under this Act, if

(a)at the end of any taxable period of onemonth or three months, as the case maybe, the total value of his taxable

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20094

supplies of goods or services or goodsand services made in Sri Lanka in thattaxable period of one month or threemonths, as the case may be, hasexceeded five hundred thousandrupees; or

(b)in the twelve months period thenending, the total value of his taxablesupplies of goods or services or goodsand services made in Sri Lanka hasexceeded one million and eighthundred thousand rupees; or

(c)at any time, there are reasonablegrounds to believe that the total valueof his taxable supplies in Sri Lanka ofgoods or services or goods and servicesin the succeeding one month or threemonths taxable period, as the case maybe, is likely to exceed five hundredthousand rupees or in the succeedingtwelve months period is likely toexceed one million and eight hundredthousand rupees..

(2) immediately after paragraph (c) of subsection (1)of that section, by the insertion of the following:

(ii)on or after January 1, 2009 carries on or carriesout any taxable activity in Sri Lanka shall berequired to be registered under this Act, if-

(a)at the end of any taxable period of onemonth or three months, as the case maybe, the total value of his taxablesupplies of goods or services or goodsand services made in Sri Lanka in thattaxable period of one month or three

5Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2009

months, as the case may be, hasexceeded six hundred and fiftythousand rupees; or

(b)in the twelve months period thenending, the total value of his taxablesupplies of goods or services or goodsand services made in Sri Lanka hasexceeded two million and five hundredthousand rupees; or

(c)at any time, there are reasonablegrounds to believe that the total valueof his taxable supplies in Sri Lanka ofgoods or services or goods and servicesin the succeeding one month or threemonths taxable period, as the case maybe, is likely to exceed six hundred andfifty thousand rupees or in thesucceeding twelve months period islikely to exceed two million and fivehundred thousand rupees,.

4.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) in the fourth proviso to subsection (3) of thatsection, by the substitution for the words this Actshall be restricted to fifteen per centum other thanof the words this Act shall be restricted to twelveper centum other than;

(2)in subparagraph (i) of paragraph (b) of the secondproviso to subsection 5 by the substitution for thewords an insurance bond by a registered personof the words an insurance bond by a registeredperson to the value as determined by theCommissioner-General;

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20096

(3) in subparagraph (iv) of subsection (6) of thatsection by the substitution for all the words andfigures (iv) if the input tax on any invoice uptothe words the return for that taxable period of thefollowing:

(iv)if the input tax on

(a) any invoice referred to in paragraph (iii)has not been deducted as provided for inthis Act, from the output tax for anytaxable period ending on or before theexpiry of twelve months from the date ofsuch tax invoice, by furnishing withinthe said period of twelve months thereturn for that taxable period; or

(b)any customs declaration referred to inparagraph (iii), has not been deducted asprovided for in this Act, from the outputtax for any taxable period ending on orbefore the expiry of twenty four monthsfrom the date of such customsdeclaration, by furnishing within the saidperiod of twenty four months the returnfor that taxable period;

5.Section 25A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in paragraph (ii) of subsection (1) of that section,by the substitution for the words and figures priorto December 31, 2007; and of the words and figuresprior to December 31, 2007;;

(2)in paragraph (iii) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words and figures theCo-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972 , on orafter January 1, 2008 but prior to January 1, 2009;and

Amendment ofsection 25A ofthe principalenactment.

7Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2009

(3)by the addition immediately after paragraph(iii) of that subsection, of the following newparagraph :

(iv)by any person other than a Co-operativeSociety registered under the Co-operativeSociety Law, No. 5 of 1972, or Lady LochoreLoan Fund established under the Act, No. 38of 1951, commencing on or after January 1,2009.

6.Section 25I of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section , bythe substitution for the words such person orpartnership exceeds rupees two million five hundredthousand per year, which ever occurs first. of thefollowing:

(i)such person or partnership

(a)exceeds rupees two million five hundredthousand per year for any period prior toJanuary 1, 2009;

(b)exceeds rupees three million per year forany period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2009, whichever occurs first.;

(2)in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of that section,by the repeal of subparagraph (i) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(i)whose aggregate turnover from every taxableactivity carried on or carried out does notexceed

(a)rupees two million and five hundredthousand per year or six hundred andtwenty five thousand per quarter for anyperiod prior to January 1, 2009; and

Amendment ofsection 25I ofthe principalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20098

(b)rupees three million per year or sevenhundred and fifty thousand per quarterfor any period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2009; and.

7.Section 35 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (1)of that section of the following new subsection:

(1A) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 34 ,the Commissioner-General may refer any valid appealmade to him, to the Board of Review and the Board ofReview, shall hear and determine such appeal. Theprovisions of section 169 of the Inland Revenue Act,No. 10 of 2006 shall apply to the hearing anddetermination of any appeal so referred..

8.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in PART II thereof as follows:

(1)in paragraph (a) of that Part

(a)in item (xii), by the substitution for the wordsand figures December 31, 2008, of thewords and figures December 31, 2010.

(b)by the addition immediately after item (xv)of the following new item:

(xvi)solar panel modules, accessories orsolar home system for the generationof solar power energy identified underthe specified Harmonized CommodityDescription Nos. for custom purposes(effective from 01. 01. 2009);

(xvii)high tech medical equipment or anymachinery used for the manufacture ofticket issuing machinery identified

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 35 of theprincipalenactment.

9Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2009

under the specified Harmonized ofCommodity Description Numbers forcustoms purposes..

(2)in paragraph (b) of that Part

(a)in item (xxvi) by the substitution for thewords and figures (effective from 01. 01.2008); and of the words and figures(effective from 01. 01. 2008);

(b)in item (xxvii), by the substitution for thewords and figures (effective from 01. 01.2008). of the words and figures (effectivefrom 01. 10. 2008);;

(c)by the addition immediately after item (xxvii)of the following new items:

(xxviii)locally manufactured machinery usedfor tea industry and identified by SriLanka Tea Board established by theSri Lanka Tea Board Law No. 14 of1975 as a tea machinery (effective from01. 10. 2008);

(xxix)locally manufactured surgical gauzeused for surgery (effective from 01. 01.2009);

(xxx)locally manufactured Jewellery..

(3)in paragraph (c) of that PART

(a)in item (xxiii), by the substitution for thewords or specified project of the words orspecified project;

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 200910

(b)by the addition immediately after item (xxiii)of the following items:

(xxiv)any bus with the approval of NationalTransport Commission or anyProvincial Road Passenger TransportAuthority by the owner of such bus toreplace any bus destroyed due toterrorist activities (effective from 9. 7.2008);

(xxv)brass sheets, brass ingots, thread, dyes,paraffin wax or shellac for manufactureof brassware by the National CraftCouncil with the approval of Ministryof Rural Industries and SelfEmployment Promotion (effective from01. 01. 2009);

(xxvi)chemical naptha by the CeylonPetroleum Corporation to be suppliedto Ceylon Electricity Board for thegeneration of electricity (effective from01. 01. 2009);

(xxvii)packing materials exclusively for theuse of packing pharmaceuticalsmanufactured in Sri Lanka and whichare imported by the manufacturer ofsuch pharmaceuticals so far as suchpacking materials are not manufacturedin Sri Lanka and approved by theMinister in charge of the subject ofFinance on the recommendation of thesecretary to the Ministry of Healthcareand Nutrition;

(xxviii)Cine Films, cinematographic filmsexposed or developed, magnetic cinesound recorders, cinematographic

11Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2009

Amendment ofthe ThirdSchedule to thePrincipalenactment.

Retrospectiveeffect.

cameras and projector parts andaccessories, apparatus and equipmentfor cinematographic labratories,electric filament or discharge lamps andarc lamp carbon, identified under theHarmonized Commodity Descriptionand Coding System Numbers, forcustoms purposes with the approvalof the Chairman, National FilmCorporation..

(4)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (f) ofthat PART, the following new paragraph:

(g)the supply of services, being constructionservices for Gama Naguma, Maga Naguma,Samurdhi Projects or for community irrigationprojects, carried out through the participationof the community and approved by Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Nation Building and StateInfrastructure Development (effective from01. 01. 2009);.

9.The Third Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended by the addition immediately after theheading third schedule, of the following:

For any taxable period ending prior to January 1, 2009.

10.(a) The amendments made to paragraph (d) ofsubsection (2) of section 2 of the principal enactment bysection 2 of this Act shall for the purposes be deemed tohave come into force on June 1, 2008.

(b) The amendments made of section 22 of the principalenactment, by section 4 (1), (2) and (3) of this Act shallfor the purposes be deemed to have come into force onJanuary 1, 2009.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 200912

Indemnity.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

(c) The amendment made to section 35 of the principalenactment by section 7 of this Act shall for all purposes bedeemed to have come into force on January 1, 2009.

11.Any person who collects the value added tax asprovided for in this Act during the period commencing fromJanuary 1, 2009 and ending on the date of the coming intooperation of this Act, shall be deemed to have acted withdue authority and such collection shall be deemed for allpurposes to have been, and to be validly made and suchperson is hereby indemnified against all actions civil orcriminal, in respect of such collection.

12.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

13Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.