heathy nate?

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

FINANCE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 22 OF 1998

[Certified on 15th May, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part Il of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of May 15, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO | ”

Price: Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 2.50


Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1998
(Certified on 15th May, 1998]
L.D.—O. 40/95.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE Finance Act, No. |] oF 1963

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1. This Act may be cited as the Finance (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 1998.

2. Section 11 of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :——

“Audit of If. Article 154 of the Constitution relating

Accounts. 9 the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Fund
of the Board.”.

3. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby™

repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

‘National 14. (1) The Board may conduct lotteries for
lotteries. the purposes of this Part of this Act.

(2) The Board may enter into agreements with
any other person, for the conduct by such other
person, of lotteries for the purposes of this Part
of this Act, on behalf of the Board.

(3) The Board may by licence issued in that
behalf, authorize the conduct by any other person,
of lotteries for the purposes of this Part of this
Act,

(4) Every lottery conducted by the Board
under subsection (1) or conducted on behalf of
the Board under an agreement entered into under
subsection (2) or conducted under the authority
of a lience issued under subsection (3) is in this
Part of this Act referred to as a “national lottery”.’.

2—D 039833— 8,550 (96/03)

Short title.

Amendment
of section |}
of Act No. 1!
of 1963.

Replacement
of section 14
of the
ptincipal
enactment.


Insertion of new
section {4a in the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 15 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 16 of the
principal
enactinent.

2 Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1998

4. The following new section is hereby inserted after
section 14 and shall have effect as section 14 of the principal
enactment :-—

“Terms and 14a. (1) Every licence issued by the Board
oe under subsection (3) of section !4 shall be subject
licence to such terms and conditions as may be
issued determined by the Board and approved by the
under Minister.

section 14.

(2) There shall be paid in respect of every
licence issued under subsection (3) of section 14,
a fee of such amount as may be prescribed. The
fee shall be paid to the Board by the person to
whom the licence is issued and shall be credited
by the Board to the Consolidated Fund.

(3) It shall be lawful for the Board to cancel a
licence issued by it under subsection (3) of section
14. if the holder of the licence fails to comply
with, any term or condition to which the licence
is subject or any provision of this Act.”,

5. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words “conducted in’,

~ of the words “conducted or authorized to be conducted in”.

6. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section, and
the substitution of the following subsection
therefor :—

“(1) The number of prizes to be awarded in a
national lottery and the value of each such prize
shall-—

(a) in the case of a lotlery conducted by the
Board, be as prescribed ;


Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1998 3

(6) inthe case of a lottery conducted on behalf
of the Board under an agreement entered
into under subsection (2) of section 14, be
as specified in such agreement ;

(c} inthe case of a lottery conducted under the
authority of a licence issued under
subsection (3) of section 14 be as specified
in the terms and conditions of such
licence.”,

(2) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and the
Substitution of the following subsection
therefor :—

“(3) The prize winners in every national lottery
shall be determined—

(a) in the case of a lottery conducted by the
Board, in such manner as may be
prescribed ;

(b) inthe case of a lottery conducted on behalf
of the Board, under an agreement entered
into under subsection (2) of section 14, in
such manner as may be specified in such
agreement ; and

(c) in the case of a lottery conducted under the
authority of a licence issued under
subsection (3) of section 14, in such manner
as may be specified in the terms and
conditions of such licence.”,

(3) in subsection (4) of that section -—

(a) by the substitution, for the words “the date
of the drawing of lots for the prizes in”, of
the words “the date of the determination of
the winners of ;”;


Amendment of
section 17 of the

principal
cnactinent.

7.

QQ)

(2)

(3)

(4)

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1998

(b) by the substitution, for the words “the
Board shall grant such prize”, of the words
“the Board or the person conducting such
national lottery on behalf of the Board or
the person conducting such national lottery
under the authority of a licence issued under
subsection (3) of section 14, as the case may
be, shall grant such prize”.

Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :-—

in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “every national lottery shall”, of the
words “every national lottery conducted by the Board
shall”.

by the substitution immediately after subsection (1)
of that section of the following subsection :—

“(1a) Where the prize consisting of money ina
national lottery conducted by the Board, is not won
by any person, such prize moncy shall
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
section, be credited to a Prize Reserve Account and
the monies accumulated in such account shall be used
for the award of prizers at subsequent national
lotteries conducted by the Board.”.

in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “approved by the Permanent Secretary”,
of the words “approved by the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister.”

by the addition, at the end: of that section of the
following subsections :-—

“(3) The Board shall pay to the Consolidated
Fund through the Secertary to the Ministry of the
Minister, the proceeds of every national lottery


Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 22 af 1998 5

conducted on behalf of the Board under an agreement
entered into under subsection (2) of section 14, after
a deduction from such proceeds, the value of the
prizes awarded in such national lottery and of any
management fees payable, under the terms of that
agreement, to the person conducting such national
lottery and of an amount apporoved by the Secretary
as being an amount necessary for the purposes of
meeting any payments and liabilities referred to in
paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of subsection (2).

(4) All prizes in a national lottery which have been
forfeited and paid to the Fund of the Board, under
section 16, shall be credited by the Board to the
Consolidated Fund.”.

8. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
9. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended as follows :—

(1)

(2)

10.

by the repeal of the definition of “financial year”, and
the substitution, of the following definition
therefor :—

“financial year” means the period commencing on
January | in any year and ending on December

31 of that year; and

by the repeal of the definition of “Minister” and the
substitution, of the following definition therefor :—

“Minister” means the Minister to whom the subject
of Finance has been assigned.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Repeal of section
18 of the principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 23 of the
principal
enactment.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


nn et

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PusicaTions Bureau, No. 32, Transworks House,
Lotus Reap, Cotomso 0! before 15th December each year in respect of the year foliowing.

\
