2»
(C yy
ore
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
INLAND REVENUE (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
ACT, No. 7 OF 2002
{Ceri on Sh Jame, 2002)
Printed onthe Onder of Goverment
Pblihodasa Supplement toPa of he Gazette ofthe Democrat Soiaist
Republi Lanka Joe 07,202
Poe Rs. 850 sag Re 450


Inland Revenue (Special Provisions)
‘et No. 7 of 2002
(Cenifed on Sth June, 2002]
LD-0.24n002
AW ACT 70 ERABLEFERSONS Wi RAVEN ARSED A RETURN
'sSSESSMEMTCOMEXEND PRONTO APR. 1, 2002, TO MARE A
[BELARATON I RESPECT THERE, TO NDBANY SUCH PeRSONS
[BE it enacted bythe Paliament ofthe Democrate Socialist,
Republic of Sri Lanka a follows +—
1. ThisActmaybecitedasiheTnlandRevenue (Spetial Stone
Provisions) Act, NO. 7 of 2002
2. Any peron who, under the law forthe time being in Dectton i te
force relating the imposition of ince tx islablev pay sees
income tax foray yea of asessmet commencing pio CEASE
‘Api 1, 2002, and who hes not furnished in respect of such Si
yearofassessientseurnintelaton this profs andincome pe
‘Seany part theref, whichis ible wo income tax, and who
(@) invests prior to Ape, 2003, the monies presenting
such undeclared profits and income
(© imagricltr,indsry or lity serves oF
Ai) inany scary iesnd under the Regivered Stocks
and Securities Ordinance (Chaplet 420) oF
(©) bas invested, prior 10 April 1, 2002, the monies
‘epresentng such undclaed pris and income inthe
purchate of any movable or immovable property arin
the onstruction of buildings orindusnl commercial,
sgrcalurl or residential purposes,
shall make a declaration in respect of the same tothe
‘Cormtusoner General setting out the fl patclarsf beh
investment oe purchase, Loglier with pbof treat. Such


2 Inand Revenue (Spel Provisions
Mer Ne. of 202
declan sal ete of an invent refered to in
paragraph) be mae within pro of two month ie
{atco he making of och nventmentr before May 31, 203,
whichever is eatin and inthe caso of purchase or
consnactonefeedtoin aay) bea befor May
3.2003,
Towing 3. Whee any prion makes a dearaion in ems of
‘decteruion not the. provisions of section 2 ancl tenders proof in respect of
bev inome such investment, purchase or eonsirtion, tothe satisfaction
Sitewas” —_ofthe Commissioner General
(2) wharthe inven en arise, rds or
Ui series orn any seer inwcd under te
Regserd Siok and Secures Ordinance (Chap
£20) such person stall be ableothe payment of
any ston income ex orsurcharg: on income x
invepect fay sich year of seamen!
(2) where monies reposning such endecled pois
tod inom have bvn lied forthe purchase fy
Iovabe or immovable propery orn he eonsracton
bulgng forint commercial agricultural or
‘sida purposes, such person ha ae ile
the payment any aditionalncome lazer
concn ax inept of any chro essen
epnmsig 4 Anypemon who makes adclration onder ston?
deems! an ener root mes teen ll no bine for
tr gy imetgation, penalty or prsecion for any offence
er underany ew for thine bing epplcabl othe imposition
Feo oficome tax or surcharge on nce, espe of
sayetfencs ‘such year of assessment,
Sette. _Intbecventof any inconsistency bween he Sint
eet and Talent ofthis Act the Sina tnt shal preva


Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) 3
‘et, No, 7 of 2002

6. Inthis Act unless the conlent oherwise requires eto.

"“Commissioner-General shall have the same meaning as
inthe Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000; and

“undeclared profits and income” means any profits and
‘income chargeable with income tax under the Iaw for
the ime boing applicable 1 the imposition of income
tax in respect of which a person has not furnished @
retue of Income oF which has not boen declared in &
return Furnished by such person.


‘Arun arpion of Ego Bison Aco ePatiamet Re ALAR LTE
‘Brae oe Stemnowo Conaanoy Rue Buta. No.1. Tastes Wo
"Za Rown Ca 0b ih Dern oh erm pe fe yuo
