PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

TELECOMMUNICATION LEVYACT, No. 21 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st March, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2011

1Telecommunication LevyAct, No. 21 of 2011

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Imposition ofTelecommunica-tion Levy.

[Certified on 31st March 2011]

L. D.O. 8/2011.

AN ACT TO IMPOSE THE TELECOMUNICATION LEVY FROM PERSONS

RECEIVING ANY TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE COMMENCING FROMJANUARY 1, 2011 ; TO AMEND PART II OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11

OF 2004 ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Telecommunication LevyAct, No. 21 of 2011 and shall be deemed for all purposes tohave come into operation with effect from January 1, 2011.

PART I

TELECOMMUNICATION LEVY

2.There shall be charged and levied from every personreceiving any telecommunication service (hereinafterreferred to as the recipient) for the period commencing onor after January 1, 2011, a levy called TelecommunicationLevy at the rate of 20 per centum on the value of the supplyof telecommunication services provided by the operator, onthe receipt of such telecommunication service in respect ofeach month :

Provided however, that no organization or individual towhom the provisions of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9of 1996 applies, shall be required to pay the levy referred toabove.

3.The levy payable under section 2 shall be collectedby the operators licensed under section 17 of the Sri LankaTelecommunication Act, No. 25 of 1991 and paid to theTelecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka(hereinafter referred to as the Commission) established

Mode ofcollection oflevy.

2Telecommunication LevyAct, No. 21 of 2011

under the aforesaid Act, within fifteen days from the end ofeach month commencing on or after January 1, 2011 alongwith such details as may be specified by the Commission.

4.The levy, collected by the Commission on behalf ofthe Government in respect of each month in terms of section3 shall be credited within seven days from the receipt of thelevy to the Consolidated Fund.

5.The Secretary to the Treasury may, from time to time,issue guidelines in relation to the collection and remittanceof the levy on behalf of the Government.

6.(1) Any operator who fails to pay the total amount ofthe levy that is due on the value of supply of servicesprovided by such operator, as provided for in section 3, shallbe deemed to be a defaulter and where such defaulter is abody corporate, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, anydirector or principal officer of such body corporate shall bedeemed to be a defaulter for the purposes of this Part of thisAct, and such levy as is not paid on or before the due dateshall be deemed to be a levy in default.

(2) The defaulter shall be liable to pay to the Commission,in addition to the levy in default, a surcharge calculated,

(a)at the rate of ten per centum of the amount of suchlevy as is in default for the subsequent period ofone month or part thereof, from the due date for thepayment of the levy under section 3 ; and

(b)at the rate of two per centum of the amount of suchlevy as is in default for each subsequent period ofone month or part thereof, from the due date for thepayment specified in paragraph (a)

which surcharge shall be collected by the commission.

(3) The Commission shall take action to recover any levywhich is in default for a period of more than three months,along with amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in themanner as is specified hereafter.

Commission tocollect levy onbehalf of theGovernment.

Action in casesof failure to paylevy.

Secretary to theTreasury to issueguidelines.

3Telecommunication LevyAct, No. 21 of 2011

(4) The Commission shall cause to be issued on thedefaulter, three weeks prior to the taking of any steps for therecovery of the levy in default along with amount of thesurcharge accrued thereon, a Notice, informing the defaulterof the intention of the Commission to institute proceedingsfor the recovery of the amount of the levy in default and thesurcharge accrued thereon in terms of the provisions of thissection.

(5) Where the Commission issues Notice on the defaulterin terms of subsection (4) but the amount of the levy indefault along with the surcharge thereon remains unpaideven though the period of three weeks specified in suchNotice has elapsed, the Commission shall under the hand ofthe Chairman, issue to the Magistrate having jurisdictionover the division in which the defaulter resides or is carryingon business, a Certificate containing the name and addressof the defaulter and the total sum in default along with astatement to the effect that the person so named has defaultedin making the payment as required by this section. Wherethe defaulter is a body corporate, the Certificate shall containthe names of the Chairman, the Board of Directors and ofevery Director of such body corporate.

(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issuedunder subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulterrequiring him to appear before him on a date to be specifiedand show cause as to why proceedings should not beinstituted against him for the recovery of the amount of thelevy in default along with the surcharge accrued thereon.Where the cause shown appears to the Magistrate to beinsufficient so as to explain the reason for the non-payment,the Magistrate shall after recording the same, make order forthe recovery of the amount of the levy in default along withthe surcharge accrued thereon, from the defaulter as if itwere a fine imposed by the Magistrate. The money sorecovered shall be remitted to the Commission, which shallcredit the same to the Consolidated Fund.

4Telecommunication LevyAct, No. 21 of 2011

PART II

AMENDMENT OF PART II OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF 2004

7.Part II of the Finance Act, No.11 of 2004 is herebyamended as in subsection (2) of section 14 thereof, by thesubstitution for the words for the period ending on February29, 2008 of the words for the period commencing onFebruary 29, 2008 and ending on December 31, 2010..

8.It is hereby declared for the avoidance of doubts thatthe provisions of Part II of the Finance Act No.11 of 2004shall not apply to any person to whom the provisions of thatPart applied prior to January 1, 2011.

PART III

GENERAL

9.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters in respect of which regulations are required orauthorized to be made or in respect of matters which arerequired to be prescribed by this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall deemed to be rescinded as from the date ofdisapproval but without prejudice to anything previouslydone there under.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed under subsection (3) to be rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette.

Amendment ofPart II of theFinance Act, No.11 of 2004.

Part II of theFinance Act, No.11 of 2004 notto apply.

Regulations.

5Telecommunication LevyAct, No. 21 of 2011

10.The amount of the levy charged and collected byany operator from any recepient, during the periodcommencing from January 1, 2011 and ending on the dateof the coming into operation of this Act, shall be deemed tohave been validly charged and levied and such operator ishereby indemnified from any action civil or criminal, inrespect of the collection of such levy.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

12.For the purposes of Part I of this Act-

value of supply means the gross value of service afterdeducting the levy chargeable under the provisionsof this Act ;

telecommunication service means the services providedto end subscribers by telecommunication and otheroperators licensed under section 17 of the Sri LankaTelecommunication Act, No. 25 of 1991 but shall notinclude interconnection services and access servicesprovided between local operators, internationalsettlements between local operators and overseastelecommunication settlements between localoperators and overseas telecommunication serviceproviders and international telecommunicationservices covered under subsection (1) of section 21 ofPart III of the Finance Act, No.11 of 2004;

interconnection service means interconnection servicesset out in Interconnection Rules 2003 made undersection 68 of the Sri Lanka TelecommunicationAct, No. 25 of 1991;

access services include domestic or international leasedline services, backhaul services and passiveinfrastructure services;

operator means an operator licensed under section 17of the Sri Lanka Telecommunication Act, No. 25 of1991.

Indemnity.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Interpretation.

6Telecommunication LevyAct, No. 21 of 2011

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.