PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th of February, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 15, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

DASSANA BAUDDHA SANVIDHANAYA(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 14 OF 2024

1Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

[Certified on 19th of February, 2024]

L.D.O. (Inc. 8/2021)

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DASSANA BAUDDHA SANVIDHANAYA

WHEREAS an Organization called and known as the DassanaBauddha Sanvidhanaya has heretofore been established inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objectsand transacting all matters connected with the saidOrganization according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Organization has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Dassana BauddhaSanvidhanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theDassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya (hereinafter referred to as theOrganization) and shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe body corporate hereby constituted shall have perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the Dassana BauddhaSanvidhanaya (hereinafter referred to as the body corporate),and by that name may sue and be sued with full power andauthority to have, and use a common seal and to alter the sameat its pleasure.

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Service Organization within the meaning and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

Short title

Preamble

Incorporationof theDassanaBauddhaSanvidhanaya

2Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

3.The general objects for which the body corporate isconstituted are hereby declared to be

(a) to organize and conduct Sathara Sathipattanameditation programmes for Buddhist adherents;

(b) to spread in the society, the activity of purification ofthe mind which is the message of the TheravadaBuddhism by way of organizing Dana, Seela andmeditiation programmes;

(c) to make arrangements to provide alms and otherrequisite to the resident Bhikkus Dasa Sil Mathas,Upasakas and Upasikas of the Bebalagama NagalenRajamaha Vihara; and

(d) to oraganize religious and cultural programmes andactivities with a view to protecting TheravadaBuddhism.

4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried outin accordance with written law and in such manner so as notto create any conflict between the work of the body corporateand any work being carried out simultaneously by anyMinistry or Department of the Government or any ProvincialCouncil or any Local Authority.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and therules made under section 7, the management andadministration of the affairs of the body corporate shall becarried out by an Executive Board (hereinafter referred to asthe Board) consisting of such number of office bearers asmay be specified by the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The members of the Board of the Organizationholding office on the day immediately preceding the dateof commencement of this Act shall, subject to the rules made

Generalobjects of thebodycorporate

Management ofaffairs of thebody corporate

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor any ProvincialCouncil or anyLocal Authority

3Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

under paragraph (b), function as an Interim Board of thebody corporate until the first Board is appointed or electedin the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b)Subject to the provisions of section 7, the InterimBoard of the body corporae shall have the power to makerules for the interim administration of the body corporatenot inconsistant with the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law.

(c)Any decision of the Interim Board shall be takenby the majority of its members present at any meeting.

(d)The First Board of the body corporate shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3)(a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of thebody corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute the following acts for the attainment ofthe objects of the body corporate

Powers of thebody corporate

4Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

(a) to purchase, rent, construct, renovate or otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be required forthe purpose of the body corporate and to deal with ordispose of the same as may be determined by theBoard with a view to promoting the objeccts of thebody corporate;

(b) to enter into and perform or carry out, whether directlyor through any officer or agent authorized in thatbehalf by the body corporate, all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the attainment ofthe objects or the exercise of the powers of the bodycorporate;

(c) to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

(d) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accounts inany bank;

(e) to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate in such manneras the Board may determine;

(f) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administerany lawful trust having objects similar to the bodycorporate or any real or personal property with a viewto promoting the objects of the body corporate;

5Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the body corporate andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the body corporate;

(h) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of the bodycorporate;

(i) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of the bodycorporate; and

(j) to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroadfor the purpose of the body corporate.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for thefollowing matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appoinment, powers,functions and duties of the various officers andservants of the body corporate;

Rules of thebody corporate

6Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate andof the Board or notices and agenda of such meetings,the quorum and the conduct of business thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate;

(g)the procedure governing the manner of liaising andco-ordinating with other local and foreigninstitutions having objects similar to that of thebody corporate; and

(h)generally the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its' objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

(3) The rule made under subsection (1), shall be publishedin the Gazette within three months upon making of suchrules and shall come into effect on the date of suchpublication.

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscirbed.

Register ofmembers

7Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants forand on account of the body corporate shall, subject to theprovisions of section 6(c), be deposited in one or morebanks approved by the Board to the credit of the bodycorporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe body corporate in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditorappointed by the Auditor-General in terms of provisions ofArticle 154 of the Constitution and be certified by the Auditor-General or such qualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section qualified auditormeans

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

Fund of thebody corporate

Accounts andAuditing

8Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the body corporate for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountsand a list of all assets and liabilities of the body corporatecertified by the Auditor-General or qualified auditor referredto in section 10, to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Buddha Sasana under Article 44 or45 of the Constitution, and to the Registrar of VoluntarySocial Service Organizations appointed under the VoluntarySocial Service Organizations (Registration and Supervision)Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months ofthe year succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate, details ofall contracts and agreements entered into by the bodycorporate and the rules of the body corporate made undersection 7 during the financial year shall be attached to thereport referred to in subsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Organization existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Organization on that day shallbe paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

Annual Report

Debts due byand payable tothe organization

9Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the body corporate for the purposeof this Act and subject to the rules of the body corporatemade under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.The money and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwisehowsoever to the members of the body corporate.

15.(1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by theBoard.

.16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporatethere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the body corporate,but shall be given or transferred to any other appropriateinstitution having objects similar to those of the bodycorporate, and which is by the rules thereof prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its members.

(2) Where the requirements of subsection (1) cannot becomplied with the property remaining shall be transferred to

Seal of the bodycorporate

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Application ofmoneys andproperty

Propertyremaining ondissolution

10Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

the Public Trustee in terms of the provisions of the PublicTrustee Ordinance (Chapter 88) or to the consolidated fund,as the case may be.

(3) The manner of transferring the remaining propertyunder subsection (1) or (2) shall be determined by themembers of the body corporate with the approval of theRegistrar of the Voluntary Social Service Organizationsappointed under the Voluntary Social Service Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980,immediately before the dissolution at a general meeting bythe majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic

11Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.