PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

3rd Session 1958 57 GERY,
; RY us

»

Tea (Tax and Control of Export)
Act, No. 16 of 1959

Date of Assent: May 15, 195%

° Printed on the Orders of Government:

ee eters

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press; CEYLON:. To. be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS’ BUREAU; COLOMBO!
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Re.:. 25; payable in.
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS:
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1
Price: 35 cents. Postage.:.10 cents.


re

Tea (Tax and Control of Export) 3 |

Act, No. 16 of 1959
L. D.—O. 10/59. ;

AN ACT TO IMPOSE A TAX ON TEA SOLD AT A COLOMBO

TEA AUCTION OR EXPORTED FROM CEYLON, TO CONTROL .

THE EXPORT OF TEA, TO SUSPEND CERTAIN PROVISIONS
OF THE TEA Controt Act, No. 51 or 1957, AND TO
PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED WITH. OR
INCIDENTAL TO THE AFORESAID MATTERS. j feowyy

[Date of Assent: May 15, 1959]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon in
this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Tea (Tax and
Control of Export) Act, No. 16 of 1959, and shall
come into operation on such date as the Minister may
appoint by Order published in the Gazette. :

2. (1) Where any tea— '
(2) is sold at a Colombo tea auction, or

(6) is exported from Ceylon and sold at a London
tea auction,

at a price which is, or which when expressed in terms
of Ceylon currency and after the deductions specified
in sub-section (3) are made therefrom is, in excess of
one rupee and eighty-five cents per pound, there shall
be charged, levied and paid in respect of each pound
of the tea so sold a tax which shall— |

(i) where that excess is not more than one rupee
and forty cents, be equal to one half of that
excess, and i A

_ (ii) where that excess is more than one rupee and
forty cents, be equal to seventy cents:

- Provided that where the tax which, but for this
proviso, would be payable under the preceding pro-
visions of this sub-section on any tea in respect of its
first resale at a Colombo tea auction is in excess of

the tax under those provisions on that tea in respect of

its sale at such an auction before such first resale, there

shall, in lieu of the tax under those provisions, be

charged, levied and paid on that tea in respect of such

first resale a tax equal to the amount of such excess.
INR 1766—3,104 (5/69)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Tax on tea
which is sold
at a Colombo
tea auction
and on tea
exported from
Ceylon and
sold at a ;
London tea -
auction.


4 Tea (Tax and Control of Export)
Act, No. 16 of 1959 |

(2) For the purpose of expressing in terms of Ceylon
currency the price at which a pound of tea exported
from Ceylon for sale at. a London tea auction was sold
on any day at such an auction, the rate of exchange

. shall be the rate of exchange specified under section
Cap. 185, 19 of the Customs Ordinance and in force on that day. ‘

(3) The deductions which, for the purposes of sub-
section (1), shall be made from the price at which a
pound of tea exported from Ceylon for sale at a
London tea auction is sold at such am auction shall
be—

(a) the export duty and any cess paid in Ceylon on
: that pound of tea, and

(b) the amount fixed by the Minister by Order pub-

lished in the Gazette in respect of a pound
of tea exported from Ceylon for sale at a

' London tea auction, to cover the cost of
freight, insurance and handling.

Person liable 3. Where any tea is sold at a Colombo tea auction,
to pay the tax the person who is the owner of the tea at the time of
a Colombo tea _—‘ the sale shall pay to the Commissioner, not later than
Buction: ten working days after the date of the sale, the tax

payable in respect of such tea under section 2.

Foray Hable 4%. (1) The owner of tea which is authorised by @

on’ tee ola at ermit issued under this Act to be exported from~

a London tea eylon for sale at a London tea auction shall pay to

ical the Commissioner the tax payable on such tea under

payment. section 2 in accordance with the following
provisions : —

(2) An advance payment in respect of such tax shall
be made to the Commissioner before the issue
of such permit. © .

(b) The amount of the advance payment referred to
in paragraph (a) of this sub-section shall be
determined by the Commissioner according to
such rates of advance payment as shal] be
fixed by the Minister by Order published in

- the Gazette. The Minister may in any Order
under this paragraph fix different rates of
advance payment for different qualities of

pore wet, bea. | :

(c) Not later than three months after the date of the
sale of the tea at a London tea auction, the
amount of the difference, if any, between the”
tax payable on the tea under section 2 and
the advance payment made under paragraph
(a) of this sub-section shall be paid to the
Commissioner.


Tea (Tax and Control of Export) 5
Act, No. 16 of 1959

(2) Where the advance payment made under
paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) in respect of any tea
exceeds the amount of the tax payable on that tea
under section 2, the Commissioner shall either credit
the excess to the account of the owner of that tea in
the books maintained by the Commissioner for the
purposes of this Act or refund the excess to such
owner.

5. (1) The Commissioner shall, on the basis of the
‘current prices at which tea is sold at a Colombo tea
auction, determine, for the purposes of sub-section
(2), the price, hereafter in this section referred to as
the ‘* assessed price ’’, which a pound of—

(a) any tea produced in Ceylon by the English and
Scottish Joint Co-operative Wholesale
Society Ltd, or

(b) any tea which is not tea referred to in paragraph
(a) of this sub-section or in sub-section (1)
of section 2 and which is authorised by a
permit issued under this Act to be exported
from Ceylon,

. would reasonably be expected to fetch on any day. if
such tea were sold on that day at a Colombo tea
auction.

(2) Before the issue of the permit under this Act
authorising the export from Ceylon of any tea to which
sub-section (1) applies, there shall be charged, levied
and paid in respect of each pound of such tea a tax
which shalk—

(a) where the assessed price of a pound of such tea
on the day on which such permit is issued
exceeds one rupee and eighty-five cents by
not more than one rupee and forty cents, be
equal to one half of that excess, and

(b) where such assessed price exceeds one rupee and
eighty-five cents by more than one rupee and
_ forty-cents, be seventy cents. fF

~.. (3) The person for the time being holding the oifice
of Manager in Ceylon of the English and Scottish
Joint Co-operative Wholesale Society Ltd shall pay
the tax under sub-section (2) in respect of tea produced
by that Society. sy Ps

Tax on tea
produced in
Ceylon and
exported from
Ceylon by the
English and
Scottish Joint
Co-operative
Wholesale
Society Ltd
and on

any other tea
so exported
except tea tu

which section 2

applies.


6 Tea (Lax and Control of Export)
Act, No. 16 of 1959

(4) The owner of any tea referred to in paragraph
(6) of sub-section (1) shall pay the tax under sub-
section. (2) in respect of that tea.

Power to vary 6. (1) The rate and the method of calculation, of
the rate of any tax imposed under this Act may be varied, or any ©
es pee set ~~ Such tax may be abolished, by the Minister of Finance,
and its method in consultation with the Minister, by Order published
of galowiation —_ in the Gazette.

such tax. .

(2) Every Order under sub-section (1) shall come
into force on the date of its publication in the Gazette
or on such later date as may be specified in the Order,
and shall be brought before the House of Represent-
atives within a period of one month from the date of
the publication of such Order in the Gazette, or, if
no meeting of the House of Representatives is held
within such period, at the first meeting of the House
of Representatives held after the expiry of such period
by a motion that such Order shall be approved. There
shall be set out in a schedule to every such motion the
text of the Order to which the motion refers.

(3) Any Order under sub-section (1) which the
House of Representatives refuses to approve shall,
with effect from the date of such refusal, be deemed to
be revoked but without prejudice to the validity of any-
thing done thereunder. Notification of the date on
which any such Order is deemed to be revoked shall be
published in the Gazette.

Export of tes 7. (1) No person shall export tea except under the

ganiden ie authority of a permit issued by the Commissioner:
authority of

a permit, ete.

Provided that no permit shall be required for the
export of— )

(a) any tea, not exceeding fourteen pounds in
weight, despatched as a gift by parcel post or
taken as part of the personal baggage of a
passenger on any vessel or aircraft, or

(b) any tea sent as commercial samples.

(2) Where such payments in respect of the tax under
this Act on any tea as are required by this Act to be
made before the export of that tea from Ceylon are
made, the Commissioner shall issue to the holder of
the permit under this section authorising the export
of that tea from Ceylon a certificate stating that those
payments have been made.


Tea (Tax and Control of Export) t
Act, No. 16 of 1959

. (3) No tea shall be received or accepted for export
or shipment from Ceylon by any Customs or other
officer unless the export thereof is authorised by a
permit issued under this section and there is in respect
of such tea a certificate issued by the Commissioner
under sub-section (2). 7

8. (1) No person shall be issued a permit for the
export of tea unless the Commissioner is satisfied
that—

(a2) such person has been registered as an exporter
of tea for the purposes of this Act;

(b) such tea—

(i) has been sold at a Colombo tea auction;
or 7 )

(ii) is tea produced in Ceylon by the English
and Scottish Joint Co-operative:
Wholesale Society Ltd and intended
for export from Ceylon by that
Society; or °

(111) has been produced in an approved estate:
and—

(aa) is of an approved quantity andi
intended for sale at a London.
tea auction, or: 9

(ab) is of an approved quantity and is:
tea other than that described’

in the preceding provisions: of |

this sub-section; == -
(c) such tea is of a quality suitable for export; and’

(zd) such person has not contravened any provision:
of this Act.

(2) Where any tea is to be exported from Ceylon for:
sale at a London tea auction, the Commissioner. shall.
state that fact in the permit under this section.
authorising the export of that tea... |

(3) Every application for a permit under this sections
shall be in the prescribed form. dared] Ta

(4) Where a person to whom a permit is issued under
this section contravenes any provision of this Act, the:
Commissioner may revoke that permit. |

(5) The Commissioner shall communicate or cause-
to be communicated in writing to the person. concerned
the decision of the Commissioner to refuse the issue-
of a permit for the export of tea or to revoke such a.
permit. me —

-

Conditions ta
be fulfilled:
before the:
issue of
permits, the
grounds of
revocation of
permits, etc:


Appeal from
decision,
declaration or
determination
of the

WComunissioner.

8 Tea (Tax and Control of Export)
Act, No. 16 of 1959

’ (6) No person shall be registered as an exporter of
tea by the Commissioner for the purposes of this Act—

(a) unless the Commissioner is satisfied that such
person—

(i) has an adequate organisation, sufficient ©
financial resources and_ suitable
premises for engaging in the business
of an exporter of tea, and

(ii) has not contravened any provision of this
Act; and

(b) except upon an application made in that behalf
by such person to the Commissioner in the
prescribed form.

(7) The Commissioner may cancel the registration
of any person as an exporter of tea if he is satisfied
that such person—

(a) has ceased to have an adequate organisation,
sufficient financial resources or suitable
premises for carrying on the business of an
exporter of tea, or

(b) has contravened any provision of this Act.

(8) The Commissioner shall communicate or cause ,
to be communicated in writing to the person concerned
the decision of the Commissioner to refuse registration
as an exporter of tea or to cancel such registration.

(9) The Commissioner shall, in respect of each
Spproves estate, determine and notify in writing to
the owner of that estate the maximum quantity of tea
from that estate which may be exported from Ceylon
during any period specified by the Commissioner in the
notification.

(10) Any quantity of tea which forms part of the
maximum quantity of tea determined for any period
under sub-section (9) in respect of an approved estate
shall, for the purposes of sub-section (1), be an
approved quantity of tea in respect of that estate for
that period.

9. (1) Any person aggrieved by any decision,
declaration or determination of the Commissioner
under this Act may, within fourteen days after the.
communication of such decision or determination to
such person or, in the case of a declaration, -within
fourteen days after the declaration is published in the
Gazette, appeal in writing from such decision,

declaration or determination to the Minister.


rae)

Tea (Tax and Control of Export) i)
Act, No. 16 of 1959

(2) The Minister shall, before deciding any appeal
made under sub-section (1), give the person making
the appeal the opportunity of placing his case before
the Minister either in person or by his representative.

(3) The decision of the Minister on any appeal made
under this section shall be final and shall not be called
in question in any court.

10. Every person to whom a permit is issued under
this Act for the export from Ceylon of any tea which
is sold on any day at a Colombo tea auction shall export
such tea within a period of three months after such
day: | -

Provided that, where the Commissioner is satisfied
that such person is unable by reason of circumstances
beyond his control to export such tea within such
period, the Commissioner shall extend such period, and
such person shall export such tea within such extended
period.

41. No person to whom a permit is issued under
this Act shall export, under the authority of that
permit, tea of a quality different from that described
in that permit.

42. (1) Where any tea is sold at a Colombo tea
auction, the person who is the owner of the tea at the
time of the sale shall, not later than three working
days after the date of the sale, state in writing to
the Commissioner the description, quantity, and sale
price per pound of such tea, and the name and
address of the purchaser.

(2) Where any tea exported from Ceylon for sale at
a London tea auction is sold at such an auction, the
person who is the owner of the tea at the time of the
sale shall, not later than fourteen days after the date
of the sale, state in writing to the Commissioner the
description, quantity and sale price per pound of such
tea, and the name and address of the purchaser.

(3) Every person to whom a permit is issued under
this Act shall, not later than ten working days after
the date of the export of the tea referred to in the
permit, state in writing to the Commissioner the des-
cription and quantity of the tea exported by him under
the authority of the permit.

Time within
which tea sold
at a Colombo
tea auction
shall be
exported.

Tea different
from that
specified in

a permit not
to be exported.

Information to
be given to the
Commissioner
by owners of
tea sold at a
Colombo tea
auction or 2
London tea
auction and by
exporters of
tea.


Appointment of
Commissioner
and other
officers and
servants,

Power of 2
Commissioner
and other
officers to
inspect
premises, &c.

10 Tea (Tax and Control of Export)
Act, No. 16 of 1959

13. There may be appointed for the purposes of
this Act— :

(a) a person, by name or by office, to be or to act
as the Commissioner of Tea Exports; and

_ (b) such other officers and servants as may be
required for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this Act.

14, For the purpose of carrying out the provisions
of this Act, the Commissioner or any officer authorised
in that behalf by the Commissioner in writing may—

(z) give such directions in writing as he may think
fit to any person in respect of the conduct of
any Colombo tea auction;

(6) enter and inspect at all reasonable hours by day
or night any premises where he has reasonable
cause to believe that any books or records
containing any entries relating to sales of tea
at a Colombo tea auction are kept, or tea
intended for sale or sold at a Colombo tea
auction or intended for export is kept;

(c) take copies of any such entries;

(@) interrogate any person whom he has reasonable
cause to believe is the owner of tea sold at a
Colombo tea auction or an exporter of tea or
the employee of such owner or exporter;

(e), interrogate any employee in Ceylon of the Eng-
lish and Scottish Joint Co-operative Whole-
sale Society Ltd;

(f) give a direction in writing to any person to
furnish before a date specified in the direction
such information as he may require;

(g) give a direction in writing to any person to
produce before a date specified in the direc-
tion such documentary or other evidence as
he may require for the purpose of verifying

_any information furnished by such person;
and

(h) remove from any premises where tea intended
for sale or sold at a Colombo tea auction or
intended for export is kept, a sample of tea
for the purpose of testing the quality of such
tea. Cy a


Tea (Lax and. Controt of Export) 11
Act, No. 16 of 1959

45. (1) The Minister may make regulations in
respect of the following matters :—

(a) all matters which are required by this Act to be

prescribed ;

(b) the payment of allowances to persons employed
in carrying out the provisions of this Act;

(c) the procedure to be observed in the hearing of
appeals made under section 9; and

(d) all matters necessary for carrying out the
provisions of this Act.

(2) Every regulation made under this section shall
be published in the Gazette and shall come into
operation upon such publication.

(3) Every regulation made under this section shall
be brought before the Senate and the House of
Representatives, as soon as may be practicable after
the publication of the regulation under sub-section (2),
by a motion that such regulation shall be approved.

(4) Any regulation made under this section which
the Senate or the House of Representatives refuses to
approve shall be deemed to be rescinded but without

prejudice to the validity of anything previously done.
thereunder or to the making of any new regulation.
The date on which such regulation shall so be deemed.

to be rescinded shall be the date on which the Senate
or the House of Representatives refuses to approve
the regulation. at veh

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation
made under this section is deemed under sub-section
(4) to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

46. (1) Any person who—
(a) contravenes any provision of this Act,

(6) furnishes, for the purposes of this Act, any

information which is, or any document the

contents of which are, or any part of the
contents of which is, to his knowledge untrue
or incorrect, or 5

(c) does not comply with any direction ‘iven by the

Commissioner or any other officer in the
exercise of his powers under section 14, , «

shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a
fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or to imprison-
ment of either description for a term not exceeding
six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment.

Regulations:.

Offencen.


Offences by
bodies of .
persons,

No prosecution
without the

sanction of the
Commissioner.

Compounding
of offences.

Delegation of
powers and

duties of the
Commissioner.

Suspension of
certain provi-
sions of the
Tea Control
Act, No. 51
of 1957.

12 Tea (Tax and Control of Export)
Act, No. 16 of 1959

(2) On conviction of any person for failure to pay
any tax under this Act, the Magistrate may, in
addition to any other punishment which he may
impose, order such person to pay such tax, and such
tax may be recovered as though it were a fine imposed
by the Magistrate.

47. Where an offence under this Act is committed
by a body of persons, then,—

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate,
every director and officer of that body
corporate,

(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner
of that firm, and

that body of persons is the English and
Scottish Joint Co-operative Wholesale
Society Ltd, the person for the time being
holding the office of Manager in Ceylon of
that Society,

(c) if

shall be guilty of such offence:

Provided that a director or an officer of such body
corporate, or a partner of such firm, or the person for
the time being holding the office of Manager in Ceylon
of that Society shall not be deemed to be guilty of such
offence if he proves that such offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

48. No prosecution for an offence under this Act
shall be instituted except by, or with the written
sanction of, the Commissioner.

49. The Commissioner may compound any offence
under this Act by accepting from the offender such
sum as the Commissioner may deem adequate. All
sums received by the Commissioner under this section
shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

20. The Commissioner may delegate any of his
powers and duties under this Act to any officer
appointed for the purposes of this Act.

21. During the operation of this Act, the Tea
Control Act, No. 51 of 1957, shall have effect as
though— )

(a) sections 25, 26 and 27 of that Act were
repealed;


Tea (Tax and Control of Export) 13
Act, No. 16 of 1959

(b) in section 37 of that Act—

(i) there were omitted from paragraph (a)
of sub-section (1) of that section the
expression ‘‘for a licence under
section 26 or ’’ and the expression “‘ @
licence issued under section 26 or ”’;
and

(ii) there were omitted from sub-section (2)
of that section the expression ‘* for a
licence under section 26 or ”’ and the
expression ‘‘ licence or ”’.

22. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires ,—

‘approved estate’? means an estate the tea
produced in which has hitherto been exported
from Ceylon;

‘© Colombo tea auction ’’ means a tea auction held by
the Colombo Tea Traders’ Association ;

‘“ Commissioner ’’? means the person for the time
being holding the office of Commissioner of
Tea Exports;

‘* London tea auction ’’ means a tea auction held by
the Tea Brokers Association of London;

‘* owner ’’ includes his accredited agent;

ce +9

tea’? means tea manufactured from the leaves,
leaf buds or immature stalk of the tea plant
grown in Ceylon, but does not include refuse

tea; and

‘“‘ working days ’’ mean days other than Sundays,
Bank Holidays or Public Holidays.

Interpretation.
