PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
. SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
ACT, No. 6 OF 1997

[Certified on 5th June, 1997]

Printed on the Order of Government

2 ee ae

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 06, 1997
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price : Rs.16.80 _ _ Postage : Rs. 4.60


Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

(Certified on 5th June, 1997)
L. D. — 0.39/96.

An ACT TO ENABLE THE MONETARY BOARD OF THE CENTRAL
BANK TO ESTABLISH DEVELOPMENT BANKS FOR SPECIFIED
REGIONS WITH A VIEW TO DEVELOPING THE ECONOMY OF THE
REGION BY PROVIDING, FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
INDUSTRY, TRADE, COMMERCE AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITIES IN THAT REGION ; TO VEST THE BUSINESS OF
REGIONAL RurAt DEVELOPMENT BANKS SITUATED IN SUCH
SPECIFIED REGIONS IN THE CORRESPONDING DEVELOPMENT
BANKS; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTIAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Regional Development
Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997.

PARTI

ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT BANKS FOR SPECIFIED
REGIONS

2. (1) Where the Minister, on the recommendation of
Monetary Board of the Central Bank (hereinafter referred to
as “the Monetary Board”) decides that it is necessary that a
Development Bank (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”) be
established for a specified region for the purpose of developing
the economy of such region by providing for the development
of agriculture, industry, trade, commerce and other
developmentactivities, within that region, the Monetary Board
shall by Order (hereinafter referred to as the “Incorporation
Order”) published in the Gazette—

(a) declare that a Bank be established for the region
specified in paragraph (c), for the purpose of
developing the economy of that region by providing
for the development of agriculture, industry,
commerce and other development activities in that
region ;

2—D 042682—5.500 (97/04)

Short title.

Incorporation
Order for
establishment of a
Development
Bank for a
specified region.


Principal place of
business,
branches and
agencies of the
Bank.

Object of the
Bank.

Powers of the
Bank.

2 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

(6) assign a corporate name to the Bank ;

(c) specify the region within which the Bank shall
operate ;

(d) spécify the principal place of business of the Bank ;
and

(e) fix a date on which the Bank shall commence
business.

(2) The Bank shall, by the name assigned to it by the
Incorporation Order, be a body corporate and shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal, and may sue and be
sued in such name.

3. (1) The principal place of business of the Bank, shall be

__as Specified in the Incorporation Order.

(2) The Bank may where the Board of Directors of the
Bank considers it necessary so to do, establish its branches and
agencies at any place within the region in which it operates as
specified in the Incorporation Order.

4, The object of the Bank shall be to provide for the overall
economic development of the region within which it operates,
with special emphasis on promoting and developing the
agriculture, industry, trade, commerce and fisheries activities,
and projects of Samurdhi beneficiaries, of that region and
development projects undertaken by the Provincial Councils,
Pradeshiya Sabhas and any other local authority in that region.

5, The Bank may, subject to the provisions of this Act, and
without prejudice to any powers conferred on it by or under
any law, exercise al] or any of the following powers :—

(a) to grant short term, medium term and long term loans
and other accommodation to individuals, corporate
bodies and groups ;

(b) to open, maintain and manage, bank accounts, other
than current accounts, for its customers ;


Regional Development Banks Act, No.6 of 1997 3

(c)

(h)

(é)

G

—

(k
(i

—

(m)

to discount, buy, sell and deal in, bills of exchange,
promissory notes, drafts, shares, debentures,
certificates, scrips and other instruments and
securities ;

to negotiate loans and advances ;

to receive securities and valuables for safe custody ;

to collect and transmit money and securities ;

to manage property both movable and immovable,
and carry on agency businesses which licensed
commercial banks are permitted to carry on under
the Banking Act , No. 30 of 1988 ;

to borrow or raise money in such manner as the Bank
shall think fit, and to secure the prompt repayment of
any money borrowed, raised or owing, by mortgage,
charge or lien upon the whole or any part of the
property or assets of the Bank, whether present or
future, and, also by a similar mortgage, charge or lien
to secure and guarantee the performance by the Bank
of any obligation or liability it may undertake ;

to lend and advance money on security of property and
give credit to persons, groups of persons, firms or
companies on such terms as it may deem expedient,
either with or without security ;

to assist and promote the marketing and processing of
agricultural produce or any other products ;

to carry on the business of a pawn broker ;

to acquire or purchase any movable or immovable
property or agricultural, industrial, fisheries,
commercial or other enterprises and to manage, or
arrange for the management of, any such property or
enterprise, and to sell or otherwise dispose of, such
property or enterprise ;

to undertake rural development projects which are of
a small-scale, including pilot projects, in order to
achieve the object of the Bank ;


4

Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of | 997

(n) to assist in promoting the development of the region

(o

(p

.C

(r

(s

)

—

)

—

—

(t)

(u

—

within which it operates by providing encouragement
tosuch activities as tree planting as part of ecological
improvement, and the improvement of villages and
generally ,to provide advisory assistance which serves
the object of the Bank ;

to undertake and promote the construction of ware-
houses, godowns, stores and buildings in the region
within which it operates, required for agricultural,
industrial, fisheries, trading and commercial activi-
ties ;

to enter into any agreement with any banking
institution or co-operative society, subject to
guidelines formulated by the Board of Directors of
the Bank, for taking over any undertaking or
project which is being financed by such banking
institution or co-operative society or which is being
carried on by such banking institution or co-operative
society ;

to open accounts with the Central Bank, with any
licensed commercial bank or any licensed specialised
bank or co-operative society or with the approval of
the Monetary Board, in any bank or financial
institution outside Sri Lanka;

to lease, let on hire, sell out right, or sell on a rent
purchase basis, warehouses, godowns, stores and
buildings in the region within which it operates,
machinery, equipment and other goods;

to acquire in any manner whatsoever and hold, take or
give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge, sell or
otherwise dispose of, any movable or immovable
property;

to participate in the development of the infrastructure
of the region within which it operates;

to liaise with other institutions engaged in promoting,

developing or financing developmental activities in
the region within which it operates;


Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997 5

(v) to provide advisory services, to and undertake
skills training of, self employed persons or those
engaged in agriculture, industry, commerce and
trade ;

(w

—

to develop and manage industrial parks for small and
medium scale enterprises ;

(x) to appoint such officers and servants as may be neces-
sary for carrying out the activities of the Bank, to fix
the wages, salaries or other remuneration of such
officers and servants and determine the terms and
conditions of service of such officers and servants ;

O

—

to provide welfare and recreational facilities, and
accommodation facilities, to officers and servants
employed by the Bank ;

(z

—

to enter into and perform all such contracts, whether in
or outside Sri Lanka, as may be necessary for the
exercise of the powers and the performance of the
duties of the Bank ;

(aa) to make rules in relation to its officers and servants
including their appointment, promotion,
remunernation, disciplinary control and the grant of
leave to them ;

(bb) to make rules in respect of the administration of the
affairs of the Bank ; and

(ce) to do all such other things which in the opinion of the

Board of Directors of the Bank may be necessary to

facilitate the proper carrying on of the business of the
Bank.

PART II
MANAGEMENT OF THE BANK

6. (1) The management and administration of the affairs
and business of the Bank shall vest in a Board of Directors
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”).

(2) The Board may exercise, all the powers of the Bank
under this Act or any other.law, and do all acts and things
which it is authorised to do and perform under this Act or such
other law as the case may be.

3—D 042682

Board of
Directors.


6 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

(3) The Board shall in exercising its powers act on sound
business principles and have due regard to the economic
development of the region within which the Bank operates.

Constitution of 7. (1) The Board shall consist of not less than five and not
the Board. more than twelve nominated and elected directors, nominated
or elected as the case may be, under section 8 or 9 of this Act.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),
until the first Annual General Meeting of the Bank is held, the
Board shall consist only of the nominated directors.
. 8. (1) The Minister shall nominate as directors of the
Nominated
Di Board :—
rectors.

(a) an officer of the Central Bank on the recommendation
of the Monetary Board, where the Central Bank
holds not less than eight per centum of the issued
share capital of the Bank :

Provided that the Central Bank shall, until such
time as it makes its contribution under subsection (3)
of section 18, be deemed to be a shareholder of the
Bank holding shares in excess of eight per centum of
the issued share capital of the Bank, and be entitled
to have a director nominated on its behalf in the
Board under this paragraph ;

(b) anofficer of the Bank of Ceylon on the recommendation
of the Board of Directors of such Bank, where the
Bank of Ceylon holds not less than eight per centum
of the issued share capital of the bank;

(c) anofficer of the People’s Bank on the recommendation
of the Board of Directors of such Bank, where the
People’s Bank holds not less than eight per centunt”
of the issued share capital of the Bank;

(d) an officer of the National Savings Bank on the
recommendation of the Board of Directors of such
Bank, where the National Savings Bank holds not
less than eight per centum of the issued share capital
of the Bank ;


Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997 7

(e) an officer of the Central Bank to represent the Em-
ployees Provident Fund, on the recommendation of
the Monetary Board, where such Fund holds not less
than eight per centum of the issued share capital of
the Bank ; and

(f) a person who has distinguished himself in the field of
business, commerce, agriculture, industry or finance
and who has an abiding interest in the developmet of
the region within which the Bank operates.

A person nominated as a director under this subsection, is
hereinafter referred to as a “nominated director”.

(2) Anominated director shall hold office for a term of four
years:

Provided however, where any institution referred to in
subsection (1), ceases to hold the qualifying percentage of
shares the director representing such institution shall resign
his office and where such director so fails to resign, the
Minister shall remove such director from office.

(3) The Minister may without assigning any reason therefor
remove a nominated director from office.

(4) A nominated director may resign from his office by a
letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister.

(5) Where a nominated director is temporarily unable to
perform the duties of his office by reason of ill-health or other
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, the Minister may in
_ consultation with the Board of Directors of the institution
which such director represents or the Monetary Board, as the
case may be, nominate another person to act as his alternate at
Board meetings and the person so nominated shall have aright
to vote at such meetings.


Elected
directors.

8 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

(6) In the event of the vacation of office by death,
resignation or removal of a nominated director, otherwise
than by resignation or removal under the proviso to subsection
(2), the Minister shal! nominate in accordance with the provi-
sions of subsection (1) another person to represent the insti-
tution which such person vacating office had represented. The
person so nominated shall hold office for the unexpired part of
the term of office of the nominated director whom he succeeds.

9, (1) The elected Directors of the Board shall be elected
by the shareholders of the Bank (other than the share holders
referred to in subsection (1) of section 8) at every Annual
General Meeting of the shareholders of the Bank on the basis
of one member for every such eight per centum of the total
issued share capital of the Bank as is held by such shareholders,
so however, that the number of directors so elected shall not
exceed the difference between the maximum number of
directors of the Board specified under section 7 and the
number of directors that may be nominated by the Minister
under section 8.

(2) The shareholders of the Bank who are entitled to elect
any elected director under subsection (1), may at a meeting of
such shareholders convened at the request of one-eighth of the
number of shareholders who are entitled to elect the elected
directors of the Board under subsection (1), remove an elected
director from office and elect another director in his place.

(3) An elected director may resign his office by letter
addressed to the Chairman of the Board in that behalf.

(4) Where an elected director is temporarily unable to
preform the duties of his office by reason of ill-health or other
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, such director may with
the concurrence of the Board appoint another person to act as
his alternate at Board meetings and the person so appointed
shall have a right to vote at such meetings.


Regional Development Banks Act, No.6 of 1997 9

(5) Inthe event of the vacation of office by removal, death
or resignation of an elected director or in the event of the
number of elected directors required to be elected being
increased as a result of an increase in the share holdings of the
share holders (other than the shareholders referred to in
subsection (1) of section 8) the Board may appoint another
person to fill such vacancy or appoint a new member to the
Board, as the case may be, and the person so appointed shall
hold office until the first Annual General Meeting of the Bank
to be held after such appointment, at which meeting he shall
be eligible for re-election as a director.

(6) Atevery Annual General Meeting of the shareholders
of the Bank, one-third of the elected directors or where the
number of elected directors is not three or a multiple of three,
then the number nearest to one-third of that number, shall
vacate office and other persons elected to, fill such vacancy
or vacancies, as the case may be, unless the shareholders
(other than the institutions referred to in subsection (1) of
section 8) expressly resolve not to fill such vacancy or
vacancies or the share holdings of the shareholders (other than
the institutions referred to in subsection (1) of section 8), on
the day preceding the date of such meeting do not justify the
filling of such vacancy.

(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1), (5)
and (6) of this section, in the event of any of the institutions
referred to in subsection (1) of section 8 holding less than the
precentage of issued share capital specified in respect of each
of those institutions in paragraphs (a), (b) (c), (d) (e) and (f}
of that subsection which entitles them to have a nominated
director in the Board, such institutions shall be entitled to elect
an elected director under subsections (1), (5) or (6) as the case
may be together with the shareholders referred to therein.

(8) The elected director or directors who shall retire under
subsection (6) shall be the director or directors who have
served longest in office as at the date of the Annual General
Meeting referred to in that subsection but as between elected
directors who have served for periods of equal length at that
date, the director who shall retire shall be determined by lot
drawn by the Chairman of the meeting.


The First
Board of
Directors.

Chairman of the
Board.

Remuneration of
Directors.

10 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

(9) A retiring elected director shall be eligible for re-
election.

10. (1) The First Board of Directors to be constituted for
the Bank shall consist of nominated directors nominated in the
manner specified in section 8 of this Act, and such Board shall
continue to function. as the Board of Directors of the Bank
until such time as the election of elected directors under
section 9 at an Annual General Meeting of the shareholders to
be held at any time thereafter.

(2) The provisions of section 8 relating to vacation of
office by death, resignation or removal and the temporary
absence of a nominated member of the Board, shall apply to
and in respect of the members of the First Board of Directors.

11. (1) The Board shall elect one of the directors of the
Board as the Chairman of the Board.

(2) If the Chairman is by reason of illness, infirmity or
absence from Sri Lanka temporarily unable to perform the
duties of his office, the Board shall elect another Director to
act in his place.

(3) The Board may, without assigning any reason therefor,

terminate the appointment of the Chairman of the Board and

such termination shall not be called in question in any court.

(4) The Chairman may resign from his office by letter
addressed to the Board.

(5) Subjectto the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) the
term of office of the Chairman shall be his period of membership
of the Board.

12. Until the First Annual General Meeting is held under
section 10 of this Act, the directors may be paid such
remuneration out of the funds of the Bank as may be determined
by the Minister. Thereafter the remuneration to be paid to the
directors shall be as determined by the shareholders of the
Bank at every Annual General Meeting.


Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997 11

13. A director who is directly or indirectly interested in a
contract proposed to be made by the Bank shall disclose the
nature of his interest at a meeting of the Board. The disclosure
shatl be recorded in the minutes of such Board, and that
director shall not take part in any deliberation or decision of
such Board with respect to such contract.

14. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall,-if present
preside at every meeting of the Board. In the absence of the
Chairman from any such meeting, the directors present shall
elect one of the directors present, to preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board where the
total number of directors (both elected and nominated direc-
tors) is eight or less than eight, shall be three directors and
where the said total number of directors is more than eight
shall be five directors.

(3) The person presiding at any meeting of the Board shall,
in addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) the
Board may regulate the procedure in regard to the meetings of
the Board and the transaction of business at such meetings.

15. No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid by

reason only of the existence of any vacancy among the
directors, or any defect in the appointment or election of a
director.

16. (1) The Board may from time to time delegate to the
General-Manager or any other officer or servant of the Bank
any of its powers and duties.

(2) Every person to whom any power or duty is delegated
under subsection (1) shall exercise or perform such power or
duty delegated to him subject to such terms and conditions as
may be specified by the Board and the Board may revoke or
withdraw such power or duty so delegated.

Director to
disclose interest
in contract
proposed to be
made by the
Bank.

Meetings of the
Board, quorum
and regulation of
procedure.

Acts of the Board
not to be invalid
by reason of any
vacancy.

Delegation of
powers and duties
of the Board.


Seal of the Bank.

Authorised
capital and
contributions
to the initial
capital.

12 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

17. (1) The seal of the Bank shall be in the custody of the
Chairman or any other officer authorised by him.

(2) The seal of the Bank may be altered in such manner as
may be determined by the Board.

(3) The seal of the Bank shall not be affixed to any
instrumentexcept in the presence of two directors of the Board
or one director of the Board and the General Manager, both of
whom shall sign the instrument in token of their presence.

PART III

FINANCE

18. (1) The authorised share capital of the Bank shall be
five hundred million rupees divided into fifty million shares of
ten rupees each.

(2) Each of the following institutions, namely —

(a) the Bank of Ceylon ;

(b) the People’s Bank ;

(c) the National Savings Bank ; and
{d) the Employees Provident Fund,

. shall, not later than two weeks from the date of the publication

of the Incorporation Order relating to the establishment of the
Bank, make a contribution of such sum of money as may be
determined by the Minister, being a sum not exceeding twelve
million rupees, to the initial capital of such Bank, and such
institution shall by virtue of such contribution, become a
shareholder of the bank, and be allotted shares in the Bank in
proportion to it’s contribution.

(3) The Central Bank shall make a contribution to the
initial capital of the Bank of such sum of money as may be
determined by the Monetary Board with the concurrence of
the Minister, having regard to the net worth of the Vesting
Bank or Banks after such net worth has been ascertained by the
‘fonetary Board under section 47 of this Act, and—


Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997 13

(a) where the contribution so determined in respect of a
Bank is equivalent to or less than the net worth of
such Vesting Bank or Banks, the net worth upto the
value of the sum so determined, shall be deemed to
be the contribution by the Central Bank to the initial
capital of such Bank, and the difference between
such net worth and the contribution deemed to be
made shall be dealt with in manner provided for in
section 48 ;

(b) where the contribution so determined in respect of a
Bank is more than the net worth of such Vesting
Bank or Banks, such net worth shall be deemed to be
a part of the contribution of the Central Bank to the
initial capital in such Bank, and the Central Bank
shall contribute a further sum equivalent to the
difference between such net worth and the contribu-
tion so determined for that Bank.

(4) By virtue of the contribution made under subsection
(3), Central Bank shall become a shareholder of the Bank and
be allotted shares in proportion to the contribution made by it.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3) where
a Bank is established under this Act for a specified region in
which a Regional Rural Development Bank has not been
established, the Centrat Bank shall contribute to the Capital of
such Bank not later than two weeks from the date of
establishmentof such Bank, asum determined by the Monetary
Board with the concurrence of the Minister, and shall thereby
become a shareholder of such Bank and be allotted shares in
such Bank in proportion to its contribution.

(6) The shareholders referred to in subsection (2) may in
their discretion, contribute further capital or purchase shares
in the Bank, in excess of the sum determined by the Minister
as contribution to be made by such shareholders to the initial
capital of that Bank.

19. (1)The Board may on its own oron therecommendation
of the Monetary Board offer such of the shares referred to in
subsection (1) of section 18 as have not been allotted under
subsection (2) of that section, to any licensed commercial
bank, licensed specialised bank or to any other person, at such
time or times, in such amount or amounts, and in such manner,
as may be determined by the Board.

4—D 042682

Bank to offer
shares to
others.


Transfer of
shares by
shareholders
of the Bank.

Borrowings
from the
Government.

Borrowings
from foreign
Governments
&c.

General

Reserve Fund.

Special
Reserve
Fund.

Development
Fund.

14 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

(2) Where any licensed commercial bank acquires any
shares in the Bank, the provisions of section 17a of the
Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 shall not apply in respect of the
acquisition and holding of such shares by such licensed
commercial banks.

20. The shareholders of the Bank including the shareholders
who made contributions to the initial capital of the Bank under
section 18, shall have the power to transfer their shares to any
other person.

21. The Bank may, from time to time, borrow from the
Government, and the Government may, from time to time,
lend to the Bank through the Central Bank from the
Consolidated Fund any sum of money approved by Parliament
subject to such terms and conditions as may be determined by
the Government.

22. The Bank may, with the written prior approval of the
Monetary Board granted in concurrence with the Minister
from time to time, borrow from any foreign Government, or
any other source whatsoever outside Sri Lanka, any sum of
money on such terms and conditions as to the interest thereon,
and the repayment thereof, as may be approved by the Mon-
etary Board with the Concurrence of the Minister.

23. The Bank shall establish a General Reserve Fund and
shall credit to such Fund every year such percentage of its
annual profits as may be determined by the Board.

24. The Bank shall establish a Special Reserve Fund for
bad and doubtful debts, and shall credit to such Fund every
year, such percentage of its annual profits as may be determined
by the Board.

25. (1) The Bank shall establish and maintain a fund
called the “Development Fund” and shall credit to such fund
every year, such percentage of its annual profits as may be
determined by the Board, and any monies received by the
Bank as grants or donations from local and foreign sources.


Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997 15.

(2) The monies lying to the credit of the Development Fund
may be used—

(a) to grant financial accommodation to, or purchase
equity in, highrisk enterprises with potential viability
in the long term ;

(b) to secure technological and other expertise relevant to
the activities of the Bank with a view to making them
available to customers of the Bank.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2)
monies consisting of any grant or donation received from any
local or foreign source and which is credited to the Fund under
subsection (1), shall be utilised only in accordance with such
terms and conditions subject to which such grant or donation
was made.

(4) Any such monies lying to the credit of the Development
Fund as are not immediately required for any of the purposes
referred to in subsection (2), may be invested by the Board.

26. The Bank shall utilise for the purpose of payment of
dividends to shareholders such percentage of its annual profits
as may be determined by the Board.

27. The Bank shall be exempt from the payment of income
tax upon the profits and income of the Bank, for a period of two
years from the date of commencement of its business.

28. (1) Any loan granted by the Bank shall be on security
and other terms and conditions as may be determined by the
Board.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1),
the Board may, in its discretion, grant loans without security
in any cases in which the Board, for reasons to be recorded by
it in writing, decides that such security is not necessary.

Payments of
dividends.

Exemption of
Bank from
income tax.

Security on
which foans
may be granted’
by the Bank.


General
Manager.

Staff of the
Bank.

Financial year
and Annual
General
Meeting.

16 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997
PART IV
STAFF

29. (1) The Board may appoint a person who has extensive
experience in banking or finance and who —

(a) holds a degree from a recognised University; or

(b) has full professional qualifications in accountancy,
banking or any other relevant field,

to be the General-Manager of the Bank, on such terms and
conditions of service as the Board shall determine.

(2) The General-Manager shall be the chief executive
officer of the Bank and shall conduct, manage and administer
the affairs of the Bank subject to the general direction,
supervision and control of the Board and assist the Bank in
achieving the object of the Bank.

30. (1) The Board may appoint such other officers and
servants as it considers necessary for the efficient discharge of
its functions.

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection
(1) shall be remunerated in such manner and at such rates and
shall be subject to such terms and conditions of service as may
be determined by the Board.

PART V
AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS OF THE BANK

31, (1) The financial year of the Bank shall be the calendar
year.

(2) The Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of the
Bank shall be held not later than six months from the end of
each financial year.


Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 199717

32. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to
be kept of income and expenditure, the assets and liabilities
and of all other financial transactions of the Bank.

(2) Within one month of the expiration of each financial
year of the Bank the Board shall prepare in respect of that
financial year —

(a) a balance sheet as at the last working day ;
(b) a profit and loss account.

33. (1) The shareholders of the Bank shall at each Annual
General Meeting of the Bank appoint a qualified auditor as the
auditor of the Bank and he shall hold office from the conclusion
of that meeting until the conclusion of the next Annual
General Meeting :

Provided that, the First Board of Directors of the Bank
referred to in section 10 shall at their first meeting appoint a
qualified auditor to hold office as the auditor of the Bank until
the holding of the First Annual General Meeting of the
shareholders thereafter.

(2) For the purpose of this section “qualified auditor”
means a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners of
which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or any other Institute established by
law, possesses a certificate to practise as an Accountant issued
by the Council of such Institute.

34. (1) The auditor shall inspect the accounts, the finance,
the management of the finance of the Bank, and where
necessary examine —

(a) whether the conduct of the financial affairs of the
Bank has been done in accordance with the provisions
of this Act, and any rules made under the Act relating
to the same ;

(b) whether maintenance of accounts by the Board is
satisfactory ; and

Board to keep
proper books
of accounts
and prepare
balance sheet
and profit and
loss account.

Appointment
of qualified
auditor.

Duties and
functions of
the auditor


Documents

to be
transmitted to
the Minister to
be laid before
Parliament.

Rules to be
made in
respect of
maintaining
accounts.

18 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

(c) whether the accounts audited (including the balance
sheet and the profit and loss account prepared by the
Board) have been so designed as to presenta true and
fair view of the affairs of the Bank in respect of the
period under consideration, due regard being had on
principles of accounting, financing and valuation.

(2) The auditor shall make a report on the accounts
examined by him and on the balance sheet and the profit and
loss account prepared by the Board.

(3) The report of the auditor shall be laid before the
shareholders of the Bank at its Annual General Meeting and
Shall be open for inspection by any shareholder.

35. (1) The Board shall on the conclusion of every Annual
General Meeting of the Bank, cause a copy each of the
following documents which were considered by the
shareholders at such Meeting, to be transmitted to the
Minister —

(a) the balance sheet ;
(6) the profit and loss account ;
(c) the auditors report ; and

(a) a report of the Chairman of the Board, giving an
account of the performance of the Bank during the
financial year in respect of which accounts have been
prepared.

(2) The Minister shall where not less than fifty per centum
of the issued capital of the Bank is owned by Government or
any public corporation cause copies of the documents
transmitted to him under subsection (1) to be laid before
Parliament.

36. Rules may be made by the Board to provide for matters
to be shown in the balance sheet, the profit and loss account,
the manner in which-books of accounts should be maintained
by the Board, remuneration of auditors and all other matters
pertaining to the audit of accounts of the Bank.


Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997 19
PART VI

GENERAL

37. The provisions of the following written laws shall not
apply to the Bank :-—~

(a) the Money Lending Ordinance ;
(b) the Debt Conciliation Ordinance ; and
{c) the Pawn Brokers Ordinance.

38. The Bank shall be deemed to be an approved credit
agency within the meaning of the Mortgage Act (Chapter 89).

39. Notwithstanding anything in the Stamp Duty Act,
No. 43 of 1982, any instrument required or authorised to be
made or executed by the Bank or any instrument made or
executed in connection with the business of the Bank by the
Bank, and any instrument made or executed by any other
person in favour of the Bank in respect of any security for a
loan, shali be exempt from the payment of duty under that Act.

40. Every Director, officer or other employee of the Bank
shall be indemnified by the Bank against all losses and
expenses incurred by him or in relation to the discharge of his
duties, except such as are caused by his wilful act or default.

41. (1) Every Director, auditor, officer or servant or agent
or other person employed in the business of the Bank, shall
before entering upon his duties sign a declaration pledging
himself to observe strict secrecy, respecting all transactions of
the Bank, its customers, the state of accounts with any person
or institution and all matters relating thereto, and shall by such
declaration pledge himself not to reveal any other matters
which may come to his knowledge in the discharge of his
duties except—

(a) when required so to do. —
(i) by the Board;
(ii) by a court of law;
(iii) by the person to whom such matters relate; or
(iv) by the Monetary Board;

Certain

written laws
not to apply
to the Bank.

The Bank
deemed to be
an approved
credit agency.

Exemption
from stamp
duty.

Indemnity of
directors &c.

Declaration
of secrecy.


Rules.

Bank to be a
“lending
institution”
“Bank” and
“licensed
specialised
Bank”.

20 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

(6) in the performance of his duties; or
(c) in order to comply with any of the provisions of this
Act or any other law.

(2) Every Director, auditor, officer or servant, agent, or
other person employed in the business of the Bank shall
decline to answer any question concerning the business of the
Bank if he cannot answer the question without infringing his
pledge of secrecy under subsection (1).

(3) Every Director, auditor, officer or servant, agent or
other person employed in the business of the Bank who
reveals any information in contravention of a declaration
signed by him under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and shall on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceedin ig two
thousand rupees, notwithstanding that such fine exceeds the
amount of fine a Magistrate may impose in the exercise of his
ordinary jurisdiction.

42. The Board may make rules in respect of all or any
matters for which rules are required or authorised to be made
under this Act or any other matter necessary to enable the
Bank to effectively carry out and perform its powers and
duties under this Act.

43. The Bank shall be—

(a) a “lending institution” within the meaning of and for
the purposes of the Debt Recovery (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 2 of 1990 and the Credit
Information Bureau of Sri Lanka Act, No.18 of
1990 ;

(6) a “bank” within the meaning of and for the purposes
of the Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special
Provisions) Act, No.4 of 1990;

(c) a “licensed specialised bank” within the meaning of
and for the purposes of the Banking Act, No.30 of
1988 and shall be issued witha licence in accordance
with the provisions of that Act to carry on business
at the place specified in the Incorporation Order and
shall be subject to all such directions that may be
issued by the Monetary Board under that Act in
respect of licensed specialised banks ;


22. Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

any or all Regional Rural Development Banks (in this Act
referred to as “Vesting Bank or Banks”) being businesss
which it or they are authorized to carry on under the Regional
Rural Development Banks Act, No. 15 of 1985 and which is
or are operating within the specified region for which such
acquiring bank has been established.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the “business carried
on by any or all Vesting Bank or Banks”, includes—

(a) all immovable and movable property owned by the
Vesting Bank or Banks on, the day preceding to
the date of the Vesting Order (including cash balances,
reserve funds, investments and deposits) ;

(b) allrights, powers, privileges, authorities and interests
arising in, or out of, any property, movable or im-
movable owned by the Vesting Bank or Banks and
any leasehold rights in any immovable property
enjoyed by such Vesting Bank or Banks on the day
preceding the date of the Vesting Order :

(c) all the liabilities of the Vesting Bank or Banks and
subsisting on the day preceding the date of the
Vesting Order ; and

(d) all books, accounts and documents relating or
appertaining, to the business of such Vesting Bank or

Banks.
Effect of a 46. Witheffect from the date of vesting the business of any
Vesting or all Vesting Bank or Banks as the case may be in the

Order. acquiring bank—

(a) the acquiring bank shall have control and possession
of the vested business of the Vesting Bank, or Banks
and become the transferee of the vested business of
such Vesting Bank or Banks; and


t

Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997 23

(b) the Incorporation Order or Orders as the case may be
made under the Regional Rural Developments Banks
Act, No.15 of 1985 by which such vesting Bank or
Banks were established, shall be deemed to have
been revoked.

47. (1) For the purpose of ascertaining the net worth of
the business of any Vesting Bank or Banks on the day
immediately preceding the date of vesting, the Monetary
Board shal! cause an audit of such vested business to be
conducted by a qualified auditor.

(2) The auditor appointed under subsection (1) shall
submit a report to the Monetary Board within such period as
may be specified by that Board and the Monetary Board shall
consider the report and if necessary before accepting such
report, require the auditor to furnish any further information
or explanations as it may consider necessary.

48. (1) Where the net worth of the Vesting Bank or Banks
is inexcess of the contribution made by the Central Bank to the
initial capital of a Bank under paragraph (a) of subsection (3)
of section 18, such Bank shall within two weeks of the net
worth of the Vesting Bank or Banks being accepted by the
Monetary Board under section 47 issue to the Monetary
Board, debentures to the value of such excess, earning interest
at arate of twelve per centum per annum.

(2) The Monetary Board shall be entitled to transfer to any
other person debentures issued to the Monetary Board under
subsection (1), and the transferee of such debentures shall
have the same rights as the Monetary Board in respect of such
debentures.

(3) It shall be the duty of the acquiring bank to redeem any
debentures issued under subsection (1) on the expiry of ten
years from the date on which such debentures were issued.

(4) The Central Bank may at any time acquire at par value
shares equivalent in value to the value of the debentures issued
to the Monetary Board under subsection (1), or any part
thereof and where the Central Bank decides todo so the Board
shall allot to it shares in the Bank in proportion to that value.

Audit of
accounts and
valuation of
vested
business.

Debentures to
be issued to
the Monetary
Board to the
value of
excess net
worth.


24 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

Saving 49, With effect from the date of vesting —
rovision.
Prowsion (a) all contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of

attorney, grants of legal representation and other
instruments of whatever nature pertaining, or relat-
ing to the vested business of the Vesting Bank or
Banks and subsisting, or having effect on the day
immediately preceding the date of vesting and to
which the Vesting Bank or Banks is or are party or
which is or are in favour of the Vesting Bank or
Banks shall be deemed with effect from the date of
vesting to be contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements,
powers of attorney, grants of legal representation or
other instruments entered in to or granted, as the case
may be, by the acquiring bank ;

(6) allactions and proceedings of whatever nature instituted
by or against the Vesting Bank or Banks pertaining
or relating to the vested business of such Bank or
Banks and pending on the day immediately preceding
the date of vesting shall be deemed with effect from
the date of vesting to be actions and proceedings
instituted by or against the acquiring bank and may
be continued or prosecuted accordingly ;

(c) all such officers and servants of the Vesting Bank or
Banks and were holding a permanant post in such
Vesting Bank or Banks on the day immediately
preceding the date of vesting shall be offered
employment with the acquiring bank, and —

(i) where such offer is accepted, such officers and
servants shall be employed therein on such
terms and conditions of employment as the
acquiring bank considers reasonable having
regard to the qualifications and experience of
such officers and servants ; and

(ii) where such offer is not accepted, such officers
and servants shall be entitled to the payment
of compensation as determined under
section 50.


Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997 25

50. Where any officer or servant of the Vesting Bank or
Banks is or are entitled to be paid compensation, the acquiring
bank shall determine the amount of compensation that shall be
paid in consultation with the Commissioner of Labour and
such determination shall be deemed not to affect any rights
such officer or servant may have under any other written law.

51. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

52. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“accommodation” means any loan, overdraft, advance or
any commitment to grant any loan, overdraft, or
advance including a commitment to accept a
contingent liability ;

“Bank of Ceylon” means the Bank of Ceylon established
by the Bank of Ceylon Ordinance (Chapter 397) ;

“banking Institution” means a bank registered under the
Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 ;

“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
established by the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422) ;

“Co-operative Society” means a society registered or
deemed to be registered under the Co-operative
Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972 ;

“Employees Provident Fund” means the Employees
Provident Fund established under the Employees
Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958 ;

“enterprise” means any body of persons, whether corporate
or unincorporate, by whatsoever name or designation
called, and includes a corporation sole or a sole
proprietorship ;

“licensed commercial bank” means a commercial bank
licensed or deemed to be licensed as a licensed
commercial bank under the Banking Act, No. 30 of
1988 ;

Payment of
compensation.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of

inconsistency.

Interpretation.


26 Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997

“licensed specialised bank” means acompany or institution
licensed or deemed to be licensed as a licensed
specialized bank under the Banking Act, No. 30 of
1988 ;

“Monetary Board” means the Monetary Board of the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka established under the
Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422) ;

“National Savings Bank” means the National Savings
Bank established by the National Savings Bank Act,
No. 30 of 1971 ;

“Net worth of the Vested Bank or Banks” means the value
of the assets of the Vesting Bank or Banks vested in
the acquiring bank by virtue of an order made under
section 45 (excluding unrecoverable assets as
determined by the auditor nominated under section
47) less the value of the liabilities of the Vesting
Bank or Banks vested in the acquiring bank, by
virtue of such Order; -

“People’s Bank” means the People’s Bank established by
the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961 ;

“Regional Rural Development Bank or Banks” means a
bank or banks established under the Regional Rural
Development Banks Act, No. 15 of 1985 ;

“region” means one or more of the administrative districts
specified in Administrative Districts Act (Chapter
392) ;

“small scale” in relation to a rural development project
means a project of which the value of the fixed assets
is less than four million rupees; and

“Vested business ” in relation to a Vesting Bank or Banks
means the business of the Bank or Banks which is or
are vested in such acquiring bank by an Order under
section 45.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local),Rs. 1,180

(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT Pus.ications Bureau, No. 32,

Transworks House, Lotus Roap, Cotomso 01 before 15th December each year in
respect of the year following.

_——_—.
