PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

CONSUMER PROTECTION _—
(AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. -34 OF 1992

[Certified on 28th July, 1992]

Printed on the Orders of Government

~

| .
| Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
| Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 31, 1992

|
'

i PRINIED A‘t THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

| TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS. BUREAU, COLOMBO
| Price: 45 Cents. Postage: Re. 1.00


‘Consumer Protection (Amendment)
Act, No. 34 of 1992

[Certified on 28th July, 1992}
L.D.—O 40/89

An Act TO AMEND THE CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT, No. 1 oF
1979

,

BE it enacted by. the Parliament of the “ Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Consumer Protection
(Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 1992.

2. Section 6 of the Consumer Protection Act, No.1 of
1979 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘principal enact
ment ”) is hereby amended by the repeal of subsection (4)
of that section, and the substitution, of the following
subsection therefor :—

“ (4) Any person who removes, alters, obliterates,
‘erases or defaces any label, description or price mark
on any article or sells, or offers for sale, any article

from or on which the label, description or price mark
has been removed, altered, obliterated, erased or

defaced shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.”. |

3. Section 28 of the
amended as follows :—

principal enactment is hereby

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution, of the following subsection

therefor :—

“ (1) Every person who acts in contravention of

any of the provisions of this Act or any regulation’
of an offence

* made thereunder shall be guilty
under this Act.”. |

(2) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (1),
of the following new subsection :—

“(1a). (a) Any person guilty of an offence
under this Act by reason of a contravention of the

provisions of secticn 11 or section 12 or section 13

shall, on conviction before a Magistrate, be liable—
2 AD 016056—s980 (91/09)

Short title. -

Amendment

of section 6

of Act No. 1-

of 1979.

Amend.
ment of
section 28 of
the principal
enactment. ,


2 . \ Consumer Protection (Aynendment)
Act, No. 34 of 1992

(i) in the case of a first offence to a fine not less
than one thousand rupees and not exceeding
three thousand rupees or to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceed-
ing three months or to both such fine and
imprisonment; and

(ii) in the case of a subsequent offence to a fine
not less than three thousand rupees and not
excecding seven thousand five hundred
rupees and to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding six
months.

(b) Any person guilty of an offence under this
Act, in respect of which no punishment is pres-
cribed by paragraph (a), shall, on conviction
before a Magistrate, be liable—

(i) in the case of a first offence to a fine not
exceeding three thousand rupees or _ to
imprisonment of either description for a
term not exceeding three months or to
both such iine and imnorisonment; and

(ii) in the case'of a subsequent offence to a_ fine
not exceeding seven thousand five hundred
rupees and to impriscnment of either des-

cription for a term not exceeding. six
months. ”. :

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
Sinhala text

lo prevailin 2nd Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

case of
inconsistency.
