PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INLAND REVENUE (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 37 OF 2003

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 14th November, 2003]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 33.75Postage : Rs. 11.25

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 14, 2003

1Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

2H 0185696,700 (06/2003)

[Certified on 14th November, 2003]

L. D.O. 19/2003.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INLAND REVENUEACT, NO. 38 OF 2000

BE it enacted by the Parliament, of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003.

2.Section 2 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended by the substitution for the words specified in theFirst, Second and Third Schedules to this Act, , of the wordsspecified in the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth and SixthSchedules to this Act,.

3.Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (1) of that section as follows :

(1)in the proviso to paragraph (d) of that section by thesubstitution for the words shall be disregarded., ofthe words shall be disregarded ; ; and

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (d) ofthe proviso to that subsection of the followingparagraph :

(e) the value at the time of its disposal, of anyshare of a company, received as a benefit, from theemployer or on behalf of the employer at no cost orat a price which is less than the prevailing marketvalue of such share of a company whether directlyor through a share option scheme ;

The value at the time of its disposal of such shareshall be the surplus over the cost of acquisition ofsuch share

(i)in the case of a sale, the sale price or the marketvalue, of such share as at the date of sale,whchever is higher ;

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 2 of Act,No. 38 of 2000.

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

2Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(ii)in the case of a disposal, otherwise than byway of sale, the market value of such share asat the date of disposal ;

(iii)in the case of an employee ceasing to be in theemployment of such employer, without sellingor disposing of such share, the market value asat the last date of his employment with suchemployer which date shall be deemed to be thedate of the disposal of such share :

Provided however, in the event of the death of suchemployee during his period of employment with suchemployer the value of such share shall be zero.

For the purpose of this paragraph the profits fromemployment arising in accordance with the preceedingprovisions shall be charged with income tax in the yearof assessment during which such sale, disposal orcessation of employment took place, on the basis thatsuch profits from the sole taxable income within themeaning of Chapter VII for that year of assessmentand such tax shall be recovered in accordance withthe provisions of Chapter XIV of this Act :

Provided further, that where the employer wasnot instrumental in the disposal of such share suchemployee shall pay the tax due on such profit fromemployment in accordance with the provisions ofChapter XIII of this Act..

4.Section 8 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 10 of 2002 is hereby further amended in paragraph(f) of that section, by the substitution for the words for anyyear of assessment, of the words and figures for any yearof assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2003.

5.Section 9 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 8 of 2001 is hereby further amended in subsection(1) of that section as follows :

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

3Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(1)in paragraph (j) of that subsection, by the substitutionfor the words any year of assessment, of the wordsand figures any year of assessment commencingprior to April 1, 2003; and

(2)in paragraph (k) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words from all sources otherthan employment,, of the words and figures fromall sources other than employment for any year ofassessment commencing prior to April 1, 2003..

6.Section 11 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2002, is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)in paragraph (f) of that section by the substitutionfor the word and figure or 21B, of the word andfigures 21B, 21C, 21D, 21E, 21F, 21G or 21H;

(2)in paragraph (h) of that section by the substitutionfor the words within one year thereafter., of thewords within one year thereafter ; ; and

(3)by the addition at the end of that section of thefollowing paragraph :

(i)any dividend paid to a share holder of a unittrust or a mutual fund, on or after April 1, 2003,out of the taxable profits and income of suchunit trust or mutual fund..

7.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section, bythe substitution for the words income accruing tothe owner of a house, of the words and figuresincome accruing to the owner of any houseconstructed prior to April 1, 2003;

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

4Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section of the following subsection :

(1A)There shall be exempt from income tax theincome accruing to the owner of any houseconstructed on or after April 1, 2003, for theyear of assessment, in which the constructionof such house was completed and for the fouryears of assessment immediately succeedingthat year of assessment if such house is usedsolely for residential purposes. .

8.Section 15 of the principal enactment, amendedby Act. No. 8 of 2001, is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1) in paragraph (aa) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures in any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2001, in respect ofservices rendered by that company or partnership inthat year of assessment outside Sri Lanka (includingservices relating to any construction project) of thefollowing

in any year of assessment commencing

(i)on or after April 1, 2001, in respect of servicesrendered by that company or partnership inthat year of assessment out side Sri Lanka(including services relating to any constructionproject) ; and

(ii)on or after April 1, 2003, in respect of any off-shore business which does not any way involveany goods manufactured or produced inSri Lanka or any goods imported into SriLanka.; and

(2)in paragraph (d) of that section by the substitutionfor the words by an informer as a reward, of thewords and figures by an informer prior to April 1,2003 as a reward.

Amendment ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment.

5Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

9.Section 21A of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 19 of 2003, is hereby further amended by therepeal of subsection (2) of that section, and the substitutiontherefor of the following subsection :

(2)For the purposes of subsection (1) specifiedundertaking in relation to a company means

(a)an undertaking carried on by a companyincorporated on or after April 1, 2002, or byany company incorporated prior to April 1,2002 as a new undertaking commenced on orafter April 1, 2002 with an investment of notless than rupees two and onehalf of millionand which is engaged in agriculture,agroprocessing, industrial and machine toolmanufacturing, electronics, export of non-traditional goods or information technologyand allied services ;

(b)(i)any designated project carried on by acompany, incorporated on or after April1, 2002, or by any company incorporatedprior to April 1, 2002 as a newundertaking commenced on or after April01, 2002 with an investment of not lessthan rupees two and onehalf of million ;or

(ii)an undertaking having an investment inexcess of rupees two hundred and fiftymillion,

and which confirms to the prescribedguidelines :

Provided however, the amount of investmentreferred to in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (b) shallnot be applicable to any Export Production VillageCompany..

Amendment ofsection 21A of theprincipalenactment.

6Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

In the case of a company receiving income from anyother trade or business in addition to the income fromany specified undertaking, the exemption providedunder this section shall be applicable only in respectof the profits and income from the relevant specifiedundertaking.

For the purpose of this subsection

(i)agriculture means the cultivation of landwith plants of any description and the rearingof fish ;

(ii)export of non-traditional goods means theexport of any goods, as defined in section 52including deemed export of such goods withinthe meaning of section 49, not less than eightyper centum of the total turnover of suchundertaking for any year of assessment..

10.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 21G of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 21H and 21I of the principalenactment :

21H. (1) The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (other thanprofits and income from the sale of any capitalasset within the meaning of paragraph (b) ofsubsection (7) of section 23) of any venturecapital company shall be exempt from incometax, for a period of five years commencing fromthe year of assessment in which the companycommences to carry on commercial operations,where such company invests a sum of money asspecified in subsection (2), which investmentshall be identified as a specific investment, forthe purchase of ordinary shares in a companyengaged in

(i)a project which is of a pioneering natureand the operation of which results in,value addition and the promotion ofeconomic development;

Insertion of newsections 21H and21I in theprincipalenactment.

Exemptionfrom incometax of anyventurecapitalcompany.

7Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(ii)a project which is engaged in the businessof information technology ;

(iii)a project which is connected to therehabilitation of non-performing orunder performing industries within themeaning of section 21E ; or

(iv)any other project as may be specified bythe Minister by Order published in theGazette,

and such investment shall be for the financingof seed capital or start up or early stage financingof the investee company :

Provided however -

(a)the venture capital company shall nothave commenced commercialoperations prior to April 1, 2003 ; and

(b)the specific investment shall not bemade in relation to a company whichis at the time of making the firstinvestment an associate companywithin the meaning of the CompaniesAct, No. 17 of 1982.

(2) In order to qualify for the tax exemptionprovided for in subsection (1), the venturecapital company shall have invested a sum-

(i)not less than forty per centum of thetotal equity capital of such companyduring the second year from the yearin which such company commencedits commercial operations, on or beforethe end of that second year ;

(ii)not less than eighty per centum of thetotal equity capital of such companyduring the third year from the year inwhich such company commenced itscommercial operations, on or beforethe end of that third year ;

8Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(iii)not less than eighty per centum of thetotal equity capital of such companyduring the fourth and fifth years fromthe year of commencement ofcommercial operations, on or beforethe end of such fourth and fifth yearsrespectively,

in any project specified in subsection (1) :

Provided that if a company which has claimedexemption under this section fails to complywith the provisions of this subsection, or anydividends have been declared during the first twoyears from the year of assessment in which thecompany commences to carry on commercialoperations the exemption afforded to suchcompany shall be withdrawn and the assessmentshall be issued for the relevant years.

(3) Investments may be made in foreigncompanies, and such investments shall beconsidered as a specific investment for thepurpose of this section, in the second year andthereafter where such investment is not morethan ten per centum of equity capital of suchcompany during the second year and not morethan twenty per centum of equity capital of suchcompany during the third year and subsequentyears respectively, from the year in which suchcompany commences its commercialoperations.

(4) During the first three years including theyear in which such company commences itscommercial operations any equity capital inexcess of the minimum investments required bysubsection (2) may be invested in GovernmentSecurities and such investment shall beconsidered as a specific investment.

9Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(5) For the purposes of this section a venturecapital company means any companyregistered under the Companies Act, No. 17 of1982 with a minimum issued share capital ofrupees one hundred million and which isengaged in the business of providing equityinvestment in relation to any project as isspecified in subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) ;and

(i)which has entered into a TechnicalService Agreement a managementcompany possessing the requiredexperience in the relevant area ofinvestment ; or

(ii)which has in its employment,professional staff who have beentrained by foreign venture capitalcompanies and other local staffpossessing the required professionalventure capital managementexperience.

(6) The year of commencement ofcommercial operations for the purpose of thissection, shall be the year in which the issuedequity capital of the venture capital companyhas reached rupees one hundred million andshall not apply in respect of commercialoperations commencing on or after April 1,2008.

21I. (1) the profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (otherthan any profits and income from the sale ofcapital assets) of any person engaged in businessas specified in section 2 shall be exempt fromincome tax, for a period of three yearscommencing from the year of assessment in

Excemptionfrom incometax of anyperson engaedin the businessof providingManor Housesor ThematicBungalows totourists.

10Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

which such person commences to make profitsin such business or any year of assessment notlater than two years reckoned from the date ofcommencement of commercial operation,which ever is earlier.

(2)The provisions of subsection (1) shallapply to any person registered with the CeylonTourist Board established by the Ceylon TouristBoard Act, No. 10 of 1966 on or after April 1,2003 under the scheme for providingaccommodation to tourist in Manor Houses orThematic Bungalows for a period of ten yearsfrom the date of registration..

11.Section 29 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 19 of 2003 is herby further amended as follows:

(1)in subsection (2) of that section, by the insertionimmediately after paragraph (d) thereof of thefollowing paragraph :

(e) For any year of assessment commencing onor after April 1, 2003 the amount of a loss (otherthan any brought forward loss incurred by him fromany period prior to April 1, 2003 which is deductibleunder this section) in any trade, business, professionor vocation shall be deducted as follows :

(i)any loss from a trade or business to bededucted only from the statutory income fromtrade and business ;

(ii)any loss from a profession to be deducted onlyfrom the statutory income from profession ;

Amendment ofsection 29 of theprincipalenactment.

11Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(iii)any loss from a vocation to be deducted onlyfrom the statutory income from vocation.

Any balance loss not deductible may be carriedforward and deducted from the next year ofassessment and so on from the statutory income asmentioned above subject to the limitations on carryforward of losses under this section :

Provided however, the preceding provisions shallnot be applicable to any loss

(i)if the loss represents any excess payments ofannuity, ground rent, royalty or interest notdeductible under section 23 ;

(ii)if the loss represents any allowance fordepreciation or cost of renewal under section23 ;

(iii)if the total statutory income from which suchloss is deductible for that year of assessmentdoes not exceed one million rupees.;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1B)of that section of the following new subsection :

(1C)The assessable income of any person shall notinclude

(a)any reward received by such person asan informer under any scheme for thepayment of such rewards ; or

(b)a share of fine received by such personunder any scheme for the distributionof such share of fine,

from any Government Institution, on or afterApril 1, 2003, from which income tax has beendeducted in accordance with Chapter XVIB.;

12Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(3)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words within such period of six years oreleven years as the case may be ;, of thefollowing :

within such period of six years, or eleven years,as the case may be :

Provided however, notwithstanding the provisionsof paragraphs (b) or (c) the Minister may determinethe maximum period for which a loss may be carriedforward in relation to any specific activityconsidering the importance of such activity for theeconomic development of Sri Lanka .; and

(4)in paragraph (a) of subsection (3) of that section, bythe substitution for the words and figures or section20 of this Act, of the words and figures or section20 or section 21A or section 21B or section 21C orsection 21D or section 21E or section 21F or section21G or section 21H of this Act..

12.Section 31 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2002 is hereby further amended as follows :

(1)in subsection (2) of that section

(a)in paragraph (j) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words Minister in chargeof the subject of Housing,, of the wordsMinister in charge of the subject ofHousing ;;

(b)by the addition immediately after paragraph(j) of that subsection, of the followingparagraph :

(k)fifty per centum of any investment of notless than rupees five hundred thousand inany year of assessment in the purchaseby any person of ordinary shares, other

Amendment ofsection 31 of theprincipalenactment.

13Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

than the existing shares, issued by aventure capital company during theperiod that such company is exemptedfrom income tax under section 21H.;and

(2)in subsection (4) of that section :

(a)in paragraph (a) of that subsection

(i)in subparagraph (vi) of that paragraphby the substitution for the words onehundred thousand rupees which ever isless., of the words rupees one hundredthousand whichever is less ;;

(ii)by the insertion immediately aftersubparagraph (vi), of that paragraph ofthe following subparagraph

(vii)in respect of all qualifyingpayments referred to in paragraph(k) of subsection (2) made by himin that year of assessment, shallnot exceed one third of hisassessable income or suchqualifying payment which ever isless.;

(b)in paragraph (b) of that subsection

(i)in subparagraph (i) of that paragraph bythe substitution for the word and lettersparagraphs (b) and (h), of the word andletters paragraphs (b) and (h) and (k);

(ii)in subparagraph (ii) of that paragraphby the substitution for the words tenmillion rupees., of the words tenmillion rupees ;; and

14Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(c)by the addition at the end of sub-paragraph,(ii) of paragraph (b) of the following sub-paragraph :

(iii)in respect of all qualifying paymentsreferred to in paragraph (k) of subsection(2) made by that company shall notexceed one fifth of its assessable incomeor such qualifying payment which everis less..

13.Section 32 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2002 is hereby further amended in theproviso to subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words such sum shall be treated as a capital gain,, tothe end of that proviso of the following :

such sum

(i)is a capital gain within the meaning of thisAct which is chargeable with tax at the rate ofa maximum of twenty five percentum for anyyear of assessment commencing prior to April1, 2002 ;

(ii)is income from employment which shall bechargeable with tax at the appropriate ratespecified in the First Schedule for any year ofassessment commencing on or after April 1,2002..

14.Section 33 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of that section,by the substitution for the words at the rate of ten percentum.,of the words at the appropriate rate specified in the SixthSchedule to this Act..

15.Section 34 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section as follows :

(1)in paragraph (a) of that subsection by the substitutionfor the words at the rate of fifteen per centum, ofthe words and figures at the rate of fifteen per

Amendment ofsection 34 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 32 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 33 of theprincipalenactment.

15Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

centum for any year of assessment commencing priorto April 1, 2003 and at the appropriate rates specifiedin the Sixth Schedule to this Act, for any year ofassessment commencing on or after April 1, 2003,and

(2)In paragraph (b) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words fifteen per centum ofthe words ten per centum..

16.Section 35 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words at the rate of fifteenper centum., of the words at the appropriate rate specifiedin the Sixth Schedule to this Act..

17.Section 36 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words at the rate of fifteenper centum., of the words at the appropriate rate specifiedin the Sixth Schedule to this Act..

18.Section 37 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words at the rate of fifteen per centum., ofthe words at the rate specified in Part II of the FirstSchedule to this Act.; and

(2)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words at the rate of fifteen per centum., ofthe words at the rate specified in Part II of the FirstSchedule to this Act..

19.Section 38 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words at the rate of fifteenper centum., of the words at the appropriate rate specifiedin the Sixth Schedule to this Act..

Amendment ofsection 36 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 37 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 35 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 38 of theprincipalenactment.

16Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

20.Section 39 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and the rate of income tax to the end of thatsubsection, of the words such specified profits shall bechargeable with tax at the appropriate rates specified in theSixth Schedule to this Act notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in other provisions of this Act..

21.Section 40 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words at the rate of fifteen per centum., of the wordsat the appropriate rate specified in the Sixth Schedule to thisAct..

22.Section 40A of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words at the rate of twenty per centum.. of the wordsat the appropriate rate as specified in the Sixth Schedule tothe Act..

23.Section 40B of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words at the rate of fifteen per centum., ofthe words at the appropriate rate as specified in theSixth Schedule to the Act.; and

(2)by the addition at the end of that section of thefollowing new subsection :

(3) The profits and income within the meaningof paragraph (a) of section 3 of any company referredto in section 21E for any year of assessmentcommencing after the expiry of the period duringwhich the profits and income of such company wereexempt from income tax shall notwithstanding anything contained in this Act be chargeable with incometax at the rate of

Amendment ofsection 40A of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 40B of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 40 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 39 of theprincipalenactment.

17Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(a)at the appropriate rate specified in item 7, 12or 14 of the Sixth Schedule to this Act if suchcompany is a company engaged in anyundertaking referred to in section 40 or in theexport or deemed export of non-traditionalgoods ;

(b)at the appropriate rate specified in the SixthSchedule to this Act, if such company is acompany engaged in any undertaking otherthan undertakings and activities referred to inparagraph (a)..

24.Section 41 of the principal enactments is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)in item (ii) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words and figures or ofChapter VIII., of the words and figures orof Chapter VIII; ;

(b)by the insertion at the end of that subsectionof the following proviso :

Provided however, for any year ofassessment commencing on or after April 1,2003, any dividend referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), shall be chargeablewith income tax at the appropriate rate asspecified in the Sixth Schedule to this Act. ;and

(2)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words fifteen percentum, of the wordsfifteen percentum for any year of assessmentcommencing prior to April 1, 2003 and at theappropriate rate as specified in the Sixth Scheduleto this Act, for any year of assessment commencingon or after April 1, 2003..

Amendment ofsection 41 of theprincipalenactment.

18Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

25.Section 42 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution for the wordsfor any year of assessment, of the words and figures for anyyear of assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2003..

26.Section 43 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution for the wordsfor any year of assessment, of the words and figures for anyyear of assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2003,.

27.Section 44 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substituion for the words any qualified exportprofits and income,, to the end of that section, of the wordsany qualified export profits and income, such income shallby chargeable with tax at the appropriate rate as specified inthe Sixth Schedule to this Act. .

28.Section 45 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words at the rate of fifteenper centum, of the words at the appropriate rate as specifiedin the Sixth Schedule to this Act..

29.Section 46 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words any qualifiedexport profits and income to the end of that section, of thewords any qualified export profits and income, such incomeshall be chargeable with tax at the appropriate rate as specifiedin the Sixth Schedule to this Act..

30.Section 47 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words at the rate of fifteenper centum., of the words at the appropriate rate as specifiedin the Sixth Schedule to this Act..

31.Section 48 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in this Act., of the words notwithstandinganything to the contrary in this Act :;

Amendment ofsection 42 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 43 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 44 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 45 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 46 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 47 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 48 of theprincipalenactment.

19Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following proviso :

Provided however, any dividend referred to insub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) which are taxablefor any year of assessment commencing on or afterApril 1, 2003 shall be chargeable with tax at theappropriate rate as specified in the Sixth Scheduleto this Act.;

(3)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in this Act., of the words notwithstandinganything to the contrary in this Act :; and

(4)by the addition immediately after subsection (2) ofthat section, of the following proviso:

Provided however, any dividend referred to insub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) which are taxablefor any year of assessment commencing on or afterApril 1, 2003 shall be chargeable with tax at theappropriate rate as specified in the Sixth Scheduleto this Act..

32.Section 48A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words in the form ofshares or debentures, to the end of that section of thefollowing :

(i)not in the form of money or an order to paymoney ;

(ii)out of dividend received from anothercompany where such dividend in not exemptfrom income tax under section 11 without adeduction of tax under subsection (1A) ofsection 61 irrespective of whether suchcompany is entitled to deduct such tax or not,

the income from such dividend shall be charged withtax at the appropriate rate as specified in the SixthSchedule to this Act..

Amendment ofsection 48A of theprincipalenactment.

20Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

33.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 48A of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 48B of that enactment :

48B. Where the taxable income of any personfor any year of assessment commencing on orafter April 1, 2003, includes a dividend receivedfrom outside Sri Lanka, the taxable incomerepresenting such dividend, shall be chargedwith tax at the appropirate rate as specified inthe Sixth Schedule to this Act, subject to theprovisions of any agreement for the avoidanceof double taxation.

34.Section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that sectionand the subsitution therefor of the following paragraph :

(a) of any commodity (other than black tea in bulk,crepe rubber, sheet rubber, scrap rubber, latex or freshcoconut) for export by such specified undertakingwithout further production or manufacture by suchspecified undertaking ; or.

35.Section 50 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substituionfor the words in accordance with the succeedingprovisions of this section, of the words at theappropriate rate as specified in the Sixth Scheduleto this Act. ; and

(2)by the repeal of subsections (2) and (3) of thatsection.

36.Section 51 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

Amendment ofsection 49 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 51 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 50 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 48B in theprincipalenactment.

Rate ofincome tax ondividendreceived fromoutside SriLanka.

21Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substituionfor the words in accordance with the succeedingprovisions of this section., of the words at theappropriate rate as specified in the Sixth Scheduleto this Act. ; and

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section.

37.Section 52 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)the repeal of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (b) andby the substitution of the following sub-paragraph :

(ii) any amount receivable, whether received ornot from the export of black tea in bulk, crepe rubber,sheet rubber, scrap rubber, latex or fresh coconuts ;or

(2)in paragraph (d) of that section by the substitutionfor all the words from For the purposes of thissection and ending with published in the Gazetteof the following :

For the purposes of this section non-traditional goodsmeans goods other than black tea in bulk, crepe rubber,sheet rubber, scrap rubber, latex or fresh coconuts..

38.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 52 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 52A of that enactment :

52A. (1) Where any individual referred toin paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1) ofsection 9 is in receipt of profits fromemployment, exempt under such section and anyother profits and income chargeable withincome tax, for any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2003, theincome tax payable by such person on incomechargeable with tax shall be calculatednotwithstanding any other provisions of this Act,as follows

Payment ofincome tax ontaxableincome by anindividualwhoseemploymentincome isexempt underparagraph (a)or (b) ofsubsection (1)of section 9.

Insertion of newsection 52A in theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 52 of theprincipalenactment.

22Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(2)The statutory income of such individualfor any year of assessment commencing on orafter April 1, 2003 shall include the incomechargable with tax and the emoluments andother benefits referred to in paragraph (a) or(b) of subsection (1) of section 9, other thanbenefits referred to in section 4(1)(c) which shallnot be subject to the provisions of this section.

(3)The assessable income and taxableincome of such individual for each year ofassessment shall be ascertained as provided forin section 29 and section 30 respectively.

(4)The income tax on such taxable incomefor each year of assessment shall be calculatedapplying the tax rates specified in the FirstSchedule to this Act.

(5)A special employment tax credit inaddition to other tax credits available for eachyear of assessment under this Act shall begranted before granting of other tax credits,calculated as given below.

(6)(a) For the purpose of calculating thespecial employment tax credit, the employmentincome for the relevant year which is exemptfrom tax under paragraph (a) or (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 9, shall be consideredas the total statutory income of such person forsuch year and any deductions allowable undersection 29 and any allowance due under section30 for such year to such person shall be deductedfrom such total statutory income and the residueof such total statutory income, if any shall beconsidered as the taxable income and the taxshall be calculated applying the rates specifiedin the First Schedule to this Act, to such taxableincome ;

23Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(b) The amount of tax calculated inaccordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)shall be the special employment tax credit.

(7)A special employment tax creditcalculated in accordance with subsection (6)shall be deducted before taking credit for anyother tax credits as may be available for set offagainst the tax payable on other income.

(8) Any excess amount of such credit as mayarise from the special employment tax creditshall not be refundable..

39.Section 53 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :

(1)in paragraph (d) of that subsection, by the substitutionfor the words business of life insurance. , of thewords business of life insurance ;;

(2)by the addition at the end of that paragraph of thefollowing paragraph :

(e)in the case of any company liable to pay taxunder paragraph (1) of this section at a ratenot less than thirty per centum for any year ofassessment commencing on or after April 1,2003 an amount equal to two and one half percentum of the taxable income of such companyand such tax to be credited to the HumanResource Endowment Fund established by theGovernment :

Provided however, such amount of tax shallbe credited to the Consolidated Fund pendingthe establishment of the Human ResourcesEndowment Fund. .

40.Section 57 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :Amendment ofsection 57 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 53 of theprincipalenactment.

24Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(1)in paragraph (b) of that subsection

(a)by the substitution for the words in that yearof assessment of the words and figures inany year of assessment and where such yearof assessment is any year of assessmentcommencing prior to April 1, 2003 ; and

(b)in sub-paragraph (ii) of that paragraph by thesubstitution for the words one third of suchtaxable income., of the words one third ofsuch taxable income ; ;

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b) ofthat section of the following paragraph :

(c)in any year of assessment commencing on orafter April 1, 2003, where there is anyremittance by such company a sum equal toten percentum of the aggregate amount of theremittances by such company. ; and

(3)in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of that section, bythe substitution for the words profits of thecompany, of the words profits and incomechargeable with income tax, of the company and anysum received outside Sri Lanka by or on behalf ofsuch company in relation to any trade, business,profession or vocation carried out in Sri Lanka bysuch company the profits of which are chargeablewith income tax in Sri Lanka.

41.Section 61 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1A) of that section by the substitutionfor the words shall be entitled to deduct of thewords shall deduct [excluding any dividendpayable to any institution referred to in items (ix),(xi), (xv), (xvii), (xx), (xxi), (xxxix), (liv), (lxiv),(lxv), (lxvi), (lxxii), (lxxiii), and (lxxiv) of section 8(a)] ; and

Amendment ofsection 61 of theprincipalenactment.

25Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(2)in subsection (4) of that section

(a)in paragraph (b) of the proviso to thatsubsection, by the substitution for the wordsincome tax under this Act., of the wordsincome tax under this Act ; or ;

(b)by the insertion immediately after theproviso to paragraph (b) of the followingparagraph :

(c)the amount of any dividend receivedfrom any other company on or afterApril 1, 2002, subject to the deductionof income tax under subsection (1A)..

42.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 63 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 63A of that enactment :

63A. The provisions of this Chapter shall notapply to, any charitable institution or any bodyof persons which is a body corporate andassessable under section 96..

43.Section 70 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (3) ofthat section of the following subsection :

(4) Any unit trust or mutual fund which engagesin the business of investing in shares, securities or otherinvestments in accordance with the Securities andExchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of1987, or any regulation or rule made thereunder, suchunit trust or mutual fund shall be a unit trust or mutualfund which invest in specified areas for the purpose ofthis Act..

44.Section 96 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (4) ofthat section, of the following subsection

Provisions ofthis Chapternot to apply tocharitableinstitutionsetc.Amendment ofsection 70 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 63A in theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 96 of theprincipalenactment.

26Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(5)The provisions of Chapter X shall not applyto any body of persons which is a body corporate andwhich is assessable for income tax under this section..

45.Section 98 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words the income of such child., of thewords the income of such child : .

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section of the following proviso :

Provided however, the preceding provisionsshall not apply to an individual whose income forany year of assessment comprises solely of one or acombination of the following

(a)profits from employment as specified insection 4 and chargeable with income tax doesnot exceed rupees four hundred and twentythousand and income tax under Chapter XIVhas been deducted by the employer on thegross amount of such profit and income ;

(b)dividends chargeable with tax on which tax atten per centum has been deducted undersubsection (1A) of section 61 ;

(c)income from interest chargeable with tax onwhich income tax at the rate of ten per centumhas been deducted under section 122A or122B. ;

(3)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words an assessor of the words a DeputyCommissioner.;

(4)by the insertion immediately after subsection(4) of that section, of the followingsubsection :

Amendment ofsection 98 of theprincipalenactment.

27Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(4A)Where any person receives an intimationunder subsection (4), such person may withinthirty days of receipt of such intimation furnishnecessary particulars required to make suchreturn a proper return and the provisions ofsubsection (3) shall, thereafter not apply in respectof such return..

(5)by the repeal of subsection (5) of that section andsubstitution therefor of the following subsection :

(5) Where any person carries on or exercisesmore than one business, trade, profession or vocationand the profits and income from such business, trade,profession or vocation are chargeable with tax atdifferent rates, such person shall maintain andprepare statements of accounts in a manner that theprofits and income from each such activity may beseparately identified..;

(6)in subsection (6) of that section

(a)in paragraph (b) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words by such person.of the words by such person ::

(b)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(b), of that subsection of the following :

Provided however, no such returns orinformation shall be called by an Assessor from suchperson after the expiry of five years from the end ofthe relevant year of assessment.;

28Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(7)in subsection (7) of that section(a)in paragraph (b) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words regarding hisincome., of the words regarding hisincome : ;

(b) by the insertion immediately after paragraph(b) of that subsection of the followingproviso :

Provided however, such notice shall notbe issued by an Assessor after the expiry offive years from the end of the relevant year ofassessment. ;

(8)in subsection (8) of that section

(a)in paragraph (c) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words class of persons.,of the words class of persons : ;

(b)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(c) of that subsection of the followingproviso :

Provided however, such notice shall notbe issued by an Assessor after the expiry offive years from the end of the relevant year ofassessment.;

(9)in subsection (10) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the words hisposession., of the words his possession :;

29Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(b)by the insertion immediately after that subsection,of the following proviso

Provided however, such retention by an Assessorshall not be valid after the expiry of a period of fiveyears from the end of the relevant year ofassessment.

46. Section 99 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,for the words within the period specified in suchnotice, of the words, within the period specifiedin such notice, all particulars as may be necessaryfor the ascertainment of the statutory income inrespect of any year of assessment including ;

(2)in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section

(i)in paragraph (a) of that proviso for the wordspublished in the Gazette ;and, of the wordsPublished in the Gazette:;

(ii)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(a) of that proviso of the following :

For any year of assessment commencingon or after April 1, 2003, the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) shall not apply to any companyother than a quoted public company, or anyother company having a turnover of not lessthan rupees two hundred and fifty million ornet profit of not less than rupees one hundredmillion for the year..

(iii)by the addition immediately after paragraph (b)of that proviso to that subsection of thefollowing :

For any year of assessment commencingon or after April 1, 2003, the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) shall not apply to any partnership

Amendment ofsection 99 of theprincipalenactment.

30Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

or any person other than a company, having aturnover of less than rupees fifty million or inthe case of a partnership a divisible profit ofless than rupees twenty-five million or in thecase of any other person a net profit of lessthan rupees twenty-five million for the year..

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) ofthat section of the following :

For any year of assessment commencing on orafter April 1, 2003 the provisions of this subsectionshall apply only to a quoted public company or anyother person or partnership having a turnover of notless than rupees two hundred and fifty million or anet profit or divisible profit, as the case may be notless than rupees one hundred million for the year.;

(4)in subsection (3) of that section

(a)in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of thatsubsection by the substitution for the wordsauthorized representative ; or, of the wordsauthorized representative; ;

(b)in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of thatsubsection by the substitution for the wordsauthorized representative ; and of the wordsauthorized representative ; or ;

(c)by the insertion immediately after sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of thatsubsection of the following :

(iv)an auditor authorized to carry out auditsof co-operative societies registered underthe Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of1972, in relation to any such co-operativesociety where the turnover of suchsociety for the year does not exceedrupees fifty million;;

31Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(d)in sub-paragraph (b) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words sale of capitalassets), of the words sale of capital assets) ;and ;

(e)by the addition at the end of that subsection ofthe following paragraph

[(c)net profit in relation to any trade,business, profession or vocation meansnet profit ascertained in accordance withaccepted commercial practices andaccounting standards..]

47.Section 106 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words remuneration of an employee, of the wordsremuneration of an employee and remitted to theCommissionerGeneral as provided in this Chapter..

48.Section 118 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in paragraph (ii) of the proviso to that section, bythe substitution for the words tax in default., ofthe words tax in default ; ;

(2)by the addition at the end of that proviso of thefollowing new paragraph :

(iii)where any penalty is payable as at November6, 2002

(A)such penalty shall be waived where the taxin default in respect of which the penalty ispayable has been paid on or before suchdate ;

(B)where a portion of such tax in default hasbeen paid on or before such date the portionof the penalty as is attributable to the amountof tax that has been paid shall be waived.

Amendment ofsection 106 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 118 of theprincipalenactment.

32Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

49.The following new Chapter is hereby insertedimmediately after Chapter XVIA of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as Chapter XVIB of that enactment :

CHAPTER XVIB

DEDUCTION OF INCOME TAX FROM, REWARDPAYMENTS MADE BY ANY GOVERNMENTINSTITUTION TO INFORMANTS AND OTHERS ANDSHARES OF FINES PAID TO ANY PERSON ANDLOTTERY PRIZES, WINNINGS FROM GAMBLING ORWINNINGS FROM BETTING, PAID BY ANY PERSONOR PARTNERSHIP.

132A.Where, on or after April 1, 2003

(a)any Government institution pays a rewardor distributes a share of fine to anyperson ;

(b)any person or partnership pays a lotteryprize, winnings from gambling orwinnings from betting to any person,

such institution, person or partnership, as thecase may be, shall deduct at the time of thepayment of such reward, share of fine, a lotteryprize, winning from gambling or winning frombetting as the case may be, income tax at therate of ten per centum on such gross payment :

Provided, however, in case of any paymentreferred to in paragraph (b), the tax shall bededucted only where such payment is not lessthan rupees five hundred thousand :

Provided further, where any person orpartnership pays a lottery prize, winnings fromgambling or winnings from betting, other thanin cash, such person shall be liable to, pay therelevant amount of income tax on such lotteryprize winnings from gambling or winnings frombetting to the Commissioner-General.

Insertion of newChapter XVIB inthe principalenactment.

Governmentinstitutionpayingrewards orfines or otherperson orpartnershippaying lotteryprizes ect. todeduct incometax.

33Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

132B. (1) The provisions of Chapter XVrelating to the deduction of income tax frominterest paid by banks and financial institutions,duties of banks and financial institutions, defaultin the deduction of income tax, issue ofassessments of banks and financial institutions,appeals and penalty for default, shall, mutatismutandis, apply to the deduction of income taxfrom such payments of rewards, share of fines,lottery prizes, winnings from gambling orwinnings from betting as is mentioned in section132A, duties of persons or partnerships makingsuch reward payments, share of fine, lotteryprize, winnings from gambling or winningsform betting, default in the deduction of incometax, issue of assessments on such persons andpartnerships, appeals and penalty for defaultunder this Chapter as if there were substitutedin Chapter XV for the words banks andfinancial institutions of the words any personor partnership paying any reward, share of fine,a lottery prize, winnings from gambling orwinnings from betting and for the wordinterest of the words any reward, share offine, lottery prize, winnings from gambling orwinnings from betting where ever they appearin that Chapter,

(2) (a) The aggregate amount of

(i)rewards paid to any person during anycalendar month shall be deemed to beone reward payment and the incometax on such payment shall be deductedon the last working day of eachmonth ;

(ii)shares of fines paid to any personduring any calendar month shall bedeemed to be one share of finepayment and the income tax on suchpayment shall be deducted on the lastworking day of each month ;

Provisions ofChapter XV toapply inrelation to thedeductionunder thisChapter.

34Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(iii)winnings from gambling paid or winningsfrom betting paid per day to any personshall be deemed to be one payment ofwinnings from gambling or winningsfrom betting and the income tax on suchpayment shall be deducted during thecourse of that day ;

(b)in the case of lottery prizes each such prizewhether paid in cash or otherwise shallbe considered as a seperate prize.

(3) For the purposes of this Chapter

reward means any gift made or reward paidby the Government under any scheme forthe payment of rewards to the informantsand others ;

share of fine means any share of finecollected and distributed or paid by theGovernment in accordance with anyscheme for the payment of fines ;

lottery prize means any prize either inmoney or otherwise offered and won inany lottery conducted by any person inSri Lanka ;

winnings from gambling means anypayment received for winning in anygambling or gaming activity from anyparty including a casino ;

winnings from betting means any paymentreceived for winning in any on-course oroff-course betting.

35Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(4)Notwithstanding the provisions ofsection 125 the total amount of the taxdecucted

(a)from lottery prizes shall be remitted, tothe Commissioner General on the firstday of the week and where such first dayof the week is not a working day on thefollowing working day, which amountshall be the total tax deducted during theweek ending on the Sunday immediatelypreceding the date of such remittance;

(b)from the winnings from gambling orwinnings from betting shall be remittedto the Commissioner-General, on the firstday of the week and where such first dayof the week is not a working day on thefollowing working day, and the amountto be remitted shall be the total taxdeducted during the week ending on theSunday immediately preceding the dateof such remittance..

50.Section 134 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (5) of that section as follows :

(1)in paragraph (b) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words after the expiry of sixyears from the end of that year of assessment ;, ofthe words or where no return of income has beenmade, after the expiry of five years from the end ofthe relevant year of assessment in respect of whichsuch return relates or such return is due ;;

(2)in the second proviso to that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words at any time after the endof that year of assessment, of the words not laterthan five years after the end of that year ofassessment.

Amendment ofsection 134 of theprincipalenactment.

36Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

51.Section 136 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words made by an Assessor,, of the wordsmade by an Assessor, other than the Assessor whomade such assessment against which the appeal ispreferred;

(2)in the subsection (13) of that section

(a)in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of thatsubsection, by the substitution for the wordsthe Commissioner-General or an Assessor,of the words the Commissioner-General or anAssessor ;;

(b)by the addition at the end of paragraph (b) ofthat section, of the following proviso :

Provided, however an appeal received bythe Commissioner-General on or after April 1,2003, shall be determined by the Commissioner-General within two years from the date ofreceipt of such appeal..

52.Section 140 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (10) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words the Commissioner-General inwriting, of the words the Commissioner-Generalin writing ;.

(2)by the addition at the end of that subsection, of thefollowing proviso :

Provided, however, the Board shall make itsdetermination or express its opinion as the case maybe, within two years from the date of commencementof the hearing of such appeal :

Provided further where the hearing of any appealhas commenced at the date of commencement ofthis Act, the appeal shall be determined or an opinionshall be expressed within two years from thecommencement of this Act..

Amendment ofsection 140 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 136 of theprincipalenactment.

37Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

53.Section 141 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (6) ofthat section of the following new subsection :

(6A)The Court of Appeal may, pending thedetermination of the case stated to such court, make aninterim determination as regards the amount of taxrecoverable by the Commissioner-General in respectof the amount of tax in dispute on the basis of a reportfurnished by the Commissioner-General..

54.Section 144 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in the proviso to paragraph (b) of section (3) of thatsection

(a)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) of thatproviso for the words quarterly instalment oftax became due., of the words quarterlyinstalment of tax became due;;

(b)by the additon at the end of subparagraph (ii)thereof of the following

(iii)where any penalty is payable as atNovember 6, 2002

(A)such penalty shall be waived wherethe tax in default in respect of whichthe penalty is payable, has been paid,on or before November 6, 2002 ;

(B)where only a portion of such tax indefault has been paid on or beforeNovember 6, 2002 the proportionateamount of such penalty attributableto the amount of such tax paid shallbe waived.; and

Amendment ofsection 141 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 144 of theprincipalenactment.

38Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(2)by the addition immediately after subsection (12)of that section of the following subsection :

(12A)Where any tax held over by theCommissioner-General becomes payable, eitherwholly or partly on settlement of the appeal, thenany amount payable shall be recovered within oneyear from the date of settlement of the appeal unlessa case has been stated in relation to such appeal tothe Court of Appeal under section 141.;

55.The First Schedule of the principal enactment ishereby repealed and the following Schedule substitutedtherefor :

FIRST SCHEDULE(Section 32)

Rate of Income Tax-Individuals other than any Receivers, Trustees,Executors or Liquidators

PART I

Individuals other than those referred to in Part II

For any year of assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2002

On the first Rs. 100,000 of the taxable income10 per centum

On the next Rs. 100,000 of the taxable income15 per centum

On the next Rs. 100,000 of the taxable income25 per centum

On the balance taxable income35 per centum

PART I A

For the year of assessment commencing on April 1, 2002

On the first Rs. 180,000 of the taxable income10 per centum

On the next Rs. 180,000 of the taxable income20 per centum

On the balance taxable income35 per centum

Replacement ofthe First Scheduleto the principalenctment.

39Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

PART I B

For any year of assessment commencing on or after April 1, 2003.

On the first Rs. 180,000 of the taxable income10 per centum

On the next Rs. 180,000 of the taxable income20 per centum

On the balance taxable income30 per centum

PART II

Any individual who in not a citizen of Sri Lanka and also is deemed,under subsection (7) of section 73, to be non-residentSection 37(1) and (2)15 per centum

PART III

(a)The rates of income tax applicable to certain profits fromemployment specified in subsection (2) of section 32

For any year of assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2002

On the first Rs. 500,000Nil

On the next Rs. 150,0005 per centum

On the next Rs. 150,00010 per centum

On the balance15 per centum

(b)the rate of income tax applicable to any sum referred to inparagraph (c) of subsection (2) of section 32 paid under a schemenot uniformly applicable to all the employees of such employer

As per Part IA or Part IB subject to the maximum of 20 per centum

PART III A

The rate of income tax applicable to certain profits from employmentspecified in subsection (2) of section 32

For any year of assessment commencing on or after April 1, 2002

On the first Rs. 1,000,000Nil

On the next Rs. 500,0005 per centum

On the next Rs. 500,00010 per scentum

On the balance15 per centum.

40Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

56.The Second Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby repealed and the following Schedule substitutedtherefor :

SECOND SCHEDULE(Section 53 and 70)

RATES OF INCOME TAX - COMPANIES

PART I

For any year of assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2002

Company including unit trust and mutual fund 35 per centum

PART IA

For the year of assessment commencing on April 1, 2002

Company including unit trust and mutual20 per centumfund when taxable income does not exceedRs. 5,000,000 for the year of assessment

Where taxable income exceeds Rs. 5,000,00035 per centumfor the year of assessment

PART IB

The following rates shall be applicable subject to the rates specified inthe Sixth Schedule for any year of assessment commencing on or afterApril 1, 2003.

32.5 per centum (inclusiveof 2.5 per centumcontribution to the HumanResource EndowmentFund)

30 per centum (inclusive of2.5 per centum contributionto the Human ResourceEndowment Fund)

20 per centum

Where the taxable income of thecompany, exceeds Rs. 5,000,000 in thatyear of assessment (other than a quotedpublic company with 300 or more than300 members during the year ofassessment, venture capital company, unittrust or mutual fund)

A quoted public company with 300or more than 300 members during the yearof assessment and the taxable incomeexceeds Rs. 5,000,000 in that year ofassessment

Where the taxable income of thecompany, does not exceed Rs. 5,000,000in that year of assessment (other than unittrust, mutual fund or a venture capitalcompany)

Replacement ofthe SecondSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

41Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

57.The Third Schedule of the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows :

(1)by the substitution for item 1 thereof, of the following item :

1, Hindu undivided families

For any year of assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2003

35 per centum;

For any year of assessment commencing on or after April 1,2003

30 per centum;

(2)in item 2 thereof by the substitution for the words institutionsof the words institutions (including corporate bodies) ;

(3)by the substitution for item 3 thereof, of the following item :

3.Executor (other than trustees under last wills) and receivers(other then liquidators)

For any year of assessment commencing prior to April 1,2003.

35 per centum;

For any year of assessment commencing on or after April1, 2003. 30 per centum;

(4)by the substitution for item 4 thereof of the following item :

4.Trustees (including trustees under last wills)

For any year of assessment commencing prior to April 1,2003.

35 per centum;

For any year of assessment commencing on or after April1, 2003.

30 per centum;

Amendment ofthe ThirdSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

A venture capital company

An unit trust or mutual fund-profitsunder specified areas

An unit trust or mutual fund-profitsunder un-specified areas

20 per centum

10 per centum

20 per centum.

42Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(5)by the substitution for item 5 thereof, of the following item :

5Partnerships

For any year of assessment commencing prior to April 1,2003.35 per centum

For any year of assessment commencing on or after April 1,2003

30 per centum ;

(6)by the substitution for item 9 thereof, of the following item :

9.Governments (other than the Government of Sri Lanka andthe Government of the United Kingdom)

For any year of assessment commencing prior to April 1,2003

35 per centum;

For any year of assessment commencing on or after April1, 200330 per centum;

(7)by the substitution for item 10 thereof, of the following item

10.Business Undertakings vested in the Government underthe Business Undertaking (Acquisition) Act, No. 35 of 1971

For any year of assessment commencing prior to April 1,2003

35 per centum;

For any year of assessment commencing on or after April1, 2003

30 per centum ;

(8)by the substitution for item 13 thereof, of the following item

13.Persons (orher than those referred to above and in the Firstand Second Schedules)

For any year of assessment commencingprior to April 1, 200320 per centum;

For any year of assessment commencingon or after April 1, 200330 per centum. .

43Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

1.Rate of income tax on the totalamount of interest oncompensation payable in respectof property vested in theGovernment, the Land ReformCommission or a publiccorporation or a local authority.(section 33)

2.Rate of income tax on the totalamount of interest received fromany bank deposit. (section 34)

3.Rate of income tax on the grossinterest on loans granted by acompany, partnership or otherbody of person outside SriLanka (section 35)

4.Rate of income tax on royaltypayable to any company,partnership or other body ofperson outside Sri Lanka(section 36)

5.Rate of income tax on the profitsand income of any foreigncurrency banking unit arisingfrom any on - shore foreigncurrency banking transactions(section 38)

6.Rate of income tax on profitsfrom an undertaking carried onby a person other than acompany and engaged inagriculture, promotion oftourism or construction work asdefined in section 186 andsection 39, (section 39)

10 per centum

10 per centum

15 per centum

15 per centum

15 per centum

as per the First Schedulesubject to a maximum of 15per centum

SIXTH SCHEDULE

The following rates shall be applicable notwithstanding the ratesspecified in the First, Second and Third Schedules.

Addition of theSixth Schedule tothe principalenactment.

58.The following new Schedule is hereby addedimmediately after the Fifth Schedule to the principalenactment and shall have effect as the Sixth Schedule to theprincipal enactment

44Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

7.Rate of income tax on profitsfrom any undertaking carried onby a company and engaged inagriculture, promotion oftourism or construction work asdefined in section 186 andsection 40 (section 40)

8.Rate of income tax applicable tospecialized housing banks(section 40A)

9.Rate of income tax applicable tocertain companies which areexempt from income tax undersection 21A or 21C for a periodof two years immediatelysuceeding such period ofexemption (section 40B)

10.Rate of income tax applicable tocertain companies after theexpiry of the tax exemptionperiod where such exemption isunder section 21B or 21D(Section 40B)

11.Rate of income tax applicable tocertain companies after theexpiry of the tax exemptionwhere such exemption is undersection 21A, 21C or 21E andwhere 10 per centum or 15 percentum is not applicable (section40B)

12.Rate of income tax applicable todividends paid out of profits andincome, taxable in accordancewith section 40 and any dividendreceived from outside Sri Lankaand other dividends referred toin section 48A. (section 41,section 48A and section 48B).

13.Rate of income tax on qualifiedexport profits and income of aperson not being a company,who commenced to carry on anyspecified undertaking prior toApril 1, 2014 (section 44)

15 per centum

20 per centum

10 per centum

15 per centum

20 per centum

10 per centum for any yearof assessment commencingon or after April , 2003.

As per the First Schedule butsubject to a maximum of15 per centum

45Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

14.Rate of income tax on qualifiedexport profits and income of acompany which commenced tocarry on any specifiedundertaking prior to April 1,2014 (section 45)

15.Rate of income tax on qualifiedexport profits and income of aperson (not being a company)who carries on any specifiedundertaking prior to April 1,2015 (section 46)

16.Rate of income tax on qualifiedexport profits and income of acompany which carries on anyspecified undertaking prior toApril 1, 2015. (section 47)

17.Rate of income tax on dividendsout of qualified export profitsand income (section 48)

18.Rate of income tax on profitsand income from deemedexports of any person orpartnership (section 49)

19.Rate of income tax on profitsand income from servicesrendered outside Sri Lamka byany resident company or apartnership (section 50)

20.The rate of income tax onemoluments and fees earned inforeign currency by anindividual or by a partner or apartnership, (section 51)

15 per centum

as per the First Schedule butsubject to a maximum of15 per centum

15 per centum

10 per centum for any yearof assessment commencingon or after April 1, 2003.

as per the First Schedulesubject to a maximum of 15per centum for an individual,and 15 per centum for acompany

15 per centumin case of a partner as per theFirst Schedule subject to amaximum of 15 per centum

as per the First Schedulesubject to a maximum of 15per centum.

59. The amendments made to

(a)sections 21A, 32 and 48A of the principal enactmentby sections 9, 13 and 32 respectively by this Actshall for all purposes be deemed to have come intoforce on April 1, 2002 ;

Retrospectiveeffect.

46Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

(b)the principal enactment, by this Act, other than tothe sections specified in paragraph (a), shall for allpurposes be deemed to have come into force onApril 1, 2003.

60.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

47Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2003

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.