PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

4th Session 1968-69

Bretton Woods Agreements
(Special Provisions)

Act, No. 2 of 1969

Date of Assent: January 16, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government
and published as a Supplement to Ceylon Government Gazette,
Part II of January 24, 1969

Printed at the  GoverNMENT Press, CEYLON, To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payabie to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
Pusiications Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Coromso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions wili be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.


Bretton Woods Agreements (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 1969

L. D.—O. 28/68,

AN ACT TO MAKE ALL SUCH LEGAL PROVISIONS AS MAY
BE NECESSARY, BY WAY OF THE AMENDMENT OF
CERTAIN WRITTEN LAWS OR OTHERWISE, TO GIVE
FULL FORCE AND EFFECT TO THE DECISION OF THE
GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON TO ACCEPT A PROPOSED
AMENDMENT TO THE ORIGINAL ARTICLES OF
AGREEMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY
FuND OF WHICH CEYLON I8 A MEMBER.

[Date of Assent: January 16, 1969]

WHEREAS Ceylon is a member of the International
Monetary Fund and the text of the original Articles
of Agreement of that Fund were laid before Parlia-
ment prior to the passing of the Bretton Woods
Agreements Act which enabled Ceylon to become such
a member:

And whereas the Board of Governors of that Fund
have, by resolution, approved an amendment which
is proposed to such original Articles in order to
institute a new facility based on special drawing
rights in the Special Drawing Account in that Fund

“and to effect certain other changes (hereafter in this
preamble referred to as “‘ the proposed amendment’):

And whereas the text of the proposed amendment
was laid before the House of Representatives on
November 23, 1968:

And whereas the Government of Ceylon has decided
to accept the proposed amendment so as to enable
Ceylon to participate in the proposed Specic! Drawing
Account in that Fund:

And whereas it is necessary to make the legal
provisions hereinafter set out to give full force and
effect to that decision:

Now, therefore, be it enacted by the Queen’s Most
Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate and the House of Representatives of
Ceylon in this present Parliament assembled, and by
the authority of the same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Bretton Woods
Agreements (Special Provisions) Act, No. 2 of
1969, and shall come into operation on such date as
may be appointed by the Minister by Order published
in the Gazette.

B 69186—5,048 (1/69)

Short title
and date of
operation,


Deposit of
certain docu-
men's with the
International
Monetary
Fund,

Amendment of
section 2 of
Chapter 424,

Amendment of
section 4 of
the principal
Act.

2 Bretton Woods Agreements (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 1969

2. The Governor-General is hereby authorized by
instruments under his hand to empower such person
as may be named in such instruments, on behalf of
the Government of Ceylon, to deposit with the
International Monetary Fund—

(a) an instrument of acceptance stating that the
Government of Ceylon has accepted the
amendment which is proposed to the Articles
of Agreement of that Fund in order to
institute a facility based on special drawing
rights in the Special Drawing Account in
aie Fund and to effect certain other changes;
an

(b) an instrument setting forth that the Government
of Ceylon undertakes all the obligations of a
participant in the Special Drawing Account
in that Fund in accordance with its law, and
that it has taken all steps necessary to enable
it to carry out all such obligations.

8. Section 2 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act
(as subsequently amended), hereafter referred to as
the ‘‘ principal Act’’, is hereby amended in
paragraph (b) of that section, by the omission of the
expression ‘ (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘ the Fund
Agreement ’’)’.

4. Section 4 of the principal Act is hereby amended
in sub-section (1) of that section as follows: —

(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (c) of that
sub-section, for the expression ‘“‘ this Act;
and ’’, of the expression ‘‘ this Act; ’’;

(b) by the substitution, in paragraph (d) of that
sub-section, for the expression ‘‘ (which
relates to the liquidation of the Fund). ’’, of
the expression ‘‘ (which relates to the
liquidation of the Fund); ’’; and

(c) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph
(d) of that sub-section, of the following new
paragraphs : —

** (e) to the Central Bank of Ceylon all sums
paid by that Bank on behalf of Ceylon
under section 2 of Article XXII of the
Fund Agreement, and assessed as so
payable under section 4 of Article
XXVI of the Fund Agreement;


Bretton Woods Agreements (Special Provisions) 3

Act, No. 2 of 1969

(f) any compensation which Ceylon is
required or obliged to pay to any
participant in the Special Drawing
Account in that Fund under section §
of Schedule I of the Fund Agreement
(which relates to the administration of
the liquidation of that Account); and

(g) all sums, other than sums by way of
compensation referred to in paragraph
(f), which Ceylon is required or
obliged to pay to that Fund or any
member thereof in order to discharge
its obligations as a participant in the
Special Drawing Account in that
Fund. ’’.

5. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 8, and shall have effect as
section 8a, of the principal Act:—

** Special provi-
sions relating
to the Central
Sfank’of Ceylon
th relation to
operations in
the Special
Drawing
Account.

8a. (1) The Central Bank of Ceylon is
hereby authorized to acquire, hold, and
operate on, or dispose of, special
drawing rights in the Special Drawing
Account in the International Monetary
Fund.

(2) The Central Bank of Ceylon is
hereby authorized—

(a2) to make payment of all sums
required for the purpose of
paying any charges payable to
the International Monetary
Fund under section 2 of Article
XXVI of the Fund Agreement
in respect of the special
drawing rights in the Special
Drawing Account in that Fund;
and

(b) to receive, and to credit to its own
funds, the interest payable by
that Fund in respect of such
special drawing rights under
section 1 of the said Article
XXVI.”’.

Insertion of
new section
8a in the
principal Act


4 Bretton Woods Agreements (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 2 of 1969

Insertion of | «6. The following new section is hereby inserted

in the principal immediately after section 9, and shall have effect as

Act. section 10, of the principal Act: — \
* Interpretation. 10. In this Aet,—

»

‘“ Fund Agreement ’’? means the
Articles of Agreement of the
International Monetary Fund
as originally adopted and as
subsequently amended in order
to institute a facility based on
special drawing rights and to
effect certain other changes ;

** International Monetary Fund ”’
means the International Mone-
tary Fund which is established
and is in operation in accor-
dance with the provisions of
the Fund Agreement.’.

Amontined lug 7. Section 67 of the Monetary Law Act is hereby
Chapter 492. amended in sub-section (1) of that section as follows : —

(1) in paragraph (i) of that sub-section by ‘he
omission of the word “‘ and ’’; D

(2) in sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph (ii) of that
sub-section, by the substitution, for the
expression ‘‘ and coins.’’. of the expression
‘and coins: and ’’; and

(3) by the insertion, immediately after sub-
paragraph (ii) of that sub-section, of the
following new sub-paragraph : —

‘ (iii) either the whole, or such maximum
percentage of the whole, of the bold-
ings of special drawing rights in the
Special Drawing Account in the Inter-
national Monetary Fund according as
may be determined, from time to time,
by the Monetary Board. ’’.
