; 2 ie
Ore Soa
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (RECULATION
AND CONTROL OF SUPPLIES)
ACT, No. 34 OF 1979
(Certified on 31st May, 1979]
" Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part IL of the Gazette of the Democratic
. Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 08, 1979 :
rao asc sani cient crams ciate
z [TO BE FORCHASED AT THR GOVE, PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO,
Price: Re. 1.55 : Postage : 50 cents


Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control
7 of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979
. [Certified on 3st May, 1979]
L. D—O, 15/79.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION AND CONTROL OF THE
DISTRINUTION AND USE OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WITH A VIEW
To ENSURING THE FAIR DISTRIBUTION OF SUCH PRODUCTS, AND
‘TO THE CONSERVATION OF SUPPLIES THEREOF ; AND TO PROVIDE
YOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by-the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist.
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Petroleum Products Short title
(Regulation and Control of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979. S24.
ration.
(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operation"
as follows :—
(@) the provisions of this section and the provisions of
Parts I and IX of this Act shall come into
operation on the date of enactment of this Act; *
(b) the provisions of Parts II, III, IV, V, VI, VI and VIII
of this Act shall come into operation on such date
‘or dates as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette. Different dates may be
appointed in respect of different Parts of this Act.
(3) Where any Part of this Act is brought into operation
by an Order made under paragraph (b) of subsection (2),
‘the provisions of that Part shall continue to be in operation’
until such Order is revoked by the Minister by a like Order
Published in the Gazette.
(4) The revocation of an Order made under paragraph (b)
of subsection (2) bringing any Part of this Act into opera-
tion shall be deemed not to prejudice the power of the
‘Minister to bring such Part into operation at any time after
such revocation by a subsequent Order made under that
paragraph.
Z PART I
ADMINISTRATION
2, (1) There may be appointed, for the purposes of this Appointment
Act— oe eeeers
(a) by name or by. office, a Competent Authority for Sens
Petroleum Products (in this Act referred to as “the
Authority”) and such number of Petroleum Con-
‘ttollers, Deputy Petroleum Controllers and Assistant
2A 40767—10,050 (79/04) 3 2


2 Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979
‘ Petroleum Controllers as may be necessary for the
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the
provisions of this Act ;
(b) such other officers and servants as may be necessary
to assist the officers referred to in paragraph (a),
. in the administration of this Act,
(2) The Authority may, in writing, delegate to any
Petroleum Controller, Deputy Petroleum Controller oF
‘Assistant Petroleum Controller any power, duty or function
‘conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such Authority by
this Act.
PART I
RESTRICTION ON Sats &c. OF PETROL
Restriction 8, From and after the date of coming into operation of
of petrol. this Part of this Act, no person other than a vendor shall
purchase or obtain petrol unless he is an approved consumer
of petrél and is the holder of a valid permit issued by the
Authority in respect of petrol. €
nie. 4. (1) Every person who is registered under the Motor
deemed t ‘Traffic Act as the owner of a petrol-driven motor vehicle
fpproved sand holds—-
petrol. (a) a certificate of registration; ~
(b) a valid revenue licence ; and
(c) a valid certificate of insurance,
: issued, under that Act, in respect of that vehicle, shall, 50
Jong and so long only as he continues to be so registered,
be deemed to have been approved by the Authority under
this Act as a consumer of petrol.

. (2) The Authority may require any person who is deemed
by virtue of the preceding provisions of this section, to have
been approved under this Act as a consumer of petrol, to
furnish such information as the Authority may require to

. enable him to determine the quantity of petrol which such
person should be authorized’ to obtain during any period.


Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control 3
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979" .
(8) Nothing in this Act shall be read or construed as |,
requiring any person who is deemed by virtue of the
Preceding provisions of this section to have been approved .
under this Act as a consumer of petrol to apply tinder
section 5 for approval as a consumer of petrol.
< 70 E
5. (1) Every application for the approval of a person as Application |
@ consumer of petrol shall be made to the Authority and a5 consumer
shall set out— . r
(@) a description of the vehicle, vessel, aircraft, plant or
machinery for which petrol is required by that
person, and in the case of a vehicle, the registered
: number, make and horse-power thereof ;
(®) the purpose for which such vehicle, vessel, aircraft,
plant or machinery is intended. to be employed ;
(©) the monthly average quantity of petrol purchased -
by the applicant during the twelve months immedi- z
ately preceding the date on which the application
is made ;
(qd) the estimated monthly average quantity of petrol
required by the applicant after such date ; and
(@) particulars of such other matters as may be
prescribed.
(2) Every applicant who desires to take delivery of any ‘
petrol otherwise than in the tank of a vehicle, vessel or
aircraft shall specify in his application the manner in which
he proposes to take delivery of the petrol-and his reasons
for requiring delivery in such manner.
(8) The: Authority may provide forms of application for
‘the purposes of this section and where such forms are
provided, application shall be made in the form so provided. .
(2) The Authority may refuse to approve any person Tower of |
i a consumer of petrol, if having regard to— Tots
F oval of
(@) the stocks'of petrol in Sri Lanka ; person ax
: fonsumer of
(b) the necessity for conserving such stocks for use for petrol
public purposes and the maintenance of essential
services ; and


4 Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979
(©) the purposes for which petrol is required by such
person,
the Authority is. satisfied that such person should not be
authorized to obtain supplies of petrol. .
(2) Where the Authority refuses to approve any person
b as a consumer of petrol—
(@ the Authority shall give notice of such refusal by
registered letter sent through the post to such
. person at the address specified by him in his
application ; .
(b) that person may, within two weeks of the receipt of
such notice, prefer an appeal to the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister against such refusal.

(8) The decision of the Secretary on any appeal preferred

under subsection (2) shall be final.
Iasue of 7. (1) Where a person is approved, or is deemed to have
penis _? been approved, as a consumer of petrol, the Authority may,
J @nsumers. from time to time and having regard to—
(@) the stocks of petrol currently available in Sri Lanka;
(b) the necessity for conserving such stocks for use for
public purposes and the maintenance of essential
services ; and

(¢) the purpose for which such petrol is required by such

person,
determine the quantity of petrol which that person may be
authorized to obtain during any period, and may issue to
him one or more permits to which shall be attached such
number of coupons as may be necessary to enable him to
obtain that quantity of petrol during that period.

(2) Where the Authority thas determined, . under
subsection (1), the quantity of petrol that an approved
consumer may be authorized-to obtain during any period,
he may, having regard to the matters set out in paragraphs
(@), (b) and (c) of subsection (1), vary such determination
at any time during that period. .

(8) No permit issued under subsection (1) and no coupon
attached to any such permit shall be valid except during
the period in respect of which such permit of coupon is
issued.


Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control 5
of Supplies) Act, No, 34 of 1979

(4) No permit shall authorize any person to purchase or
obtain petrol at any place either than at a retail depot :

Provided, however, that the Authority may by entry made
in a permit issued to an approved consumer of petrol autho-
ize such consumer to purchase or obtain petrol direct from
the Corporation. * *

8. No approved consumer of petrol shall— Prohibition

of sale and

(a) sell or transfer to any other person any permit Wansfer of

P issued to that consumer or any coupon attached a Permi
any such permit ; or :
(b) deliver such permit or coupon to any other person ,
except for the purpose of enabling that person to
purchase or obtain petrol for the use of that
‘consumer ; or

(©) deliver any such’ coupon to a vendor or to the
Corporation except for the purpose of purchasing
or obtaining petrol from the vendor or the Corpora~
tion, in accordance with the terms of the permit — -
to which that coupon is attached ; or

(@) sell or deliver to any other person petrol purchased

or obtained under the authority of a permit issued
to that consumer.

9. (1) Where any person has been approved, or is deemed Revocation,
to have been approved, under this Act, as a consumer of as a.
petrol, the Authority may revoke such approval— of petrol.

(@ ithe is satisfied that such person has contravened any

of the provisions of this Act or has failed to
comply with any directions issued or given by the
Authority under, this Act or has knowingly made a i
false statement in any application or return made
or furnished thereunder ; or
(b) if, having regard ‘to—
(@ the stocks of petrol currently available in Sti
Lanka ; . é
(i) the necessity of conserving such stocks for
use for public purposes and the maintenance
; of essential services ;


6 Petroleum Products (Regulation ‘and Control”
‘of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979
(iti) the purposes for which petrol is required by
that person,
the Authority is’ satisfied that such person should not be
"authorized to obtain supplies of petrol.

(2) Where the approval of any person as a consumer of
petrol is revoked by the Authority under subsection (1)—

(@) the Authority shall give notice of such revocation by

/ registered letter sent throught the post to that person
at the address specified by him in his application for

é approval as a consumer or in the case of a person
deemed to have been approved as a consumer of
petrol by virtue of his being the registered owner of
a motor vehicle, at the address specified in the
certificate of registration issued under the Motor
‘Traffic Act, in respect of that vehicle ;

(®) that person may, within two weeks of the date of
receipt by him of the notice and on payment of a
fee of five rupees, prefer an appeal to the Secretary

‘to the Ministry of the Minister against such
revocation,

(8) The decision of the Secretary on any appeal preferred
under subsection (2) shall be final.

(4) Where the approval of any person as a consumer of
petrol is revoked by the Authority under subsection (1) or
Where any person ceases to be an approved consumer of
petrol, such person shall surrender to the Authority, every
Permit issued to him by the Authority under section 7.

Provision 10. (1) From and after the coming into operation of this

3 fuleg, Part of this Act, no person shall sell or deliver any quantity

of petrol.” of petrol to any other person unless—

7 (a) such. sale or delivery takes place at a retail depot or
at the Corporation, and a valid permit is produced
by that other person to the vendor in respect of

- that depot, or to an agent or servant of the

Corporation ; and
(®) a valid coupon or valid coupons representing that
: quantity of that product is or are detached by that
vendor or that agent or servant from that permit.

Nothing in this subsection shall apply to the sale or
delivery of petrol to a vendor by the Corporation or an
authorized agent of the Corporation,


Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control - 7
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979
(2) Where any person (in this subsection referred to as
the “buyer”) produces to a person working at a retail, 4
depot, a permit authorizing the buyer to purchase or
obtain petrol.and such permit bears an entry to the effect ‘
that the buyer is authorized to purchase or obtain petrol for
‘the purposes of a motor vehicle, then, such person working at
such retail depot— "
(a) shall not, except in the case referred to in paragraph
(b) of this subsection, deliver such petrol to the
buyer otherwise than in the tank of a vehicle ;
(b) shall, if so required by the buyer, deliver such petrol
to the buyer otherwise than in the tank of a vehicle
if the permit produced by the buyer authorizes the
delivery of petrol in such manner as the buyer may
require ; and
(c) shall, except in the case referred to in paragraph (b)
of this subsection, deliver such petrol to the buyer by
pouring or discharging it into the tank of the
vehicle which bears, as the distinctive number
(in this Act sometimes referred to as the “ registered
number”) assigned to that vehicle upon its registra-
tion under the Motor Traffic Act, the number speci-
fied in the permit produced by the buyer as the
bs number of the vehicle for the purpose of which the
buyer is authorized to purchase or obtain petrol ; :
Provided, however, that nothing’ in the provisions of ‘a.
paragraph (c) of this subsection shall be deemed to prevent .
the delivery of petrol in any manner other than that
Prescribed by these provisions, if the permit so authorizes.
(3) Where at any time at any retail depot any person,
other than the vendor in respect of that depot at that time,
sells or delivers any petrol to any other person in contra-
vention of any of the preceding provisions of this section,
that vendor shall also be guilty of the offence constituted
by such contravention.
(4) The preceding provisions of this section shall apply in
‘the case of the sale or delivery of any petrol at a retail
depot to the vendor in respect of that depot or into the tank
of any vehicle_belonging to that vendor, in like manner as
those provisions apply in the case of the sale or delivery
of petrol to any other person or into the tank of any vehicle
“belonging to any other person.


8 _~ Petroleum Products (Regulation end Conttol
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979
Deficiency 11. (1) From and after the date of coming into operation
orexcess of this Part of this Act, where the aggregate of—
soe (a) the quantity of petrol in stock at a retail depot on
any date (in’ this subsection referred to the {
, “relevant date”) ; and :

(b) the quantity of petrol represented by such of the
coupons issued by the Authority as have been
surrendered at that depot between the date on
which the stocks of petrol at that depot were last
ascertained by the Authority and the relevant date,

is less than the aggregate of—
<  @ the quantity of petrol in stock at the depot on the
date on Which stocks of petrol at that depot were
last ascertained by the Authority, and
“ Gi) the quantity of petrol, if any, supplied to that depot by
the Corporation or an authorized dealer of the
Corporation between the date on which stocks of
petrol at that depot were last ascertained by the
Authority and the relevant date,

: it shall be presumed that petrol has been sold at that depot
in contravention of subsection (1) of section 10 and that the
vendor in respect of that depot is guilty of the offence,
constituted by such contravention unless he proves to the’
satisfaction of the court that that the deficiency in the
stocks of petrol was due to any unavoidable cause.

(2) From and after the date of coming into operation of

this Part of this Act, where the aggregate of —

(a) ‘the quantity of petrol in stock at a retail depot on any
date (in this subsection referred to the “relevant
date”) ; and .

(b) the quantity of petrol represented by such of the
coupons issued by the Authority as have been
¥ surrendered at that depot between the date on
which the stocks of petrol at that depot were last
"ascertained by the Authority and the relevant date,
is more than the aggregate of — 4
(i) the quantity of petrol in stock at that depot on the
date on which stocks of petrol at that depot were

last ascertained by the Authority ; and


*\Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control «9
. of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979 ‘
“(i) the quantity of petrol, if any, supplied to that depot
by the Corporation or an authorized dealer of the
Corporation between the date on which stocks of
petrol at that depot were last ascertained by the
Authority and the relevant date,
the vendor in respect of that depot shall be guilty of an =
offence unless he proves to the satisfaction of the court that
the'excess in the stocks of petrol was due to any unavoida-
Ble cause or was obtained by lawful means,

12 From and after the date of coming into operation of Duties of
this Part of this Act, every vendor shall, from time to time, Upon sale
in accordance with such directions as the Authority may “ P°*°l:
issue, transmit to such officer as the Authority may specify
in those directions or to the Corporation, all coupons
surrendered to him under section 10, upon the sale or
delivery of petrol. .

13, From and after the date of coming into operation of Returns by
this Part of this Act, every person, other than a vendor or . Pier than
the Corporation, who on that date has in his possession, "40"
otherwise than in the tank of a vehicle, vessel or aircraft,
any quantity of petrol in excess of ten gallons, shall, before
the expiry period of two weeks from that date, furnish to the
Authority a return specifying the quantity of petrol which
is in his possession ; and the Authority may, notwithstanding
that that person has been approved or deemed to have been
approved under this Act as a consumer of petrol, refuse to
issue any permit to him in respect of the period during
Which the quantity so specified will, in the opinion of the
Authority, be sufficient for the the purposes for which petrol
is required by that person.

14, From and after the date of coming into operation of * Restrictions
this Part of this Act— feat”

~ petrol

(1) the Corporation shall not sell or deliver petrol to any by the

vendor except in accordance with such directions Corporat
as the Authority may from time to. time issue in
regard to the quantity of petrol which may be sold
or delivered to that vendor and the time at which
: such delivery may be made ;
1


10° * Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control *
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979

(2) the Corporation shall not sell or deliver any quantity
of petrol to any person other than a vendor except
upon production, by or on behalf of that person, of
a valid permit bearing an entry authorizing that
person to purchase or obtain that quantity of petrol
direct from the Corporation,

Restriction 15. (1) From and after the date of coming into
Sipessreyo" operation of this Part of this Act, no person other than the "
search Oc. Corporation or a vendor shall—

(q) if such person is an approved consumer of petrol,
stock or have in his possession any quantity of
petrol in excess of the quantity which he is’autho-

h rized to purchase or obtain under the authority of a
Z permit issued under this Act for the period: in res-
. pect of which such permit is issued ; or
ac (®) if such person is not an approved consumer of petrol,
stock or have in his possession any quantity of
petrol.
*  Q) It shall be lawful for any authorized officer *

(q) to enter and search any premises, vehicle, vessel or
aircraft in which petrol is stored or suspected to be
stored, for the purpose of ascertaining the quantity
of petrol stored therein ;

(b) to inspect and test any measuring instrument at any
retail depot for the purpose of ascertaining whether

a0 ‘he instrument is false.
' PART I .
RESTRICTION ON SALES:&e. OF KEROSENE

Restctionen 16. From and after the date of coming into operation of

Kerosene.” this Part of this Act, no person other than a vendor shall
Purchase or obtain kerosene unless he is an approved
consumer of kerosene and is the holder of a valid permit
fssued by the Authority in respect of kerosene.


EE Se ee en ee
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979

17. (1) Every person whose name is entered in a house- Certain
holders’ list and who is designated therein, as the chief 3etmed to
householder shall, so long and so long only as such person ave besn,
continues to be so designated, be deemed to have been consumers of
approved by the Authority under this Act as a consumer of
kerosene.

In this. section, “ householders’ list” means the list pre-

Pared and maintained by the Food Controller for the pur--
Poses of the system of rationing administered by him. _

(2) The Authority may require any person who is deemed
by virtue of subsection (1) to have been approved as a :
consumer of kerosene, to furnish such information as the
Authority may require to enable him to determine the
quantity of kerosene which such person should be autho-

Tized to obtain during any period. '

(8) Nothing in this Act shall be read or construed as
requiring any person who is deemed by virtue of subsection
(1) to have been approved under this Act as a consumer of
Kerosene to apply under this Act for approval as a consumer
of kerosene.

18. The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,13, 14 Application
and 15 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to applications for of certain
approval as consumers of kerosene, the power of the Part il
Authority to refuse approval of a person as a consumer of ou
kerosene, issue of permits to approved consumers of kero-
sene, prohibition of sale and transfer of permits issued to
approved consumers of kerosene, revocation of approval as
‘a consumer of kerosene, the sale and delivery of kerosene,
the deficiericy or excess of stocks of kerosene at retail depots,
duties of vendors upon sale of kerosene, returns to be fur-
nished by persons in possession of kerosene, restriction of
sale of kerosene by the Corporation and the restriction on
Possession of kerosene. é

» PARTIV.
‘RESTRICTION ON Saux &e. oF AuTO-Disset

19. From and after the date of coming into operation Restriction |
of this Part of this Act, no person other than a vendor shall of Ruto-
purchase or obtain auto-diesel unless he.is an approved diesel.
consimer of auto-diesel-and is the holder of a valid permit
issued by the Authority in respect of auto-diesel.


ss 12" Petroleum Products (Kegulation and Controy ="
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979 2
Certain 20, (1) Every person who is registered under the Motor
Recmed to ‘Traffic Act as the owner of a diesel-driven motor vehicle
be approved and holds— :
consumers at
muito: tiesel (a) a certificate of registration ;

(®) a valid revenue licence ; and a"

(c) a valid certificate of insurance,
issued under that Act, in respect of that vehicle shall, so
Jong. and so long only as he continues to be so registered,
be deemed to have been approved by the Authority under
this Act as a consumer of auto-diesel.

(2) The Authority may require any person who is deemed
by virtue of subsection (1) to have been approved under
this Act as a consumer of auto-diesel to furnish such infor-
mation as the Authority may require to enable him to
determine the quantity of auto-diesel which such person
should be authorized to obtain during any period.

(8) Nothing in this Act shall be read or construed as
requiring any person who is deemed by virtue of subsec-

“tion (1) to have been approved as a consumer of auto-diesel
to apply under this Act for approval as a consumer of auto-
diesel.

Application» 21._‘The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 8 9, 10, 11, 12, 18, 14 ,
provisions and 15 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to applications for
otPart I approval as consumers of auto-diesel, the power of the
. Authority to refuse approval of a person as a consumer of
auto-diesel, issue of permits to approved consumers of auto-
diesel, prohibition of sale and transfer of permits issued to
approved consumers of auto-diesel, revocation of approval
as a consumer of auto-diesel, the sale and delivery of auto-
diesel, the deficiency or excess of stocks of auto-diesel at
retail dépots, duties of vendors upon sale of auto-diesel,
returns to be furnished. by persons in possession of auto-
diesel, restriction of sale of auto-diesel by the Corporation
» and the restriction on possession of auto-diesel.
. PART V
Restmeryon on Sais &c, or Heavy Drasen
Restriction 22, From and after the date of coming into operation
f Reurg® _of this Part of this Act, no person other than a vendor shall ¢
diesel, purchase or obtain any heavy diesel unless he is an approved
consumer of heavy diesel and is the holder of a valid permit
issued by the Authority in respect of heavy diesel-


% Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control 18
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979

23. The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Application
and 15 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to applications for of certain
approval as consumers of heavy diesel, the power of the of Part II
Authority to refuse approval of a person as a consumer of
heavy diesel, issue of permits to approved consumers of
heavy diesel, revocation of approval as a consumer of heavy :
diesel, prohibition of sale and transfer of permits issued to
approved consumers of heavy diesel, the sale and delivery :
of heavy diesel, the deficiency or excess of stocks of heavy
diesel at retail depots, duties of vendors upon sale of heavy
diesel, returns to be furnished by persons in possession of
heavy diesel, restriction of sale of heavy diesel by the
Corporation and the restriction on possession of heavy diesel.

J PART VI
Resrriction on Sates &c. or Furnace OL

2%, From and after the date of coming into operation of Restriction
this Part of this Act, no person other than a vendor shall 9 ,purchase !
purchase or obtain any furnace oil unless he is an approved oil. ’
consumer of furnace oil and is the holder of a valid permit
issued by the Authority in respect of furnace oil.

25. The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 8 9, 10, 11, 12, 18,14 Application '
and 15 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to applications for 9° Cartons ~»
approval as consumers of furnace oil, the power of the of Part I.

Authority to refuse approval of a person as a consumer of ‘

furnace oil, issue of permits to approved consumrs of furnace

oil, prohibition of sale and transfer of permits issued to q

approved consumers of furnace oil, revocation of approval

as a consumer of furnace oil, the sale and delivery of furnace 7

oil, the deficiency or excess of stocks of furnace oil at retail

depots, duties of vendors upon sale of furnace oil, returns

to be furnished by persons in possession of furnace oil,

Testriction of sale of furnace oil by the Corporation and the

restriction on possession of furnace oil. . .
PART VIT

RESTRICTION ON -SaLes &c, or Liquip PstrotzuM Gas G

26. From and after the date of coming into operation of Restriction {
this Part of this Act, no person other than a vendor shall’ 0? purshase H
purchase or obtain any liquid petroleum gas‘unless he is petroleum ‘
an approved consumer of liquid petroleum gas and is the 5
holder of a valid permit issued by the Authority in respect ‘
of liquid petroleum gas. ‘


M4 Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control -
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979
Apion 27. The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14
previa and 15 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to applications for
otPartII. ‘approval as consumers of liquid petroleum gas, the power ,
of the Authority to refuse approval of a person as a con-
. sumer of liquid petroleum gas, issue of permits to approved
consumers of liquid petroleum gas, prohibition of sale and
, transfer of permits issued to approved consumers of liquid
. petroleum gas, revocation of approval as a consumer of
liquid petroleum gas, the sale and delivery of liquid petro-
Jeum gas, the deficiency or excess of stocks of liquid petro-
Jeum gas, returns to be furnished by persons in possession
of liquid petroleum gas, restriction on sale of liquid petro-
eum gas by the Corporation and the restriction on
possession of liquid petroleum gas:
PART VU
. RESTRICTION ON SALES &c. OF AVIATION TURBINE FUEL
ape 28. From and after the date of coming into operation of
_ of aviation’ this Part of this Act, no person other than a vendor shall
Rubinefuel. purchase or obtain any aviation turbine fuel unless he is «
‘ an approved consumer of aviation turbine fuel and is the
holder of a valid permit issued by the Authority in respect
- of aviation turbine fuel, ‘
Application "29. The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 8 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14
Brose and 15 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to applications for
sePartll: approvel as consumers of aviation turbine fuel, the power
7 of the Authority to refuse approval of a person as a consU-
mer of aviation turbine fuel, issue of permits to approved
consumers of aviation turbine fuel, prohibition of sale and
_ _ transfer of permits issued to approved consumers of aviation
turbine fuel, revocation of approval as a consumer of avia~
tion turbine fuel, the sale and delivery of aviation turbine
fuel, the deficiency or excess of stocks of aviation turbine
fuel at retail depots, duties of vendors upon sale of aviation |
turbine fuel, returns to be furnished by persons in posses-
sion of aviation turbine fuel, restriction of sale of aviation .
turbine fuel by the Corporation and the restriction on
Possession of aviation turbine fuel,


Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control 18
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979
PART IX 4
GenenaL
30. (1) Every vendor shall furnish to the Authority such Betws,
returns and other information as the Authority may from vendors and
‘time to time require relating to the quantity of any petro- :
Jeum product in his possession and to the sale or delivery
of any petroleum product to approved consumers and other
persons and to. the coupons surrendered to him for the
Purpose of such sale or delivery.
(2) The Corporation—
(@ shall, before' the expiry of a period of two weeks :
from the date of coming into operation of this Part
of this Act, furnish to the Authority a statement
setting out the name of every vendor to whom any.
petroleum product is sold or delivered by the
Corporation for the purpose of sale and the address
of the depot at which that product is sold by that
vendor ;
+ (®) shall furnish to the Authority such returns and other
information as the Authority may from time to time >
+ require relating to the stocks of any petroleum
product in its possession or under its control or
expected to arrive in Sri Lanka, and to the sale or
delivery of any petroleum product to vendors and
other persons. .
31, i Power of
‘The Authority may having regard to— Reet
(@) the stocks of any petroleum product in Sri Lanka; [esse |,
(®) the necessity for conserving such stocks for use for Y°™o"* ,
Public purposes and the maintenance of essential
* services ;
(c) the coupons transmitted under section 12 or section
12 read with section 18 or section 21 or section 23
or section 25 or section 27 or-section 29 in respect
of that product,
* dssue directions to the Corporation’ as to the quantities of
_ Such product that may be supplied or delivered to vendors
and the times at which deliveries of such quantities may
be made.


16 Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control.
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979 .
Possesion 32. (1) Any person who has any forged coupon in his
Gvalid'ge Possession or tenders any forged coupon for the purpose
coupons’ te, of obtaining any petroleum product, shall be guilty of an
offence, unless he proves to the satisfaction of the court—
(@) that the coupon was attached to a permit issued to
him by the Authority, or by any other officer or
person acting on behalf of the Authority, or by
any person purporting to act and reasonably
believed to have been acting on behalf of the
Authority at the place at which permits are
ordinarily issued to him ; or
(®) that the coupon was delivered to him by some other
: person, of whom he was the agent or servant, for
the purpose of enabling him to obtain that product
“ from a vendor for the use of such other person;
or
(©) that, at the tme of the commission of the alleged
offence, he was a vendor, and the coupon was
detached by him from a permit in accordance with
the provisions of section 10 or section 10 read with
section 18 or section 21 or section 23 or section 25
or section 27 or section 29 upon the sale or delivery
: of a petroleum product to another person at a
retail depot of such vendor, and the coupon could
not reasonably have been suspected to be a forged
coupon ; or
(@) that, at the time of the commission of the alleged
offence, he was the agent or servant of the
Corporation and—
(@ the coupon was transmitted to him by a'vendor
in accordance with the provisions of section
12 or section 12 read with section 18 or
section 21 or section 23 or section 25 or section
21 or section 29 ; or -
(i) the coupon was detached by him from a permit
in accordance with the provisions of section
10 or section 10 read with section 18 or section
__, 2Lor section 23 or section 25 or section 27 oF
section 29 upon the sale or delivery of @
petroleum product to another person at the
Corporation.


Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control 17

of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979 .

(@) Any person who— 2

(@) has in his possession coupon that has been surren-

dered to the vendor in respect of a retail depot for

the purpose of obtaining any petroleum product, or

tenders any invalid coupon for the purpose of
obtaining any petroleum product ; or

() has in his possession or. tenders for the purpose of

obtaining any petroleum product, any coupon that
has been cancelled by or under the direction of
the Authority,

shall be guilty of an offence: *

Provided, however, that no person shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offence by reason only of the possession of any
coupon referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection .
if he proves to the satisfaction of the court—

(q) that, at the time of the commission of the alleged

offence, he was a vendor or the agent or servant
of a vendor and the coupon was detached from a
permit in accordance with the provisions of section
10 or section 10 read with section 18 or section 21 or
section 23 or section 25 or section 27 or section 29
and was in his possession in his capacity as
such vendor, agent or servant ; or

(b) that, at the time of the commission of the alleged

offence, he was the agent or servant of the Corpo-

ration and—

(i) the coupon had been transmitted to the Corpo-
ration in accordance with the provisions of
section 12 or section 12 read with section 18
or section 21 or section 23 or section 25 or

: section 27 or section 29 and was in his possess-

ion in his capacity as such agent or servant ;
or :

Gi) the coupon was detached by him from a permit
in accordance with the provisions of section 10
or section 10 read with section 18 or section

7 21 or section 23 or section 25 or section 27

1 or section 29 upon the sale or delivery of a
petroleum product to another person at the
Corporation.

83. (1) Any person who makes or counterfeits, or has in his Possession,
possession, any plate, die or stamp or other instrument or 8, ante
material used or capable of being used for forging permits for forging
or coupons shall be guilty of an offence. a:

3A 4076 1 9/0


18 Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979 ‘
(2) A prosecution for an offence under subsection (1) sha:
not be instituted except by, or with the sanction of, the
Attorney-General.
Seizure 34, (1) It shall be lawful for any police officer of a rank
of forged not below that of Sergeant in charge of a police station tc
2°" seize any permits or coupons which he has reasonable
x grounds to believe to be forged permits or forged coupons.
(2) If any police officer of a rank not below that of Assis-
tant Superintendent has reasonable grounds for suspicion
that any forged permits or forged coupons or any instruments
or materials used for forging permits or coupons are con-
cealed, kept or deposited in any place and is satisfied that
: it is expedient that such place should be searched for the
Purpose of seizing such permits, coupons, instruments or
materials and that by reason of urgency or other good cause
it is impracticable to apply for a search warrant under
the law relating to criminal procedure, such officer may,
after recording the grounds of his suspicion—
(@) enter and search such place and seize any permits,
coupons, instruments or materials found therein
‘and reasonably believed to be forged permits
" "or forged coupons or to be used for forging permits
or coupons j or a
(®) by written order authorize any other police officer
to exercise the powers referred to in paragraph
(@) of this subsection.
(3) All documents or articles seized under subsection
(1) or subsection (2), together with a list of such articles,
shall be taken forthwith before the Magistrate's Court
having jurisdiction in the place of seizure and shall be
dealt with in such manner as the court may by order direct.
Power of 35. Where the Authority is satisied that any consumer
ety or vendor of any petroleum product is storing or using
directions. such product in a wasteful manner, the Authority may give
such directions to such consumer or vendor as the Authority
may consider necessary for the prevention, avoidance or
elimination of such waste, and it shall be the duty of such
consumer or vendor to comply with every such direction.
Certifeate 36, Where in any prosecution instituted under this Act,
Corporation any question arises as to whether any liquid or gas is a
Gnelusive Petroleum product, or as to the category to which a petro-
gvidence of — leum product belongs, a°certificate purporting to be under
me the hand of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
fated Corporation or any person authorized in that behalf by such


Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control 19
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979 *
Chairman to the effect that such liquid or gas is a petroleum
product or assigning the category to which such petroleum
Product belongs shall be received in evidence as conclusive
Proof of the facts stated therein.

87. (1) Any person who acts in contravention of any Offences
Provision of this Act shall be guilty of an offence. $04 ee,

(2) Every person guilty of an offence under this Act
other than an offence specified in subsection (3) or subsec-
tion (4) or subsection (5) shall, on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding
two thousand five hundred rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a period not exceeding two years, or
to both such fine and such imprisonment.

(8) Any person who—

(@) resists or obstructs the Authority or any Petroleum .
Controllcr, Deputy or Assistant Petroleum Con-
troller or any authorized officer, acting under any
provision of this Act; or

(0) fails or refuses to furnish any return required by or
under this Act to be furnished by him, or makes * :
in any return or in any application made under this

. Act, any entry or statement which is to his know-
ledge false or incorrect ; or

(©) having obtained a permit upon the representation
that the petroleum product to be purchased or
obtained thereunder is required for any specified
purpose, uses such product for any other purpose ;
or

(d) fails or refuses to comply with any direction issued
by the Authority acting under any provision of
this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a period not exceeding one year, or to both
such fine and such imprisonment. :

(4) Any person who acts in contravention of any regula-
tion made under this Act or of the terms of any permit
issued under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be
Hiable to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees,


20 Petroleum Products (Regulation end Controt
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979 *
(5) (a) Where any measuring instrument kept or main-
é tained at any retail depot is found at any time upon ins-
pection and testing under section 15 or section 15 read with
section 18 or section 21 or section 23 or section 25 or section
27 or section 29 to be false, the person for the time being
in charge of the retail depot shall be guilty of an offence
and shall, on conviction ofter summary trial before a Magis-
trate, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees
or to imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding three months, or to both such fine and imprison-
ment.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a), a measuring ins-
trument shall be deemed to be false if it does not deliver
a correctly within such limits of error as may be prescribed
by regulation,
Offences 38. Where‘an offence under this Act is committed by a
of perso, body of persons then—
(a) if that body is a body corporate, every person who
at the time of the commission of the offence was a
director, secretary or other similar officer of that
body ; or *
(®) if that body is not a body corporate, every person
who at the time of the commission of that offence
‘was a member of that body,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence wnless he
proves that the offence was committed without his consent
or connivance and that he exercised all such diligence to
prevent the commission of that offence as he ought to have
exercised having regard to the nature of his functions and
in all the circumstances.
 Revttictions __39,.'No civil action shall be instituted or maintained
actions against the Corporation or any vendor for any act done or
Sean fhe omitted to be done by such Corporation or vendor, if such
oF vendors, act was done or omitted to be done, as the case may be, for
the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this
, Act.


Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control . 21
of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979
40, (1) The Minister may make regulations for the Regulations.
Purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
Provisions of this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred on him. by subsection (1), the
Minister may make regulations for or in respect of all
matters stated or required in this Act to be prescribed.
(8) Every regulation made by the Minister shall “be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may
be specified in the regulation.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not .
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
Previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation shall f
be deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the
Gazette.
41. The provisions of this Act shall apply to, and in Application
Telation to, the Government in its capacity as a consumer {5 the
of any petroleum product. Government,
= aa Petrol (Control of Supplies) Ordinance is hereby Repealof
43, ‘The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwith- This Act,
standing anything contained in any other written law, and - Sydr other
accordingly, in the event of any conflict or inconsistency yritten
between the provisions of this Act and such other law, the /*¥*
provisions of this Act shall prevail.
44. (1) In this Act unless the context otherwise nterpreta-
requires—
“aircraft” includes a helicopter ;
“approved consumer.” means a person approved or
deemed to be approved under this Act as a consumer
of any petroleum product ; \
“authorized officer” means any police officer not below
the rank of Inspector and includes any other person
acting under the written authority of the Authority ;
“the Corporation” means the Ceylon Petroleum Corpo- .
ration established by Act No. 28,of 1961;


22 Petroleum Products (Regulation and Control
‘of Supplies) Act, No. 34 of 1979

“motor vehicle” means a motor vehicle as defined in the
‘Motor Traffic Act

“measuring instrument” includes any vessel, pump or
other device used or maintained for the measure-
ment of any petroleum product ;

“permit” means a permit issued by the Authority under
this Act ;

“petroleum product” means petrol, kerosene, auto
diesel, heavy diesel, furnace oil, liquid petroleum
gas or aviation turbine fuel ;

“plant or machinery” includes any lamp, stove or other
device used for the purpose of lighting or cooking ;

2 “regulation” means a regulation made under section 40
, by the Minister ;

2 “retail depot” means a service or filling station, and
includes any other premises at which any petroleum
Product is sold by a vendor ;

“vendor” means any person to whom any petroleum
product is sold or delivered by the Corporation or

. by an authorized dealer of the Corporation, for the
purpose of sale by retail.

(2) A permit shall be deemed to be a valid permit for

the purposes of this Act—

(a) if any coupon which was attached to the permit when
the permit was issued remains unsurrendered for
‘the purpose of purchasing or obtaining the petro-

3 Jeum product in respect of which the permit was
issued ; and

(®) if the period in respect of which the permit was

issued has not expired.

(8) A coupon shall be deemed to be a valid coupon for

the purposes of this Act—

(@) if it is attached to a valid permit ;

(®) if the coupon has not been surrendered for the
Purpose of purchasing or obtaining from a retail
depot, the petroleum product in respect of which the
permit is issued ; and

(c) the period in respect of which such coupon was issued
has not expired.» “i
