2-2d

2-

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FISHERIES (REGULATION OF FOREIGNFISHING BOATS) (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 1 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th of February, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 23.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 09, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

2PL 0104942977 (11/2017)

Short title.

[Certified on 08th of February, 2018]

L.D.O. 20/2016

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FISHERIES (REGULATION OF FOREIGNFISHING BOATS) ACT, NO. 59 OF 1979

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Fisheries (Regulation ofForeign Fishing Boats) (Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018.

2.The Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign FishingBoats)Act, No. 59 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactment) is hereby amended by thesubstitution for the word Secretary, wherever that wordoccurs in the principal enactment or any regulation, rule,notice or notification of the word Director-General.

3.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of marginal note to that section andthe substitution therefor of the following:-

Armed forces etc. to co-operate in implementationand enforcement of this Act.;

(2)by the substitution for the words The commandersof the armed forces shall, of the words TheCommanders of the armed forces, the DirectorGeneral of Coast Guard of the Department of CoastGuard established under Department of Coast GuardAct, No. 41 of 2009 and any other person designatedby name or by office by the Minister in writingshall.

GeneralAmendment toAct, No. 59 of1979.

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 20182

4.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following newsubsection:

(4) (a) Any foreign fishing boat or other thingseized and detained under sub-paragraph (a) of subsection (2) or anyabandoned foreign fishing boat; and

(b) Any person arrested under paragraph(b) of subsection (2),

shall be brought to the nearest or most convenientport in Sri Lanka.;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (5) of that section andsubstitution therefor of the following:

(5) Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other written law, where anyforeign fishing boat or any other thing is seizedunder this section, the authorized officer whoseized such boat or other thing shall as soon aspossible produce such boat consisting of anyother thing before, or make it available forinspection by a Magistrate in whose jurisdictionthe port to which the persons and the foreignfishing boat are brought under subsection (4)who shall make such order subject to theprovisions of subsection (1) of section 21 of thisAct as he may deem fit relating to the detentionor custody of such boat or other thing pendingconclusion of a prosecution instituted in respectof that boat or other thing:

Provided however, that when any fish oraquatic plant so seized is subject to speedy

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

3Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

decay, an authorized officer may on the decisionof the Director-General or any person authorizedby the Director-General shall sell such fish oraquatic plant and shall deposit the proceeds ofthe sale in the Magistrates Court.;

(3)in subsection (6) of that section by the substitutionfor the words Judge of the High Court and fromthe place of arrest to that Judge., of the wordsMagistrate and from the place of arrest to that ofMagistrate. respectively.

5.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 13 and shall have effect as sections13A and 13B of the principal enactment:

13A. (1) Whenever

(a)any foreign fishing boat seizedand detained under this Act;and

(b)any action is instituted underthis Act against the master,owner, charterer or any personon-board if any, of a foreignfishing boat,

notice shall be forthwith served on the consularofficer of the country to which the fishing boatbelongs through the Minister to whom thesubject of Foreign Affairs has been assigned.

(2) The grounds on which the boat has beenseized and detained or on which theproceedings have been taken place, shall bespecified in the notice to be served undersubsection (1).

Insertion of newsections 13A and13B in theprincipalenactment.Notice toconsularofficer ondetention offoreign ship.

`

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 20184

13B. Notwithstanding anything containedin section 19B of this Act, if an abandonedforeign fishing boat is seized and detainedunder this Act, the master, owner, charterer orany permit holder if any, of the foreign fishingboat shall be liable to pay to the Governmentof Sri Lanka the cost and other incidentalexpenses involved in the detention and surveyof the foreign fishing boat..

6.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following sections substituted therefor:

15. Where any foreign fishing boat is usedin the territorial waters, historic waters, publicbays, rivers, lakes, lagoons, estuaries, streams,tanks, pools, ponds, channels or all otherpublic inland or internal waters of Sri Lanka incontravention of the provisions of section 4,the master, owner and charterer or any personon board or any person suspected to have beenon board of such boat shall each be guilty ofan offence under this Act and shall each beliable on conviction by a Magistrate to animprisonment for a term not exceeding twoyears or to a fine not less than the amountsspecified in column II of the Schedule I heretobased on the length of the fishing boat specifiedin corresponding entry in the column I of theSchedule I hereto or to both such fine andimprisonment:

Provided however where such master, ownerand charterer or any person on board or anyperson suspected to have been on board of suchboat, commits an offence for the first time underthis section, each such person shall be liableon conviction by a Magistrate having regardto the circumstances of the case to an

Replacement ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment.Contraventionof provisionsof section 4in theterritorialwaters to bean offence.

Liability forcosts anddamages.

5Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

imprisonment for a term not exceeding one yearor to a fine not exceeding the amounts specifiedin Column II of the Schedule I hereto based onthe length of the fishing boat specified incorresponding entry in the Column I of theSchedule I hereto.

15A. Where any foreign fishing boat is usedin the territorial waters, historic waters, publicbays, rivers, lakes, lagoons, estuaries, streams,tanks, pools, ponds, channels or all otherpublic inland or internal waters of Sri Lanka incontravention of the provisions of section 5,the master, owner and charterer or any personon board or any person suspected to have beenon board of such boat shall each be guilty ofan offence under this Act and shall each beliable on conviction by a Magistrate to animprisonment for a term not exceeding twoyears or to a fine not less than the amountsspecified in column II of the Schedule II heretobased on the length of the fishing boat specifiedin corresponding entry in the column I of theSchedule II hereto or to both such fine andimprisonment:

Provided however where such master, ownerand charterer or any person on board or anyperson suspected to have been on board of suchboat, commits an offence for the first time underthis section, each such person shall be liableon conviction by a Magistrate having regardto the circumstances of the case to animprisonment for a term not exceeding one yearor to a fine not exceeding the amounts specifiedin Column II of the Schedule II hereto basedon the length of the fishing boat specified incorresponding entry in the Column I of theSchedule II hereto.

Contraventionof provisionsof section 5in theterritorialwaters to bean offence.

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 20186

15B. Where any foreign fishing boat is usedin the Exclusive Economic Zone of Sri Lankain contravention of the provisions of section 4the master, owner and charterer if any, or anyperson on board or any person suspected to havebeen on board of such boat shall each be guiltyof an offence under this Act and shall each beliable on conviction by a Magistrate to a finenot less than the amounts specified in columnII of the Schedule III hereto based on the lengthof the fishing boat specified in correspondingentry in the column I of the Schedule III hereto.

15C. Where any foreign fishing boat is usedin the Exclusive Economic Zone of Sri Lankain contravention of the provisions of section 5the master, owner and charterer if any, or anyperson on board or any person suspected to havebeen on board of such boat shall each be guiltyof an offence under this Act and shall each beliable on conviction by a Magistrate to a finenot less than the amounts specified in columnII of the Schedule IV hereto based on the lengthof the fishing boat specified in correspondingentry in the column I of the Schedule IV hereto.

15D. Any person who aids and abets thecommission of or who attempts to commit anyoffence or does any act in preparation of or infurtherance of any offence under this Act shallbe guilty of an offence under this Act and shallon conviction be liable to a fine not less thanone million five hundred thousand rupees.

15E. Any prosecution relating to any offencecommitted under this Act shall be concludedwithin one month from the date of institutionof any such proceedings in the MagistratesCourt.

Contraventionof provisionsof section 5in theExclusiveEconomicZone to bean offence.

Offence ofaiding andabetting.

Contraventionof provisionsof section 4in theExclusiveEconomicZone to bean offence.

Conclusionofproceedingswithin onemonth.

7Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

15F. Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979, or any other written law,no person suspected of, or accused of, anoffence under sections 15 or15A shall beenlarged on bail.

15G. Subject to the provisions contained inthe proviso to section 13 (5) any boat, fishinggear, equipment stowed and cargo suspectedto have been involved or used in thecommission of any offence under sections 15,15A and 15D shall not be released untilconclusion of the trial.

15H. No master, owner, charterer, or anyperson on board or any person suspected tohave been on board shall be deemed to be guiltyof an offence under this Act if he proves that theoffence was committed without his knowledgeor that he exercised all due diligence to preventthe commission of that offence as he ought tohave exercised having regard to the nature ofhis functions and the related circumstances..

7.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words after trial withouta jury before a judge of the High Court, and to a fine notexceeding seven hundred and fifty thousand rupees of thewords after trial by a Magistrate, and to a fine not lessthan seven hundred and fifty thousand rupees and notexceeding seventy five million rupees. respectively.

8.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (c) ofthat section of the following paragraph:-

(d) fails to provide reasonable facilities to anauthorized officer or his assistants to board

No person tobe enlargedon bail.

Retention ofboat, fishinggear etc.untilconclusion oftrial.

Master,owner etc.,deemed notto be guiltyin certaincircumstances.

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 20188

the vessel or adequate security to such officerand the assistants at the time of entry intosuch boat or when they are on board suchboat,;

(2)by the substitution for the words after trial withouta jury before a Judge of the High Court and to afine not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees ofthe words after trial by a Magistrateand to a finenot less than the amounts specified in column II ofthe Schedule V hereto based on the length of thefishing boat specified in corresponding entry inthe column I of the Schedule V hereto..

9.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 17 and shall have effect as sections17A and 17B of the principal enactment:-

17A. Subject to the provisions of subsection(1) of section 21 of this Act, all offencescommitted under this Act shall be cognizableand non bailable within the meaning of theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of1979.

17B. The provisions of the Prevention ofCrimes Ordinance (Chapter 22) shall mutatismutandis apply to and in relation toindentification of any person previouslyconvicted of an offence under this Act..

10.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words the Court ofthe words the Magistrates Court..

11.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution in subsection (1) of that sectionfor the words court of Appeal of the words HighCourt;

Insertion of newsections 17A and17B in theprincipalenactment.

Applicationof thePrevention ofCrimesOrdinance(Chapter 22).

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

All offencesto becognizableand nonbailable.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

9Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

(2)by the substitution for subsection (2) of that sectionof the following subsection:-

(2) The Director-General shall take possessionof any boat, fishing gear, fish, aquatic plant,equipment, stores or cargo vested in the State undersubsection (1) and may sell or otherwise dispose ofthem as he may think fit..

12.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 19 and shall have effectrespectively as sections 19A, 19B and 19C of the principalenactment:-

19A. Where any abandoned foreign fishingboat, along with fishing gear, fish, aquaticplants, equipment, stores, and cargo is seized,on suspicion of being involved in thecommission of an offence under this Act, itshall vest absolutely in the State unless a claimis being made to the said boat within theprescribed period.

19B. (1) Where a claim is made to suchabandoned foreign fishing boat, fishing gear,fish, aquatic plants, equipment, stores, andcargo by the master, owner, or charterer if anyof the boat within the period prescribed, theMagistrate upon being satisfied pursuant to aninquiry that such boat was not used for thecommission of any offence under this Act shallmake an order to release such boat or such itemson board, or proceeds thereof, if it is soldconsequent to an order made under section13(5) of this Act to such claimant who hasestablished his legal entitlement to such boator any items on board before the Magistrate.

Abandonedforeignfishingboats.

Insertion of newsections 19A, 19Band 19C in theprincipalenactment.

Release ofabandonedforeignfishing boatpursuant toan inquiry.

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)

(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 201810

Replacement ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.Compoundingof offences.

When toconsider anabandonedforeignfishing boatas a foreignfishing boat.

(2) The claimant shall pay all expensesincurred by the State in relation to theabandoned foreign fishing boat and all suchitems thereon.

19C. Nothing contained in section 19A and19B shall preclude an abandoned foreignfishing boat being considered as a foreignfishing boat for the purposes of any otherprovision of this Act including sections 15,15A, 15B and 15C, in the event where aninvestigation reveals any person or an entityhas contravened any other provision of thisAct including sections 4 and 5..

13.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:-

20. (1) Where the Director-General hassufficient evidence to believe that any personhas acted in contravention of the provisions ofthis Act, he may

(a)on the recommendation of the panelappointed under section 20A of thisAct, in relation to any offence that wascommitted for the first time in theExclusive Economic Zone of Sri Lanka;

(b)having regard to the circumstances inwhich such contravention has takenplace,

if it is appropriate to compound such offence,cause a notice to be served in the prescribedform on such person, requiring him to appearwithin one month from the date of receipt ofsuch notice and show cause why a sum ofmoney should not be charged on him.

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 201811

(2) Where the person on whom the notice isserved appears within one month from the dateof receipt of such notice and admits that heacted in contravention of the provisions of thisAct, the Director-General shall charge from thatperson a sum not less than one fifth of theminimum penalty that could be imposed underthis Act to which such person could be liable topay. Further a sum of money not exceeding theaggregate of the estimated value of the boat,fish or other thing and the costs incurred in thedetention of the boat and repatriation of its crewshall be paid as part of the settlement under thissection and the Director-General shall order therelease of such fishing boat, fish or other thingin respect of which no order of detention hasbeen made by the Magistrate.

(3) Where a person on whom notice is servedwithin one month from the date of receipt ofsuch notice states that he has a cause to showagainst the compounding of the offence, theDirector-General may proceed forthwith to hearand decide the matter in the manner prescribed.

(4) Where the Director- General is notsatisfied with reasons given, he may afterassigning his own reasons therefor, charge fromthat person a sum of money specified insubsection (2) of this section.

(5) Where the Director-General charges onany person a sum of money specified insubsection (2) of this section, he shall cause anotice in the prescribed form to be servd onsuch person indicating partiulars of such charge.

(6) Any person aggrieved by such decisionof the Director-General may appeal to theSecretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Fisheries and Aquatic

12Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

Resources Development (hereinafter referred toas the Secretary) within thirty days from thedate of receipt of such decision of the Director-General.

(7) The Secretary shall, after taking intoconsideration the decision of the Director-General and the circumstances in which theoffence was committed may

(a)affirm the decision of the Director-General and disallow the appeal;

(b)set aside the decision of the Director-General and allow the appeal;

(c)allow the appeal subject to anyamendment, alteration or variationof the decision of the Director-General.

(8) The decision of the Secretary shall benotified to the Director-General who shall takesteps to comply with such decision withinfourteen days from the date of communicationof such decision to the Director-General.

(9) Such decision of the Secretary shall becommunicated to the aggrieved party.

(10) Any person aggrieved by such decisionof the Secretary may prefer any appeal to theCourt of Appeal within thirty days from thedate of communication of such decision, on aquestion of law.

(11) The compounding of any offence underthis section shall be notified in writing underthe signature of both parties to the MagistratesCourt and shall have effect of an acquittal ofthe accused..

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 201813

14.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 20 and shall have effect as section20A of the principal enactment:

20A. (1) The Director-General inconsultation with the Secretary shall appoint apanel of experts consisting of three persons whohave the knowledge expertise, and experiencein the fields of marine engineering, law andaccountancy.

(2) It shall be the function of such panel tomake recommendations to the Director-General,on the matters to be taken into accountpertaining to compounding of an offence undersection 20.

(3) The Minister shall pay such monetaryremuneration as he shall determine inconsultation with the Minister of Finance, tothe members of the panel..

15.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:

(1) Where a Magistrate has ordered thedetention of a foreign fishing boat involved in thecommission of an offence in the area of ExclusiveEconomic Zone of Sri Lanka pending theconclusion of any prosecution instituted in respectof that boat, the owner of the boat, permit holder,

Insertion of newsection 20A inthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

Appointmentof a panel ofexperts.

14Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

master or the authorized local representativeappointed in respect of the boat, may apply to saidMagistrate for the release of the boat on the provisionof a satisfactory bond or other form of security inaccordance with this section..

(2)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words A Judge of the High Court to whomand approved by the Judge, of the wordsA Magistrate to whom and approved by theMagistrate,.

16.Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section;

(2)by the insertion immediately after renumberedsubsection (1) of the following subsections:

(2) Where any foreign fishing boat is foundwithin any maritime zone of Sri Lanka and the fishinggear of such boat is not stowed in the prescribedmanner or fish are found on board of such boat, itmay be presumed that the said boat has been usedfor fishing within the said zone and for any purposein contravention of the provisions of this Act, untilthe contrary is proved.

(3) Where any abandoned foreign fishing boatis found, it may be presumed to have been used forthe commission of any offence under this Act, untilthe contrary is proved..

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment.

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 201815

17.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words be triable by theHigh Court sitting in any Judicial Zone of Sri Lanka., of thewords be triable by a Magistrate having jurisdiction overthe area or locality where the nearest or the most convenientport is situated..

18.Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for paragraph (i) of subsection(2) of that section of the following:

(i)the implementation of the standards stipulated

(i)in the United Nations Convention on Lawof the Sea, 1982;

(ii)by Indian Ocean Tuna Commission, 1993;

(iii)under the Fish Stock Agreement, 1995;

(iv)under the Food and AgricultureOrganization (FAO) of the United NationsAgreement on Port State Measures toprevent, deter and eliminate illegalunreported and unregulated fishing 2009;

(v)in any other instrument to which Sri Lankahas or would become a party;.

19.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 26 and shall have effect as section26A of the principal enactment:

26A. Any contravention of or any failure tocomply with, any regulation made undersection 26 shall be an offence under this Act

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

contraventionof regulationto be anoffence.

Insertion of newsection 26A inthe principalenactment.

16Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

triable by a Magistrate of the Magistrate Courtand punishable with a fine not less than onemillion rupees..

20.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 27 and shall have effect as section27A of the principal enactment:

27A. (1) There shall be a fund which shallbe called the Fisheries Reward Fund (hereinafterreferred to as the Reward Fund).

(2) The Director-General shall be responsiblefor the administration of the Reward Fund.

(3) There shall be credited to the RewardFund all proceeds realized from sales undersection 19.

(4) The Director-General shall from time totime pay out of the Reward Fund a reward:

(a)to any person as specified insection 3;

(b)to any authorized officer; or

(c)to any informer,

of such sum of money as he may deem fit:

Provided however, that such sum shall notexceed the maximum amount to be prescribedunder this Act.

(5) The accounts of the Reward Fund shallbe audited annually by the Auditor-General inaccordance with Article 154 of theConstitution..

Establishmentof theRewardFund.

Insertion of newsection 27A inthe principalenactment.

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 201817

21.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) by the insertion, immediately before the definitionof the expression aquatic plant, of the followingnew definition:

abandoned foreign fishing boat includes a boatwithout any person or persons on board;;

(2) by the substitution for the definition of theexpression authorized officer, of the followingnew definition:

authorized officer means any officer not belowthe rank of Fisheries Inspector appointedunder the Fisheries and Aquatic ResourcesAct, any member of the Navy not below therank of petty officer, any member of the AirForce not below the rank of Sergeant, anyPolice Officer not below the rank of Sergeant,any person attached to the regular service ofthe Department of Coast Guard and any otherperson designated as such by name of byoffice, by the minister in writing;;

(3) by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expressionauthorized officer, of the followingnew definition:

Director General means, the Director-Generalof Fisheries and Aquatic Resources appointedunder section 2 of the Fisheries and AquaticResources Act, No. 2 of 1996;;

(4) by the substitution for the definition of theexpression fish of the following definition:

fish means, any water dwelling aquatic or marineanimal, alive or not, and includes their eggs,

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

18Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

spawn, spat and juvenile stages, and any oftheir parts, and includes all organismsbelonging to sedentary species;;

(5) by the substitution for the definition of theexpression fishing of the following definition:

fishing includes searching for, attracting,locating, catching, taking or killing orharvesting fish or collecting aquatic plantsby any method and includes an attempt tocatch, take or kill fish or to collect aquaticplants and an attempt to execute any of theacts hereinbefore mentioned in Sri Lankawaters;;

(6) in the definition of the expression Local fishingboat by the substitution for the words andregistered, of the words or registered;

(7) by the substitution for the definition of theexpression related activities of the followingdefinition:

related activities in relating to fishing include

(a)transshipping fish to or from any boator vessel in Sri Lanka waters;

(b)storing, processing, preserving ortransporting fish or aquatic plantsobtained from fishing operations;

(c)refuelling or supplying fishing boats orperforming other activities in supportof or ancillary to, fishing operations;

(d)provisioning of personnel, fuel, gear andother supplies at sea;

(e)attempting or preparing to do any ofthe above;;

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 201819

(8)by the substitution for the definition of theexpression Secretary of the followingdefinition:

Secretary shall mean the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned the subject ofFisheries;;

(9)by the substitution for the definition of theexpression Sri Lanka waters of the followingdefinition:

Sri Lanka waters means

(a)the area declared to be the territorial seaof Sri Lanka by proclamation madeunder section 2 of the Maritime ZonesLaw, No. 22 of 1976;

(b)the area declared to be the contiguousZone of Sri Lanka by proclamation madeunder section 4 of the Maritime ZonesLaw, No. 22 of 1976;

(c)the area declared to be the exclusiveEconomic Zone of Sri Lanka byproclamation made under section 5 ofMaritime Zones Law, No. 22 of 1976;

(d)the area declared to be the historicwaters of Sri Lanka by proclamationmade under section 9 of the MaritimeZones Law, No. 22 of 1976; and

(e)all public bays, rivers, lakes, lagoons,estuaries, streams, tanks, pools, ponds,channels and all other public inland orinternal waters..

22.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

20Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

SCHEDULE I(section 15)

Column IColumn II

Length of the boat in metresFine (Rs. Mn.)

Territorial waters

Less than 156

More than 15 and less than 2420

More than 24 and less than 45100

More than 45 and less than 75150

More than 75175

Administrative penaltyNot applicable

SCHEDULE II(section 15A)

Column IColumn II

Length of the boat in metresFine (Rs. Mn.)

Territorial waters

Less than 154

More than 15 and less than 2415

More than 24 and less than 4575

More than 45 and less than 75120

More than 75150

Administrative penaltyNot applicable

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 201821

SCHEDULE III(section 15B)

Column IColumn II

Length of the boat in metresFine (Rs. Mn.)

Within EEZ

Less than 1510

More than 15 and less than 2430

More than 24 and less than 45120

More than 45 and less than 75180

More than 75220

Administrative penalty1/5 of the originalfine

SCHEDULE IV(section 15C)

Column IColumn II

Length of the boat in metresFine (Rs. Mn.)

Within EEZ

Less than 155

More than 15 and less than 2420

More than 24 and less than 4580

More than 45 and less than 75130

More than 75160

Administrative penalty1/5 of the originalfine

22Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2018

SCHEDULE V(section 17)

Column IColumn II

Length of the boat in metresFine (Rs.)

Less than 15100,000

More than 15 and less than 24200,000

More than 24 and less than 45500,000

More than 45 and less than 751,500,000

More than 757,500,000

Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 201823

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.