PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CONTEMPT OF A COURT, TRIBUNAL OR INSTITUTIONACT, No. 8 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 01st of February, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 30.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 02, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

L.D.- O. 55/2021

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE UNIFORM APPLICATION OF THE LAW RELATING

TO THE CONTEMPT OF A COURT, TRIBUNAL OR INSTITUTION; TO PROVIDE

FOR THE PROCEDURE IN PUNISHING THE CONTEMPT OF A COURT,

TRIBUNAL OR INSTITUTION; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution Act, No. 8 of 2024.

2. The objects of this Act shall be to

(a) uphold the dignity and authority of a court,tribunal and institution;

(b) protect the due administration of justice;

(c) ensure adherence to judicial directives;

(d) preserve and maintain the effectiveness andimpartiality of a court, tribunal and institution;

(e) strike a balance between the right of expression,fair comment and compliance with judicialdirectives;

(f) set out with precision the ambit of contempt of acourt, tribunal and institution; and

(g) ensure the observance of, and respect for, thedue process of law.

Short title

Objects of theAct

[Certified on 01st of February, 2024]

2Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

3. (1) Save as provided for in any other written law andsubject to the provisions of the Constitution, any personwho commits an act or omission with intent to-

(a) bring the authority of a court, tribunal or institutionand administration of justice into disrespect ordisregard; or

(b) interfere with, or cause grave prejudice to the judicialprocess in relation to any ongoing litigation,

commits contempt of a court, tribunal or institution, as thecase may be.

(2) Save as provided for in any other written law andsubject to the provisions of the Constitution, any personwho does any of the following acts commits contempt of acourt, tribunal or institution, as the case may be-

(a) willful disobedience to any judgment, decree,direction, order, writ or other process of a court,tribunal or institution;

(b) willful breach of an undertaking given to a court,tribunal or institution;

(c) expressing, pronouncing or publishing any matterthat is false which, or doing any other act which-

(i)scandalizes or lowers the judicial authorityor dignity of a court, tribunal or institution;

(ii)gravely prejudices, or unlawfully interfereswith, the due course of any judicialproceeding; or

(iii)interferes with, or obstructs the administrationof justice;

Certain actsdeemed to becontempt ofa court,tribunal orinstitution

3Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

(d) (i) use of any electronic device or other instrumentfor audio or visual recording or both, in a court,tribunal or institution, or bringing into a court,tribunal or institution any such device orinstrument for the purpose of audio or visualrecording or both, without the leave of the court,tribunal or institution already obtained;

(ii) publication or transmission of an audio or a visualrecording or both, of a proceeding or part of aproceeding of a court, tribunal or institution madeby means of any electronic device or otherinstrument, or any such recording derived directlyor indirectly from such device or instrumentwithout the leave of the court, tribunal orinstitution already obtained;

(iii) use of any electronic device or other instrument,or publication or transmission of an audio or avisual recording or both, of a proceeding of acourt, tribunal or institution, in contravention ofany leave granted under sub-paragraph (i) orsub-paragraph (ii); or

(iv) tampering, altering or falsifying any audio orvisual recording or both, of a proceeding of acourt, tribunal or institution; or

(e)scandalizing a court, tribunal or institution, or ajudge or judicial officer with intent to-

(i)interfere with the due administration ofjustice;

(ii)excite dissatisfaction in the minds of thepublic in regard to a court, tribunal orinstitution; or

(iii)cast public suspicion on the administrationof justice.

4Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

4. (1) Any publication or expression of accurate factsmade in good faith of a judge or judicial officer or,proceeding, judgment or order of a court, tribunal orinstitution as the case may be, on a matter of public interestshall not be deemed to be contempt of such court, tribunalor institution, where the risk of causing any impediment orprejudice to such judge or judicial officer or proceeding,judgement or order is merely incidental.

(2) Any publication or expression-

(a)of accurate facts of any case or proceedingsbefore a court, tribunal or institution madewithout malice or intention to impair theadministration of justice; or

(b)of fair comments on the merits of any judgmentor order of a court, or action or application whichhas been heard and decided,

shall not be deemed to be contempt of a court, tribunal orinstitution where every attempt has been made to avoid anycontempt and such publication or expression has been donebona fide.

(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall not beconstrued as affecting or limiting any other valid defencefor contempt of a court, tribunal or institution, contained inany other written law.

5. A person shall not be-

(a)required to disclose, during the court proceedings;or

(b)found guilty of contempt of court for rufusing todisclose,

the source of information contained in a publication forwhich he is responsible, unless it is established to thesatisfaction of the court that disclosure is necessary in theinterest of justice or national security or for the preventionof disorder or crime.

Defences againstcontempt of acourt, tribunalor institution

Non-disclosureof source ofinformation

5Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

6. (1) The Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal shallhave the power to punish for contempt of itself, whethercommitted in its presence or hearing or elsewhere.

(2) Where the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, asthe case may be, in the exercise of its jurisdiction as referredto in subsection (1), takes cognizance-

(a)of contempt of court committed in its presence orhearing, the Supreme Court or the Court of Appealshall hear and determine such matter in accordancewith the procedure set out in section 8; and

(b)of contempt of court committed otherwise than inits presence or hearing, the Supreme Court or theCourt of Appeal shall hear and determine suchmatter in accordance with the procedure set out insection 9.

(3) The Court of Appeal shall have the power to punishfor contempt of a Court of First Instance or tribunal orinstitution, whether committed in its presence or hearing orelsewhere:

Provided however, the provisions of this section shallnot prejudice or affect the rights of a Court of First Instanceto punish for contempt of itself.

(4) Where the Court of Appeal, in the exercise of itsjurisdiction as referred to in subsection (3), takes cognizanceof contempt of a Court of First Instance or tribunal orinstitution referred to in that subsection, the Court of Appealshall hear and determine such matter in accordance with theprocedure set out in section 10.

7. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other writtenlaw, the Courts of First Instance shall have the power topunish for contempt of court committed in its presence orhearing or in the course of proceedings in such Courts of

Power of theSupreme Courtand the Court ofAppeal topunish contemptof a court,tribunal orinstitution

Power of theCourts of FirstInstance topunish contemptof court

6Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

First Instance, or any act which is specified in this Act or inany other written law for the time being in force as beingpunishable as contempt of court, subject to the provisionsof this Act.

(2) Where any Court of First Instance takes cognizance ofcontempt of court referred to in subsection (1), such Court ofFirst Instance shall hear and determine such matter inaccordance with the procedure set out in section 11.

8. (1) Where it is alleged, or appears to the Supreme Courtor the Court of Appeal, as the case may be, that a person hascommitted contempt of court in its presence or hearing, theSupreme Court or the Court of Appeal may-

(a)cause such person to be detained in custody;

(b)at any time before the rising of the Supreme Courtor the Court of Appeal, on the day on which thecontempt of court is alleged to have been committedor as early as possible thereafter, cause a rule to beissued on him signed by the Registrar of the Court,giving particulars in writing of the contempt ofcourt with which he is charged; and

(c)fix a date for the hearing of the charge.

(2) On the date fixed for the hearing of the charge, theperson charged with contempt of court shall be afforded anopportunity to make his defence to the charge.

(3) The Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as the casemay be, shall, after affording the person charged withcontempt of court an opportunity to furnish an affidavit indefence and hearing the person charged with contempt ofcourt and taking such evidence as may be necessary or as

Procedure wherecontempt ofcourt is in thepresence of theSupreme Courtor the Court ofAppeal

7Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

may be offered by such person, proceed either forthwith orafter such adjournment as the Supreme Court or the Court ofAppeal may think fit, to determine the charge and to makeorder for the punishment or discharge of the person charged.

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the precedingprovisions of this section, where a person charged withcontempt of court under subsection (1) applies, whetherorally or in writing, to have the charge against him tried bysome Judge or Judges other than the Judge or Judges inwhose presence or hearing the contempt of court is allegedto have been committed, the Court shall cause the matter tobe placed, together with a statement of the facts of the case,before the Chief Justice or the President of the Court ofAppeal as the case may be, for such directions as the ChiefJustice or the President of the Court of Appeal as the casemay be, may think fit to issue with respect to the trial of thecharge.

(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in any otherwritten law, at the trial of a person charged with contempt ofcourt under subsection (1) which is held, in pursuance of adirection issued under subsection (4), by a Judge or Judgesother than the Judge or Judges in whose presence or hearingthe contempt of court is alleged to have been committed,the statement of facts placed before the Chief Justice or thePresident of the Court of Appeal as the case may be, undersubsection (4) by the Judge or Judges in whose presence orhearing the contempt of court is alleged to have beencommitted shall be received in evidence, but no such Judgeor Judges shall be summoned or examined as a witness.

(6) The provisions of subsections (2) and (3) shall, mutatismutandis but subject to the provisions of subsection (5),apply to the hearing and determination of the charge by theJudge or Judges other than the Judge or Judges in whose

8Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

presence or hearing the contempt of court is alleged to havebeen committed, in pursuance of a direction issued undersubsection (4).

(7) The Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as the casemay be, may, pending the determination of a charge underthis section, direct that such person be released on bail subjectto such conditions as such Court may deem fit to impose.

9. (1) The Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as thecase may be, may take cognizance of contempt of courtcommitted against it, or in disrespect of its authority, otherthan contempt of court committed in its presence or hearing,on-

(a)its own motion;

(b)a motion filed by the Attorney-General, togetherwith any document or thing in support of the motion;or

(c)a motion filed by any other person, together withan affidavit and any document or thing in supportof the motion.

(2) Every motion or affidavit filed under subsection (1)shall set out the particulars of the contempt of court allegedto have been committed by the person alleged to havecommitted the contempt of court.

(3) The Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as the casemay be, shall, after perusing the motion, and the affidavit,document or thing filed under subsection (1) and satisfyingitself that a prima facie case of contempt of court has beenestablished against the person alleged to have committedsuch contempt-

Procedure wherecontempt ofcourt is not inthe presence ofthe SupremeCourt or theCourt of Appeal

9Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

(a)cause a rule to be issued on such person signed bythe Registrar of the Court, giving particulars inwriting of the contempt of court with which he ischarged;

(b)direct that such rule, together with a copy of thedocument filed under subsection (1), be servedpersonally on such person; and

(c)fix a date for the hearing of the charge.

(4) On the date fixed for the hearing of the charge, theAttorney-General may lead the evidence of such witnessrelevant to the document filed under subsection (1), ifnecessary, subject to the right of cross-examination of theperson charged with contempt of court.

(5) On the date fixed for the hearing of the charge, theperson charged with contempt of court shall be afforded anopportunity to make his defence to the charge and shall beentitled to file an affidavit or to adduce evidence in hisdefence.

(6) The Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as the casemay be, shall hear and determine the charge after consideringthe affidavit filed by the person charged with contempt ofcourt or after hearing the evidence adduced by such person,as the case may be.

(7) Pending the determination of a charge under thissection, the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as thecase may be, may direct that-

(a)the person charged with contempt of court underthis section be detained in such custody as it mayspecify; or

10Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

(b)such person be released on bail subject to suchconditions as it may deem fit to impose.

10. (1) The Court of Appeal may take cognizance ofcontempt committed against, or in disrespect of the authorityof, a Court of First Instance or tribunal or an institution on-

(a)a reference made to it by such Court of FirstInstance, tribunal or institution;

(b)a motion filed by the Attorney-General, togetherwith any document or thing in support of the motion;or

(c)a motion filed by any other person, together withan affidavit and any document or thing in supportof the motion.

(2) Every reference made, or motion or affidavit filedunder subsection (1) shall set out the particulars of thecontempt of the court, tribunal or institution as the case maybe, alleged to have been committed by the person alleged tohave committed such contempt.

(3) The Court of Appeal shall, after perusing the referencemade or the motion or affidavit filed under subsection (1), asthe case may be, and satisfying itself that a prima facie caseof contempt of a court, tribunal or institution, as the casemay be, has been established against the person alleged tohave committed such contempt-

(a)cause a rule to be issued on such person signed bythe Registrar of the Court, giving particulars inwriting of the contempt of court, tribunal orinstitution, with which he is charged;

Procedure forthe exercise ofjurisdiction ofthe Court ofAppeal inrespect ofcontemptcommittedagainst a Courtof First Instance,tribunal orinstitution

11Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

(b)direct that such rule, together with a copy of thereference or motion and document made or filedunder subsection (1), be served personally on suchperson; and

(c)fix a date for the hearing of the charge.

(4) On the date fixed for the hearing of the charge, theAttorney-General may lead the evidence of such witnessrelevant to the document filed under subsection (1), ifnecessary, subject to the right of cross-examination of theperson charged with contempt.

(5) The Court of Appeal shall hear and determine thecharge after considering the affidavit filed by the personcharged with such contempt or after hearing the evidenceadduced by such person, as the case may be.

(6) Pending the determination of a charge under thissection, the Court of Appeal may direct that-

(a)the person charged with contempt of a court,tribunal or institution under this section bedetained in such custody as it may specify; or

(b)such person be released on bail subject to suchconditions as it may deem fit to impose. 11. (1) Where a Court of First Instance takes cognizanceof contempt of court committed against, or in disrespect ofthe authority of, such Court of First Instance, such Court ofFirst Instance shall, subject to the provisions of subsections(2) and (3), hear and determine such matter in accordancewith the procedure set out in Chapter LXV of theCivil Procedure Code.

Procedure forthe exercise ofjurisdictionconferred onthe Courts ofFirst Instance totry contempt ofcourt

12Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

(2) Where the Judge of a Court of First Instance referredto in subsection (1) acts under section 795 of theCivil Procedure Code, such Judge shall inquire from theaccused whether he wishes to be tried by a Judge other thanthe Judge in whose presence or hearing the contempt ofcourt is alleged to have been committed.

(3) If the accused indicates to the Judge of such Court ofFirst Instance, in response to the inquiry under subsection(2), orally or in writing, that he wishes to be tried by a Judgeother than the Judge in whose presence or hearing thecontempt of court is alleged to have been committed, suchJudge shall cause the matter to be placed, together with theminutes of the facts recorded by such Judge, before the ChiefJustice for such directions as the Chief Justice may think fitto issue with regard to the hearing of the charge. 12. (1) An appeal may lie from any order or decision ofthe Court of Appeal in the exercise of its jurisdiction topunish for contempt of itself and a Court of First Instance,tribunal or institution, as the case may be, to the SupremeCourt.

(2) The Supreme Court may, pending any appeal, orderthat

(a)the execution of the punishment, or the order ordecision appealed against be suspended; or

(b)the appellant, if he is in confinement, be releasedon bail.

(3) Where any person who is aggrieved by any order ordecision of a Court of First Instance, against which an appealmay be filed, indicates to such Court of First Instance that heintends to prefer an appeal against such order or decision tothe Court of Appeal, such Court of First Instance shall, untilthe expiry of the time limit for the filing of the appeal, order

Appeals

13Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

(a) the execution of the punishment, or the order ordecision appealed against be suspended; or

(b) the appellant, if he is in confinement, be releasedon bail.

13. (1) A court shall not initiate any proceedings inrelation to contempt of a court, tribunal or institution, eitheron its own motion or otherwise, after the expiry of a periodof one year from the date on which such contempt wasformally brought to the attention of that court.

(2) A tribunal or institution shall not refer to the Court ofAppeal any matter relating to the contempt of such tribunalor institution, after the expiry of a period of one year fromthe date on which such contempt was formally brought tothe attention of that tribunal or institution. 14. Where contempt of a court, tribunal or institutionunder this Act is committed by a body of persons, then-

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector, manager or secretary of that body corporateat the time of the commission of such contempt;

(b)if that body of persons is a firm, every partner ofthat firm at the time of the commission of suchcontempt; and

(c)if that body of persons is an unincorporated body,every individual who is a member of suchunincorporated body at the time of the commissionof such contempt,

shall be deemed to have committed that contempt:

Period oflimitation forproceedings forcontempt of acourt, tribunalor institution

Contempt of acourt, tribunalor institution bya body ofpersons

14Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

Provided however, any director, manager or secretaryof such body corporate or any partner of such firm or anyindividual of such unincorporated body shall not be deemedto have committed such contempt if he proves to thesatisfaction of the court that such contempt was committedwithout his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligenceto prevent the commission of such contempt.

15. The provisions of this Act shall have effectnotwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in anyother written law, and accordingly, in the event of anyinconsistency between the provisions of this Act and suchother law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

16. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Civil Procedure Code means, the Civil ProcedureCode (Chapter 101);

Court of First Instance means, the High Court of theRepublic of Sri Lanka, the High Court for aProvince established by Article 154P of theConstitution, the District Court, the FamilyCourt, the Small Claims Court, the MagistratesCourt or the Primary Court;

institution means, an institution created andestablished by written law for the administrationof justice and for the adjudication and settlementof industrial and other disputes;

publish means, to disseminate, distribute, exhibit,provide or communicate by oral, visual, written,electronic or other means including by way ofnewspaper, radio, television or through the use

This Act toprevail overother law

Interpretation

15Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

of the internet or other online communicationsystem, to the public at large or a member of thepublic, and includes causing to be published,and publication is to be construedaccordingly; and

tribunal means, a tribunal created and establishedby written law for the administration of justiceand for the adjudication and settlement ofindustrial and other disputes.

17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

16Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or InstitutionAct, No. 8 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.