PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF THERAVADHA

(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 32 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th of June, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

[Certified on 18th of June, 2024]

L.D.O. (Inc.) 4/2023

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OFTHERAVADHA

WHEREAS an institute called and known as theInternational Institute of Theravadha has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectuallycarrying out its objects and transacting all matters connectedwith the said institute according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers:

AND WHEREAS the said institute has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was established and has applied to be incorporatedand it will be for the public advantage to grant the saidapplication:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the International Institute ofTheravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of theInternational Institute of Theravadha (hereinafter referredto as the Institute) and shall hereafter be admitted asmembers of the body corporate hereby constituted, shall haveperpetual succession under the name and style of theInternational Institute of Theravadha (hereinafter referredto as the body corporate), and by that name may sue and besued with full power and authority to have, and use a commonseal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble

Short title

Incorporation ofthe InternationalInstitute ofTheravadha

2International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

3. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate isconstituted are hereby declared to be -

(a)to train Buddhist monks and lay devotees to beenriched with doctrinal knowledge andknowledge in meditation that is required to attainon their own the ultimate liberation of Nibbana,according to the Buddhist teachings;

(b)to train Buddhist monks and lay devotees capableof guiding other Buddhist monks and laydevotees to attain the ultimate liberation ofNibbana, according to the Buddhist teachings;

(c)to train Buddhist monks to perform formal actsof discipline (vinayakammas), according to theTheravadha Buddhist teachings, in order to sustainthe Sasana;

(d)to publish and translate books and any other readingmaterials related to the Theravadha teaching; and

(e)to train and use the missionaries in order topropagate the dhamma expounded by the Buddhalocally and internationally giving due respect tothe prevailing laws and cultural values; and

subject to any applicable written law, to the extent permittedby such law.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the body corporate shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, gender, politicalopinion, place of birth or such other grounds.

General objectsof the bodycorporate

3International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried outin such manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the body Corporate and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rulesmade under section 10, the management and administrationof the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by anExecutive Board consisting of such number of office bearersas may be specified by the rules made under section 10 ofthis Act.

(2) (a) The members of the Executive Board holding officeon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall subject to the rules made under paragraph(b) of this subsection, function as an Interim Board of thebody corporate until the first Executive Board is appointedor elected in the manner Provided for by rules made undersection 10 of this Act.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 10, the InterimBoard shall have the power to make rules for the interimadministration of the body corporate and for election orappointment of the members of the first Executive Boardof the body corporate not inconsistent with the provisionsof this Act or any other written law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken bythe majority of its members present at such meeting.

(d) The first Executive Board of the body corporate shallbe appointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor ProvincialCouncil

Management ofthe affairs of thebody corporate

4International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Executive Boardincluding the patrons and advisors, shall be appointed orelected for a period of six years and any such office bearer,patron or advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment orre-election:

Provided however, any person appointed or electedas the Chair of the Executive Board shall only be eligiblefor re-appointment or re-election for one further term,whether consecutive or otherwise.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Executive Board shall having regard to therules of the body corporate, appoint or elect a person tofill such vacancy.

(c) The person appointed or elected under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. There shall be a body established and known as theSenate Council constituted with Tutor monks and Studentmonks of the body corporate to discuss issues related toDhamma and Vinaya and decisions taken by the ExecutiveBoard and to forward comments, suggestions, proposalsand recommendations regarding such issues to the bodycorporate and the executive board.

7. (1) The General Assembly of the body corporate isknown as the Supreme board and it shall consist of all themembers of the body corporate.

(2) Subject to the provisions of section 10, the duty of theGeneral Assembly shall be -

Senate Councilof the BodyCorporate

Generalassembly of thebody corporate

5International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

(a)to elect the executive board of the body corporatein accordance with the ruIes of the bodycorporate;

(b)to take decisions with regard to relocating the headoffice of the body corporate;

(c)to take decisions in order to dissolve the bodycorporate;

(d)to make and amend rules of the body corporate;

(e)to make procedures of the general assembly by therules of the body corporate;

(f)to establish an executive board in order to carry outthe executive affairs of the body corporate;

(g)to elect the members of the executive board fromthe General Assembly by an election; and

(h)to make by rules, the composition of the executiveboard, the sub-committees coming under suchboard, their functions and qualifications andappointments of the members of such sub-committees.

8. (1) There shall be a committee known as theDisciplinary Committee to look into all the disciplinarymatters pertaining to all the members and trained andtrainees of the body corporate.

(2) The composition, powers, functions and duties of thedisciplinary committee shall be specified by rules made undersection 10 of this Act.

DisciplinaryCommittee ofthe BodyCorporate

6International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

9. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and things as are necessaryor desirable for the achievement of the objects of the bodycorporate or any one of them, including the power -

(a)to purchase rent, construct and renovate lands orbuildings which may be required for the purposesof the body corporate and to deal with or disposeof the same as determined by the executive Boardwith a view to promoting the objects of the bodycorporate;

(b)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the body corporate, all suchcontracts or agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of thepowers of the body corporate;

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Provided that, the Executive Board shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources, in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse,negotiate, buy, sell and issue bills of exchange,cheques, promissory notes and other negotiableinstruments and to open, operate, maintain andclose accounts in any bank;

Powers of thebody corporate

7International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate, in suchmanner as the Executive Board may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, excecute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto the body corporate or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate theservices of officers and other employees of thebody corporate and exercise disciplinary controlover them and to pay them such salaries,allowances and gratuities as may be determinedby the body corporate in terms of the rules madeunder section 10;

(h)to assist the relevant authorities to organizelectures, seminars and conferences with a view topromoting the objects of the body corporate;

(i)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the body corporate; and

(j)to train officers and other employees in Sri Lankaor abroad for the purposes of the body corporate.

10. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the body corporate and bya majority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters: -

(a)the classification of membership, admissionwithdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

Rules of thebody corporate

8International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

(b)number of office bearers of the body corporate,executive board, senate council and disciplinarycommittee and qualifications and disqualificationsto be a member of the body corporate, the executiveboard, senate council or disciplinary committee asthe case may be;

(c)the election of the office bearers, vacation of orremoval from office of the office bearers of the bodycorporate, executive board, senate council and thefunctions of such office bearers;

(d)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers and otheremployees of the body corporate;

(e)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate andof the Executive Board, senate council and thedisciplinary committee or notices and agenda ofsuch meetings, the quorum and the conduct ofbusiness thereat;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate; and

(g)generally, the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its, objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be publishedin the Gazette within three months upon making of suchrules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

9International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate shall, withinthree months after its publication in the Gazette, by broughtbrought before Parliament for approval. Any rule which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any such rule isdeemed to be so rescinded under subsection (4) shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

11. The Executive Board shall maintain a register ofmembers in which name, address and other essential detailsof the members shall be inscribed.

12. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants forand on account of the body corporate shall be deposited inone or more banks approved by the Executive Board to thecredit of the body corporate subject to the provisions ofparagraph (c) of section 9.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by thebody corporate in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

13. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and allother transactions of the body corporate.

Register ofmembers

Fund of thebody corporate

Accounts andAuditing

10International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor and be certified by suchqualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section qualified auditormeans-

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by Law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issuedby the Council of such Institute.

14. (1) The Executive Board shall prepare a report of theactivities of the body corporate for each financial year andsubmit such report together with the audited statement ofaccounts certified by a qualified auditor, to the Secretary ofthe Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject ofBuddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs before theexpiration of six months of the year succeeding the year towhich such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

Annual Report

11International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

Debts due byand payable toInstitute

15. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Institute on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

16. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and allsuch property shall be held by the body corporate for thepurpose of this Act and subject to the rules of the bodycorporate made under section 10, with power to sell,mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

17. The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwisehowsoever to the members of the body corporate.

18. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Executive Board who shall sign their namesto the instrument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of any person asa witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in thecustody of an office bearer of the Executive Board as maybe decided by such Executive Board.

Application ofmoneys andproperty

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Seal of the bodycorporate

12International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

19. (1) lf upon the dissolution of the body corporate, thereremains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the body corporate,but, shall be given or transferred to any other institutionhaving objects similar to those of the body corporate,and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

20. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or otherbody corporate.

21. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-

bank means a licensed commercial bank withinthe meaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of1988; and

written law shall have the same meaningassigned to such expression in theConstitution.

22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Interpretation

13International Institute of Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.