Disqualifica1ion from being a member.

14 Survey Act, No. 17 of 2002

(/,) appointed members namely -

(i)three registered surveyors who possess widt'experience and proven capahilities in landsurveying. nominated hy the SurveyorsInstitute of Sri Lanka incorporated hy theSurveyors' Institute of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)Act. No. 22 of 1982 : and

(ii)one academic. nomi11atcd by the UniversityGrants Commission estahlished by theUniversities Act. No. 16 of 1978. from amongacademics in the fields of education.administration. management or engineeringfrom a University.

who shall be appointed by the Minister.

28.A person shall he disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Council -

(a)if he is or hecomes a memher of Parliament or aprovincial council or any local authority : or

(b)if he is not. or ceases to be. a citizen of Sri Lanka: or

(c)if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in anyother country found or declared to be of unsoumlmind; or

(d) if he is serving or has served ii sentence ofimprisonment imposed hy any court in Sri Lanka orany other country : or

(e)ii' he has any linancial or other interest as is likely lO .iffcct prejudicially the discharge hy him of hisfunctions as a member of the Council : or

(f)if he is an undischarged bankrupt; or

S111vev A c:t. No. 17 <?{ 2002 15

(g)if he is ahsent from three consec.:udvc meetings ol'theCouncil without the permission of the Council : or

(h)if he is found guilty of an offence under this Act.

29.(I) An appointed memher of the Council may resignhis office by letter addressed to the Minister and such resignation shall be effective from the date on which it is accepted by the Minister.

(2) The Minister may. after consulting the authoritynominating an appointed member. remove such member from of'lice for reasons stated in writing.

(3) Where an appointed memherofthe Council dies, resigns or is removed from office. the Minister shall. having regard to the provisions or paragraph (b} or section 27 appoint another memher in his place.

(4) A member appointed under suhsection (3) shall holdoffice for the unexpired part or the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(5) Every ex-officio member of the Council shall hold office as long as he holds the post by virtue of which he is a member of the Council.

30.Subject to the provisions of subsections (I) and (2)of section 29 the term of office of an appointed member of the Council shall be three years and such member shall be eligihle for re-appointment.

31.The members of the Council shall be paid suchremuneration or allowances out of the Fund or the Council at such rates as may be dctern1ined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

32. (I) There shall be a Secretary to the Council who shallhe appointed by the Council.

Removal and rcsigna1io11 of member.;.

Tenn of olTicc or members.

Rcinuncration or allowance 10 members.

Secn:1:iry.