PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SUGATHADASA NATIONAL SPORTS COMPLEXAUTHORITY ACT, No. 17 OF 1999

[Certified on 24th June, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of June 25,1999

PEINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

Sugathadasa National Sports Complex AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 1999

[Certified on 24th June, 1999]

L.D.O. 1/97.

AN ACT TO ESTABLISH AN AUTHORITY TO BE CALLED THESUGATHADASA NATIONAL SPORTS COMPLEX AUTHORITY TO

MANAGE AND MAINTAIN THE SUGATHADASA NATIONAL SPORTSCOMPLEX ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as The Sugathadasa NationalSports Complex Authority Act, No, 17 of 1999, and shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may appoint byOrder published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date).PART I

THE SUGATHADASA NATIONAL SPORTS COMPLEX AUTHORITY

2.(1) There shall be established an Authority whichshall be called the Sugathadasa National Sport ComplexAuthority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in that name.

3.(1) The affairs of the Authority shall be administeredand managed by a Board of Management (hereafter referredto as the Board).

(2) The Board shall consist of the following :

(a) three ex-officio members, namely

(i)Secretary to the ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of the Sports or hisrepresentative ;

Short title anddate of operation.

Establishment ofthe SugathadasaNational SportsComplexAuthority.

H-022545

Board ofManagement ofthe Authority.

Sugathadasa National Sports Complex AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 19992

(ii) the Director of Sports appointed under theSports Law, No. 25 of 1973

(iii) a representative of the Treasury ; and

(b) eight members appointed by the Minister, of whomthree shall be representives of recognised SportsBodies (A member appointed under this paragraph ishereinafter referred to as an appointed member).

(3) The Minister shall appoint one of the members of theBoard to be the Chairman of the Authority.

(4) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act, shall haveeffect in relation to the terms of office of the Chairman andthe appointed members of the Board, vacation of office bythe Chairman and the appointed members of the Board,meetings of the Board and the seal of the Authority.

(5) The Board shall exercise and discharge the powersand functions conferred on, or assigned to, the Authority bythis Act.

4.(1) The functions of the Authority shall be to

(a) manage and maintain the Sugathadasa National SportsComplex and take necessary measures to safeguard itas a national asset ;

(b) maintain all amenities and facilities relating to theSugathadasa National Sports Complex ;

(c) make improvements or alterations to the buildings andstructures comprised in the Sugathadasa NationalSports Complex,where necessary ;

(d) to make available the facilities of the SugathadasaNational Sports Complex, on such conditions as maybe imposed by the Board, to the citizens of Sri Lanka,andin particular, to the Youth of Sri Lanka, to enable themto develop their potential in sports and for the purposesof improving their fitness and health ;

Functions of theAuthority.

Sugathadasa National Sports Complex AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 1999

(e) to conduct training courses and programmes in sports,with a view particularly, to developing sports in therural sector ;

(f)to make available,on such conditions as may beimposed by the Board, the facilities of theSugathadasa National Sports Complex for nationaland international festivals ;

(g) to liaise and establish links, with international and localsports training organizations and sport institutions, witha view to developing sports and recreational facilitiesin Sri Lanka ;

(h) to make available, on such conditions as may beimposed by the Board, the facilities of the SugathadasaNational Sports Complex to schools, youth clubs andsports organizations, at reasonable charges.

5.The Authority Shall have the following powers :

(a) to acquire and to hold, property, both movable andimmovable, and to pledge or sell, mortgage, give onlease or hire, exchange or otherwise dispose of, thesame ;

(b) to accept grants, gifts or donations of immovable ormovable property from any government, persons orbodies of persons, in or outside Sri Lanka ;

(c) to enter into, and perform all such contracts andagreements as may be necessary for the purposes ofdischarging its functions ;

(d) to appoint such officers and servants as may benecessary for the discharge of its functions and toexercise disciplinary control over, and dismiss, suchofficers and servants ;

Powers of theAuthority.

Sugathadasa National Sports Complex AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 19994

(e) to determine the remuneration payble to,and the termsand conditions of service of, such officers andservants ;

(f)to charge fees for services and facilities rendered orprovided by it ;

(g) to borrow or raise money, with or without security ;

(h) to conduct training courses workshops and symposiafor the purposes of discharging its functions ;

(i)to invest its unutilized moneys in such securities asmay be approved by the Minister with the concurrrenceof the Minister in charge of the subject of finance ;

(j)to do all such other acts as may be necessary for, orconducive to, the discharge of its functions.

PART II

STAFF

6.(1) The Board may, subject to such conditions as maybe specified in writing,delegate to any officer or servant ofthe Authority, any power, duty or function conferred orimposed on, or assigned to, the Authority by this Act, for theefficient transaction of its business.

(2) Notwithstanding any such delegation, the Board mayexercise, perform or discharge any such power, duty orfunction.

7.(1) At the request of the Board, any officer of thePublic Service may, with the consent of that officer and theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subjectof Public Administration be temporarily appointed to the Staffof the Authority for such period as may be determined by theBoard with like consent, or be permanently appointed to suchstaff.

Delegation ofpowers of theAuthority.

Appointment ofpublic officers tothe staff of theAuthority.

Sugathadasa National Sports Complex AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 1999

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the Staff of the Authority, subsection (2) of section14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No 37 of 1991shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to, him.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanantlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, subsection (3) of section14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991shall mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to, him.

(4) Where the Authority employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government to serve theGovernment for a specified period, any period of service tothe Authority by that person shall be regarded as service tothe Government for the purposes of discharging his obligationsunder such contract.

PART III

FINANCE

8.(1) The Authority shall have its own fund.

(2) The Fund shall be called Sugathadasa National SportsComplex Fund (hererinafter referred to as the Fund).

(3) There shall be paid into Fund

(a) all such sums of money as are lying on the daypreceding the appointed date, to the credit ofSugathadasa National Sports Complex Trust Fundestablished in pursuance of Cabinet decision datedOctober 25, 1995 ;

(b) all such sums of money as may be voted byParliament annually, for the use of the Authority ;

(c) all such sums of money as may be received by theAuthority as grants, gifts, or donations from localor foreign sources ;

Fund of theAuthority.

Sugathadasa National Sports Complex AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 19996

(d) all such sums of money as may be received by theAuthority, as fees for services or facilities renderedor provided by the Authority or in the exercise ordischarge of its powers and functions under thisAct.

(4) There shall be paid out of the Fund

(a) all such sums of money as may be required to defrayany expenditure incurred by the Board in theexercise and discharge of its powers and functionsunder this Act ;

(b) all such sums of money as are required to be paidout of the fund by any provision of this Act ; and

(c) all such sums of money as are required to meet anyliabilities of the Sugathadasa National SportsComplex Trust Fund and subsisting on the daypreceding the appointed date.

9.(1) The Board shall cause proper accounts to be keptof the receipts and expenditure, assets and liabilities and othertransactions of the Authority.

(2) Article 154 of the Constitution shall apply to the auditof the accounts of the Authority.

(3) The financial year of the Authority shall be theCalender year.

10. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared thatPart II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 shall apply to theAuthority.

PART IV

GENERAL

11. The Minister may, from time to time, give to the Board,general or special directions in writing, as to the exercise ofthe powers and the discharge of the functions of the Authority,and it shall be the duty of the Board to comply with suchdirections.

Accounts andAudit.

Application ofPart II of theFinance Act, No.38 of 1971

Power of Ministerto give directions.

Sugathadasa National Sports Complex AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 1999

12. All officers and servants of the Authority shall bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning, and for thepurposes, of the Penal Code.

13. The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

14. (1) No suit or prosecution shall be instituted againsta member of the Board or any officer or servant of theAuthority for any act which is in good faith done or purportedto be done by such member, officer or servant under this Actor on the direction of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Authority in any suit orprosecution brought by or against the Authority before anyCourt shall be paid out of the Fund and any costs paid to, orrecovered by the Authority in any such suit or prosecutionshall be credited to the Fund.

(3) Any expenses incurred by any such person as isreferred to in subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution broughtagainst him in any Court in respect of any act which is doneor purported to be done by him under this Act or in the directionof the board, shall, if the Court holds that such act was donein good faith be paid out of the Fund, unless such expense isrecovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

15. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofany matter required by this Act to be prescribed.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

Officers andservants of theAuthority deemedto be publicservants for thepurposes of thePenal Code.

Authority to be ascheduledinstitution withinthe meaning ofBribery Act.

Regulation.

Protection ofaction.

Sugathadasa National Sports Complex AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 19998

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette bebrought before Parliament for approval and any regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of such disapproval but without prejudice toany thing previously done thereunder.

(4) The date on which any regulation is deemed to be sorescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

16. (1) Every person employed for the purposes of theSugathadasa National Sports Complex, and who was inemployment on the day preceding the appointed date, shallbe offered employment in the Authority on terms andconditions not less favourable than those enjoyed by him onthe day preceding the appointed date.

(2) Any person who does not accept an offer made to himunder subsection (1), shall be paid such compensation as maybe determined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala Text shall prevail.

18. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished under chapter XVIIA of the Constitution.

The Sugathadasa National Sports Complex means theland and buildings comprised in such area as may beprescribed by regulation under this Act.

TransitionalProvision

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofanyinconsistency.

Interpretation.

Sugathadasa National Sports Complex AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 1999

SCHEDULE

1. A person shall be disqualified for being appointed, orcontinuing, as a member of the Board if he is a member ofParliament or a member of a provincial Council.

2. The Minister may remove an appointed member of theBoard from office without assigning any reason therefor.

3. An appointed member of the Board may resign fromhis office by a letter in that behalf, addressed to the Minister.The resignation shall be effective from the date on which suchresignation is accepted by the Minister.

4. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3, theterm of office an appointed member of the Board shalll bethree years from the date of his appointment.

5. Where an appointed member of the Board vacates officeby death, resignationof removal, the Minister may appointanother person in his place, and the person so appointed shallhold office for the unexpired period of the term of office ofthe member whom he succeeds.

6. Where the chairman or an appointed member of theBoard is, by reason of illness, absence from Sri Lanka or othercause,temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office,the Minister may appoint another member of the Board to actas such chairman or as the case may be, another person to actin the place of such member.

7. An appointed member of the Board vacating office byeffluxion of time shall be eligible for reappointment.

8. The Minister may remove the Chairman from officewithout assigning any reason therefor.

9. The Chairman may resign from the office Chairman bya letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister. The resignationshall be effective from the date on which such resignation isaccepted by the Minister.

10.Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 8 and 9, theterm of office of the Chairman shall be his period ofmembership of the Board.

[Section 3(4)]

Sugathadasa National Sports Complex AuthorityAct, No. 17 of 199910

11.All or any of the members of the Board may be paidsuch remuneration from the Fund of the Authority as may bedetermined by the Minister in concurrence with the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance.

12.(a) The Chairman shall preside at the meetings ofthe Board. In the absence of the chairman fromany meeting of the Board, a member elected bythe members present at such meeting shallpreside thereat.

(b) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shallbe four.

(c) Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a)and (b), the Board may regulate the procedurewith regard to its meetings and the transactionbusiness of such meetings.

13.The Board shall meet at least once every month.

14.No act or proceeding, of the Board shall be invalidby reason only of the existence of a vacancy amongst itsmembers or any defect in the appointment of a member thereof.

15.(a) The Authority shall have its own seal.

(b)The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except with the sanction of the Boardand in the presence of two members of the Board who shallsign such instrument or document in token of their presence.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign).Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15 th December each year in respect of the year following.