PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 168.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 15, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 14th of September, 2023]

BANKING (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)

ACT, No. 17 OF 2023

1Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

Short title anddate ofoperation

[Certified on 14th of September, 2023]

L.D.O. 48/2022

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE RESOLUTION AUTHORITY OF THE CENTRALBANK AND THE RESOLUTION MEASURES THAT CAN BE IMPLEMENTED BY

THE CENTRAL BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA TO RESOLVE

A LICENSED BANK SUBJECT TO CAPITAL, LIQUIDITY, INSOLVENCY OR

ANY OTHER RISK IN A TIMELY MANNER; TO REVIVE SUCH BANK AS A

GOING CONCERN TO ENSURE THE INTERESTS OF THE DEPOSITORS AND

CREDITORS THEREOF ENSURING THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM STABILITY; TO

PROVIDE FOR A DEPOSIT INSURANCE SCHEME AND WINDING UP PROCESS

FOR SUCH LICENSED BANKS; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Banking (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 17 of 2023.

(2) The provisions of this Act other than the provisions ofthis section shall come into operation on such date as theMinister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette(in this Act referred to as the appointed date).

(3) The provisions of this section shall come intooperation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act ofParliament.

2. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law for the time being in force, provisions of this Actshall apply in the exercise, performance and discharge ofthe powers, duties and functions relating to the authorityvested with the Central Bank to resolve banks licensed underthe Banking Act (in this Act referred to as the licensedbanks).

Application ofthe Act

2Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

PART I

RESOLUTION AUTHORITY OF THE CENTRAL BANK

3. The Central Bank shall be responsible for the exerciseof resolution authority in respect of licensed banks underthis Act.

4. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the Central Bank shallestablish a Department under the Central Bank, for the properand efficient exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions relating to the resolutionauthority under this Act.

(2) The Department established under subsection (1) shallnot carry out regulatory and supervisory functions overlicensed banks under any written law.

5. (1) In the exercise, performance and discharge of thepowers, duties and functions relating to its resolutionauthority, the Central Bank shall take into consideration,the structure, scale, complexity, interconnectedness withother institutions, and the risk profile of the licensed banksubject to resolution.

(2) The Central Bank shall have the power to require anyperson to provide any information necessary for the CentralBank to decide upon and formulate resolution measures,including updates and supplements of information relatingto the resolution plan, and information collected throughon-site examinations.

(3) Any licensed bank, regulatory or supervisory authority,or such other person on whom any Order, regulation,direction, determination, guideline or instruction has beenissued or a request has been made by the Central Bank underthis Act, shall comply with such Order, regulation, direction,determination, guideline or instruction or request forthwithor not later than the time period specified therein.

Resolutionauthority of theCentral Bank

Establishment ofa department forthe purpose ofresolution oflicensed banks

Exercise,performanceand discharge ofresolutionauthority by theCentral Bank

3Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(4) Every regulatory and supervisory department of theCentral Bank shall extend cooperation to the Departmentestablished under section 4 to expeditiously facilitate therelevant regulatory or supervisory approvals required toimplement the resolution measures prepared under this Act.

6. (1) The provisions of any one or more enactmentsspecified in the Schedule to this Act or any part of suchprovisions relating to resolution, winding up or depositinsurance shall have no application in the exercise,performance and discharge of the powers, duties andfunctions of the Central Bank on a licensed bank subject toresolution under this Act in securing compliance with theprovisions of this Act and any other regulation, Order,direction, determination, guideline or instruction issued ormade thereunder by the Central Bank.

(2) Notwithstanding the Central Bank exercising theresolution authority under this Act, the regulatoryrequirements applicable to any licensed bank under theBanking Act or any regulation, Order, direction,determination, guideline or instruction issued or madethereunder, shall continue to apply in respect of suchlicensed bank subject to resolution.

7. (1) Where the Central Bank is satisfied that a holdingcompany of a licensed bank, a subsidiary or associatecompany of a licensed bank or any entity within a financialgroup or conglomerate of such licensed bank, as the casemay be, which is not regulated or supervised by the CentralBank

(a)provides any service or performs any duty for or onbehalf of such licensed bank subject to resolution,which are or are deemed to be significant to performcritical functions of such licensed bank; or

(b)the suspension or discontinuation of such serviceor duty by such entities is or is likely to be

Exclusion of theapplication ofcertain otherenactments

Provisions ofthis Part of thisAct to apply to aholdingcompany, &c.of a licensedbank

4Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

detrimental to the interests of the depositors andcreditors of such bank, or jeopardize the stabilityof the financial system of Sri Lanka, and

in the event, there are no alternatives available for suchlicensed bank to ensure the continuity of such service orduty which is significant to perform critical functions, itshall be lawful for the Central Bank to apply the provisionsof this Part of this Act to a company or entity specified inthis subsection in the same manner as they apply to a licensedbank subject to resolution.

(2) In the event of any company or entity specified insubsection (1) is regulated by a financial sector regulatorother than the Central Bank, the Central Bank shall prior totaking any measures to resolve such company or entity underthis Act, consult such regulator and give due notice to suchregulator in respect of such measures.

8. The Central Bank shall, in the exercise, performanceand discharge of its powers, duties and functions relating tothe resolution authority under this Act, on a licensed bank,endeavour to ensure-

(a)the stability of the financial system, including thepayment, clearing and settlement systems;

(b)the continuity of critical functions of such licensedbank;

(c)the protection of public funds by minimizing publicfinancial support;

(d)the protection of depositors of such licensed bank;and

(e)avoiding destruction of the value of assets andminimizing losses to creditors and minimizingoverall costs of resolution of such licensed bank.

Objectives ofresolution

5Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

9. (1) Every licensed bank shall prepare a recovery planas part of its risk management process, which shall providefor measures to be taken by such licensed bank in the eventof deterioration of its financial position.

(2) In the preparation of a recovery plan, a licensed bankshall take into consideration, financial and macroeconomiccrisis scenarios relevant to the specific characteristics of thelicensed bank, systemic events, crisis scenarios specific tosuch licensed bank and other individual entities of thebanking group, as a whole.

(3) In the preparation of a recovery plan, a licensed bankshall not rely on in any manner, the access to anyextraordinary public financial support.

(4) Every licensed bank shall update its recovery plan atleast annually, or at the request of the Central Bank in theevent of any change in the organizational structure or legalstructure of the licensed bank, business activities or financialsituation of the licensed bank, which may cause a significantimpact on the recovery plan or where it requires modification.

(5) The recovery plan prepared under subsection (1) shallinclude

(a)a presentation of the general recovery capacity ofthe licensed bank;

(b)the scope of the recovery plan, considering thenature, scale, structure, complexity, andinterconnectedness to other institutions of thelicensed bank;

(c)the details of other entities within the bankinggroup covered under the recovery framework;

(d)the details of communication planning on recoveryoptions;

Licensed banksto prepare arecovery plan

6Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(e)an identification of critical functions and criticalshared services of the licensed bank that areorganized in a manner ensuring the continuousavailability of such functions or services to theentire licensed bank under possible recovery orresolution processes;

(f)an identification of recovery indicators, triggers,and procedures to ensure the timely implementationof recovery actions;

(g)the range of recovery options available to deal withshocks, to capital, liquidity and all other aspectsthat may arise from entity specific stresses or marketwide stresses, or both of such stresses, as the casemay be;

(h)the time and resources required to implementrecovery options;

(i)significant deficiencies of resources that may hinderthe effective and timely implementation of therecovery plan;

(j)the actions to be taken to remedy the impedimentsincluding the availability of business continuityplanning;

(k)the details on costs of implementation;

(l)a detailed description of how the recovery plan isintegrated into the licensed banks management;

(m)the persons who are responsible for the developmentand implementation of the recovery plan withinthe licensed bank;

(n)the policies and procedures for approving therecovery plan;

7Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(o)the mechanisms and measures for-

(i)the conservation or reconstitution of thefunds of the licensed bank;

(ii)ensuring that the licensed bank has access toemergency financing sources, includingpotential sources of liquidity, assessment ofavailable collateral and assessment of thepossibility of transferring liquidity betweenentities within the group and between thebusinesses;

(iii)ensuring that the licensed bank may continueits activities and fulfill its obligations whenthey become due;

(iv)reducing leverage risk and effect;

(v)restructuring debts;

(vi)maintaining continuous access to financialmarket infrastructures;

(vii)facilitating the sale of assets or businesseswithin an appropriate period of time in orderto restore financial soundness; and

(viii)facilitating the implementation of therecovery plan, including necessary measuresto allow its timely recapitalization;

(p)other management actions or strategies aimed atrestoring the financial soundness and theanticipated financial effect of those actions orstrategies;

(q)an analysis of the situations in which the licensedbank may seek access to the financial facilitiesoffered by the Central Bank and identify the assetsthat can be qualified as collateral;

8Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(r)the preparatory measures that the licensed bank hasadopted or intends to adopt; and

(s)such other requirements or information, as theCentral Bank may, from time to time, specify orrequire, to be included in a recovery plan.

(6) The Central Bank may, if it considers necessary, directall or selected licensed banks to submit recovery plansprepared under subsection (1) for its approval, within onemonth from the expiration of each calendar year.

(7) Where the Central Bank considers that a recoveryplan submitted by a licensed bank has major deficiencies orthat there are obstacles in the implementation of the recoveryplan, the Central Bank shall notify such deficiencies or theobstacles to such licensed bank and direct such licensedbank to submit a revised recovery plan, containing adequatesolutions to overcome the deficiencies or obstacles, withinone month from the date of such notification.

(8) The Central Bank may, at the request of the licensedbank, extend the period specified in subsection (7), to aperiod which shall not exceed fourteen days from the date ofexpiry of the period of one month specified insubsection (7).

(9) Where the Central Bank is of the opinion that-

(a)a licensed bank has not identified the changes thatare required to be introduced to its economicactivity; or

(b)the actions proposed by the licensed bank toaddress the deficiencies or obstacles of suchrecovery plan are not adequate,

the Central Bank shall direct such licensed bank to take oneor more of the measures specified in subsection (10) or any

9Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

other measure as it may consider necessary andproportionate, taking into consideration the seriousness ofthe deficiencies and the effect of the respective measures onthe continuity of the business of the licensed bank.

(10) The measures referred to in subsection (9) shallinclude the following: -

(a)to reduce the risk profile of the licensed bank,including reducing the liquidity risk;

(b)to apply prompt recapitalization measures;

(c)to review the strategy and structure of the licensedbank;

(d)to modify the financing strategy, in order toimprove the shock resistance of the criticalfunctions; or

(e)to modify the administration structure of thelicensed bank.

10. (1) The Central Bank may, from time to time, issuedirections to any licensed bank on preparation of recoveryplans for such licensed bank.

(2) The regulatory or supervisory departments of theCentral Bank shall promptly notify the Departmentestablished under section 4, any changes that would requirea reassessment or updating of the recovery plans of licensedbanks.

11. (1) The Central Bank shall design a resolution planfor each licensed bank having a systemic importance orimpact in keeping with the international standards and bestpractices applicable to resolution of banks.

Central Bank toissue directionson thepreparation ofrecovery plans

Central Bank todesign aresolution plan

10Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

For the purpose of this subsection, a licensed bank shallbe deemed to have systemic importance or impact, wherefailure of such bank may cause or likely to cause a severeimpact on the financial system stability due to the size,interconnectedness, lack of substitutability, complexity, andsuch other similar criteria as may be determined by theCentral Bank.

(2) The Central Bank shall evaluate and updateperiodically, or immediately after any material changes inthe organizational structure of such licensed bank, itsbusiness, or its financial condition, the resolution plandesigned under subsection (1).

(3) The Central Bank shall provide for in the resolutionplan, options for the implementation of resolution measuresand the exercise of its resolution authority under this Act.

(4) At the request of the Central Bank, a licensed bankshall provide assistance to the Central Bank in elaboratingand updating the resolution plan by the Central Bank.

(5) A licensed bank shall immediately inform theCentral Bank, of any changes that may require an evaluationor updating of the resolution plan designed by theCentral Bank.

(6) At the request of the Central Bank, a licensed bankshall provide to the Central Bank all information necessaryfor the effective implementation of the resolution plan,including the details of

(a)the critical functions of such licensed bank,including the significant holdings of assets andliabilities relating to the respective functions andactivities;

(b)the description of the class or classes of debtobligations of the licensed bank and of all the legalentities under its control;

11Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(c)the off-balance sheet exposures of the licensed bankand of the other legal entities within the bankinggroup;

(d)the main operations of hedging the risks of thelicensed bank and of the other legal entities withinthe banking group;

(e)the main contracting counterparties of the licensedbank or of the critical functions;

(f)an analysis of the impact of the distressed financialcondition of the licensed bank on the maincontracting counterparties;

(g)each system in which the licensed bank carries outsignificant transactions in terms of the number or value,including the identification of their correspondencewith legal entities and critical functions;

(h)each payment, clearing or settlement system inwhich the licensed bank is a participant, directly orindirectly, including the establishment of theircorrespondence with legal entities and criticalfunctions;

(i)the inventory, and the main informationmanagement systems on risk management,accounting, and financial and statutory reportingused by the licensed bank, including theestablishment of their correspondence with legalentities and critical functions;

(j)the agreements executed on provision of services-related information management systems,information technology systems or licences,including the establishment of their correspondencewith legal entities and critical functions;

12Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(k)the interconnectedness and interdependenciesbetween the licensed bank and other stakeholdersincluding the staff, shared facilities and systems orcapital financing or liquidity mechanisms, existingor contingent credit exposures, cross-borderguarantee agreements, cross-default collateralagreements, and cross-settlement agreementsbetween affiliates, risk transfer arrangements andback-to-back trading arrangements or serviceprovision agreements;

(l)the key management personnel of the licensed bank,who are responsible for providing the informationnecessary for the elaboration of the licensed banksresolution plan;

(m)the mechanisms that the licensed bank has put inplace to ensure that the Central Bank will receiveall necessary information for the purpose ofresolution plan;

(n)termination of any agreements by the licensed bankand any other legal entity within the banking groupwith third parties which may be triggered by adecision of the authorities to apply one or moreresolution measures and whether the consequencescaused by the termination may affect theimplementation of such resolution measures; and

(o)possible sources of liquidity in support of theresolution.

(7) All regulatory and supervisory departments of theCentral Bank and any other authority regulating thefinancial sector, other than the Central Bank shall extendcooperation to the Department established under section 4,to implement the resolution function and, for that purpose,to ensure that the information referred to in subsection (6) isavailable with such supervisory and regulatory departments

13Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

and other authorities regulating the financial sector otherthan the Central Bank. Where such information is available,such departments and authorities shall transmit suchinformation to the Department established under section 4.

(8) The Central Bank may, if it considers necessary, designsimplified resolution plans for a licensed bank or banks whichare not considered as having systemic importance or impact.

12. (1) The Central Bank shall, having regard to thesystemic importance or impact of any licensed bank inrespect of which a resolution plan has been prepared undersubsection (1) of section 11, assess whether such licensedbank is resolvable and develop such resolution measures asit may consider appropriate and feasible for each suchlicensed bank, in a manner that allows for credible strategiesto resolve the licensed bank without using

(a)extraordinary public financial support, except forthe financing mechanisms established under thisAct; and

(b)liquidity assistance in emergency situations fromthe Central Bank, whether guaranteed or otherwise.

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of subsections(3) and (4), the Central Bank shall, in determining theresolvability of such licensed bank,take such measures asmay be necessary to direct a licensed bank including anyone or more of the following:

(a)to revise and conclude an intra-group financialsupport agreement with other entities pertaining tothe financial group of the licensed bank;

(b)to enter into a service agreement with third parties,or to include clauses in existing agreements aimingat ensuring that such agreements will not be affectedin the case the Central Bank places the licensedbank under resolution;

Resolvabilityassessment

14Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(c)to limit its exposure to a single entity or to a groupof related entities;

(d)to dispose of specific assets;

(e)to limit or cease the performance or developmentof specific activities, or commencing new activities;

(f)to introduce appropriate legal and organizationalchanges to the licensed bank, ensuring that criticalfunctions may be separated from other functions inthe resolution procedure;

(g)to establish mechanisms, including insurancemechanisms, to cover specific losses; and

(h)to take any measures that are necessary to meet theminimum requirements for capital and liabilities,including loss-absorbing liabilities.

(3) The Central Bank may, from time to time, issuedirections to ensure resolvability of any licensed bank,specifying key elements, standards, and criteria to be usedto conduct an assessment on resolvability of such licensedbank.

(4) The Central Bank shall, during the assessment ofresolvability under subsection (3), grant the licensed bankan opportunity of being heard.

(5) The Central Bank may, if it deems necessary, takeinto consideration the group-wide exposure of a licensedbank in assessing the resolvability of such licensed bank.

13. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother provisions of this Act or any other written law, wherethe Central Bank is satisfied that a licensed bank is, or islikely to be, no longer viable, and has no reasonableprospects of becoming viable under the circumstances setout in subsection (2), the Central Bank may decide to resolvesuch licensed bank under this Act.

Conditions forresolution

15Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) A licensed bank is deemed to be, or is deemed likelyto be, no longer viable, and has no reasonable prospects ofbecoming viable in any one or more of the followingcircumstances: -

(a)where the Central Bank is of the opinion that alicensed bank has failed, or is likely to fail tocomply with the provisions of the Banking Act, orany regulation, direction, determination, Order, orany requirement made, issued or imposedthereunder, including the regulatory, capital andliquidity requirements, in a manner that wouldcompel the Central Bank to cancel the licence issuedto such licensed bank;

(b)where the Central Bank is of the opinion that alicensed bank is, or is likely to become, insolvent;or

(c)where a licensed bank is unable to meet itsobligations to its depositors or other creditors, or theCentral Bank is of the opinion that such licensedbank is likely to be unable to meet its obligations toits depositors or other creditors as they fall due.

(3) The implementation of any early interventionmeasures or any other supervisory measures on a licensedbank shall not be deemed as a pre-condition for the CentralBank to exercise its resolution authority under this Act.

(4) Where the Central Bank decides to resolve a licensedbank, it shall notify its decision in writing to such licensedbank and commence implementation of resolution measuresunder this Act.

(5) Where the Central Bank decides to resolve a licensedbank under subsection (1), the Central Bank may exerciseany one or more of the resolution powers set out insection 14:

16Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

Provided however, the Central Bank shall exercise at leastone such resolution power within a period not exceedingthirty days from the date of notification referred to insubsection (4).

(6) A licensed bank subject to resolution shall, after thecommencement of the resolution measures under this Act,carry on its business under the control of the Central Bank.

14. (1) For the purpose of resolution of a licensed bank,the Central Bank shall have the power to -

(a)appoint an Administrator to such licensed bank;

(b)effect a transfer of shares of such licensed bank;

(c)transfer all or any selected assets and liabilities ofsuch licensed bank;

(d)cause a capital increase through the existingshareholders and new shareholders;

(e)request the Minister to provide capital to establisha bridge bank; or

(f)request the Minister to provide temporary financialassistance for the resolution of such licensed bank,based on reports submitted by the Central Bank tothat effect.

(2) For the purpose of resolution of a licensed bank underthis Act, the Central Bank shall, in addition to the powersset out in subsection (1), have the following powers which itmay exercise singly or jointly with, directly or through theappointment of, an Administrator: -

(a)to remove or replace the directors, chief executiveofficer or the key management personnel or anyother employee of such licensed bank;

Resolutionpowers of theCentral Bank

17Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(b)to recover or claw-back of variable remunerationpaid by such licensed bank to any person referredto in paragraph (a);

(c)to override the rights of shareholders of suchlicensed bank in any transaction;

(d)to terminate, continue or assign contracts, purchaseor sell assets, write-down debts and take any otheraction necessary to restructure or wind-down theoperations of the licensed bank;

(e)to ensure continuity of essential services andcritical functions by-

(i)the licensed bank to its successor or anyacquiring company for a temporary period;

(ii)procuring necessary services fromunaffiliated third parties on behalf of thelicensed bank;

(iii)requiring any service provider to continueprovision of such services as are necessaryfor the continuity of critical functions of thelicensed bank to a transferee including thebridge bank under the terms and conditionsexisting prior to the resolution;

(f)to suspend, restrict, or prohibit all or part of thebusiness of the licensed bank for a period notexceeding six months as may be determined by theCentral Bank;

(g)to suspend, for a period of no longer than twoworking days-

(i)the acceleration right, termination right, orset-off right of a financial contract to which

18Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

the licensed bank is a party, that arises byvirtue of the entry of the licensed bank intothe resolution or the exercise of any resolutionpowers under this Act;

(ii)the obligation to make a payment or deliveryunder a contract to which the licensed bankis a party;

(iii)the right to attach assets or otherwise collectmoney or property under a contract to whichthe licensed bank is a party;

(h)to re-organize the licensed bank by increasing itscapital and selling shares to new shareholders, andreconstituting the Board of Directors of the licensedbank;

(i)to re-construct the licensed bank in any mannerin the interest of depositors, including the closureof unviable business of the licensed bank orre-organizing its management;

(j)to recognize losses to be allocated to shareholdersand subordinated debt holders of a licensed bank;

(k)to convert debt obligations of the licensed bankinto capital;

(l)to engage, at the expense of the licensed bank,independent attorneys, accountants, auditors,valuation experts and consultants, on such termsand conditions as may be specified by the CentralBank;

(m)to meet expenditure incurred in the exercise ofresolution powers under this Act; or

19Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(n)to do such other things as the Central Bank mayconsider necessary in relation to any matteraffecting, or connected with, or incidental to, theexercise of powers under this section.

15. (1) In order to achieve the objectives of resolutionspecified in section 8 and to ensure the effectiveimplementation of resolution measures provided for insections 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34, the Central Bank shallestablish a Financial Stability Fund under this Act.

(2) The Financial Stability Fund shall be managedseparately from other assets of, and the assets managed by,the Central Bank.

(3) The Central Bank shall have the power to-

(a)manage, administer, and supervise the FinancialStability Fund, subject to the provisions of this Act;

(b)formulate policies in relation to the generaladministration of the Financial Stability Fund;

(c)invest and enter into any transaction or agreementas may be necessary or desirable for the financialmanagement of the Financial Stability Fund; and

(d)contribute to financing of resolutions of licensedbanks, without prejudice to the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 51.

(4) The following shall be credited to the FinancialStability Fund:

(a)budgetary allocations provided by the Government;

(b)contributions from the Government;

(c)grants or loans provided by international financialinstitutions;

FinancialStability Fund

20Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(d)investment income and gains deriving from andout of the investments of the moneys of theFinancial Stability Fund;

(e)contributions from licensed banks as the CentralBank may consider necessary, for the purposes ofsubsection (5) of section 33; and

(f)any income from any other source as may beapproved by the Minister.

16. (1) In order to assess the value of the assets, liabilitiesor shares of a licensed bank for the purpose of resolution,the Central Bank may, at any time before the implementationof any resolution measure, direct such licensed bank to causea prudent and realistic valuation of the assets, liabilities orshares of such licensed bank to be carried out by anindependent professional valuer who shall possess suchqualifications and experience as may be determined by theCentral Bank, from time to time.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theCentral Bank may cause a valuation of the assets, liabilitiesor shares of a licensed bank to be carried out through anindependent professional valuer who shall possessqualifications and experience referred to in subsection (1).

(3) Where a definitive valuation for resolution purposesis not possible due to the urgency of taking resolutionmeasures, the Central Bank may-

(a)direct a licensed bank to cause a provisionalvaluation to be carried out; or

(b) directly undertake a provisional valuation:

Provided however, such provisional valuation shall becomplemented with a final independent valuation, as soonas practicable.

Valuation ofassets andliabilities of alicensed bankfor the purposeof resolution

21Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(4) The payments to be made to the valuer undersubsections (1) and (2) shall be borne by the licensed bankin accordance with such terms and conditions as may bedetermined by the Central Bank.

(5) The Central Bank shall have the authority to appointand publish a list of professional valuers for the purposes ofthis section.

(6) The Central Bank may issue directions, from time totime, for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions ofthis section.

17. (1) Where the Central Bank has, in the interests of thedepositors of a licensed bank, prohibited such licensed bankfrom carrying on all or part of its business for the purposes ofimplementing resolution measures under this Act, an officerauthorized in that behalf by the Central Bank may make anapplication to the court for an order to prevent thecontinuance of any proceedings of a civil nature against thelicensed bank with respect to any of its businesses.

(2) The court may, upon hearing ex parte, an applicationmade under subsection (1), make an order staying for a periodnot exceeding three months the continuance of anyproceedings of a civil nature against the licensed bank withrespect to any of its businesses.

(3) Where a court makes an order under subsection (2),the Central Bank shall, as soon as practicable, publish anotice of such order in the Gazette and at least in threeSinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating inSri Lanka.

PART II

RESOLUTION MEASURES

18. (1) The Central Bank may, for the purpose ofresolution of a licensed bank, by Order published in theGazette and at least in three Sinhala, Tamil and English

Order stayingcourtproceedingsagainst thelicensed bank

Appointment ofan Administrator

22Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka, appoint a fit andproper person as provided for in subsection (2), as theAdministrator to such licensed bank.

(2) In determining whether a person is a fit and properperson to be appointed as the Administrator undersubsection (1), the criteria used to determine the fitness andpropriety of directors of a licensed bank under any law forthe time being in force shall mutatis mutandis apply to suchperson.

(3) The Administrator shall be an independent personwho shall not have any interest, direct or indirect, financialor otherwise, in the affairs of the licensed bank subject toresolution. Any person appointed as the Administrator of alicensed bank under this Part of this Act, who acquires anyinterest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, in theaffairs of such bank after such appointment, shall forthwithinform such fact to the Central Bank and immediatelythereafter cease to act as the Administrator.

(4) An Administrator shall be appointed for a term of sixmonths from the date of appointment. Such term may beextended, from time to time, for further periods of six monthsat a time by the Central Bank, if required to do so, by anOrder published in the Gazette and at least in three Sinhala,Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.

(5) The Order of the Central Bank appointing anAdministrator or extending the term of an Administratorshall be notified to the licensed bank in writing, specifyingthe reasons for such appointment or extending the term, asthe case may be.

(6) Where an Administrator becomes subject to anydisqualification pursuant to the provisions of subsection (2)or (3), the Central Bank shall appoint any other person asthe Administrator, having regard to the provisions ofsubsection (2).

23Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(7) Subject to the provisions of subsection (9), anAdministrator shall be paid such remuneration as may bedetermined by the Central Bank.

(8) The Administrator shall be deemed to be a publicservant within the meaning and for the purposes of Part IX ofthe Penal Code (Chapter 19), and where the Administrator isa body corporate or a firm, its directors or managing partners,as the case may be, shall be considered as public servants forsuch purposes.

(9) All costs incurred by the Central Bank on account ofthe Administratorship, including the payment ofremuneration of the Administrator, shall be borne by, andcharged to, the licensed bank subject to resolution, inaccordance with such terms and conditions as may bedetermined by the Central Bank. Any cost so payable shallconstitute a debt due to the Central Bank from such licensedbank, until the same is paid in full to the Central Bank.

19. (1) The Administrator appointed under section 18shall assume control of all the assets, rights, business andaffairs of the licensed bank subject to resolution, and carryon the business and affairs of that licensed bank in the nameand on behalf of the licensed bank, until the expiry of theperiod of time specified in the Order referred to in subsection(1) or subsection (4) of that section or until such time anysuch Order is revoked.

(2) Upon the appointment of an Administrator, it shall bethe duty of all the directors and employees of the licensedbank subject to resolution, to submit the details of allproperty, business and affairs of such licensed bank to theAdministrator and assign the control of such property,business and affairs to the Administrator.

(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (b)of subsection (4), the directors and employees of a licensedbank subject to resolution, shall provide the Administratorwith all such facilities as may be required to carry on thebusiness and affairs of such licensed bank.

Effect of takingcontrol by theAdministrator

24Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(4) During the period within which an Order made by theCentral Bank in respect of a licensed bank under section 18is in force-

(a)all the duties and functions of such licensed bank,its directors, and shareholders under any writtenlaw for the time being in force and the respectiveconstituent documents of such licensed bank, shallbe vested with the Administrator;

(b)any director, key management personnel or anemployee of such licensed bank shall not, eitherdirectly or indirectly, engage in any activity inrelation to, or for and on behalf of, the licensedbank, except as may be required or authorized bythe Administrator; and

(c)any remuneration of whatever nature shall notaccrue or be payable to any director, keymanagement personnel or an employee of suchlicensed bank, except with the prior written approvalof the Administrator.

20. The Administrator shall, within thirty days from thedate of his appointment or such other date as may be specifiedby the Central Bank, prepare and submit to the Central Bankan inventory of all assets and liabilities of the licensed bankunder his control.

21. (1) The Administrator shall, not later than sixty daysfrom the date of his appointment, prepare and submit to theCentral Bank, a detailed report on the licensed bank underhis control containing his recommendations as to the mostviable resolution options to be implemented in respect ofsuch licensed bank.

(2) The Central Bank may, having considered the reportand the recommendations made by the Administrator undersubsection (1), approve or issue one or more directions to

Administrator toprepare aninventory ofassets andliabilities

Administrator toprepare a reporton the viableresolutionoptions

25Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

the Administrator, the licensed bank, directors or keymanagement personnel, as the case may be, as to the mostviable resolution option to be implemented.

(3) The Administrator may, in the report referred to insubsection (1), recommend that the licensed bank under thecontrol of such Administrator -

(a)be sold as a going concern;

(b)be resolved through transfer of selected assets andliabilities, or the establishment of a bridge bankunder section 30;

(c)be resolved through any other resolution power asmay be determined by the Central Bank consideringthe financial position and risk profile of suchlicensed bank; or

(d)be wound up.

(4) The Administrator shall prepare and submit to theCentral Bank such regular reports as may be specified by theCentral Bank in the Order referred to in section 18 on thefinancial conditions of the licensed bank subject toresolution, and information relating to the exercise,performance and discharge of the powers, duties andfunctions of the Administrator in the implementation of theresolution measures.

(5) The Administrator shall be responsible for theorganization and maintenance of files, information anddocuments of the licensed bank subject to resolution, andshall maintain a register containing information relating toall decisions or actions taken on such licensed bank duringthe period of his administratorship.

26Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

22. (1) An Administrator appointed for the purpose ofresolution of a licensed bank shall cease to function as suchAdministrator in the following situations, whichever occursfirst: -

(a)on completion of the term specified in the Orderreferred to in subsection (1) or (4) of section 18, asthe case may be; or

(b)where the Central Bank determines to terminatethe term of such Administrator.

(2) The Administrator shall, within twenty working daysof the termination of the appointment under subsection (1),prepare and submit to the Central Bank a final report onactivities of his administratorship.

23. (1) The Central Bank, or the Administrator with theapproval of the Central Bank, may take following actions toincrease the capital of the licensed bank subject to resolutionthrough the issuance of new shares: -

(a)to determine the extent of losses and prepare thefinancial statements of such licensed bank coveringthe amount of such losses from and out of the profits,reserves and, if necessary, the capital of suchlicensed bank; and

(b)to determine the amount of additional capitalrequired to be invested in the shares of such licensedbank in order to comply with all capital requirementsmade under the Banking Act and to request in writing,the existing shareholders of the licensed bank tosubscribe and purchase additional shares, bysubmitting binding commitments equal to the fullamount of additional capital needed, or any partthereof, within the time specified in such request:

Termination ofadministratorship

Capital increaseby existingshareholders

27Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

Provided however, prior to the request referredto in this paragraph, the Central Bank may, if itconsiders necessary, examine and identifyshareholders who may have acted as shadowdirectors and contributed directly or indirectly tothe failure of such licensed bank and shall not allowsuch shareholders to participate in the increase ofthe capital under this section:

Provided further, if shareholders subscribe orpurchase additional shares under this section, suchshareholders may be exempted from the applicationof directions issued by the Monetary Board underthe Banking Act on share ownership limits oflicensed banks for a period as may be determinedby the Central Bank.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, or the articles of Association or any otherconstituent document of the licensed bank, the existingshareholders of a licensed bank subject to resolution shallhave no pre-emptive or any other rights to purchaseadditional shares issued except as provided for insubsection (1).

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), the CentralBank shall have the power to recognize losses to be allocatedto shareholders and subordinated debt holders in theperformance of its duties under this section.

24. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 23and for the purposes of recapitalization of a licensed bankby new shareholders, the Central Bank-

(a)shall, if not already determined in accordance withthe provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) ofsection 23, determine the extent of losses andprepare the financial statements of such licensedbank covering the amount of such losses from and

Recapitalizationby newshareholders

28Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

out of the profits, reserves and, if necessary, thecapital and subordinated debt and any otherinstrument issued for the purpose of loss absorbencyof such licensed bank;

(b)may cause revaluation of the stated capital to reflectlosses, notwithstanding anything to the contrary inany other written law;

(c)may determine the amount and type of fundingneeded to bring such licensed bank into compliancewith all capital requirements made under this Act;

(d)may cause such licensed bank to issue additionalcapital in any form as may be determined by theCentral Bank in order to comply with the capitalrequirements applicable for licensed banks imposedby the law for the time being in force.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, the Central Bank may, in relation to regulationof the securities market and other disclosures to be made byissuers of securities, cause such licensed bank to issue sharesunder the provisions of this section.

(3) The Central Bank shall have the power to recognizelosses to be allocated to shareholders and subordinated debtholders in the performance of its duties under this section.

25. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, the Central Bank may, in whole or part,transfer the shares of, any licensed bank subject to resolutionto any other financial institution or effect a merger of suchlicensed bank with any other financial institution.

For the purposes of this section, financial institutionmeans a bank licensed under the Banking Act or a financecompany licensed under the Finance Business Act or anyother institution as may be specified by the Central Bank.

Transfer ofshares andeffecting amerger

29Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1) of section5, the Central Bank shall ensure that at the time of transferringshares or effecting a merger under subsection (1), transfereeof such shares is solvent, and complies with applicablerequirements under the Banking Act or any regulation,direction, determination or Order made thereunder, includingfitness and propriety of the shareholders, directors and keymanagement personnel who shall have sufficient expertise,capacity and resources to effectively hold the shares sotransferred and to achieve the objectives of resolution.

(3) The transfer of shares or effect of a merger undersubsection (1) shall be conducted by the Central Bank basedon a prudent and realistic valuation of the assets andliabilities of such licensed bank, carried out by anindependent professional valuer possessing suchqualifications and experience referred to in subsection (1)of section 16.

(4) The Central Bank may, by way of directions issued,from time to time, specify the procedure for transferring ofshares under subsection (1).

(5) The Central Bank shall have the power to recognizelosses to be allocated to shareholders and subordinated debtholders in the performance of its duties under this section.

26. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5), theCentral Bank may, after giving a prior notification to thelicensed bank subject to resolution (in this Part of this Actreferred to as the transferor bank), transfer all or part of theassets or liabilities, or both such assets and liabilities ofsuch transferor bank prevailing as at a specific date (in thisPart of this Act referred to as the relevant date), to anythird party (in this Part of this Act referred as the transferee):

Provided however, where such liabilities or part thereofconsist of deposit liabilities, such deposit liabilities shallnot be transferred to any entity which is not permitted bylaw to accept deposits.

Transfer ofselected assetsand liabilities toa third party

30Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) The transferee referred to in subsection (1) shall besolvent, and shall comply with applicable requirements underthe Banking Act or any regulation, direction, determination,or Order made or issued thereunder, including the requirementsrelating to the suitability of qualifying shareholders, directorsand key management personnel, and shall have sufficientexpertise, capacity and resources to effectively hold the assetsor liabilities or both such assets and liabilities so transferredto achieve the objectives of resolution.

(3) The transfer of assets and liabilities under subsection(1) shall be conducted by the Central Bank based on aprudent and realistic valuation of the selected assets andliabilities of such licensed bank, carried out by anindependent professional valuer possessing suchqualifications and experience referred to in subsection (1)of section 16.

(4) The Central Bank may, by way of directions issuedfrom time to time, specify the criteria for the selection ofassets and liabilities to be transferred under subsection (1),having regard to the interests of depositors, creditors, andshareholders of such licensed bank.

(5) For the purpose of subsection (1), assets and liabilitiesof a transferor bank includes,-

(a)all or part of the immovable and movable propertyowned by the transferor bank on the dayimmediately preceding the relevant date (includingloans, cash balances, reserve funds, investments anddeposits);

(b)all or part of the rights, powers, privileges,authorities, and interests arising in, or out of, anyproperty, movable or immovable, owned by thetransferor bank on the day immediately precedingthe relevant date;

31Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(c)any legal rights or obligations of the transferor banksubsisting on the day immediately preceding therelevant date;

(d)subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) of section28, all or part of the liabilities including legal rightsand obligations of the transferor bank subsistingon the day immediately preceding the relevant date;and

(e)all books, accounts and documents relating, orappertaining, to such transferor bank in Sri Lanka.

(6) The transferee referred to in subsection (1) shall-

(a)not be controlled, directly or indirectly, by relatedparties of the transferor bank;

(b)only be liable to the shareholders or other creditorsof the transferor bank for those liabilities expresslytransferred, or in accordance with any other termsor conditions expressly agreed to by the transferee,to the exclusion of any other responsibilitiesincluding liabilities related to taxes and liabilitiesrelated to the labour;

(c)be responsible for compensating the Central Bankor the Deposit Insurance Scheme established undersection 39 for any losses caused due to thetransferees failure to comply with the terms andconditions of the transfer of assets and liabilities inresolution.

27. A transfer of assets and liabilities under section 26shall not be made by the Central Bank unless

(a)the Central Bank is satisfied that the transferee issolvent and complies with applicable regulatoryrequirements, and capable of carrying out in a

Requirements tofulfill for thetransfer of assetsand liabilities

32Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

competent manner the business of the transferorbank proposed to be transferred, and meetingliabilities of the transferor bank to its depositorsand creditors pertaining or relating to the businessproposed to be transferred;

(b)the transferee agrees in writing to comply with suchterms and conditions as may be specified by theCentral Bank relating to the manner in which-

(i)any existing assets of the transferor bankpertaining or relating to the businessproposed to be transferred, are to be used andany existing liabilities of the transferor bankpertaining or relating to the businessproposed to be transferred are to be met; and

(ii)any payments due to the Government fromthe transferor bank are to be made; and

(c)the transferee agrees to comply with such otherdirections as the Central Bank may, from time totime, issue to such transferee under this Act.

28. Unless the Central Bank otherwise decides, wherethe assets and liabilities of the transferor bank have beentransferred to a transferee under section 26, with effect fromthe relevant date-

(a)the transferee shall have the control and possessionof the transferred assets and liabilities of thetransferor bank:

Provided however, upon a request made bythe transferee, the Central Bank may transfer anyassets or liabilities back to the transferor bank,within a period as may be specified at the time ofsuch transfer, where such assets or liabilities do notmeet the criteria applicable for the transfer:

Effect of thetransfer of assetsand liabilities

33Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

Provided further, that the shareholders,depositors and creditors whose interests and rightsremain in the transferor bank, shall have no rightsor claims in respect of the assets and liabilitiestransferred to the transferee;

(b)the licence issued by the Monetary Board underthe relevant laws to the transferor bank to carry onbusiness, shall be modified or cancelled, as the casemay be, to the extent as is necessary to enable thetransferor bank to carry on any remaining part of itsbusiness which has not been transferred to thetransferee;

(c)all contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, powers ofattorney, grants of legal representation and otherinstruments of whatever nature pertaining, orrelating to the transferred assets and liabilities ofthe transferor bank and subsisting, or having effecton the day immediately preceding the relevant date,and to which the transferor bank is a party or whichare in favour of the transferor bank, shall, with effectfrom the relevant date, be deemed to be contracts,deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grantsof legal representation or other instrumentsentered into or granted, as the case may be, by thetransferee;

(d)all actions and proceedings of whatever natureinstituted by or against the transferor bankpertaining or relating to the transferred assets andliabilities and pending on the day immediatelypreceding the relevant date, shall, with effect fromthe relevant date, be deemed to be actions andproceedings instituted by or against the transferee,and may be continued and disposed of accordingly;

(e)all such officers and other employees of thetransferor bank as are connected with such part of

34Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

the business of the transferor bank as was transferredto the transferee, or all the officers and otheremployees of the transferor bank, where the entiretyof the business of the transferor bank is transferredto the transferee, as the case may be, who are inemployment in the transferor bank on the dayimmediately preceding the relevant date and whoare not offered employment by the transferee, shallbe entitled to the payment of compensation:

Provided however, where any officer or otheremployee of the transferor bank is entitled to apayment of compensation, the transferee shalldetermine the amount of compensation that shallbe paid to such officer or employee in consultationwith the Commissioner-General of Labour.Suchdetermination shall not affect the right of suchofficer or employee to claim any other compensationunder any other written law.

29. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in thisAct or any other written law, where the foreign currencydeposits of the transferor bank is not made available to thetransferee, the liability of the transferee to meet the demandsof any foreign currency depositors of the transferor bankshall be limited only in respect of such depositors who agreeto accept the terms and conditions of any scheme for thegrant of relief to such depositors, as may be formulated bythe Central Bank, upon a review of the business of thetransferor bank, and only to the extent as set out in suchscheme:

Provided however, in the event of such foreign currencydeposits being made available to the transferee, or thetransferee recovering such foreign currency deposits or otherassets abroad, of the transferor bank, the Central Bank shallhave the power to give directions to the transferee with regardto the payment to such foreign currency depositors of theforeign currency deposits so made available or foreign

Extent of theliability of thetransferee inrespect offoreign currencydepositors

35Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

currency deposits and other assets so recovered, and thetransferee shall comply with such directions.

30. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, where the Central Bank, having regard tothe relevant circumstances, is of the opinion that the failureof a licensed bank subject to resolution under this Act canhave systemic importance or impact, the Central Bank maydecide to establish one or more institutions (in this Actreferred to as bridge bank), subject to the terms andconditions specified in subsection (6) of section 31 and withthe approval of the Minister, for the purpose of-

(a)continuing operations of all or part of the criticalfunctions and viable operations of such licensedbank; or

(b)transferring shares, any one or more of the assets,liabilities, legal rights and obligations or otherproperty instruments owned or issued by suchlicensed bank:

Provided however, the amount of liabilities transferredto a bridge bank shall not, in any manner, exceed the amountof the transferred assets and other resources provided by theDeposit Insurance Scheme provided for in Part III of thisAct, or the Government, as the case may be.

(2) The Central Bank shall publish the decision takenunder subsection (1) in the Gazette and at least in threeSinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating inSri Lanka, within five days from the date of establishment ofthe bridge bank.

(3) The Central Bank shall issue a licence to the bridgebank to carry on the banking business in Sri Lanka subjectto such terms and conditions as the Central Bank mayconsider necessary.

Establishment ofa bridge bank

36Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(4) The Central Bank shall ensure that the bridge bank isestablished in an expeditious manner, and the period of suchestablishment shall not exceed two days from the decisionof the Central Bank referred to in subsection (1).

(5) The establishment of the bridge bank shall be basedon primary constituent documents of the licensed banksubject to resolution, and the other relevant documentspertaining to its establishment shall be submitted to therelevant authorities within thirty days from the date of theestablishment.

(6) The operations of the bridge bank shall be commencedfrom the first working day following the date of issuance oflicence under subsection (3).

31. (1) The bridge bank established under section 30 shallbe a body corporate and may sue or be sued by its corporatename.

(2) (a) The management and administration of the affairsof the bridge bank shall be vested in a governing body ofthe bridge bank which shall consist of such number ofmembers as may be determined by the Central Bank.

(b) The members of the governing body of the bridgebank shall be fit and proper persons and shall be appointedby the Central Bank. The Central Bank shall, based on thecriteria referred to in paragraph (f) of subsection (11), assessthe fitness and propriety of persons to be appointed asmembers of the governing body prior to their appointment.

(3) The key management personnel of the bridge bankshall, subject to the provisions of paragraph (f) of subsection(11), be appointed by the governing body of the bridge bank,subject to the approval of the Central Bank.

(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, any officer of the Central Bank shall not be

Management ofthe affairs of thebridge bank

37Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

appointed as a member of the governing body or as a keymanagement personnel of the bridge bank.

(5) The capital of the bridge bank shall be fully providedby the Government subject to appropriation of necessaryfunds in terms of any applicable written law. The Governmentshall have the right to decide on the issuance of Governmentguarantees and Government securities in connection withthe financing of the bridge bank:

Provided however, nothing contained in this section shallbe construed as preventing the Central Bank from extendingemergency liquidity assistance, conventional marketliquidity injecting mechanisms or loans to the bridge bank:

Provided further, provision of capital to a bridge bank bythe Government under this section shall not prevent theCentral Bank from exercising control over such bridge bank.The Central Bank shall ensure that the bridge bank shall besubject to standard prudential rules in line with theinternational standards and best practices.

(6) The terms and conditions for the establishment andoperation of a bridge bank shall include

(a)the provision of capital;

(b)operational financing and liquidity support;

(c)any temporary changes to prudential and othersupervisory and regulatory requirements that applyto the bridge bank, for a period up to six months;

(d)the requirement of setting out governanceframework; and

(e)the board of directors and the management of thebridge bank.

(7)For the purpose of this section, the Central Bankshall have the power to -

38Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(a)transfer to the bridge bank, from time to time, shares,assets, liabilities or other instruments of ownership,as the case may be, issued by the licensed banksubject to resolution;

(b)subject to the provisions of subsection (8), reversethe transfer of all or part of the assets and liabilitiesfrom the bridge bank to the licensed bank subjectto resolution;

(c)transfer shares, assets and liabilities, legal rightsand obligations, from the bridge bank to any otherperson subject to an eligibility criteria determinedby the Central Bank by directions, for such purpose;and

(d)facilitate the closure and orderly winding up of thebridge bank.

(8) The reversal of transfer of shares, assets and liabilities,legal rights and obligations and any other instruments ofownership under subsection (7), to the licensed bank subjectto resolution shall be performed in one of the followingcircumstances: -

(a)where the possibility of such reversal is expresslyprovided for in the decision to establish a bridgebank referred to in subsection (1) of section 30;

(b)where the shares, assets and liabilities, legal rightsand obligations and any other instrument ofownership transferred to the bridge bank from thelicensed bank subject to resolution do not meet theconditions of such transfer or do not fall into thecategories of shares, assets and liabilities, legalrights and obligations and any other instrumentsof ownership specified in the decision to establishthe bridge bank; or

39Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(c)where it is necessary to rectify the valuation errorsthat took place at the time of transfer of shares,assets and liabilities, legal rights and obligationsand other instruments of ownership.

(9) The transfer of shares, assets and liabilities, legal rightsand obligations and other instruments of ownership to andfrom the bridge bank shall be based on a valuation carriedout by an independent professional valuer possessing suchqualifications and experience referred to in subsection (1)of section 16.

(10) Any shareholder or creditor of a licensed bank subjectto resolution and other third party whose shares, assets andliabilities, legal rights and obligations and other instrumentsof ownership are not transferred to the bridge bank shall nothave any right over the shares, assets and liabilities, legalrights and obligations and other instruments of ownershiptransferred to the bridge bank, its governing body, or theCentral Bank.

(11) The Central Bank may, from time to time, havingregard to the interests of depositors, creditors andshareholders, issue to the bridge bank, directions, guidelines,and operating instructions, as the case may be, specifying-

(a)the manner in which the remaining assets andliabilities of the licensed bank subject to resolutionneed to be liquidated;

(b)the manner in which the operations of the bridgebank shall be carried out;

(c)the exemptions granted to the bridge bank:

(d)minimum capital and liquidity requirements to bemet by the bridge bank;

40Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(e)principles of corporate governance to be applicableto the bridge bank;

(f)the criteria applicable for the assessment of fitnessand propriety of the members of the governing bodyand the key management personnel of the bridgebank;

(g)criteria for acceptability of the valuations of assetsand liabilities to be transferred to the bridge bank;

(h)modes of consideration to be passed whentransferring assets and liabilities, legal rights andobligations and instruments of ownership; or

(i)the manner and the circumstances of reversals ofassets and liabilities and other instruments ofownership initially transferred to the bridge bank.

32. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (3) and(4), the term of the bridge bank shall not exceed a period oftwo years from the last date of transfer of shares, assets andliabilities and instruments of ownership of the licensed banksubject to resolution.

(2) The Central Bank shall terminate the bridge bank assoon as practicable, according to its own assessment, havingregard to the objectives of resolution, completion of thetasks assigned to the bridge bank and such other matters onits merit, upon the completion of the period of two yearsreferred to in subsection (1).

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), where theCentral Bank is satisfied that the bridge bank no longerserves the objectives of resolution, the Central Bank may,after informing the Minister-

(a)merge the bridge bank with another entity;

Term of abridge bank

41Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(b)sell in whole or part, the assets, rights, andobligations of the bridge bank to a third party; or

(c)liquidate the assets of the bridge bank and pay itsobligations in full.

(4) The term of the bridge bank may be extended by theCentral Bank for a further period of one year at a time:

Provided however, the term of a bridge bank shall not, inthe aggregate, exceed five years.

(5) (a) All the decisions of the Central Bank undersubsections (2), (3) and (4) shall be based on an assessmentof the circumstances and market conditions that justify suchdecisions.

(b) The Central Bank shall submit a report to the Ministerwithin one month from the date of such decisions. In thecase of an extension granted under subsection (4), the CentralBank shall also publish a reasoned explanation as to whysuch an extension is necessary.

(6) Where the term of the bridge bank is terminated undersubsection (2), the Central Bank shall-

(a)cancel the licence issued to such bridge bank; and

(b)wind up such bridge bank under Part V of this Act.

(7) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3) of section51, all receipts resulting from the cessation of the operationof the bridge bank under this section shall be transferred tothe Government.

33. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), theGovernment may, having considered the report submittedby the Central Bank to the Minister in that behalf, providetemporary financial assistance to contribute to the fundingof the resolution of a licensed bank, or to a bridge bank, asthe case may be.

Providingtemporaryfinancialassistance by theGovernment

42Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) The temporary financial assistance referred to insubsection (1) shall be provided by the Government only ifthe following conditions are satisfied: -

(a)such financial assistance is necessary to avoid arisk of disturbance to the stability of the financialsystem;

(b)alternative funding through Deposit Insurance Fundestablished under section 49 as permitted undersubsection (3) of section 51 or private sources hasbeen depleted or such sources are not sufficient oravailable within a reasonable time frame;

(c)losses of the licensed bank are allocated at least toshareholders and subordinated debt holders; and

(d)the Central Bank is of the opinion that the licensedbank subject to resolution or the bridge bank willbecome viable with the implementation of aresolution or restructuring plan.

(3) The temporary financial assistance under this sectionmay be provided by the Government to

(a)extend financial assistance for a licensed banksubject to resolution or for a bridge bank establishedunder section 30;

(b)pay compensation to shareholders and creditorsunder section 36; or

(c)take such other measure as is incidental orconnected to the purposes referred to in paragraph(a) or (b).

(4) (a) Where the Government becomes the holder of acontrolling interest in a licensed bank subject to resolutionor the bridge bank, as a result of providing temporary financial

43Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

assistance under this section, such licensed bank or the bridgebank shall be managed on a commercial and professionalbasis and shall be subject to enhanced supervision by theCentral Bank.

(b) The licensed bank or the bridge bank, as the case maybe, referred to in paragraph (a) shall develop a plan, to thesatisfaction of the Central Bank, for its exit from Governmentcontrol, within a reasonable timeframe. The Minister shall,on the recommendation of the Central Bank, prescribe theprocedures for the utilization of exit options in a fair andtransparent manner, having regard to the timing, and marketconditions and confidentiality requirements.

(5) Any temporary financial assistance provided underthis section and related costs and net of expected recoveries,may be recovered from all banks under subsection (4) ofsection 15.

(6) The Minister may, on the recommendation of theCentral Bank, prescribe the rules for the provision oftemporary financial assistance and the recoupment of suchfunds under this Act.

34. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of section30, where the Government is of the opinion that the failureof a licensed bank can have systemic importance or impact,it shall have the authority to resolve such licensed bank.

(2) In resolving a licensed bank under subsection (1), theGovernment may infuse capital for such licensed bankthrough

(a)participation of the Government in therecapitalization of such licensed bank; or

(b)taking over such licensed bank into temporarypublic ownership.

Capitalization ofa licensed bankhaving systemicimpact

44Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(3) The conditions set out in subsection (2) of section 33shall mutatis mutandis apply to a licensed bank subject toresolution under this section.

35. (1) The Central Bank may, where appropriate, notifythe Minister and other relevant authorities including anyforeign supervisory or resolution authorities, of the exerciseby the Central Bank of its resolution powers under this Act.

(2) The Central Bank shall publish a notice in threeSinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating inSri Lanka with respect to the exercise of resolution powerson any licensed bank under this Part of this Act.

36. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, where the Central Bank, in the exercise,performance or discharge of its powers, duties or functionsunder this Act, considers that it is necessary-

(a)to mitigate any impact of the failure of a licensedbank in the economy and avoid contagion risk ofsuch failure across the financial system; or

(b)to maximize the value for the benefit of alldepositors and creditors of a licensed bank,

it shall be lawful for the Central Bank to apply differenttreatments to a class or classes of persons among the creditorsof a licensed bank subject to resolution having consideredthe impact of losses to be attributable to such class or classesof creditors as a whole, the interests of the depositors andcreditors of such licensed bank, and the financial systemstability of Sri Lanka.

(2) (a) A shareholder or creditor who incurs higher lossesthan what he would have incurred if the licensed bank subjectto resolution had been liquidated through winding up, maybe compensated for the difference.

Central Bank tonotify theexercising ofresolutionpowers

Compensatingshareholders andcreditors

45Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(b) The difference to be compensated under paragraph(a) shall be determined based on a valuation, carried outafter completion of the resolution, by an independentprofessional valuer possessing such qualifications andexperience referred to in subsection (1) of section 16.

(3) The valuation referred to in subsection (2), shall becarried out on the basis that such licensed bank would bewound up immediately before the initiation of suchresolution by the Central Bank and shall be based on thevalue that could be given at the time of winding up:

Provided however, any value created or preserved in suchlicensed bank as a result of any public financial support oremergency liquidity assistance provided by the Central Bankor the Government, as the case may be, shall be deducted inthe calculation of difference.

(4) The compensation referred to in subsection (2) maybe provided by the Government through temporary financialassistance as provided for in section 33.

(5) The Central Bank may give effect to the provisions ofthis section by issuing directions, from time to time.

37. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Actor any other written law for the time being in force, theCentral Bank and the Ministry of Finance shall exchangeinformation in respect of planning, preparation andimplementation of resolution measures related to anylicensed bank which requires funding by the Governmentunder this Act.

(2) The Minister, Secretary, Director General, any director,officer or any other person engaged or employed in thefunctions or affairs of the Ministry of the Minister shallmaintain strict confidentiality in respect of all information

Central Bankand the Ministryto exchangeinformation

46Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

exchanged under subsection (1) and shall not reveal anysuch information except-

(a)as required by a court of law;

(b)in the performance of their duties under this Act; or

(c)in order to comply with any of the provisions ofthis Act or any other written law.

38. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Actor in any other written law for the time being in force, theCentral Bank shall have authority to enter into agreements,memoranda of understanding and arrangements for thecoordination, cooperation and the exchange of informationwith relevant authorities established outside Sri Lanka,including supervisory or regulatory authorities of banks inother jurisdictions outside Sri Lanka:

Provided however, if the Central Bank is of the opinionthat any confidential information, if exchanged with anysuch authority cannot be secured due to the unavailabilityof duty to preserve confidentiality in such authority, theCentral Bank shall not exchange such information with anysuch authority outside Sri Lanka.

(2) The agreements, memoranda of understanding andarrangements with the relevant authorities outside Sri Lankareferred to in subsection (1), shall include the following: -

(a)procedures for the timely exchange of informationon matters agreed between the parties includingconsultations, prior notifications, regulatory orsupervisory concerns, recovery plans, resolvabilityassessments, resolution plans, early interventionmeasures and resolution actions;

(b)procedures for the coordination of resolutionmeasures;

Cross-bordercooperation

47Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(c)procedures for the recognition and facilitation ofresolution measures taken by foreign regulatoryauthorities and the Central Bank;

(d)restrictions on the use of information for purposesother than those for which the information is shared;

(e)stipulation that the information be treated in aconfidential manner and not be further disclosedwithout the express consent of the Central Bank;and

(f)any other matter which the parties may considernecessary for the effective implementation ofresolution measures under this Act.

(3) The Central Bank may, on the request of a foreignresolution authority, make an Order that the effects of aresolution measure of such foreign authority be fully orpartially applicable in Sri Lanka:

Provided however, the Central Bank shall not make suchOrder where the Central Bank is of the opinion that -

(a)in terms of its objective and anticipated results, theforeign resolution measure is not comparable tothe exercise of resolution powers under this Act;

(b)the relevant laws of the foreign resolutionauthoritys jurisdiction do not allow for therecognition of the Central Banks resolutionmeasures on request;

(c)recognizing a foreign resolution measure would notcontribute to the achievement of resolutionobjectives under this Act;

(d)creditors of the licensed bank in Sri Lanka wouldnot be treated equitably under the foreign resolutionproceedings;

48Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(e)such recognition would have material adverse fiscalimplications in Sri Lanka; or

(f)such recognition would contravene the publicpolicy of Sri Lanka.

PART III

SRI LANKA DEPOSIT INSURANCE sCHEME

39. The Central Bank shall, in order to uphold the publicconfidence in the financial system and to promote, andcontribute to, the stability of the financial system inSri Lanka, establish a scheme called Sri Lanka DepositInsurance Scheme (hereinafter referred to as the Scheme)under this Act, for the purposes of-

(a)insuring the deposits made by the depositors in aninstitution which is a member of the Scheme(in this Part of this Act referred to as a memberinstitution) in order to compensate such depositorsup to any maximum amount as may be determinedby the Central Bank, from time to time, subject tosubsection (9) of section 44, in the event the licenceissued to such member institution is cancelled bythe Central Bank; and

(b)establishing a system for providing appropriatefinancial assistance to facilitate transfer of assetsand liabilities of a member institution as aresolution measure, subject to safeguards.

40. (1) The Central Bank shall be responsible for theadministration and management of the Scheme and shallexercise, perform, and discharge all the powers, duties andfunctions conferred or imposed on, or assigned to it underthis Act for the effective implementation of the Scheme.

Establishment ofa depositinsurancescheme

Administrationand managementof the Scheme

49Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) In relation to the administration and management ofthe Scheme under this Act or any other written law, theCentral Bank may-

(a)formulate policies in relation to the generaladministration of the Scheme;

(b)set out the organizational arrangements relating tothe exercise, performance and discharge of thepowers, duties and functions in relation to theScheme in order to prevent a conflict of interest orpossible conflict of interest between the functionsof the Scheme and other functions of theCentral Bank;

(c)make rules setting out the procedure for repayingthe insured deposits by utilizing the moneysavailable in the Fund; and

(d)make any other arrangement which the Central Bankconsiders necessary to ensure the effectiveadministration and management of the Scheme.

(3) The Central Bank may delegate any power, duty andfunction relating to the day-to-day administration andmanagement of the Scheme to any officer of theCentral Bank.

41. (1) The Head of the Department established undersection 4 or any other officer authorized by the Central Bankshall publish a list of all institutions who are members of theScheme annually, at least in one Sinhala, Tamil, and Englishdaily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.

(2) The Central Bank shall, by way of a direction, notifythe member institutions of the membership in the Scheme.

Members of theScheme

50Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

For the purposes of this Part of this Act, a memberinstitution means, a licensed commercial bank, a licensedspecialized bank within the meaning of the Banking Act ora licensed finance company within the meaning of theFinance Business Act or any other institution as theCentral Bank may determine, from time to time, as a memberinstitution under this Act.

42. (1) A member institution shall cease to be a memberof the Scheme upon the cancellation of the licence issued tosuch institution to carry on banking business or financebusiness by the Central Bank, or the commencement ofwinding up, as the case may be.

(2) The Central Bank shall, upon the cancellation oflicence as referred to in subsection (1), give notice to thepublic under the Banking Act or the Finance Business Actthat such institution ceases to be a member of the Schemeupon such cancellation.

43. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), themember institutions shall insure all eligible deposits underthe Scheme.

(2) The eligible deposits to be insured under theScheme shall include demand, time and savings depositliabilities of member institutions other than the depositliabilities specified in subsection (3) and debt instrumentsincluding any promissory notes, hybrid equity and suchother debt instruments as may be determined by theCentral Bank.

(3) The following deposit liabilities shall not beconsidered as eligible deposits: -

(a)deposit liabilities to other member institutions;

(b)deposit liabilities maintained individually orjointly with any other party, by directors and key

Cessation ofmembership inthe Scheme

Memberinstitutions toinsure depositsunder theScheme

51Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

management personnel of a member institution,close relations of such directors and keymanagement personnel, a subsidiary company oran associate company of a member institution, andany concern in which any of the directors and keymanagement personnel of a member institution orclose relations of such directors and keymanagement personnel have any interest;

(c)deposit liabilities of former directors or keymanagement personnel of a member institutionwhere

(i)such directors or key management personnelhave been removed from such position onthe direction by the Central Bank due to suchdirectors or key management personnel beinginvolved in or connected with any unsound,improper, dishonest, deceitful or fraudulentfinancial practice detrimental to the interestsof the depositors and other creditors of suchmember institution, in carrying out businessoperations or management of such memberinstitution;

(ii)such directors or key management personnelhave been determined by the Central Bank,to be not fit and proper to hold such office ina member institution under any written lawfor the time being in force;

(iii)the Central Bank determines ex mero motu,upon being satisfied based on the materialavailable, and after granting such directorsor key management personnel, as the casemay be, an opportunity of being heard, thatsuch directors or key management personnelare not entitled to receive any benefit underthe Scheme, due to such directors or keymanagement personnel engaging in, orhaving engaged in, or being involved in, or

52Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

being responsible for, carrying on the businessoperations or management of such memberinstitution through any unsound, improper,dishonest, deceitful or fraudulent financialpractices detrimental to the interests of itsdepositors and other creditors;

(d)deposits falling within the meaning of abandonedproperty under the Banking Act and dormantdeposits under the Finance Business Act, as thecase may be, which have been transferred to theCentral Bank, in terms of the directions issued bythe Central Bank, from time to time;

(e)deposits held by any Government institution,including a Ministry, Department, ProvincialCouncil or local authority; and

(f)any other deposit liability of a member institutionas may be determined by the Central Bank as noteligible under the Scheme.

(4) The Central Bank may, from time to time, issueoperating instructions to member institutions regarding theimplementation and operation of the Scheme.

44. (1) Compensation shall be paid to depositors oninsured deposits as per the directions issued by the CentralBank, from time to time, or as hereinafter provided.

(2) Payment of compensation on insured deposits of amember institution shall be initiated within thirty days fromthe date of cancellation of the licence issued to such memberinstitution.

(3) A depositor of insured deposits shall be entitled toreceive compensation under subsection (1) in so far as suchdepositor submits a duly completed claim for compensationwithin six years from the date of the cancellation of thelicence issued to the member institution.

Compensation todepositors

53Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(4) For the purpose of making compensation undersubsection (1), the Deposit Insurance Fund established undersection 49 shall automatically subrogate to the rights ofdepositors against such member institution in an amountequal to the amount of the insured deposits owed by themember institution, regardless of the date on which suchamounts are actually paid to its insured depositors:

Provided however, the depositors of insured deposits ofmember institutions whose licences have been cancelled orsuspended prior to August 6, 2021 shall submit their claimsnot later than four years from the date of the cancellation orsuspension of the licences issued to such institutions.

(5) For the purposes of this Part of this Act, a memberinstitution shall maintain records of all depositors of suchinstitution with a unique identification number for each suchdepositor and submit the details of all depositors to theCentral Bank periodically, in such form and manner as maybe determined by the Central Bank.

(6) In the event a licence issued to a member institution iscancelled by the Central Bank, such member institutionshall, within fourteen days from the date of such cancellation,submit a list of depositors of such institution in the form andmanner specified in subsection (5) to the Central Bank forthe purpose of payment of compensation to the depositorsunder the Scheme.

(7) The list of depositors referred to in subsection (6)shall be certified by the respective heads of the supervisorydepartments of the Central Bank. For the purpose ofcertification of the list of depositors, the respective heads ofthe supervisory departments may obtain the service of anexternal auditor, if necessary.

(8) The compensation payable in respect of insureddeposits of a member institution shall be computedaggregating all insured deposit liabilities for each depositor

54Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

inclusive of any interest accrued thereon as at the date ofcancellation of licence of such member institution, and anyinterest shall not be paid for the succeeding period.

(9) The maximum amount of compensation payable to adepositor under subsection (8) shall be determined by theCentral Bank, from time to time, considering the protectionof the interests of the majority of insured depositors underthe Scheme, the soundness of the banking and financialsystem and the monies available in the Deposit InsuranceFund.

(10) When determining the compensation payable undersubsection (8), the Central Bank shall take into considerationthe type of currency of the insured deposits. If such depositsare in foreign currency, an amount equivalent to such amountof money in Sri Lanka Rupees determined by the CentralBank under subsection (9) shall be paid to such depositor.

(11) The payment of compensation shall not in any eventincur a liability of the Central Bank and the Central Bankshall not be held liable for any liability that exceeds thetotal amount of moneys lying to the credit of the DepositInsurance Fund.

(12) Where the amount of money lying to the credit ofthe Deposit Insurance Fund falls short of its liabilities todepositors, additional funding may be raised throughborrowings from the Government or from other sources, andfor such purpose, the Scheme and the Ministry of Financeshall maintain at all times a memorandum of understandingsetting out the terms, conditions and procedures to facilitatesuch borrowings.

(13) The Head of the Department established undersection 4 or any officer authorized by the Central Bank mayissue instructions to member institutions relating to themaintaining of records of depositors or any other matter,from time to time.

55Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

45. (1) Upon the payment of compensation under section44, the Scheme shall be subrogated to all the rights of theinsured depositors against the member institution whoselicence has been cancelled, to the extent of total insureddeposit value.

(2) The subrogation to the rights of depositors set forth inthis section shall not affect a depositors claims against themember institution for amounts that are not covered by theDeposit Insurance Fund.

46. The Central Bank may make payments ofcompensation to depositors under the Scheme directly orthrough any other licensed bank as may be determined bythe Central Bank which consents to act as a payment bank.

47. The Central Bank shall, within seven working daysprior to the date of implementation of the payment ofcompensation under the Scheme, publish a notice on theimplementation of such payment in at least three Sinhala,Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka,containing-

(a)the details of the payment bank;

(b)particulars to be submitted by the depositors toreceive compensation;

(c) maximum amount of compensation that shall bepaid per depositor; and

(d) such other instructions to depositors as to how theyshall submit their claims for the payment ofcompensation.

Subrogation ofthe Scheme tothe rights ofdepositors

Compensationmay be paidthrough anotherlicensed bank

Notice ofpayment ofcompensation

56Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

48. Every member institution shall provide to the CentralBank or to any officer authorized by the Central Bank, theinformation as may be required by the Central Bank, fromtime to time, in such manner as the Central Bank may specify,from time to time.

49. (1) The Central Bank shall, as part of the operation ofthe Scheme, establish a Deposit Insurance Fund, which shallbe managed separately from other assets of the Central Bankand the assets managed by the Central Bank.

(2) The Central Bank may sue or be sued in the name ofthe Deposit Insurance Fund.

50. (1) The Central Bank shall manage, administer, andsupervise the affairs of the Deposit Insurance Fund subjectto the provisions of this Act.

(2) In managing, administering and supervising the affairsof the Deposit Insurance Fund, the Central Bank shallexercise, perform and discharge the following powers, dutiesand functions:-

(a)to formulate policies in relation to the generaladministration of the Deposit Insurance Fund andsuch other matters relating thereto;

(b)to enter into agreements with any internationalfinancial institution in the name of the DepositInsurance Fund to ensure the effectiveadministration and management of the DepositInsurance Fund;

(c)to accept from the Government or any internationalfinancial institution, any grant or aid, or borrowingin the name of the Deposit Insurance Fund, as itmay consider necessary;

(d)to formulate procedures for repaying insureddeposits by utilizing the moneys available in theDeposit Insurance Fund;

DepositInsurance Fund

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Central Bankrelating to theDepositInsurance Fund

Reporting bymemberinstitutions

57Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(e)to make investments and enter into any transactionor agreement as may be necessary or desirable forthe financial management of the Deposit InsuranceFund;

(f)to settle or compromise any claim authorized bythe Central Bank by or against the DepositInsurance Fund;

(g)to determine the period within which thecompensation shall be paid to depositors undersection 44; or

(h)to do such other things which the Central Bankconsiders necessary to ensure the effectiveadministration and management of the DepositInsurance Fund.

51. (1) There shall be credited to the Deposit InsuranceFund

(a)the monies lying to the credit of the DepositInsurance Fund under the Sri Lanka DepositInsurance and Liquidity Support Schemeestablished under the laws for the time being inforce, as at the appointed date;

(b)the premia and penalties paid by memberinstitutions;

(c)the investment income and gains derived from theinvestments of the moneys in the Deposit InsuranceFund;

(d) recoveries of secured advances or loans granted toany member institutions under the Sri LankaDeposit Insurance and Liquidity Support Schemeestablished under the laws for the time being inforce;

Sources of fundsof the DepositInsurance Fund

58Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(e)the sums from the recovery of compensation paidto depositors from and out of the assets of a memberinstitution during the winding up proceedingsinstituted against such institution;

(f)such sums as may be appropriated out of theabandoned property or dormant deposits of memberinstitutions, as the case may be, which have beentransferred to the Central Bank under the BankingAct;

(g)the moneys received as additional premia andpenalties paid by the member institutions underthis Part of this Act;

(h)the borrowings from the Government or anyinternational financial institution, as may beapproved by the Central Bank; and

(i)any other receipt from any other sources of incomeas may be approved by the Central Bank.

(2) The Deposit Insurance Fund shall be utilized to makepayments in respect of

(a)compensation to depositors of insured deposits ofmember institutions;

(b)abandoned property or dormant deposits of memberinstitutions lying to the credit of the DepositInsurance Fund;

(c)repaying of any borrowings obtained from theGovernment or any international financialinstitution; and

(d)such operating expenses of the Scheme as may bedetermined by the Central Bank.

(3) The Central Bank may require the Scheme to providefinancing to effectively facilitate the resolution of a licensedbank through the transfer of assets and liabilities to atransferee or bridge bank, by way of paying any differencebetween such assets and liabilities transferred, or by issuingguarantee or providing indemnities for losses related to thetransferred assets and liabilities:

59Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

Provided that, the total amount of financing providedunder this subsection shall not exceed the amount of totalcompensation to be paid to the depositors of such bank undersection 44, and such financing shall be subject to aconfirmation by the Central Bank that, with the transfer ofassets and liabilities, insured deposits shall be owed by aviable bank:

Provided further, that the holders of all classes of sharecapital and subordinated debt holders shall have absorbed,or will absorb, the losses.

(4) (a) The Central Bank shall have the right to recoverfrom the licensed bank subject to resolution, the total amountof financing provided by the Scheme to such bank undersubsection (3).

(b) The amount to be recovered from the licensed bank tothe Scheme under this subsection shall rank, pari passu withthe insured deposits and claims of the Deposit InsuranceFund arising from subrogation of rights of insured depositorsunder section 45.

52. All moneys lying to the credit of the Deposit InsuranceFund, shall be invested by the Central Bank in TreasuryBills, Treasury Bonds, any other marketable securities,having regard to the safety, liquidity and return of suchinvestments in accordance with the policies and guidelinesissued by the Central Bank, from time to time, relating to theinvestment of the moneys of the Deposit Insurance Fund.

53. If, at any time, the liquid funds available in the DepositInsurance Fund are considered insufficient to meet thepayout requirements of the Scheme, the Central Bank mayextend a liquidity line to the Deposit Insurance Fund againstexisting collateral in the Deposit Insurance Funds portfolioor against a guarantee issued by the Ministry of Finance onsuch terms and conditions, and for such period, as it mayconsider necessary.

Investment ofthe moneys ofthe DepositInsurance Fund

Transfer offunds from theCentral Bank tothe DepositInsurance Fund

60Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

54. (1) The financial statements of the Deposit InsuranceFund shall be prepared in accordance with the applicableaccounting standards. The accounts of the Deposit InsuranceFund shall be maintained in such form and manner as maybe determined by the Central Bank, from time to time. Suchfinancial statements shall be maintained separately and shallnot be considered as part of the financial statements of theCentral Bank.

(2) The Central Bank shall be responsible for thepreparation of the financial statements of the DepositInsurance Fund within three months from the end of eachfinancial year and such financial statements shall be auditedby the Auditor-General.

(3) The Central Bank shall publish the audited financialstatements of the Deposit Insurance Fund within four monthsfrom the end of the financial year at least once in threeSinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating inSri Lanka and in such other manner as may be determinedby the Central Bank.

55. (1) Each member institution shall pay to the DepositInsurance Fund a premium calculated on the total amount ofeligible deposits for such periods, at such rate, at such timesand in such manner as may be determined, from time to time,by the Central Bank.

(2) Where any member institution makes any default inthe payments of premium due under subsection (1), suchmember institution shall be liable to pay to the Central Bank,a penalty for the period of such default, at such rate as maybe determined by the Central Bank.

(3) In exceptional circumstances, the Central Bank shallhave the authority to require the member institutions to paysuch additional premium to the Deposit Insurance Fundwithin such period, as may be specified by the Central Bank.

Financialstatements of theDepositInsurance Fund

Memberinstitutions topay a premiumto the DepositInsurance Fund

61Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(4) In the event any member institution fails to pay theadditional premium referred to in subsection (3) within theperiod specified, the Central Bank may, on a case-by-casebasis-

(a)having regard to the reasons explained by suchinstitution, grant additional time for such memberinstitution to pay such additional premium; or

(b)impose on such member institution a late paymentfee on the defaulted premium at such rate, as maybe determined by the Central Bank.

(5) No person other than a member institution, shallrepresent to the general public that such person is a memberof the Scheme and its deposit liabilities are insured underthis Act.

(6) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (5) commits an offence and shall, on conviction,be liable to a fine not exceeding ten million rupees or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment, and shall, in addition, be liableto a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees for each dayduring which such contravention continues.

56. For the purposes of this Part of this Act, the Head ofthe Department established under section 4 or any otherofficer authorized by the Central Bank shall have the powerto examine and supervise the activities of any memberinstitution.

Examinationand supervisionof memberinstitutions

62Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

57. (1) The Central Bank may, from time to time, by Order,declare that the provisions of Part I and Part II of this Actrelating to resolution of licensed banks shall apply to anyclass or category of non-bank financial institutions licensedor appointed, and regulated and supervised by the CentralBank (hereinafter referred to as a "non-bank financialinstitution"), where the Central Bank is satisfied that it isnecessary to-

(a)promote monetary and financial system stability;or

(b)protect the interests of the public in respect of thebusiness or activities carried on by such class orcategory of non-bank financial institutions.

(2) Where an Order is made under this section by theCentral Bank, any reference made in this Act to the Directorof Bank Supervision shall, where appropriate, be deemed tohave been made to the Director, the Department ofSupervision of Non-bank Financial Institutions of theCentral Bank.

PART IV

FINANCIAL SECTOR CRISIS MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

58. (1) There shall be established a committee called theFinancial Sector Crisis Management Committee for thepurpose of effectively managing and minimizing the impactof financial crises which are systemic in nature.

(2) The Financial Sector Crisis Management Committeeshall consist of the following members: -

Application ofcertainprovisions of theAct to non-bankfinancialinstitutions

Financial SectorCrisisManagementCommittee

63Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(a)the Governor of the Central Bank, who shall be theChairperson of the Financial Sector CrisisManagement Committee;

(b)the Secretary to the Treasury who shall be theDeputy Chairperson of the Financial Sector CrisisManagement Committee;

(c)an appointed member of the Governing Board ofthe Central Bank with expertise on financial sector;

(d)the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank in chargeof financial system stability; and

(e)the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury in charge offiscal operations.

59. (1) The Financial Sector Crisis Management Committeeshall, for the purpose of operationalization of the FinancialSector Crisis Management Committee, prepare and approveprocedures, including procedures for -

(a)identifying crisis times;

(b) determining the powers, duties and functions ofthe Financial Sector Crisis Management Committeeon crisis preparedness and management;

(c)the appointment of members to the TechnicalCommittee on Financial Sector Crisis Managementappointed under section 60;

(d)determining the duties and functions of theTechnical Committee on Financial Sector CrisisManagement during crisis and non-crisis times; and

Duties andfunctions of theFinancial SectorCrisisManagementCommittee

64Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(e)determining the duties and functions of theSecretariat.

(2) During non-crisis times, it shall be lawful for theFinancial Sector Crisis Management Committee to takedecisions on an ongoing basis, aimed at strengthening itscrisis management powers, expertise, and resources tostrengthen the preparedness and resilience to avoid, control,or manage the risk of future crises, which may causeinstability of the financial system.

(3) During crisis times, it shall be lawful for the FinancialSector Crisis Management Committee to approve, andcoordinate the overall crisis management strategy, inconsultation with the other authorities of the financial sector,and take decisions to manage, and control such crises,without prejudice to the powers, duties, functions, andindependence of such authorities.

60. (1) There shall be a technical committee called theTechnical Committee on Financial Sector CrisisManagement to assist the Financial Sector CrisisManagement Committee, which shall operate in crisis andnon-crisis times.

(2) The Technical Committee on Financial Sector CrisisManagement shall consist of such number of membersappointed by the Financial Sector Crisis ManagementCommittee, representing the Central Bank and the Ministryof the Minister.

(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 59, theTechnical Committee on Financial Sector CrisisManagement shall be chaired by the Deputy Governor ofthe Central Bank in charge of financial system stability.

61. The Central Bank shall function as the Secretariat ofthe Financial Sector Crisis Management Committee and theTechnical Committee on Financial Sector CrisisManagement.

The TechnicalCommittee onFinancial SectorCrisisManagement

Secretariat of theCommittees

65Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

62. (1) The Financial Sector Crisis ManagementCommittee shall hold meetings as and when necessary, butat least once a month when it operates in crisis times and atleast once every quarter in non-crisis times.

(2) The Chairperson of the Financial Sector CrisisManagement Committee may call extraordinary meetingsdepending on the circumstances and needs.

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Financial SectorCrisis Management Committee shall be constituted by thepresence of the Chairperson or the person acting asChairperson and the simple majority of the remainingmembers.

(4) In the absence of the Chairperson from any meeting,the Deputy Chairperson shall preside at such meetings. Inthe absence of both the Chairperson and the DeputyChairperson from any meeting, any other member shall beelected to preside at such meeting from among the memberspresent at such meeting.

63. The Chairpersons of the Financial Sector CrisisManagement Committee and the Technical Committee onFinancial Sector Crisis Management may, as and whennecessary, invite such relevant stakeholders from the publicand private sectors as such Committees may determine, toattend the meetings of such Committees as observers todiscuss relevant issues depending on the circumstances andneeds.

64. Each member of the Financial Sector CrisisManagement Committee and the Technical Committee onFinancial Sector Crisis Management and the officers andother employees of the Secretariat shall maintain strict

Confidentialityof theinformation ofCommittees

Committees mayinvite public andprivate sectorstakeholders tomeetings

Meetings of theFinancial SectorCrisisManagementCommittee

66Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

confidentiality with regard to the information received andcollected by such Committees, including the viewsexpressed by the members of such Committees in theperformance and discharge of the duties and functions ofsuch Committees and shall use them solely for the purposeof the activities of the respective Committees.

PART V

WINDING UP OF LICENSED BANK

65. Unless otherwise provided for in this Part of this Act,in the event of any conflict or inconsistency between theprovisions of this Part of this Act and the provisions of theBanking Act, the Monetary Law Act, the Finance BusinessAct, the Companies Act, or any other written law relating toinsolvency of companies for the time being in force, theprovisions of this Part of this Act shall prevail.

66. (1) A licensed bank may be wound up by the CentralBank, in any of the following circumstances: -

(a)where the Central Bank is satisfied that theresolution measures referred to in Part II of this Actare not likely to achieve one or more of theobjectives set out in section 8;

(b)the Administrator recommends that the licensedbank be wound up, under section 21;

(c)where the assets and liabilities of a licensed bankare partially transferred to a transferee, including abridge bank under the provisions of Part II of thisAct; or

(d)the Central Bank, in the process of resolution,concludes that the prospect of a successfulresolution is unlikely under the provisions of Part IIof this Act.

Winding up of alicensed bank

Provisions ofthis Part of thisAct to prevailover any otherlaw

67Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) Where the Central Bank determines that a licensedbank shall be wound up due to any of the grounds specifiedin subsection (1), the Central Bank shall grant such licensedbank, an opportunity of being heard and take steps to cancelthe licence issued to such licensed bank and commenceproceedings for its winding up in accordance with theprovisions of this Part of this Act.

(3) Upon cancellation of the licence by the Central Bankunder subsection (2), the licensed bank shall forthwith ceasecarrying out of its business within and outside Sri Lanka.

67. (1) Where the licence issued to a licensed bank iscancelled by the Central Bank under subsection (2) of section66, the Head of the Department established under section 4may make an application to the court to commence windingup proceedings against such licensed bank.

(2) An application to the court under subsection (1) shallbe by way of a petition made in accordance with theprovisions of this Part of this Act. Such petition shall besupported by documentary evidence to prove the groundsfor the winding up.

(3) The court shall, after considering the application madeunder subsection (1), fix a date to support the winding uppetition, which shall not exceed two months from the dateof the winding up petition filed under subsection (2).

(4) The Head of the Department established under section4 shall publish in the Gazette, the date fixed to support thewinding up petition under subsection (3), within a period offourteen working days from the date called to fix the date tosupport, requiring creditors or any other interested party ofthe licensed bank subject to winding up, to notify him insuch form and within such period as may be specified in that

Application tocourt for awinding uporder

68Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

publication, whether they intervene into the winding upapplication filed under subsection (1), as parties (in this Actreferred to as the "intervening parties"). The period ofnotification given to intervening parties shall not exceedfourteen days from the date of such Gazette. Details of theintervening parties notified under this section shall besubmitted to the court on the date fixed to support thewinding up petition.

(5) No person specified in subsection (4) shall intervenein the winding up proceedings before the date on whichsuch petition is supported.

(6) The court may, after considering the application madeunder subsection (1), and submissions of the interveningparties, make an order (in this Act referred to as the "windingup order") to commence the winding up proceedings againstsuch licensed bank.

(7) The winding up order shall come into effect from thedate specified in such order.

(8) If the court is of the opinion, after considering thesubmissions of the Head of the Department established undersection 4 and the intervening parties that the licensed bankis not insolvent, it may make order permitting the licensedbank to resume business, either unconditionally or subjectto such conditions as the court may consider necessary inthe public interest or in the interests of the depositors andother creditors of the licensed bank.

(9) Upon coming into effect of the winding up order, theright of any depositor, creditor, or any contractingcounterparty to access or execute their rights, titles andinterests recorded in the books or records of the licensedbank shall be forthwith suspended.

69Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(10) For the purposes of this Part of this Act, the value ofthe assets and liabilities of a licensed bank which is subjectto winding up shall be determined in accordance with theapplicable Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.

(11) Every order made by the court under this sectionshall be subject to an appeal to the Supreme Court and theprovisions of the High Court of the Provinces (SpecialProvisions) Act, No.10 of 1996 relating to an appeal shall,mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of any such appeal.

68. (1) In pursuance to the winding up order, the courtshall appoint a person nominated by the Central Bank as theliquidator to act on its behalf for the purposes of winding upof the operations of the licensed bank.

(2) The Central Bank shall, immediately after theappointment of the liquidator under subsection (1), givenotice of the winding up order and the appointment ofliquidator under subsection (1), to the licensed bank, andshall publish such notice in the Gazette and at least in threeSinhala, Tamil and English daily newspapers circulating inSri Lanka.

69. (1) The liquidator appointed under section 68 shall bethe sole legal representative of the licensed bank subject towinding up, and shall succeed to all rights and powers of theshareholders, the Board of Directors, key managementpersonnel and such other officers of the licensed bank,including all the powers necessary or expedient to manage,control, operate, and wind up the licensed bank:

Provided however, the liquidator may request the court tovest all or part of the assets and liabilities of the licensedbank subject to winding up in another licensed bank, withthe concurrence of the Central Bank.

Appointment ofa liquidator

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe liquidator

70Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) The liquidator shall exercise, perform and dischargethe powers, duties and functions relating to winding up underthe direction and supervision of the court and the CentralBank:

Provided however, the Central Bank shall ensure that anydirection given to the liquidator does not contravene thedirections, orders, judgements and instructions given by thecourt during the winding up process.

(3) The liquidator shall, subject to the direction andsupervision of the Central Bank, take charge of the offices,books, records and other information and assets of thelicensed bank subject to winding up.

(4) A liquidator may, for the purpose of exercising,performing and discharging the powers, duties and functionsrelating to the winding up of the licensed bank, at theexpense of the licensed bank, obtain services of independentattorneys, accountants, auditors, consultants, valuers, or suchother persons, on such terms and conditions, as may be agreedwith such persons in writing.

(5) The liquidator shall be entitled to an indemnity out ofthe property of the licensed bank subject to winding up inrespect of his personal liabilities under this Part of this Act.

70. (1) The liquidator shall be paid such remuneration asmay be specified by the court as a percentage of the value ofthe assets of the licensed bank subject to winding up or asthe court may otherwise specify.

(2) The remuneration specified by the court undersubsection (1) and such reasonable and incidental expensesincurred by the liquidator in the process of winding up ofthe licensed bank shall be paid from the existing assets ofsuch licensed bank.

Remuneration ofthe liquidator

71Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

71. (1) The court shall remove the liquidator, upon anapplication made in that behalf by the Head of theDepartment established under section 4, where theliquidator-

(a)has died or been incapacitated to act as theliquidator;

(b)has submitted a letter of resignation;

(c) in the opinion of the Central Bank, has failed toexercise, perform or discharge any power, duty, orfunction of such liquidator or to comply with theterms and conditions imposed on such liquidatorunder this Part of this Act; or

(d)becomes ineligible to serve in that capacity in anyother manner.

(2) The court shall, upon removal of the liquidator underthe provisions of subsection (1), appoint another personnominated by the Central Bank as the liquidator.

(3) The Central Bank shall, immediately after theappointment of the liquidator under subsection (2), givenotice of appointment of the new liquidator to the licensedbank, and shall publish such notice in the Gazette and atleast in three Sinhala, Tamil and English daily newspaperscirculating in Sri Lanka.

(4) The provisions of sections 69 and 70 shall, mutatismutandis, apply to the liquidator appointed undersubsection (2).

Removal of theliquidator

72Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

72. (1) Within a period of three months from the date ofwinding up order made under section 67, the liquidator shallprepare and submit to the Central Bank for its approval, adetailed winding up plan for the licensed bank subject towinding up.

(2) The winding up plan referred to in subsection (1) shallinclude

(a)a current pro forma statement of financial positionshowing the assets and liabilities of the licensedbank;

(b)quarterly statements of income and expenditure ofthe preceding period of two years and projectedincome and expenditure for the succeeding periodof two years of the licensed bank;

(c)a progress report on the sale and plans for the saleof major assets or groups of assets of the licensedbank;

(d)a report on the judicial or extra-judicial pursuit ofclaims of the licensed bank, including any actionto obtain an annulment or a declaration of invalidityof fraudulent conveyances, and the transfers madeand rights created by them;

(e)a report on offences and other illegal activities ofdirectors or officers of the licensed bank and actionsto obtain compensation for the licensed bank fromsuch directors or officers;

(f)a report on the continuation or termination ofongoing contracts, such as insurance, employmentand service contracts of the licensed bank, includinga detailed analysis of financial provisions for itsemployees;

Liquidator toprepare awinding up plan

73Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(g)a report on the liabilities of the licensed bank and aschedule of expected payments to creditors of thelicensed bank during the succeeding period of threemonths; and

(h)a report on actual, past and estimated future costsfor the preceding and succeeding period of twoyears, respectively, and expenses of the windingup.

(3) The Central Bank shall, if it is satisfied with the contentof the winding up plan submitted under subsection (1),approve such plan and inform the liquidator in writing ofsuch approval.

(4) The liquidator shall, after the winding up plan isapproved by the Central Bank under subsection (3), submitsuch winding up plan, together with the approval given bythe Central Bank, to the court for approval.

(5) The liquidator shall, after receiving the approval ofthe court for the winding up plan, publish, once a week forthree consecutive weeks, a notice at least in three Sinhala,Tamil, and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka,which shall contain information of the date when, and theplace where, the winding up plan and updates of such planwill be available for inspection by the claimants of thelicensed bank subject to winding up who have registeredtheir claims under section 79.

(6) The winding up plan approved by the court shall beupdated quarterly by the liquidator.

(7) The liquidator shall maintain proper books and recordsincluding a cost-benefit analysis of the implementation ofthe winding up plan and shall submit the same for the

74Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

inspection of the Head of the Department established undersection 4 or any officer authorized in that behalf by theCentral Bank.

73. (1) Where the winding up proceedings on a licensedbank are initiated pursuant to a winding up order, any courtproceeding against such licensed bank shall not becommenced, and all court proceedings pending against suchlicensed bank shall be stayed forthwith, with the leave ofthe court and subject to such terms as the court may impose.

(2) In pursuance of the winding up order, any creditorother than a secured creditor shall not have the right toexecute any of his personal right, title or interest against thelicensed bank subject to winding up or impose any otherrestraints on the assets thereof.

(3) All attachments placed, and acts of execution performedon the assets of the licensed bank subject to winding upafter the date of coming into effect of the winding up order,shall be void, except for realization of assets encumbered bya mortgage or lien, to the extent of the debt secured by suchassets.

(4) Any interest or other charge shall not accrue onliabilities of a licensed bank on or after the date of cominginto effect of the winding up order.

74. (1) The liquidator shall, in consultation with theCentral Bank, and after giving notice to the licensed banksubject to winding up, make an application to the courtrequesting that any act, including but not limited to, any actof such licensed bank that has been carried out within theperiod of ninety days before the date of coming into effectof the winding up order, be declared null and void.

Liquidator toapply to courtfor an order tonullify certainacts

Prohibition inregard to courtproceedingsagainst licensedbank subject towinding up

75Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) The court may upon receipt of an application undersubsection (1), and on being heard the parties named in suchapplication, if satisfied, that such licensed bank and suchparties involved in such act have had the knowledge orshould have known at the time of carrying out of such actthat it is likely to damage the interests of depositors or othercreditors of such licensed bank, declare that any act,including but not limited to, any transaction of the licensedbank subject to winding up that has been carried out withinthe period of ninety days before the date of coming intoeffect of the winding up order, to be null and void.

(3) The knowledge referred to in subsection (2) shall bepresumed whenever such act consists of

(a)a gift or other transfer to any person withoutconsideration;

(b)a payment of money, or transfer of assets or anyother interest of the licensed bank, a shareholder,director, an Administrator, a key managementpersonnel or an employee of the licensed bank,unless such licensed bank, shareholder, director,Administrator, key management personnel or theemployee proves to the satisfaction of the court,taking into account the views of the Central Bank,that-

(i) such person engaged in the payment ofmoney or transfer of assets or interests of thelicensed bank as a bona fide counterparty;

(ii) such person had reasonable grounds tobelieve that the payment of money ortransfer of assets or interests of the licensedbank as the case may be, is genuine basedon the representations made by the licensedbank in that respect; and

76Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(iii) such person was not aware that the paymentof money or the transfer of assets or interestsof the licensed bank would have damagedthe interests of the depositors and creditorsof such licensed bank;

(c)a payment or transfer made prior to its due date, orthe transfer of collateral for a debt prior to the dateon which such debt becomes payable;

(d)the conclusion or performance of a contractimposing obligations on the licensed bank that aresignificantly more onerous than the obligationsimposed on the other party or parties to the contract;

(e)an arrangement between the licensed bank and oneor more other persons, other than a financialcontract, permitting setting off rights andobligations of the licensed bank, prior to theissuance of the winding up order;

(f)an inter-bank transfer between a bank incorporatedoutside Sri Lanka, which has been issued a licenceunder the Banking Act and the head office of thatbank, its branches or subsidiaries which have beenestablished outside Sri Lanka; or

(g)a transfer between the licensed bank and its relatedparties.

75. The liquidator shall, as soon as practicable, take stepsto

(a)cease and terminate all functions discharged by thelicensed bank in a fiduciary capacity;

Termination offiduciaryfunctions

77Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(b)return all funds and other property held by thelicensed bank in a fiduciary capacity, or underbailment, or as bailor of a safe deposit box, to thepersons or their legal heirs or representatives whoare legally entitled to the ownership of such fundsor property, as the case may be; and

(c)settle the fiduciary accounts of the licensed bank.

76. (1) Within a period of six months from the date of thewinding up order, the liquidator may, with the approval ofthe court and subject to the issuance of a ninety days priorwritten notice, and the provisions of any other law for thetime being in force, terminate -

(a)any contract of employment entered into with thelicensed bank;

(b)any contract for services to which the licensed bankis a party; or

(c)any obligations of the licensed bank including, butwithout limiting to, its obligations, if any-

(i) under any credit facility provided by thelicensed bank;

(ii) as a lessee;

(iii) to deliver or to take delivery of securities,payment instruments or foreign currency;

(iv) under letters of credit; or

(v) under guarantees, options and othercontingent liabilities.

Termination ofexistingcontracts

78Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) A lessor who has received a ninety days prior noticeof the termination of a lease under paragraph (c) ofsubsection (1), shall have no claim for rent other than therent accrued on the date of termination of the lease, nor fordamages by reason of such termination.

(3) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the court togrant approval under subsection (1) may appeal to theSupreme Court against such decision, within forty-five daysfrom the date of the notice issued under that subsection andthe provisions of the High Court of the Provinces (SpecialProvisions) Act, No.10 of 1996 shall, mutatis mutandis, applyto and in respect of such appeal.

77. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrarycontained in the provisions of this Act or any other writtenlaw for the time being in force-

(a)any irrevocable money or securities transfer orderthat has been entered by a licensed bank into apayment or securities settlement system recognizedas such by the Central Bank shall be legallyenforceable and binding on third parties, despitethe issuing of a winding up order against thelicensed bank, provided that such transfer order hasbecome irrevocable before the winding up ordertakes effect; or

(b)where a licensed bank enters any irrevocable moneyor securities transfer order into a payment orsecurities settlement system after the winding uporder issued against the licensed bank takes effect,and such transfer order is carried out on the day ofcoming into effect of the winding up order, suchtransfer order shall be legally enforceable andbinding on any third party.

Finality inpayment,clearing andsettlementsystems

79Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) Any written law for the time being in force on thesetting aside of contracts and transactions entered into ormade before the coming into effect of the winding up order,shall not have effect on unwinding of a netting by a paymentor settlement system recognized by the Central Bank.

(3) For the purposes of this section

(a)a transfer order entered into a payments or securitiessettlement system becomes irrevocable at the timedefined by the laws, regulations or rules applicableto that system; and

(b)"netting" means the conversion into one net claimor one net obligation of all claims or obligationsresulting from transfer orders, which a participantor participants in a settlement system either issueto, or receive from, one or more other participantsin that system with the result that only a net claimor a net obligation remains.

78. (1) Within one month from the date of taking chargeof the assets, books, records and other information in anyform under subsection (3) of section 69, the liquidator shallsubmit to the Central Bank an interim report containing allassets, claims, contracts, and major transactions of thelicensed bank subject to winding up.

(2) It shall be lawful for any officer authorized by theCentral Bank to submit to the liquidator such informationon the assets and liabilities of the licensed bank subject towinding up, available in the custody of such authoriszedofficer, which may be required to recognize assets andliabilities of such licensed bank.

(3) Within two months from the date of the interim reportreferred to in subsection (1), the liquidator shall submit tothe Central Bank a final report of

Reports to besubmitted byliquidator

80Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(a)all the assets of the licensed bank, including claimsof the licensed bank on account of unpaidsubscriptions of share capital of the licensed bank,loan and guarantee agreements and agreements ofpurchase or sale, together with the book values andestimated liquidation values of such assets;

(b)major transactions entered into by the licensed bankduring the period of ninety days immediatelypreceding the date of the winding up order;

(c)the contracts pursuant to which any property of thelicensed bank is or will be held by other parties,including sales, rent, lease and such other collateralagreements; and

(d)the contracts pursuant to which the licensed bankreceives services from third parties.

(4) Within fourteen days from the submission of the finalreport under subsection (3), the Central Bank may grantapproval to, or further develop the same, in consultationwith the liquidator.

(5) The liquidator shall tender to the court a certified copyof the final report approved by the Central bank undersubsection (4).

(6) The liquidator shall update the report tendered to thecourt under subsection (5) periodically as may be requiredby the Central Bank and submit the same to the CentralBank. The provisions of subsections (4) and (5) shall mutatismutandis apply to such updated report.

79. (1) Any claim on a licensed Bank subject to windingup shall be made to the liquidator in writing, within fourmonths from the date of winding up order.

Registration ofclaims

81Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) Any claim under subsection (1) shall accompany thedocumentary evidence in relation to such claim, includingthe following information at a minimum: -

(a)the name and address of the creditor;

(b)nature of the claim, including the amounts ofinterest and other charges, penalties and taxesincluded in the principal amount of the claim; and

(c)details concerning any mortgage, lien or guaranteesecuring the claim, including the name and addressof any guarantor.

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5) of section80, the liquidator shall register each such claim made to himunder subsection (1) and issue a receipt in such form as maybe specified by the Central Bank in proof of such registration.

(4) The receipt referred to in subsection (3), shall be primafacie evidence of the registration of a claim.

(5) Anything contained in this section shall not apply toany claim submitted by a depositor in respect of a depositrecorded in the books or records of a licensed bank subjectto winding up, and such claim shall be admitted for theamount so recorded, for the purpose of giving effect to thewinding up order.

80. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (4) and(5), only the claims that are registered with the liquidatorshall be considered by the liquidator for the purpose of givingeffect to winding up proceedings of a licensed bank, withoutfurther evidence to that effect.

Admission orrejection ofclaims

82Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) Any creditor of the licensed bank whose claim issecured by a mortgage or lien, may register such claim for anamount exceeding the expected value of the underlying assetwhich may be sold at a public auction or the market value asmay be determined by an independent professional valuerpossessing such qualifications and experience referred to insubsection (1) of section 16.

(3) Any claim registered under the provisions of subsection(2), shall only be admitted by the liquidator after the publicauction has taken place.

(4) Any claim of which the value is uncertain, may beadmitted by the liquidator for a value as determined by theliquidator in consultation with an independent professionalvaluer possessing such qualifications and experience referredto in subsection (1) of section 16.

(5) The liquidator shall, after examining each claimregistered under subsection (3) of section 79, classify suchclaims as-

(a)claims admitted by the liquidator; and

(b)claims rejected by the liquidator.

(6) The liquidator shall, for the purpose of recording theclaims classified under subsection (5), maintain two separatelists. In the case of claims classified as claims rejected underparagraph (b) of subsection (5), the liquidator shall record insuch list the reasons for classifying such claims as rejectedclaims.

(7) In both of the lists referred to in subsection (6)-

(a)the name and address, the amount of the claim, andwhether the claim is secured by collateral shall bespecified in respect of each claimant; and

83Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(b)claims of equal ranking shall be listed together, inthe order of their priority of payment.

(8) Both of the lists referred to in subsection (6) shall becompleted and submitted to the court, within a period ofthirty working days from the deadline specified for theregistration of claims.

(9) The liquidator shall, after submitting the first set oflists as referred to in subsection (6), update such reportsperiodically and submit the updated lists to the court atsuch times as may be specified by the court.

(10) The liquidator shall notify every claimant whoseclaim has been classified as rejected under subsection (5)the fact of such rejection in writing, within a period of onemonth from the date of issuance of the receipt undersubsection (3) of section 79.

81. (1) Any claimant who is aggrieved by the rejection ofa claim under the provisions of section 80 may, within aperiod of one month from the date of receipt of thenotification under subsection (10) of section 80, apply tothe court for an order for the admission of such claim.

(2) The court may, after considering the application madeunder subsection (1), make order admitting or rejecting suchclaim.

(3) Any claim admitted by the court under subsection (2),shall be removed from the list of rejected claims referred toin subsection (6) of section 80, and be recorded in a separatelist of admitted claims to be maintained jointly by the courtand the liquidator.

Appeals againstrejected claims

84Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(4) Any payment shall not be made by the liquidator onaccount of claims that are rejected by the court.

(5) Any claimant whose claim has been rejected by thecourt, may appeal to the Supreme Court against such decisionwithin forty-five days from the date of such decision and theprovisions of the High Court of the Provinces (SpecialProvisions) Act, No.10 of 1996 relating to appeals shall,mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of such appeal.

82. Subject to the provisions of section 84, the liquidatormay, with the concurrence of the Central Bank and with theapproval of the court, dispose of all or part of any assets,liabilities, legal rights and obligations or any property ofthe licensed bank after the commencement of winding upunder this Part of this Act.

83. (1) Anything contained in the provisions of this Actand any decision taken thereunder shall not prevent orprohibit the setting off, by operation of the law, of obligationsbetween a licensed bank subject to winding up and itscontractual counterparties.

(2) In determining the rights and obligations between alicensed bank subject to winding up and its contractualcounterparties, close-out netting and set off provisionscontained in financial contracts between such licensed bankand the respective contractual counterparties shall be takeninto consideration.

(3) The net termination value determined in accordancewith a financial contract between the licensed bank subjectto winding up and the respective contractual counterparty,shall be a claim of such licensed bank on the counterparty,or shall be admitted after its registration as a claim of thecounterparty on the licensed bank under the provisions ofsection 79.

Disposal ofassets, liabilities,or shares, &c ina winding up

Setting off andnetting

85Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(4) For the purposes of this section, "net termination value"means the net amount obtained after setting off the mutualobligations between the parties to a financial contract inaccordance with the terms and conditions thereof.

(5) The Central Bank shall specify the matters pertainingto setting off and netting including financial contracts, byissuing directions, from time to time.

84. (1) All assets of a licensed bank subject to windingup, other than assets securing approved claims of securedcreditors against such licensed bank, and all assets securingclaims of such licensed bank shall be sold by the liquidatorin a commercially reasonable manner.

(2) The assets including collaterals, shall be deemed tohave been sold in a commercially reasonable manner asreferred to in subsection (1), when such assets are disposedof as follows: -

(a)when securities, foreign currencies and other assetsthat can be readily sold are sold at market price inthe markets where they are traded; and

(b)when such assets are sold at public auction:

Provided however, if the liquidator determinesthat a reasonable price cannot be obtained for theassets in a public auction, the liquidator shall seekthe approval of the court to sell the assets privately.

(3) The assets of a licensed bank subject to winding upother than the assets referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection(2), shall be placed at the disposal of the liquidator, promptlyupon a request of the liquidator.

Sale of assets inwinding up

86Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(4) Any dispute between the liquidator and a securedcreditor as to the value of an asset securing a claim shall beresolved by the Central Bank, unless the asset is sold atmarket value as may be determined by an independentprofessional valuer possessing such qualifications andexperience referred to in subsection (1) of section 16, or atpublic auction, as the case may be, in which event the saleprice at market value or at public auction shall be conclusiveas to the value of the asset.

85. (1) The liquidator shall distribute the assets of alicensed bank subject to winding up in accordance with thepriority of claims specified in subsection (2).

(2) The assets of a licensed bank subject to winding upshall be distributed in the following order of priority: -

(a) all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by theliquidator on account of the administration of theinsolvency;

(b)unpaid premium due to the Deposit Insurance Fund;

(c)insured deposits and claims of the Deposit InsuranceFund arising from subrogation of the rights ofinsured depositors under section 45 as a result ofcompensation or resolution financing providedunder subsection (3) of section 51;

(d) deposits over the insured limit determined by theCentral Bank under section 44;

(e)salaries and wages of officers and other employeesof the licensed bank, as accrued to the date of thewinding up order made under subsection (6) ofsection 67;

Priority ofclaims for thedistribution ofassets in windingup

87Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(f)sums owed to the Government for the financing ofresolution under this Act;

(g)taxes, rates, and deposits owed to the Governmentand local authorities by the licensed bank whichwere due over a period of not more than one yearpreceding the date of the winding up order madeunder subsection (6) of section 67;

(h) industrial court awards and any other statutory duespayable to, or on account of, any officer or otheremployee of the licensed bank;

(i)liabilities of the licensed bank on account ofresolution and any other liabilities due and owingto the Central Bank and the Deposit Insurance Fund;

(j)claims of unsecured creditors other than depositors;

(k)any other claim not paid under paragraphs (a) to (j)of this subsection.

86. (1) The payment of claims to depositors or othercreditors of a licensed bank subject to winding up, shall bemade only for amounts listed in a distribution scheduleapproved by the Central Bank.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the liquidator shallprepare a distribution schedule of payments to be made todepositors and other creditors of the licensed bank subjectto winding up, consisting of claims admitted under sections80 and 81, and submit the same for approval of the CentralBank.

(3) Each distribution schedule of payments shall rankand combine the payments to be made on approved claimsaccording to their priority of payment as specified in theprovisions of section 85, only if-

Distributionschedule ofpayments inwinding up

88Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(a)all payments due on approved claims of a higherpriority ranking than the claims to be included,have been made in full under an earlier distributionschedule of payments, or can be made in full underthis distribution schedule of payments; and

(b)sufficient funds have been reserved to pay in full ofall claims that have a higher priority ranking thanthe claims to be included and that are not yetapproved and to ensure equal treatment of the claimsthat have a priority ranking equal to the ranking ofthe claims to be included and that are not yetapproved.

(4) If the funds available are insufficient to settle all claimsof a certain priority ranking in full, the funds shall bedistributed prorata among payments on those claims, andany funds shall not be allocated to payments on claims of alower priority ranking unless such payment can be made infull on the first mentioned claims.

(5) Immediately after the approval by the Central Bank,of a distribution schedule of payments submitted undersubsection (2), the liquidator shall publish once a week forthree consecutive weeks, a notice, at least in three Sinhala,Tamil, and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka,containing information of the date when, and place where,the persons entitled to approved claims can receive thepayments, or any such other manner in which the entitledpersons can receive the payments listed in that distributionschedule.

(6) Any amount included in the distribution schedulewhich is not paid owing to the inability to identify or contactthe relevant depositors and creditors shall be deposited in aspecial account maintained for that purpose in the CentralBank.

89Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(7) Any funds deposited under subsection (6), which isnot claimed by the owner within a period of ten years afterthe date of the final distribution to the depositors or creditorsof the licensed bank under this section, shall be deemed tobe abandoned property under the Banking Act.

(8) After all the disputed claims have been either approvedor rejected by the court and all possible payments onapproved claims have been made, and all amounts that couldnot be paid have been deposited under subsection (6), anyremaining net proceeds of the winding up shall be

(a)distributed among all shareholders of the licensedbank subject to winding up pro rata to the nominalvalue of their respective share holdings, subjectonly to preferences among classes of shareholders;

(b)paid to the Government where the licensed banksubject to winding up is a public corporation; or

(c)paid to a head office of the licensed bank subject towinding up, incorporated outside Sri Lanka.

87. (1) The winding up proceedings may be commencedagainst a licensed bank incorporated or established outsideSri Lanka -

(a)if such licensed bank wishes to close down itsbusiness in Sri Lanka with the prior written approvalof the Central Bank, subject to such terms andconditions as the Central Bank may specify;

(b)if any of the grounds listed in section 66 applies tosuch licensed bank as if it were a separate legalperson; or

Winding upproceedingsconcerning alicensed bankincorporated orestablishedoutside SriLanka

90Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(c)on the petition by the Central Bank, if the windingup proceedings have commenced against thelicensed bank in the country in which such licensedbank is incorporated or established or where suchlicensed bank principally carries on its business.

(2) The provisions of this Part of this Act relating to thewinding up of a licensed bank shall apply to the winding upof a licensed bank incorporated or established outsideSri Lanka, as they apply to a licensed bank incorporated inSri Lanka.

(3) All assets, liabilities, acts and omissions of the licensedbank subject to winding up incorporated or establishedoutside Sri Lanka resulting from, or otherwise relating to,the business carried out by such licensed bank in Sri Lankashall be attributed to that licensed bank when applying theprovisions of this section.

(4) The liquidator shall be authorized to take all actionswith respect to such licensed bank as could be taken, as ifsuch licensed bank was a licensed bank incorporated inSri Lanka.

(5) At the time when the order of the court to commencewinding up proceedings against a licensed bank incorporatedor established outside Sri Lanka is served, such licensedbank shall cease all its activities carried out in Sri Lanka,except for permissible activities carried out by it with theprior written approval of the liquidator.

(6) In the application of the provisions of this Part of thisAct in winding up proceedings against a licensed bankincorporated or established outside Sri Lanka, only theprovisions of section 83 shall apply to the setting off andnetting of obligations resulting from, or otherwise relatingto, the business of such licensed bank in Sri Lanka.

91Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(7) The liquidator shall take all measures necessary toensure that no assets owned by the licensed bank subject towinding up incorporated or established outside Sri Lanka,are removed from Sri Lanka until all obligations andliabilities incurred by such licensed bank, to which theundertaking given by such licensed bank to the Central Bankat the time of obtaining the licence to carry on bankingbusiness under the Banking Act, have been met inaccordance with such undertaking.

88. (1) Upon completion of the winding up, the liquidatorshall prepare and submit to the court for its approval, anaudited statement of accounts and a report of winding up ofthe licensed bank, together with an opinion of an externalauditor.

(2) The audit referred to in subsection (1) shall beconducted by an external auditor appointed by the CentralBank in consultation with the Auditor- General.

(3) The external auditor shall be paid a remuneration outof the assets of the licensed bank.

(4) The external auditors opinion referred to insubsection (1) shall state-

(a)whether the statement of accounts of the liquidatoris true and fair and has been properly drawn up;

(b)whether the statement of accounts of the liquidatorexhibits a true and correct statement of the dealingsof the liquidator with the assets of the licensedbank;

(c)where such external auditor has called for anyexplanation or information from the liquidator,whether the explanation or information providedby the liquidator is satisfactory; and

Termination ofwinding upproceedings andrevocation oflicence

92Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(d)whether the liquidator has acted in accordance withthe directions given by the Central Bank.

(5) The court may approve the audited statement ofaccounts and the report of winding up and direct theliquidator to deposit the books and records of the licensedbank and other documents relating to the winding up in aplace as the court may deem appropriate.

(6) Upon the receipt of the approval under subsection(5), the liquidator shall publish a notice of such approval forthe information of the public at least in three Sinhala, Tamil,and English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.

(7) (a) Upon the publication of the notice of approvalunder subsection (6), if such notice relates to a companyregistered under the provisions of the Companies Act, theliquidator shall inform the Registrar-General of Companiesto strike-off the name of the company from the registermaintained by the Registrar-General of Companies underthe provisions of the Companies Act.

(b) Thereupon, the Registrar-General of Companies shallstrike off the name of such company from the register andpublish a notice to that effect in at least three Sinhala, Tamiland English daily newspapers circulating in Sri Lanka.

(8) From the date of publication of a notice striking offthe name of a company under subsection (7), the proceedingsof winding up against the licensed bank shall terminate, andthe company shall stand dissolved.

(9) The approval by the court of the audited statement ofaccounts and the report of winding up discharges and relievesthe liquidator from any liability in connection with thewinding up of the licensed bank.

93Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(10) The dissolution of a company under subsection (8)shall not affect the liability under this Act or any other writtenlaw of any director, chief executive officer, other officer orowner of the company, and such liability shall continue andmay be enforced as if the company had not been dissolved.

89. (1) Every person, being a director or an officer of alicensed bank subject to winding up, whether present orpast, who-

(a)fails to disclose to the liquidator, to the best of hisknowledge and belief, information relating to allthe movable and immovable property of suchlicensed bank, including how, to whom and for whatconsideration such property or part thereof havebeen disposed of, except such property or part ashas been disposed of in the ordinary course of thebusiness of the licensed bank;

(b)fails to deliver up to the liquidator, or as theliquidator directs

(i) all the movable and immovable property ofsuch licensed bank in the custody of suchdirector or officer, or under the control ofsuch director or officer; or

(ii) all the books, records, registers anddocuments belonging to such licensedbank, in the custody of such director orofficer, or under the control of such directoror officer;

(c)within twelve months immediately preceding thecommencement of the winding up of such licensedbank, or at any time thereafter

Offences bydirectors orofficers of thelicensed bank

94Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(i) has concealed any part of the property ofthe licensed bank to the value of rupees tenthousand or more, or has concealed any debtdue to, or due from, such licensed bank;

(ii) has fraudulently removed any part of theproperty of such licensed bank to the valueof rupees ten thousand or more;

(iii) has concealed, destroyed, mutilated orfalsified, or has been privy to theconcealment, destruction, mutilation orfalsification of, any book, register, recordor document affecting or relating to theproperty or affairs of such licensed bank;

(iv) has made or has been privy to the making ofany false entry in any book, register, record,or document affecting or relating to theproperty or affairs of such licensed bank;

(v) has fraudulently parted with, altered, ormade any omission in, or has been privy tofraudulent parting with, altering or makingany omission in, any book, register, recordor document affecting or relating to theproperty or affairs of such licensed bank;

(vi) by any false representation or other fraud,has obtained any property for, or on behalfof, the licensed bank on credit which suchlicensed bank has not subsequently paid for;

(vii) has obtained on credit, for or on behalf ofsuch licensed bank, under the false pretensethat the licensed bank is carrying on itsbusiness, any property which such licensedbank has not subsequently paid for; or

95Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(viii) has pawned, pledged or disposed of anyproperty of such licensed bank which hasbeen obtained on credit and has not beenpaid for, unless such pawning, pledging ordisposing was in the ordinary course of thebusiness of the licensed bank;

(d)makes any material omission in any statementrelating to the affairs of such licensed bank;

(e) knowing or having reasons to believe that a falsedebt has been proved by any person, fails for aperiod of one month to inform the liquidator ofsuch fact;

(f)prevents the production of any book, register, recordor document affecting or relating to the property oraffairs of such licensed bank;

(g)within twelve months immediately preceding thecommencement of the winding up, or at any timethereafter, has attempted to account for any part ofthe property of such licensed bank by fictitiouslosses or expenses; or

(h)within twelve months immediately preceding thecommencement of the winding up or at any timethereafter, has been found to have made any falserepresentation or committed or involved in thecommission of any other fraudulent activity for thepurpose of obtaining the consent of the creditors ofthe licensed bank or any one of them to anagreement with reference to the affairs of thelicensed bank or to the winding up,

commits an offence under this Act.

(2) Where any person pawns, pledges or disposes of anyproperty in circumstances which amount to an offence undersubsection (1), every person who takes in pawns or pledge,

96Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

or otherwise receives the property knowing it to be pawned,pledged, or disposed of in those circumstances, commits anoffence under this Act.

(3) Every director, officer, employee, or servant of anylicensed bank subject to winding up who destroys, mutilates,alters, or falsifies any book, register, record, document orsecurity, or makes or is privy to the making of any false orfraudulent entry in any book, register, record, document oraccount belonging to the licensed bank with intent to defraudor deceive any person, commits an offence under this Act.

90. Where a person convicted of an offence under thisAct is a body corporate, every person who, at the time of thecommission of the offence was a director, or an officerperforming executive functions, or secretary of the bodycorporate, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unlesssuch director, officer or secretary proves to the satisfactionof the court that the offence was committed without hisknowledge or such director, officer or secretary exercised alldue diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

91. Every person who is found guilty of an offence byreason of the contravention of, or failure to comply with,any regulation, rule, order or direction or requirement madeor issued under this Act, shall, on conviction after summarytrial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceedingfive million rupees or to imprisonment of either descriptionfor a term not exceeding three years, or to both such fine andimprisonment.

92. Without prejudice to any other provisions of this Actor any other written law, the Central Bank may issuedirections to a licensed bank regarding the manner in whichany aspect of resolution of such licensed bank shall beconducted.

Offences bybody corporates

Penalties

Central Bank toissue directionson any aspectsof its resolutionauthority

97Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

93. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

"abandoned property" means the property as definedin Part IX of the Banking Act and dormantdeposits as specified in section 23 of the FinanceBusiness Act;

"Bank of Ceylon Ordinance" means the Bank of CeylonOrdinance (Chapter 397);

"Banking Act" means the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

"bridge bank" means an institution established by theCentral Bank to take over and continue operationsof certain critical functions and viable operationsor to transfer shares, any one or more of the assets,liabilities, legal rights and obligations or otherproperty instruments owned or issued by a licensedbank subject to resolution, which, in the opinion ofthe Central Bank, is having systemic importance orimpact;

"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Sri Lankaestablished by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act,No. 16 of 2023;

"close-out netting" means a contractual provision,including a provision in a collateral arrangement,or, in the absence of any such provision, anystatutory rule, on the basis of which, upon theoccurrence of a predefined event in relation to aparty to the contract, the obligations owed by theparties to the contract to each other that are coveredby the provision, whether or not they are at thattime due and payable, are automatically or at theelection of one of the parties to be immediatelydue, reduced to or replaced by a single netobligation, whether by way of novation,

Interpretation

98Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

termination, set-off or otherwise, representing theaggregate value of the combined obligations, whichis thereupon due and payable by one party to theother;.

"Companies Act" means the Companies Act, No. 07 of2007;

"court" means the High Court established under Article154P of the Constitution for a Province, empoweredwith civil jurisdiction by Order published in theGazette under section 2 of the High Court of theProvinces (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 1996,within the Province for which such High Court isestablished, or where any such High Court vestedwith such civil jurisdiction is not established forany Province, the High Court established for theWestern Province;

"crisis times" means a period of time in which the financialsystem is unable to perform its key functionsincluding intermediation of financial funds,management of risks, and settling of paymentsefficiently, and non-crisis times shall be construedaccordingly;

"critical functions" means activities performed by alicensed bank for and on behalf of third parties otherthan the licensed bank, where the failure to performany such activities would lead to a disruption ofbanking services which are essential for thefunctioning of the real economy or for ensuringfinancial system stability, due to the size or themarket share of such licensed bank, external andinternal interconnectedness, complexity or cross-border activities of such licensed bank;

"critical shared services" means activities performed by alicensed bank itself or outsourced to be performedby any third party service provider, where the failure

99Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

to perform any such activities would lead to aninability on the part of the licensed bank to performcritical functions and, thereby disrupting serviceswhich are essential for the functioning of the realeconomy or for ensuring financial system stability;

"extraordinary public financial support" means infusionof capital for a licensed bank having a systemicimportance or impact, through funds other than thefunds of the Central Bank;

"Finance Business Act" means the Finance Business Act,No. 42 of 2011;

"financial sector" means a subsector of the economy whichcomprises institutions that manage funds on behalfof customers, either corporate or retail, or providefinancial intermediary services to transfer andallocate funds in an economy;

"Housing Development Finance Corporation Bank of SriLanka Act" means the Housing DevelopmentFinance Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 7of 1997;

"insolvency" means a situation where the liabilities of alicensed bank are higher than the assets of suchlicensed bank as reflected in its balance sheet;

"insured deposits" means all eligible deposits, subject tothe maximum compensation payable to a depositorunder section 44;

"insured depositors" means holders of eligible deposits,subject to the maximum compensation payable toa depositor under section 44;

international financial institutions includes the AsianDevelopment Bank, the International Bank forReconstruction and Development, the InternationalDevelopment Association, the InternationalMonetary Fund or similar institutions;

100Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

"key management personnel" means the employees of alicensed bank who are primarily responsible for theoverall management and operation of such licensedbank, including the heads of the functions of credit,finance, treasury, operations, compliance, audit, riskmanagement, company secretariat, informationtechnology, information security and such otherfunction as may be determined by the Central Bank,from time to time;

"licensed bank" means a commercial bank or a specialisedbank licensed by the Monetary Board of the CentralBank under the Banking Act, and includes a branchof a foreign bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka;

"licensed exchange" means an exchange, licensed underthe provisions of the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No.19 of 2021;

"Minister" means the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance in terms of Article 44 or 45 of theConstitution;

"Monetary Board" means the Monetary Board establishedby the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422);

"National Savings Bank Act" means the National SavingsBank Act, No. 30 of 1971;

"netting" means determination of net claims orobligations after setting-off or adjusting all theclaims or obligations based on or arising frommutual dealings between the parties to a contract;

"non-bank financial institutions" means financecompanies licensed by the Monetary Board underthe Finance Business Act;

101Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

"Peoples Bank Act" means the Peoples Bank Act, No.29 of 1961;

"Pradeshiya Sanwardhana Bank Act" means thePradeshiya Sanwardhana Bank Act, No. 41 of 2008;

"recovery plan" means a plan which provides for measuresto be taken by a licensed bank in the event of adeterioration of its financial position prior to theCentral Bank taking resolution action on suchlicensed bank;

"Registrar-General of Companies" means the Registrar-General of Companies or other officer performingthe duty of registration of companies under theCompanies Act;

"resolution" means, restructuring of a licensed bank bythe Central Bank through the exercise of resolutionpowers of the Central Bank in order to safeguardthe public interest, including the continuity of thecritical functions of such licensed bank, securingfinancial stability and ensuring minimal costs totaxpayers;

"resolution plan" means a plan designed by the CentralBank for each licensed bank having systemicimportance or impact, in accordance with theinternational standards and best practices availablefor resolution of banks;

"State Mortgage and Investment Bank Law" means theState Mortgage and Investment Bank Law, No. 13of 1975;

"subordinated debt holder" means a holder of debt havinga claim against the issuers assets which are of lowerranking, or junior to all other obligations of alicensed bank and is paid after claims of holders ofsenior securities are paid;

102Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

"temporary financial assistance" means the financialassistance to contribute to the funding of theresolution of a licensed bank, or to a bridge bankby the Government for a temporary period;

"wind-down" means gradually reducing or closing downof business; and

"write-down" means reducing the value of an asset tooffset a loss or an expense.

94. The officers of the Central Bank and the Administratorappointed under section 18, shall not be liable for anydamage, or act or omission done pursuant to and in the courseof the exercise, performance and discharge of the powers,duties and functions under this Act, unless it has been provedthat such damage, act or omission has been done withoutgood faith or has constituted intentional wrongfulmisconduct or willful default.

95. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and(3), any person aggrieved by a decision of the Central Bankincluding the decision under subsection (1) of section 13,any regulation, order, rule, direction, or any determinationissued, request made or requirement imposed by the CentralBank under this Act, or who apprehends that he would beaffected by any such decision, regulation, order, rule,direction, determination, request or requirement imposed orproposed to be taken, as the case may be, shall not be entitledto a permanent or interim injunction, an enjoining order, astay order or any other order having the effect of staying,restraining, or impeding the Central Bank from giving effectto such order.

Protection fromaction

Provisions forappeals

103Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(2) (a) The jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appealby Article 140 of the Constitution shall, in relation to adecision, regulation, order, rule, direction, determination,request or requirement referred to in subsection (1), beexercised by the Supreme Court and not by the Court ofAppeal.

(b) Every application invoking the jurisdiction referredto in paragraph (a) shall be made within one month of thedate of commission of the act in respect of which or in relationto which such application is made and the Supreme Courtshall hear and finally dispose of such application withintwo months of the filing of such application.

(3) Nothing contained in subsection (1) shall affect thepowers which the Supreme Court may otherwise lawfullyexercise in respect of any application made under Article126 of the Constitution or in the exercise of the jurisdictionreferred to in subsection (2).

(4) No application under paragraph (b) of subsection (2)shall be made without giving seven days prior notice to theCentral Bank of such application.

96. (1) In the event of any inconsistency between theprovisions of this Act and any other written law for the timebeing in force, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

(2) Nothing contained in the provisions of the Bank ofCeylon Ordinance, the Peoples Bank Act, the NationalSavings Bank Act, the State Mortgage and Investment BankAct, the Housing Development Finance Corporation Bankof Sri lanka Act, the Pradeshiya Sanwardhana Bank Act orany other Statute under which a state-owned commercialbank or a specialised bank will be established, shall beconstrued as a waiver or restriction of the resolution authorityof the Central Bank under this Act.

This Act toprevail overother writtenlaws

104Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

97. (1) The Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance and LiquiditySupport Scheme established by the Monetary Board byvirtue of the regulations issued under the Monetary Law Actand subsisting on the day immediately preceding theappointed date shall, with effect from the appointed date, bedeemed to be the Deposit Insurance Scheme of the CentralBank under this Act.

(2) The Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance and LiquiditySupport Fund established by the Monetary Board by virtueof the regulations issued under the Monetary Law Act andsubsisting on the day immediately preceding the appointeddate shall, with effect from the appointed date, be deemed tobe the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Central Bank underthis Act.

(3) The amount lying to the credit of the Sri Lanka DepositInsurance and Liquidity Support Fund established by theMonetary Board by virtue of the regulations issued underthe Monetary Law Act and subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall, with effect from theappointed date, be deemed to be the amount lying to thecredit of the Deposit Insurance Fund under this Act.

(4) All rights, obligations, assets, properties, liabilities,powers, privileges and authorities attributed to the Sri LankaDeposit Insurance and Liquidity Support Scheme establishedby the Monetary Board by virtue of the regulations issuedunder the Monetary Law Act, and interests arising in or outof such rights, assets, properties and such liabilities of thesaid Scheme and subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date, shall, with effect from theappointed date, be deemed to be rights, obligations, assets,properties, liabilities, powers, privileges, authorities andinterests of the Deposit Insurance Scheme under this Act.

Savings

105Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(5)(a)all premia or additional premia collected frommember institutions;

(b)all penalties imposed on member institutions;

(c)all payments of compensation paid and to bepaid to depositors of member institutionswhose licences have been cancelled by theMonetary Board;

(d)all the secured loans or advances granted toany member institutions and any recoverythereof, and all collaterals pledged againstsuch loans or advances, as the case may be;

(e)all the investments made and any returnreceived thereon;

(f)all or any books, accounts and records relatingor appertaining to, any other propertymaintained; and

(g)all or part of the taxes, duties, levies or anyother charges of similar nature paid,

by the Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance and Liquidity SupportScheme established by the Monetary Board by virtue of theregulations issued under the Monetary Law Act, subsistingon the day immediately preceding the appointed date shall,with effect from the appointed date, be deemed to be premiaor additional premia collected, penalties imposed, paymentof compensation paid or to be paid, secured loans oradvances granted, and collaterals pledged, investments madeand returns received, books, accounts and recordsmaintained, and taxes, duties, levies or charges paid by theDeposit Insurance Scheme under this Act.

106Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

(6) With effect from the appointed date, every referenceto the Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance and Liquidity SupportScheme established by the Monetary Board under theMonetary Law Act in any regulation, notification, contract,instrument, record, share certificate, document, deed, bond,agreement, guarantee, power of attorney, grant of legalrepresentation and other instruments of whatever nature shallbe deemed to be a reference to the Sri Lanka Deposit InsuranceScheme under this Act to give effect to the provisions thereof.

(7) Any agreement, memorandum of understanding orcontract entered into by the Monetary Board with any otherregulatory, supervisory or state authority, whether in oroutside Sri Lanka, in respect of the exercise of resolutionauthority and cross-border cooperation and subsisting onthe day immediately preceding the appointed date shall,with effect from the appointed date, be deemed to be anagreement, memorandum of understanding or contractentered into by the Central Bank under this Act.

(8) Notwithstanding the operation of this Act, anyresolution measure or early intervention measure taken bythe Monetary Board or any other officer of the Central Bankauthorized in that behalf by the Monetary Board under theMonetary Law Act, the Banking Act or the Finance BusinessAct, as the case may be, and continuing on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date shall be deemedto be a resolution measure or an early intervention measuretaken under this Act and shall be continued under the saidActs for such period as the Monetary Board may determine.

98. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala Act shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

107Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

SCHEDULE

1. Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988.

2. Finance Business Act, No. 42 of 2011.

3. Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007.

4. Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka

Act, No. 19 of 2021.

[section 6]

108Banking (Special Provisions)Act, No. 17 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.