ak
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
PARTITION (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 17 OF 1997 .
[Certified on 12th August, 1997]
Printed on the Order of Government
is
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 15, 1997
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
"TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 16.80 Postage : Rs. 4.60


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 1
. [Certified on 12th August, 1997}
LD.—O. 66/95,
‘AN ACT 70 AMEND THE PARTITION LAW,
No. 21 oF 1977
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Partition (Amendment) Shortie.
Act, No. 17 of 1997.

2. Section 2 of the Partition Law, No. 21 of 197 (herein- Amendment of
after referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby Section? of Act
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution N°! °f 1977.
for the words “any one or more of them may”, of the words
“any one ormore of them, whether or nothis or their ownership
is subject to any life interest in any other person, may”.

3. Section4 ofthe principal enact mentishereby amended Amendment of
as follows — section 4 ofthe

Principal
‘enactment
(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)
thereof ;
(2) by the addition, at the end of that section of the
following subsection :-—
““(2) There shall be appended to every plaint
Presented to a court for the purpose of instituting a
Pattition action, a memorandum substantially in
i the form setout in the Second Schedule to this Law,
‘nominating in accordance with section 81, aperson
to be the legal representative of the plaintiff for the
purposes of the action, in the event of his death
pending the final determination of the action.”.

4. Section 6 of the principal enactmentis hereby amended Amendment
in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for the word of section 6
“duplicate”, of the words ‘triplicate and marked “original”, fate val
“duplicate”, and “triplicate”, respectively’. enactment.
2—D 042317—13,550 (96/11) |


2 Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997
preperaad bs in 5. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
enactment and the following new section substituted therefor :-—
ferent 8. (1) Where the plaint in a partition action,
pline is accepted, the court shall forthwith —

(@) cause to be inserted in each copy of the
application for the registration of the
action as a lis pendens, a reference to
the number assigned by the court to the
action ;

(b) cause to be transmitted forthwith, and in
any vent not later than two weeks from
the date of acceptance of the plaint, the
application in triplicate to the Registrar

. of Lands of each Land Registry in which
the action is to be registered as a lis
pendens ; 5

(c) fix a date, being a date not later than
seven weeks from the date of accept-
ance of the plaint, for the return of the
registered lis pendens, by the Registrar
of Lands :,

Provided that the Court ‘may, if in its
opinion the circumstances of the case
sorequire, extend the date for the return
. of the lis pendens after registration ;
TAT @ fix a date being a date not later than
seven weeks from the date of accept-
ance of the plaint, on or before which
E the plaintiff shall deposit in Court such
estimated costs of the preliminary sur-
mode vey of.the land to which the action—
relates as may be determined by Court.
In estimating the costs of such preliminary survey, the
court shalll have regard to such rates as may be prescribed by
regulations”,


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 3
6. Section 11 of the principal enactmentishereby amended Amendment of
by the substitution, for all the words from “duplicate” to the section it athe
end of that section, of the following :— Lene
“triplicate of the application duly endorsed
. inthe manner prescribed by the Registration of
~ ” Documents Ordinance on or before the date
fixed by the court for the return of such trip-
licate, and shall cause a copy thereof to be sent
by registered post to the registered attorney of,
the plaintiff, or where thereisnosuch registered
attorney, to the plaintiff.”,
7. Section 12 ofthe principal enactmentisherebyamended Amendment
in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution for the 9 Seo"
word, “duplicate”, of the word “triplicate”. principal
8. Section 13oftheprincipalenactmentishereby amended Amendment,
as follows -— . "a Shite prnctpal
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and *™etnent.
the substitution therefor of the following :
subsection :—
“(1) Where the Court is satisfied that a partition
action has been registered as a lis pendens under the
Registration of Documents Ordinance, that the esti-
mated costs of the preliminary survey of the land to
which the action relates have been deposited in Court
and that the plaintiff in the action has complied with .
the provisions of section 12, the Court shall order that
such summonses, translations of summonses, copies
and translations of the plaint or the concise statements,
as the case may be, copies of the notices and copies of
. the translations of the notices filed in court under
paragraphs (b),(c), (d), (f) and (g) of subsection (2) of
section 12 be sent by registered post to the defendant .
. and the respective Grama Niladharis ; and that copies
of the notice filed under paragraph (f) of subsection (2)
of section 12, together with copies of translations
thereof be transmitted to the Fiscal for exhibition and
proclamation as provided for in subsection (3) of
section 15” ;


. 4 Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 197
ord (2) by the substitution, in subsection (3) thereof,
2 for all the words from “under subsection (2) of this
: section” to the end of that section, of the following :-—
“under subsection (2) of this section in such sum-
monses, translations of summonses, copies of the
notice and copies of the translations of the notice as
are filed in court under subsection (2) of section 12,
shall sign them and cause them to be sent by

registered post” ;

(3) in subsection (4) of that section, by the substi-
tution, for the words “summons issued for service on
that defendant”, of the words “summons sent by
registered post to that defendant.”

eg 9. Section 15 f the principal enactmentis hereby amended
pes as follows -—
principal : 4 alt
oral (1) in subsection (1) of that section-
(@) by the substitution, for the words “orders issue of
‘summons for service on the defendants” of the
words “orders the service of summons on the
defendants” ; and
(©) by the substitution, for the words “be transmitted to
. the Grama Niladhari” of the words “be sent by
registered post to the Grama Niladhari”. ;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution for
the words “are transmitted under” of the words “are sent *
by registered post under” ; and .
(3) in subsection (3) of that section by the substitution for
the words “transmitted to him to” of the words “trans-
‘mitted to him under subsection (1) of section 13 to”.
poral __ 10. Section 16 ofthe principal enactmentishereby amended
sti in subsection (1) of that section, as follows:—
nactment,


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 $=

(1) by the substitution for the words “Where the Court

orders the issue of summonses to the fiscal for service
on the defendants in a partition action”, of the words,
“Where the court orders the service of summonses on
the defendants in a partition action, ”.

(2) by the repeal of the proviso to that subsection, and the

substitution of the following proviso therefor :—  ,

“Provided that the court may on application made
by the Commissioner and for reasons to be recorded,
extend, from time to time, the date fixed in the Com-
mission for the return thereof, so however, that each
such extension shall not exceed sixty days.”.

11. Section 18 ofthe principal enactmentishereby amended Amendment
as follows -— oa
(1) in subsection (1) of that section — principal

(@)_ by the substitution, in paragraph (a) of — enactment.
that subsection, for the words “a report
substantially”, of the words “a report, in
duplicate, substantially” ; .

(b)~by the substitution, in paragraph (6) of
that subsection, for the words “a plan of,
the land surveyed”, of the words “a plan,
in duplicate, of the land surveyed”;

(2) in paragraph (b) of subsection (3) of that section, by the

substitution for the words “fresh field notes and the
fresh plan.” of the words “fresh field notes and the
fresh plan, in duplicate”. Wherever those words occur
in that subsection.

12. Section 19 oftheprincipalenactmentisherebyamended Amendment
in subsection (1) thereof by the addition, attheendofthatsub- of sion 19
section, of the following new paragraph :— fected

“@) every defendant in the action shall file or cause to be enactment.

filed, in Court, a memorandum, substantially in the
form set out in the Second Schedule to this Law, ‘
nominating in accordance with section 81, a person to
be his legal representative for the purposes of the
- “action, in the event of his death pending the final
determination of the action.”.
* 3 042317


_ 6 Partition (Amendment) Act No, 17 of 1997
Avenisnent: 13, Section 26 ofthe principal enactmentishereby amended
of the by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section, and the substi-
ae tution therefor of the following new subsection :—

“(3) Where by virtue of an order made under
subsection (1), a person is entitled to an undivided
extent of land which, by reason of its trivialness in
extent or value or of it being less than the minimum
extent required by any written law regulating the
subdivision of land for development purposes, the
court considers it inexpedient to allot to that person a
divided portion, the court may, in lieu of ordering the
allotmentof.adivided portion of the land to that person
andonthe paymenttothat person of such compensation
as may be determined by court, allot that extent to any
other person who is entitled to an undivided extent of
the land to which the action relates.”.

~ Amendment of 14, Section31 ofthe principal enactmentishereby amended
Section 31 of the as follows —
principaltenact-
ent. (1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1) of
that section ;
(2) by thie addition, at the end of that section, of the
following subsection -—

“(2) Where any divided portion or portions that
are to be allotted to any person under an interlocutory
decree are less than the minimum extent required by

2 written law regulating the subdivision of land for
development purposes, the surveyor shall, so farasis _
practicable, divide the land in such a manner as would

oa enable the allotment or sale of such portions as one
1ot.”,
‘Amendment of “15, Section32ofthe principal enactmentishereby amended
Thecprinciper i Subsection (1) thereof as follows -—
‘enactment.
(1) by the substitution, in paragraph (a) thereof, for the
words “prepared by him”, of the words “prepared by
him, in duplicate”,


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 7
(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (c) thereof for all the .
words from “reportexplaining” to“the dates on which”,
of the words “report, in duplicate, explaining the -
manner in which the land had been partitioned stating
the names of the parties, the nature and extent of their
respective shares and interests and where any such
extentis less than the minimum extent required by any
written law relating to sub-division of land for devel-
‘opment purposes, a statement to that effect, the dates
‘on which” ;
(3) by the repeal of paragraph (d) of that subsection and the
substitution therefor of the following new paragraph :-
“(@) the appraised value of each lot and of any
improvements thereon and where the Court has di-
rected the Commissioner to allot portions of land
together as one lot under section 26, the appraised
valuation of portions considered as one lot, and any
improvements thereon and the details of the computa-
tion of such value ; and”.
4) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (e).of that
subsection of the following new subsection :—
“() a certificate to the effect that the plan of
partition is in conformity with written law relating to
the subdivision of land for development purposes” ;
and
(5) by the substitution for the words “report, appraisement
and summary”, of the words “report, appraisement,
summary and certificate”.
16. Section 3Softheprincipalenactmentishereby amended — Amendment
by the substitution for the words “the courtshall fixadatefor” of the
Of the words, “the court shall call the case in open court and Principal
shall fix a date, for”.
17. Section 36 of the principal enactment is hereby re- Replacement
ealed and the following section substituted therefor :— _otseetion 36
“Final decree 36. (1) On the date fixed under section 35, principal
‘of partition. or on any later date which the Court may fix for enactment.
the purpose, the Court may, after summary
inquiry -—


8 Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997
@ confirm with or without modification the
scheme of partition proposed by the
surveyor and enter final decree of parti-
: tion accordingly ;

(©) orderthe sale of any lot, in accordance with
the provisions of this Law, at the ap-
praised value of such lot given by the
Surveyor under section 32, where the
Commissioner has reported toCourtunder
section 32 that the extent of such lot isless
than the minimum extent required by
written law relating to the subdivision of
land for development purposes and shall
enter final decree of partition subject to

, such alterations as may be rendered nee-
‘i essary by reason of such order of sale.
(2) The provisions of sections 41, 42,43,44,

45, 45a, 46, 47 and 48(2) shall, mutatis

‘mutandis, apply to a sale ordered under para-

graph (b) of subsection (1).”.

hese! 18. The following section is hereby inserted immediately
36a in the after section 36 and shall have effect as section 36a of the
Las aay _ Principal enactment :—

“Appeal 36a. Any person dissatisfied with an order
ofthe Court made under section 36, may prefer
an appeal against such order to the Court of
Appeal, with the leave of the Court of Appeal
first had and obtained”.

ets ie 19. The following section is hereby inserted immediately
Se after section 45, and shall have effect as section 45 of the
principal principal enactment :-—

| enactment,

“Appeal. 45a. (1)’Any person dissatisfied with an
order of the Count made under section 45 may
preferan appeal against such order tothe Court
of Appeal, with the leave of the Court of
Appeal first had and obtained.


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 9

(2) The provisions of Chapter LVIII of the

Civil Procedure Code relating to applications

for leave to appeal shall, mutatis mutandis,

apply to applications forleave to appeal against
orders made under sections 36a and 454”".

20. Section 46 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the substitution for the words “Law, infavourof section 46. of
the purchaser” of the words “ Law, in favour of the purchaser {Principal
and shall order the issue of a certified copy of such certificate 7
to the purchaser.”,

21. Section 48 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended in subsection (4) of that section as follows:— section 48 OF

the principal

(1) by the repeal of subparagraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of . enactment.

that subsection ; and

(2) by the substitution, for all the words from “guardian ad

litem of such party or the heirs or the executor to “as
the case may be, is received by court”, of the follow-
ing :-—
~ “guardian ad litem of such party may, on or before
the date fixed for the consideration of the scheme of :
partition under section 35 or at any time not later than
thirty days after the return of the person responsible
for the sale under section 42 is received by court,”.

22, Section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution section 49 of
for the words “interlocutory decree entered in the action, may ‘he Principal
by separate action recover”, of the words, “interlocutory “™"™™
decree entered in the action, may, by separate action instituted
not later than five years from the date of the final decree in the
Partition action, recover”. .

23. The following section is inserted immediately after Insertion of
section 52 and shall have effect as section 52a of the principal 55% #0"
enactment :-— principal
“Restoration 52a. (1) Any person— emeinent

res (@) who has been declared entitled to ‘
~" any land by any final decree en-
tered under this Law ; ot


10 Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997
(6) who has purchased any land at any sale
held under this Law and in whose favour
certificate of sale in respect of the land
‘so purchased has been entered by Court;

or

(©) who has derived title from a person re-
ferredtoin paragraph (a), or paragraph(b),
and whose possession has been, or is inter-
fered with or who has been dispossessed, shall,
if such interference or dispossession occurs
within ten years of the date of the final decree
of partition or the entering of the certificate of
sale, as the case may be, be entitled to make
f application , in the same action, by way of
Petition for restoration of possession, within
twelve months of the date of such interference

or dispossession, as the case may be.

(2) The person against whom the applica-
tion for restoration of possession is made, shall
be made the respondent to the application.

(3) The Court shall, after due inquiry into
the matter, make order for delivery of posses-
sion or otherwise as the justice of the case may
require :

Provided that, no order for delivery of pos-
session of the land shall be made where the
respondent is a person who derives his title to
the land in dispute or part thereof directly from
the final decree of partition or sale, or is &
person who has acquired title tosuch land from
person who has derived title to such land
under the final decree of partition or sale, oF
from the privies or heirs of such secdnd men-
tioned person.”,

fest of 24, Section 67 of the principal enactment is hereby
iene amended as follows :-—
Sm, (1) by the re-numbering of that section as subsection (1)
thereof ;
(2) intherenumbered subsection (1) of that section, by the
substitution—


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 11
(@) for the words “An appeal shall lie to”, of the words
“Subject to the provisions of sections 36 and 454,
an appeal shall lie to” ; and
(© for the words “Civil Procedure Code shall apply”,
of the words “Civil Procedure Code shall, subject,
tothe succeeding provisions of this section, apply”;
and
(3) by the addition immediately after subsection (1)°
._ thereof, of the following new subsections :-—
““(2) Where an appeal has been preferred against
any judgment, decree or order, made or entered in any
court ina partition action, thecourtshall forward to the
Court of Appeal, all papers and proceedings relevant
to the judgment, decree or order appealed against,
retaining a copy of the judgment, decree or order
appealed against and the duplicate of the plan and
Teport transmitted to court under section 32.
(3) Where an appeal has been preferred against
any judgment, decree or order made or entered by any
court in any partition action, such court may, on
application made by way of petition and affidavit in
that behalf, make such orders, pending the determina-
tion of the appeal, as may be necessary to prevent any
waste, or damage to the land in respect of which such
action was instituted. Any such Order may be given
effect to in the manner provided for in section 53.”.
25. Section 69 of the principal enactment is hereby — {Veetion 9
amended as follows :— of the
principal
(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) _enactmept.
of that section, for the words, “made a party to the
action, or,” of the words, “made a party to the action,
after issuing to such person, a notice, substantially in
the Form set out in the Second Schedule to this Law,
requiring him to make an application to be added as a
Party to the action on or before the date specified in the
notice, and upon such person making such an
application or” ;


12 Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997

(2) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (1)
thereof, of the following new subsection :—

“(1A) Any person who applies to be added as a
party under the provisions of subsection (1) of this
section, shall file, along with his application, a
memorandum substantially in the Form set out in the
Second Schedule to this Law nominating in accord-
ance with the provisions of section 81, a person to be
his legal representative for the purposes of the parti-
tion action in the event of his death pending the final
determination of the action.” ;

(3) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that section for
the words “up to the time of substitution.”, of the
words, “up to the time of substitution. The purchaser
shall, along with his application to be substituted, file
amemorandum, substantially in the form set outin the
‘Second Schedule to this Law, nominating in accord-
ance with the provisions of section 81, a person to be
his legal representative for the purposes of the parti-

3 tion action in the event of his death pending the final
determination of the action.”;

(4) by the substitution, in subsection (3) of that section, for
the words “institution of the action” of the words,
“institution of the action. An intervenient under this
subsection shall, with his application to intervene, file
memorandum substantially in the form set out in the
Second Schedule to this Law nominating, in accord
ance with the provisions of section 81, a person to be
his legal representative for the purposes of the parti-
tion action in the event of his death pending the final
determination of the action.”;

(5) by the addition immediately after subsection (3) of that
section, of the following subsections :—

“(4) It shall be lawful for the court to order any
person applying to be added as a party under subsec-
tion (1), to give security for costs or prepay costs if the
court is of opinion that such applicant has been guilty
of unreasonable delay in presenting his claim or for
other good and sufficient cause,


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 199713
(5) In determining the quantum of the costs to be
ordered under this section, the court shall take into
consideration, any delay on the part of the applicant,
the stage at which the action is, any expenditure
"caused unreasonably to the parties and any other
matter that the court may consider relevant,
‘(© Where ‘any person referred to in this section
Who is ordered to give security for costs or prepay
costs, fails to give such security or make prepayment *
of costs, within the time allowed therefor by court, the
court may reject his application.”.

26. Section 70oftheprincipalenactmentishereby amended Amendment of
as follows :— section 70-0f

the principal

(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1) enactment.

@ thereof ;
(2) by the addition, at the end of that section, of the
following new subsection -— :
“(2) Any party in a partition action or any person
claiming an interest in the land in respect of which
such action has been instituted, may, if no steps have .
been taken to prosecute the action for aperiod of two _
years, apply, by way of motion to court, to have such
action dismissed, and the court may dismiss the action
if it is satisfied that dismissal is justified in all the
circumstances of the case. ;
(3) Where the court dismisses an action under this
section, it shall cause a copy of the order of dismissal s
of the action to be registered at the Land Registry in the
+ <9 folio in which the lis pendens in the action was reg-
istered, or the continuation thereof.”.

27. Section 81 of-the principal enactment, is hereby re-  Replacementof
Pealed and the following section substituted therefor -— pgs
“Memoran- “81. (1) Every party to a partition action or enactment.
dom any other person required to file a memoran- P
Tot tn» dum under this Law, (hereinafter referred toas
representative, “the nominator”) shall file, or cause to be

- filed in court, amemorandum, substantially in :
4—D 042317


14 Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997
* the form set out in the Second Schedule to this
Law, nominating at least one person, and not
more than three persons, in order of prefer-
ence, to be his legal representative for the
purposes of the action in the event of his death
pending the final determination of the action.

(2) (@) One of such nominees shall, in the
order of preference in which their names are
set out in the memorandum, be deemed to be
the legal representative of the nominator for
the purposes of the action, on the death of such
nominator.

(b)Inthe event of the death or incapacity of
any of the nominees whose names are set out
inthe memorandum, the person nextnominated
inorder of preference shall be deemed to be the
legal representative for the purposes of the
action, in the event of the death of the nomi-
nator.

(©) The person or persons so nominated
shall subscribe his or their signatures to the
memorandum signifying consent to be so ap-
pointed as legal representative. The signatures
of the nominator and those of the nominee or
nominees so consenting to be appointed shall
be witnessed by an Attorney-at-Law or Justice
of the Peace or a Commissioner of Oaths :

Provided however, that failure to file such
‘memorandum shall not by such failure alone
render the plaint, statement of claim, or ap-
plication to be added as a party defective or,
notwithstanding anything in section 7, be @
cause or ground for rejecting such plaint, state-
‘mentof claim or any application to be added as
aparty.

‘ (3) The court may at any time before the
final determination of thé action, on its awn
motion or on the application of any party.


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 15
require a party to the action or any person
required to file a memorandum under the pro-
visions of this Law, to file such memorandum
on or before a date appointed for such purpose
by court,

(4) A nominee may, at any time prior to the
death of the nominator apply, with notice to
the nominator, to court by way of motion to
withdraw his consent to be such nominee and
in such event the court shall make order that he
‘ceases to be the nominee of the nominator and
shall cause the name of such nominee to be
struck off. the memorandum filed by the
nominator.

(5) A nominator may, subject to the provi-
sions of subsection (1) of this section, at any
time before the final determination of the ac-
tion make application, with notice to the
nominees, to tender a fresh memorandum
nominating one or more nominees. On the
filing of such new memorandum, the previous
memorandum of such nominator shall stand
revoked and the nomination contained in such
fresh memorandum shall forthwith take effect.

(6) On the death of a nominator, the person
first nominated in the memorandum filed by
the nominator in order of preference, shall be
deemed to be the legal representative of such
nominator for the purposes of the action from

“the time of his death,

(7) A nominee deemed to be the legal
representative of g deceased nominator shall
be entitled to take'all such steps for the pur-
poses of the action as the deceased nominator
would have been entitled to take had he been
alive.

(8) (a) A nominee shall not decline toact as
the legal representative of the deceased nomi-

=. Rator. He may however with the leave of the


16 Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997
Court first had and obtained; by way of peti-
tion and after notice to the other nominees if
any, of such nominator, apply for permission
_ from court to be released from the office of
egal representative of such nominator.

(b) In the event of the court granting such
permission, the nominee who is next in order
of preference in the memorandum filed by the
nominator shall be deemed to be the legal
representative of such deceased nominator,

*” for the purposes of the action.

(©) Where an application under paragraph
@) of this subsection is made by a nominee
‘who was the sole nominee or sole remaining
nominee ‘of a deceased nominator, such
nominee shall notice the heirs of such de-
ceased nominator regarding his application

: and in the event of the court granting permis-
sion as aforesaid, such court shall appoint @
g ‘Consenting heir of such deceased nominatorto -

actas the legal representative of such deceased

nominator for the purposes of the action.
< (9) Notwithstanding that a party or person
has failed to file a memorandum under the
provisions of this section, and that there has
been no appointment of a legal representative
to represent the estate of such deceased party
Ef or person, any judgment or decree entered in
the action or any order made, partition or sale
effected or thing done in the action shall be
+, a, deemed to be valid and effective and in con-
*  formity with the provisions of this Law and
shall bind the legal heirs and representatives
of such deceased party or person. Such
sant failure to file a memorandum shall also not be
ground for invalidating the proceedings in

; +, such action,

(10) (a) On the death of a party or person
Sous» Who had failed to file a memorandum as re-
quired by this section, any party or person may


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 17
apply to court by an exparte application, re-
questing thata person be appointed as the legal
Tepresentative of such deceased party or per-
son and the court may, on being satisfied after
inquiry that such appointment is necessary,
appoint suitable person to be the legal repre-
sentative of such deceased party or person for ;
the purposes of the action. Such legal repre-
sentative shall be bound by the proceedings
had up to the time of such appointment.

(b) Such application and appointment shall

not be a ground for the postponement of the
trial or proceedings :

Provided that the court may, in its discre-
tion, after recording reasons therefor and on
the prepayment of costs, allow a postponement
of the trial if in the opinion of court it is in the
interests of justice to do so.

(©) In ordering pre-payment of costs the
court shall take into account the date of insti-
tution of the action and the dates on which trial
was held prior to such application and the stage
at which the action is and any other matters
which the court considers relevant. s

(11) @ An heir of a deceased nominator
may, at any time after the death of such
nominator, apply to court to have the legal
representative of such deceased nominator
removed and to have another person named in
such application or the person next named in

- order of preference in the memorandum filed
by the deceased nominator, appointed as such
legal representative, The person who for the
time being is the legal representative of the
deceased nominator shall be made a respond-
ent to such application.

() The court may, upon being satisfied that
it is in the interests of the heirs of the deceased


18 Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997
. nominator to do so, remove such legal repre-
sentative and appoint the person next namedin
order of preference in the memorandum filed
: by the deceased nominator or if there are
sufficient grounds for doing so, appoint the
person named in the application, as the legal
representative of the deceased nominator.

(©) An application under this section shall
be by way of petition and affidavit and the
court may in its discretion, issue notice of the
application to the other heirs, if any, of the
deceased nominator.

(12) No proceeding under this Law shall
be postponed or adjourned nor any step in the
action postponed by reason of the death of a
Party or person required to filea memorandum

. under this Law.
(13) An application under subsections (4),
(5),(8)(a), (10) or (11) shall not bea ground for
. the postponement of the trial. The court may
_ however granta postponementon the payment
of costs by the person making the application,
if it is of the opinion that it is in the interests
of justice to allow such postponement.

(14) For the purposes of this section “legal
representative” means,a person who represents
the estate of a deceased party or person, for the
purposes of the action, by virtue of a nomi-
nation, or of an appointment by-court under
this section.”,

nesdmen of 28. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment is
Schedule of hereby amended as follows :—»

principal z

pniia (1) by the substitution, in the form prescribed under

section 12 (2) entitled “FORM OF SUMMONS", for

the words “postage by registered post”, of the words

- . “postage by registered post. You are also hereby


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 19
required to file on or before that date (whether you are
filing a statement of claim or not), a memorandum
substantially in the form set out in the Second Sched-
ule to the Partition Law, nominating in accordance
with section 81 of that Law, a person to be your legal
epresentative for the purposes of the action in the
event of your death pending the final determination of
the action” ;

(2) by the substitution, in the Form prescribed under
section 12(2) entitled "FORM OF NOTICE”, for the
words “on or before the .......daY OF ....0.19..."\0F
the words “on or before the ...... da OF vsssse+- 19..
You are hereby also required to file on or before that
date (whether you are filing a statement of claim or
‘not)amemorandum substantially in the form setoutin
the Second Schedule tothe Partition Law, nominating,
in accordance with section 81 of that Law, a person to
be your legal representative for the purposes of the
action in the event of your death pending the final
determination of the action”;

(3) by the ‘substitution, in the form prescribed under
section 12(2) entitled “FORM OF PRECEPT TO
FISCAL”, forall the words, from “serve forthwith” to
“executed this precept” ofthe following paragraph :—

“exhibit forthwith the notice sent herewith and
cause to be proclaimed, the contents thereof, in the
‘manner provided in subsection (3) of section 15 of the
Partition Law and certify to this court on or before the
AY ve ccsssssssssssees OF sossss 19.-cees in What manner
you have executed this precept.” ;

(4) by the substitution, in thé Form prescribed under
section 16 entitled “COMMISSION FOR PRELIMI-
NARY SURVEY”, forall the words from “submit the
same” to “deposited in court against your fees”, of the
following :-—

. “Submit the same, in duplicate, to this court with
your report, substantially in the prescribed Form and
in duplicate, and a true copy of your field notes on or
before the .esogeese day Of vrreesssseereseees esses


20 Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997
You are further required to serve the copy of the -
notice referred to in subsection (3) of section 16 on
any person (not being a party to the action) or his
agent who at the time of the survey may prefer any
claim to the land.

Asumof Rs. ......... is deposited in court against your

fees.”.

N.B.—Extensions of the date fixed herein will be
given only on application made by you, giving
Teasons why you require such extension.” ;

(5) by the substitution, in the form prescribed under
section 20 entitled, “FORM OF NOTICE", for
the words, “requirements of section 19.” of the
following -—

“tequirements of section 19, You are also
hereby required to file on or before the ... day

: Of eesecssee 19... (Whether you are filing a
statement of claim or not), a memorandum,
substantially in the form set out in the Second
Schedule to the Partition Law, nominating in
accordance with the provisions of section 81
of that Law, a person to be your legal repre-
sentative for the purposes of the action in the
eventof your death pending the final determi-
nation of the action.” ;

(6) in the form entitled “COMMISSIONER'S RE-
TURN TO COURT” prescribed under section
32
.  @ by the repeal of paragraph (vi) thereof,

i and the substitution therefor of the
following paragraph -—

“(vi)manner of partition, names of

parties and nature and extent of

their respective shares and inter-

Sts. (here state the number of lots


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 © 21
, into which the land has been parti-
tioned and the number of lots allot-
ted together as one lot if any, and
refer to Partition Plan with number
and date, Schedules of
Appraisement, and Summary of
Distribution, and state whether
there are any lots which do not
conform to the requirements of
any written law relating to sub-
"division of land for development
purposes” ; m
(b) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (vii)
thereof, of the following paragraph :—
“(viii) the appraised value of any lots considered.
as one lot.” ; and
(©) by the addition, afier item 5 thereof of the
following —
“6. I certify that the said plan, is in conformity
- + with written law relating to subdivision of
. land for development purposes”.

N.B.—If there are any exceptions to this certificate, for
example, if any lot depicted in the plan is not in
conformity with any written law relating to the sub-
division of land for development purposes, particu-
lars thereof should be set out as an exception to the
certificate ; :

(7) by the addition, at the end of that Schedule of the
following new forms :—

“FORM OF NOTICE UNDER SECTION 69(1)(A)
5 [section 69(1)(A) }
In the District Court of .....ssssssssssssenes
Action NO.sss.sssscssseessees ‘
A. Boosssssssesssseeeee Plaintiff:
Vs, é
OB... sesscsnrsezie .
Annd others,.....sssssssesssseeeeeeeeeee Defendants


22 Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997
i» You are hereby notified that Action No. ...... has been
instituted in the District Court of ............000.tnder the
Partition Law for the partition/sale of the land/lands
alled....2..sssses+ss+sesess. and situated in the village/villages
OF eeeidieceeceeceeeceeo@ INE. ocsesessesee District,

The court is of the opinion that you should be, or should
have been made a party to the action.

If you claim any interest in the land/lands you are hereby
required to apply by motion in writing on or
DefOre.ssessseeeseessAy Ofseseesessseeesseee|QooeesereeeestO DE
added as a party to the aforesaid action, and you are also
hereby required to file your statement of claim if any, and to
comply with the requirements of section 19. You are also
hereby required to file on or before the ...... day Of ..-.sse+
19...... (Whether you file a statement of claim or not) a
memorandum substantially in the Form set out in the Second
Schedule to the Partition Law, nominating in accordance with
section 81 of that Law, a person to be your legal representative
for the purposes of the action in the event of your death
pending the. final determination of the action.

You are also hereby required, if you are added as a party to
the aforesaid action by the Court, to take notice of the day
appointed by Court on or before which, youare required to file
your statement of claim, if any, and to comply with the
Tequirements of section 19.

Signed......:-c+eevesees
Registrar.

The day Of ......scsssesssseseet

FORM OF MEMORANDUM NOMINATING LEGAL

REPRESENTATIVE
(section 81)
In the District Court Of....ssssssssesessssessvelebasdesneerneesteee
Action NOwsnnnsntnnnnne z
Vs.
sesteiseesccssssssesses Defendant and others


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 23
Tyesecsssseseceseesessesseseeeeesee(the Plaintiff/Defendant/
Claimant before thesurveyor/Disclosed Party/Party. Added
by CourtParty seeking to be added/substituted) hereby nomi-
nate :

Preference No. 1 sesessessiesssseessvesbenessntee

as my legal representative for the purpose of the action in the
event of my death before the final determination of this action
and I hereby further request that they be appointed in the order
of the preference given above as my legal representative for
the purposes of the action in the event of my death as
aforesaid.

Ve TyeceesecccssssssseeeeteessOfecgessnsseesesssseeee ONSEN

to the above appointment.

Signature.
TeiskestatbiadetestéseceesObassestioesstediteoesn DOING
an Attorney-at-law/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner
of Oaths certify that the above named person havingread
over and understood the contents of this memorandum
towhom the contents of this memorandum wereread and
explained by me/ placed his signature in my presence -
Ala cessssseeestsnstesteesseegeeececsseeeesOf this: day of
sersinrieeDsesteceseen

Signature.
‘\ Atorney-at-law/Justice of the Peace Commissioner
of Oaths
consent to the above appointment.
: ‘Signature.


uw Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997
SUpsseeesseesneesseesieteOfvsscseeessesseeeseeesbeing an Attorney
at-law/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths cer-
tify that the above named person having read over and
understood the contents of this memorandum/to whom
the contents of this memorandum were read and ex-
plained by me/ placed his signature in my presence
Alesesseseccesseeee OM URIS ossee GBY Of. cvsseeeees Qeeneee
Signature.
Attorney-at-Law/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths
B.lhecescssssceeciseseeseesOfessesneseseseess@onsentto the above
appointment. .
: Signature.
Ty cessecssbeessseeesnOfecsseeessessseeeseeesbeing an Attorney-at-
Taw/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths ‘certify
that the above named person having read over and understood
the contents of this memorandum/to whom the contents of this
. memorandum were read and explained by me/ placed his
|” Signature in my presence at......scessseeeeee OM HMiSrsnne
© dAY OfsssssesssseelQovenee
. ee Signature.
Attorney-at-law/Justice of the Peace Commissioner of Oaths
Signature :...-ccssscesececeiseseveseese
(Plaintiff/DefendanvParty/ClaimanUNecessary Party/Added/
Substituted Party)


Partition (Amendment) Act No. 17 of 1997 25
ee ee
Attorey-at-law/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths
certify that the above named person having read over and
understood the contents of this memorandum/to whom the
contents of this memorandum were read and explained by me/
placed his signature in my presence At....ccecsssessses OM. 4
this. ree bAY OF seeeereeeedDecceee

Signature.
Attomey-at-law/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths.".

29. Every partition action, application or other matter Transitional
instituted and pending in any Court, on the dateofcommence- PO"sO™
ment of this Act, shall, so far as the circumstances permit, be
continued and proceeded with to final judgment and decree
under the provisions of the principal enact mentas amended by
this Act, (including the provisions requiring the filing of
‘memoranda nominating a legal representative by parties to the
action and others,) in the same manner and in every respect as
if the same had been originally instituted after the date of
commencement of this Act. . :

30. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala iahete wert bo ti
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. Pcaslaecy:
