PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 8.25Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 22, 2005

[Certified on 22nd July, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

TEA AND RUBBER ESTATES (CONTROL OFFRAGMENTATION) (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 20 OF 2005

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 20051

Short title.

2 PL 000288 5,650 (05/2005)

[Certified on 22nd July, 2005]

L. D. O. 28/2004

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TEA AND RUBBER ESTATES (CONTROL OFFRAGMENTATION) ACT, NO. 2 OF 1958

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Tea and Rubber Estates(Control of Fragmentation) (Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005.

2.The long title of the Tea and Rubber Estates (Controlof Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958 (hereinafter referred toas the principal enactment) is hereby amended by thesubstitution for the words Tea and Rubber Estates, of thewords Tea, Rubber and Coconut Estates.

3.(1) In the principal enactment and in any other writtenlaw, there shall be substituted

(a)for the words Tea and Rubber Estates (Control ofFragmentation) Act, of the words Tea, Rubber andCoconut Estates (Control of Fragmentation) Act;

(b)for the words Tea and Rubber Estates (Control ofFragmentation) Board, of the words Tea, Rubberand Coconut Estates (Control of Fragmentation)Board ; and

(c)for the words tea or rubber estate, of the wordstea, rubber or coconut estates.

(2) Every reference to Tea and Ruber Estates (Control ofFragmentation) Act and Tea and Rubber Estates (Controlof Fragmentation) Board in any notice, notification, contract,communication, form or other document shall be read andconstrued as a reference respectively to Tea, Rubber andCoconut Estates (Control of Fragmentation) Act and to Tea,Rubber and Coconut (Control of Fragmentation) Board.

Amendment ofthe long title ofAct, No. 2 of1958.

Tea and RubberEstates (ControlofFragmentation)Act and Teaand Rubber(Control ofFragmentation)Board to bereferred to asTea, Rubberand Coconut(Contorl ofFragmentation)Act and Tea,Rubber andCoconut(Control ofFragmentation)Boardrespectively.

2Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005

4.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the addition immediately after subsection (2) ofthat section of the following new subsection

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary inthe Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971, anestate of not less than one hundred hectares in extentor a small holding constituted by the division of acoconut estate into lots shall not be registered undersuch Act unless such division has been made inconsequence of a transfer of ownership or a partitionof such coconut estate with the prior consent of theBoard and accordance with the conditions, if any,subject to which such consent has been granted.

In this subsection small holding means anycoconut small holding registered or deemed to havebeen registered under the provisions of the CoconutDevelopment Act, No. 46 of 1971.; and

(2)in the marginal note to that section, by thesubstitution for the words and the Rubber ControlAct. of the words the Rubber Control Act and theCoconut Development Act..

5.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal ofparagraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of thatsubsection, and the substitution therefor, of thefollowing paragraphs :

(a)the Director-General of the RubberDevelopment Department ;

(b)the Director-General of the Department ofAgriculture ;

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 20053

(c)the Tea Commissioner appointed undersection 9 of the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law,No. 14 of 1975;

(d)the Chairman of the Coconut CultivationBoard established under section 2 of theCoconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971 ;

(e)the Chairman of the Urban DevelopmentAuthority nominated under section 4 of theUrban Development Law, No. 41 of 1978;

(f)the Chairman of the National HousingDevelopment Authority appointed undersection 3 of the National HousingDevelopment Authority Act, No. 17 of 1979;

(g)an officer of the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Plantation Industries,nominated by such Minister ;

(h)an officer of the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance, nominatedby the Secretary to that Ministry ; and

(i)three other persons appointed by the Minister(in this section referred to as appointedmembers) to represent the interest of tea,rubber and coconut plantations; and

(2)in subsections (3), (4) and (5) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words unofficial memberwherever those words appear in that section, of thewords appointed member..

6.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (a) of that sectionfor the words tea estate, and of the words teaestate ;;

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

4Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of that sectionfor the words a rubber estate, of the words a rubberestate, and ; and

(c)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b) ofthat section of the following new paragraph :

(c) with the concurrence of the CoconutCultivation Board established under section2 of the Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of1971, engage any officer of the CoconutCultivation Board for the purpose ofinvestigating or reporting on any matterconnected with any such application made tothe Board as relates to a coconut estate,.

7. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 12 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 12A and section 12B of thatenactment :12A. (1) There shall be established for thepurposes of this Act a Fund, consisting ofmoneys contributed to such Fund undersubsection (2) of this section, which shall beadministerd by the Board.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in the Rubber Control Act (Chapter436), Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971and the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of1975, the Rubber Controller, the CoconutDevelopment Authority and the Sri Lanka TeaBoard respectively, shall contribute annuallytowards the Fund established under subsection(1), such sum of money as shall be determinedfrom time to time by the Minister in consultationwith the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance.

Insertion of newsection 12A and12B in theprincipalenactment.Establishmentof a Fund.

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 20055

(3) The moneys lying to the credit of theFund shall be utilized for purpose of meetingall expenses incurred by the Board in thecarrying out of its duties under this Act,including the payment of remuneration to theappointed members of the Board.

12B. (1) The Board shall, in respect of eachcalendar year, cause proper books of accountsto be kept of the income and expenditure of theFund and cause annual statement of accountsto be prepared in such form and containing suchparticulars as may be prescribed.

(2) The accounts prepared by the Boardunder subsection (1) shall be submitted to theAuditor-General for purpose of audit, before thelapse of three months from the end of eachCalender year..

8.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1) in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (a) of thatsubsection for all the words from from themoneys of the Tea Control Fund to the end ofthat paragraph, of the words from the CapitalFund notwithstanding anything to the contraryin the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of 1975,;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of thatsubsection for the words Rubber Control Act,and, of the words Rubber Control Act;;

(c)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b)of that subsection, of the following newparagraph :

(bb)where such meeting, investigation orreport is concerned with an applicationmade to the Board relating solely to a

Audit ofAccounts ofthe Fund.

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

6Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005

Insertion of newsection 23A ofthe principalenactment.

coconut estate, be defrayed from themoneys of the Coconut DevelopmentAuthority notwithstanding anything tothe contrary in the CoconutDevelopment Act, No. 46 of 1971, and;

(d)by the substitution for paragraph (c) of thatsubsection, of the following paragraph :

(c)where such meeting, investigation orreport is concerned with an applicationmade to the Board relating jointly to atea, a rubber and a coconut estate orrelating partly to one and partly toanother of such estates, be defrayed fromthe moneys lying to the credit of theFund established by section 12A of thisAct., and.

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and thesubstitution therefor, of the following subsection :

(2)The emoluments of the Secretary and otherofficers and servants appointed by the Boardshall be paid out of the Fund established bysection 12A of this Act..

9.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 23 of the principal enactment, andshall have effect as section 23A of that enactment :

23A. (1) No officer of a local authority shallapprove a blocking out plan of any land whichis a tea estate, a rubber estate or a coconut estate,as the case may be, within the meaning of theAct, unless a certificate of consent under section14 of the Act has been issued by the Boardrelating to such estate.

(2) Any officer of a local authority who actsin contravention of the provisions of subsection(1), shall be guilty of an offence under this Act

Prohibitionof approvalof blockingout plans bycertainofficers oflocalauthoritieswithout acertificatefrom theBoard.

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 20057

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment.

and shall on conviction after summery trialbefore a Magistrate, be liable to a term ofimprisonment of not exceeding one year or afine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupeesor to both such imprisonment and fine.

(3) Any approval granted in respect of ablocking out plan in contravention ofsubsection (1) shall be null and void and shallhave no legal validity whatsoever..

10.Section 25 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(a)by the insertion immediately before the definitionof the expression partition action of the followingdefinitions :

coconut estate means a coconut estate of not lessthan four hectares in extent which, under theCoconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971, is or isdeemed to be an estate registered under that Act ;

local authority means any Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyauthority created and established by or under anylaw to exercise, perform and discharge powers,duties and functions corresponding to or similarto the powers, duties and functions exercised,performed and discharged by any such Council orSabha;;

(b)in the definition of the expression rubber estate,by the substitution for the words forty hectares, ofthe words twenty hectares ; and

(c)in the definition of the expression tea estate, bythe substitution for the words forty hectares, ofthe words twenty hectares.

8Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2005

Existing Boardto continue untilthe constitutionof new Board.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

12.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in theprincipal enactment, the members of the Tea and RubberEstates (Control of Fragmentation) Board holding officeimmediately prior to the date of commencement of this Act,shall continue to hold such office so long and so long onlyuntil the constitution of the Board under subsection (1) ofsection 10 of the principal enactment as amended by section5 of this Act.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Tea and Rubber Estates (Control of Fragmentation)(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 20059

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.