PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
_ SRI LANKA

SURCHARGE ON INCOME TAX
ACT, No. 6 OF 2001

[Certified on 11th April, 2001]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of April 12, 2001

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT CF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO !

Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50


Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 6 of 2001
[Certified on 11th April , 2001]

L.D.—O. 13/2001.

AN ACT TO IMPOSE A SURCHARGE ON EVERY COMPANY CHARGEABLE
WITH INCOME TAX FOR THE YEAR OF ASSESSMENT COMMENCING
ON AprIL 1, 2001 BY REFERENCE TO THE INCOME TAX PAYABLE
BY SUCH COMPANY FOR SUCH YEAR OF ASSESSMENT ; AND TO
PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows : —

1. This Act may be cited as the Surcharge on Income
Tax Act, No. 6 of 2001.

2. Every company which is chargeable with income tax
under the Inland Revenue Act, for the year of assessment
commencing on April 1, 2001 (hereinafter in this Act referred
to as “the relevant year”) shall, notwithstanding anything
contained in any other written law, be liable to pay a surcharge
on the income tax payable by the company for the relevant
year (hereinafter in this Act referred to as “the surcharge”),
calculated at the rate of twenty per centum of the income tax
payable by such company for the relevant year.

3. Every company, which is liable to pay the
surcharge under this Act, shall notwithstanding that no
assessment has been made on it, pay to the Commissioner-
General—

(a) asum of not less than fifty per ceiius, on or before
August 15, 2001 ; and

(b) asum equal to the balance, on or before November
15, 2001,

of the amount of the surcharge payable by it for the relevant
year. Each sum so payable shall hereinafter in this Act be
referred to as an “instalment”.

‘2—H 011627-5,550 (04/2001)

Short title.

Imposition of the
surcharge on
income tax
payable by
companies.

Dates for
payament of the
surcharge.


Surcharge in
default and sums
added thereto.

2

4.

Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 6 of 2001

(1) Where an instalment of the surcharge payable by

any company for the relevant year, or a part of such instalment
is not paid on or before the date, specified in section 3 for the
payment of that instalment, such instalment of the surcharge
or part thereof, shall be deemed to be in default and such
company shall be deemed to be a defaulter for the purposes
of this Act.

(2) Where any instalment of the surcharge or any part
thereof is in default, the defaulter shall, in addition to such
instalment or part thereof in default, pay as a penalty—

(a)

(b)

a sum equal to ten per centum of the amount in
default ; and

where the amount in default is not paid before the
expiry of thirty days after it has begun to be in default,
a further sum equal to two per centum of the amount
in default, in respect of each further period of thirty
days or part of such period during which it is in
default :

Provided that—

(a)

(b)

the total amount payable as a penalty under the
preceding provisions of this section, shall in no case
exceed fifty per centum of the amount in default ;

where any company which is liable to pay the
surcharge under this Act for the relevant year, pays—

(i) onor before August 15, 2001, as the instalment
payable by that company on or before that date,
a sum of not less than ten per centum ; and

(ii) on or before November 15, 2001, as the
instalment payable by that company on or
before that date, a sum of not less than ten
per centum,


Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 6 of 2001 3

of the income tax payable by it under the Inland
Revenue Act, for the year of assessment commencing
on April 1, 2000, such company shall not be liable
to any penalty under this section, if it pays, on or
before November 30, 2002 the excess of the amount
of the surcharge payable by it for that relevant year
over the aggregate of the sums paid by it as aforesaid;

(c) the Commissioner-General may reduce or waive any
penalty payable under this section, if it appears to
him that such reduction or waiver is just and equitable
in all the circumstances of the case.

5. The provisions of Chapter X{I and Chapter XVIII to
Chapier XX and Chapter XXII to Chapter XX VII of the Inland
Revenue Act, relating to the furnishing of returns relating to
income tax payable under that Act, assessment, appeals against
assessment, finality of assessment, recovery and repayment
of such tax and miscellaneous matters, penalties and offences,
administration and general matters relating to such tax, shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to the furnishing of returns relating
to the surcharge payable under this Act, assessment, appeals
against assessment, finality of assessment, recovery and
repayment of such surcharge and miscellaneous matters,
penalties and offences, administration and general matters
relating to such surcharge, subject to the following
modifications :—

(a) the requirement imposed by this Act, on any
company to furnish a return of the surcharge payable
by it under this Act, for the relevant year, shall be
deemed to have been sufficiently complied with if
such company furnishes a return of its income tax
for that year under subsection (1) or (2) of section
98 of the Inland Revenue Act ;

(b) where an assessor makes an assessment or an
additional assessment on any company, of the income
tax payable by such company under the Inland
Revenue Act for the relevant year, the assessor may,

Certain provisions
of the Inland
Revenue Act to
apply.


4

(c)

(d)

(e)

Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 6 of 2001

at the same time and in the same form, make an
assessment or additional assessment, as the case may
be, of the surcharge payable by such company for
that year under this Act. The assessments or
additional assessment, as the case may be, shall be
deemed to be separate assessments issued under the
respective Acts;

where notice of assessment is given to any
company under section 135 of the Inland Revenue
Act stating the amount of income tax charged on
such company under the Inland Revnue Act, for the
relevant year, such notice may also include the
amount of the surcharge charged on such company
under this Act, for that year. The notices shall be
deemed to be separate notices issued under the
respective Acts;

where an appeal is made against an assessment
of income tax payable by any company under the
Inland Revenue Act, for the relevant year, such
appeal shall be deemed to include an appeal against
the surcharge payable by that company under this
Act for that year, and shall be determined
accordingly; and

where under Chapter XXII of the Inland Revenue
Act, a certificate is issued to a Magistrate, or a notice,
statement or certificate is issued to any company,
such certificate issued to such Magistrate or such
notice, statement or certificate, issued to any
company as the case may be, may also include the
particulars of any amount of the surcharge in default
under this Act. Such certificate issued to such
Magistrate and such notice, statement or certificate,
issued to any company as the case may be, shall
be deemed to be separate certificates, notices,
statements or certificates issued under the respective
Acts.


Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 6 of 2001 5

6. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhlala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

7. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Assessor”, “Commissioner General”, “non-resident
company”, “resident Company” and “year of
assessment” have the respective meanings assigned
to them in the Inland Revenue Act;

“company” means any company incorporated or registered
under any law in force in Sri Lanka or elsewhere
and shall be deemed to include a public corporation;

“income tax” with reference to the relevant year and —

(i) in relation to a resident company, means the
income tax payable under the Inland Revenue
Act, by that company for the relevant year after
deducting therefrom, the aggregate of —

(a) any income tax payable by that company
for that year, under paragraph (b), (c) or
(d) of subsection (1) of section 53 of the
aforesaid Act ;

(b) any relief from income tax granted to
that company in terms of any agreement
referred to in section 92, or under section
93 of the aforesaid Act ; and

(ii) in relation to a non-resident company means
the income tax payable, under the Inland
Revenue Act, by that company for the relevant
year after deducting therefrom any income tax
payable by that company for that year, under
(sub-paragraph (i) or sub-paragraph (ii) of
paragraph (6) of subsection (1) of section 57
of the aforesaid Act;

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.


6 Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 6 of 2001

“Inland Revenue Act” means the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 38 of 2000; and

“public corporation” means any corporation, board or other
body, which was, or is established by, or under any
written law, other than the Companies Act, No. 17
of 1982, with capital wholly or partly provided by
the government, by way of grant, loan or other form.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SuPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PuBLicaTions Bureau, No. 32, TRANSwORKS House,
Lotus Roap,Cotomso 0! before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
