PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

REGISTRATION OF TITLE
ACT, No. 21 OF 1998

{Certified on 29th April, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Governnient

Published as a Supplement to Part IT of the Gazette of the F¥es rocratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of April 30, [998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRt LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 18.00 . Postage : Rs. 3.75


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998
[Certified on 29th April, 1998]

L.D.—O. 62/94,

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE INVESTIGATION AND
REGISTRATION OF TITLE TO A LAND PARCEL ; FOR THE
REGULATION OF TRANSACTIONS RELATING TO A LAND PARCEL SO
REGISTERED, AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

Be it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Registration of Title Act,
No. 21 of 1998 and shall apply to such Province,
Administrative District or Administrative Division as the
Minister may from time to time, by Order published in the
Gazette, specif'y as an area to which this Act shall apply.

PRELIMINARY

2. There shall be appointed a Commissioner of Title
Settlement who shall be responsible for the due performance
of the duties and functions assigned to him under this Act
and such number of Deputies and Assistants as may be
necessary.

3. (1) There shall be appointed a Registrar-General of
Title appointed for the purposes of this Act.

(2) The Registrar General of Title shall maintain Title
Registries in each district wherein such registers as shall be
prescribed by regulations for the purpose of registration of
litle to lands situated within any area specified in an Order
made under section | of this Act, and falling within such
districts shall be maintained.

(3) There shall be appointed a Registrar of Title to each
such Title Registry to function under the direction of the
Registrar-Gencral of Title.

I—D 038749—8,550 (95/12) .

Short title and date
of operation.

Commissioner of
Title Settlement.

Registrar General
of Title and Title
Registries.


Unit of record.

Mcthod of
fegistration.

All officers to be
public servants.

Conciliation
Boards.

Reference to
Conciliation
Boards.

Powers duties of
Conciliation
Boards.

2 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

4, The unit of record inaTitle Register maintained under
section 3 shall be a land parcel shown on the cadastral map.

5. Registration shail be effected by entering in the Title
Register, the prescribed particulars relating to Title to such
iand parcel.

6. All officers appointed for the purposes of this Act
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of
the Penal Code.

7. (1) There may be appointed by the Commissioner of
Title Settlement, a Conciliation Board for each Grama
Niladhari Division in any area specified in an Order under
section | of this Act.

(2) Each such Conciliation Board shall consist of—

(a) not less than three and not more than seven
members selected from amongst the land
holders resident within such Grama Niladhari
Division ; and ,

(6) the Grama Niladhari of each such Division.

(3) Each, such Board shall elect a Chairman and a
Secretary from among themselves.

8. The Commissioner of Title Settlement may refer any
dispute pertaining to any land parcel for settlement by the
Conciliation Board appointed for the area in which such land
is situate?

9. A Conciliation Board shall, on reference made to it
under section 8, assist any person having an interest in land
situated in the area for which such Board ts appointed, to
resolve any dispute pertaining thereto.


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 3

REGISTRATION OF TITLE
INITIAL COMPILATION

10. The registration of title to every tand parcel under Registration of title
this Act shall be in accordance with the cadastral map prepared
for that purpose.

11.

On the publication of an Order under section | of

this Act, the Commissioner of Title Settlement shall request
the Surveyor-General to prepare cadastral maps for the areas
specified in such Order and upon such request the Surveyor-
General shall cause such cadastral maps to be prepared and
certified copies of the same to be issued to the Commissioner
of Title Settlement.

12.

The Commissioner of Title Settlement shall, on

receipt of such certified copies of cadastrat maps publish a
Notice in the Gazette, calling for any claimants to the land
parcel specified in such Notice to submit their claims to him
within a prescribed period from the date of publication of
such Notice. ‘

13. The Commissioner of Title Settlement shall cause
an investigation to be conducted in order to determine the
genuinness or otherwise of claims made in response to a
Notice under section 12.

14. On the conclusion. of the investigation in terms of

section

13. the Commissioner of Title Settlement shall

publish in the Gazette, his determination thereon as
foliows :—

(a)

(6)

where the Commissioner of Title Settement is of the
view that a claimant to a land parcel has a title of
Absolute Ownership, he shall declare such claimant
eligible to be registered with a First Class Title of
Absolute Ownership ;

where the Commissioner of Title Settlement is of
the view that a claimant does not qualify for a First
Class Title of Absolute Ownership but the claimant
is in bona-fide possession of the land parcel, he may
declare the claimant eligible to be registered with a
Second Class Title of Ownership with the right, at
the end ofa period of uninterrupted and unchallenged
possession of ten years from the date of registration
in such capacity, to have such Second Class Title
converted to a registration with 1 First Class Title of
Absolute Ownership ;

to land parcel to be
in accordance with
Cadastral Map.

Preparation of
cadastral maps.

Publication of
Notice.

Investigation.

Order of
Declaration


Appointment of
Manager, powers
and duties.

4 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

(c) where the Commissioner of Title Settlement is of
the view that the claimant has established a claim to
a part of the land parcel claimed he shall declare the
claimant eligible to be registered with a First Class
Title of Absolute Ownership or a Second Class Title
of Ownership, as the case may be, to a divided
portion of such parcel ;

(d) where the Commissioner of Title Settlement is of
the view that it is not possible to recognise one or
more of such claims without reducing the extent of
a divided portion of a land parcel below the
prescribed economic unit, he shall declare all such
claimants who have a valid claim to such parcel,
eligible for registration as co-owners of such parcel
with a title of co-ownership to the extent of the,
individual claimant’s co-ownership.

15. (1) Onregistration of a title of co-ownership under
paragraph (d) of section 14, the Commissioner of Title
Settlement may appoint one among the co-owners as Manager
of such co-owned land parce! with the consent of the majority
of such co-owners.

(2) Such Manager shall have the authority, powers
and obligations of a trustee under the Trusts Ordinance
(Chapter 87).

(3) The duties of the Manager shall include the
following :—

(a) to maintain the said land parcel in a state conducive
for optimum production,

(b) to disburse the profits accrued from such land parcel
among the beneficiaries according to their shares of
co-ownership after setting off any expenses and the
fees due to him for such management.

(4) The power of the Manager shall include the power to
mortgage such land parcel with the consent of the co-owners
to raise funds for the development of the land parcel.


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 5

16. (1) The co-owners shalt have the rights of
beneficiaries under the Trusts Ordinance (Chapter 87).

(2) The rights of the bencfictaries shall include the right to
receive prolits from the said land parcel.

17. The beneficiaries may apply to the Commissioner
of Tite Settlement to appoint another co-owner as the Manager
of the co-owned land parcel, on the following grounds :—

(a) mismanagement or mala-fides on the part of the
Manager, or

(b) that the land parcel is not being put to optimum use.

18. The Commissioner of Title Settlement shall appoint
a new Manager from among such co-owners to manage the
said Jand parcel with the consent of the majority of the co-
owners—

(@) on being satisfied that the Manager is guilty of mis-
management or mala-fides ;

(b) on being satisfied that the land parcel is not being
pui to optimum use ;

(c) on the death of the Manager ; or

(d) where the Commissioner of Title Settlement is of
opinion that it is in the best interests of the co-owners
to do so.

19. Where the land sought to be registered is State land,
the Commissioner of Title Settlement shall prepare a Schedule
of Title for the registration of a First Class Title of Absolute
Ownership in the State to such land, together with details of
any dispositions, reservations or liens, as the case may be.

20. Where the Commissioner of Title Settlement is of
the view that a claimant has established his claim to the
ownership or to an interest in the land parcel which is to be
registered under the provisions of this Act, he shall declare
such claimant eligible for registration as the owner of that
land parcel or of such interest and shall register such interest
in the Title Register for the duration of the subsistence of that
interest :

Rights of
co-owners.

Beneficiaries may
request appointmen:
of new Manager.

Power of
Commissioner of
Title Settlement to
appoint new
Manager.

Registration of State
land.

Registration of
interest in land
parcei.


Reference of claims
to District Court.

Claimant aggrieved
may make an appeal
to District Court,

Additional surveys.

Order of Court.

6 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

Provided that, where the Commissioner of Title Settlement
is of the view that a person declared eligible for registration
as an owner under this Act, ts subject to or governed by any
special or personal law, he shall declare such person subject
to such special or personal law, and cause a note of such fact
to be made, in the Title Register.

21. If, during the course of investigations, the
Commissioner of Title Settlement forms the opinion that, due
to the disputed nature of the claims, it would be more,
appropriate for the investigations to be carried out by the
District Court, the Commissioner of Title Settlement may refer
such claims for investigation and determination to the District
Court having jurisdiction over the area where the land is
situate.

22. Any ctaimant aggrieved by any Declaration of the
Commissioner of Title Settlement under section 14 may prefer
an appeal against such declaration within the prescribed period
to the District Court having jurisdiction over the area where
the land parcel is situate.

23. (1) Where the Commissioner of Title Settlement is
of the opinion that any additional surveys are necessary for
the cadastral map to reflect his subsequent findings, he shall
request the Surveyor-General to conduct such additional
surveys and effect the necessary definition of boundaries.

(2) The Surveyor-General shall effect the necessary
definition of boundaries and conduct such surveys as are
required by'the Commissioner of Title Settlement and forward
a revised cadastral map to the Commissioner of Title
Settlement.

24. Where a reference has been made under section 21:
or an appeal preferred under section 22 to a District Court the
District Court, may, after due inquiry make one or more of
the following orders—

(a) order of Declaration of Title in accordance with section
14, in favour of a claimant to the whole land parcel
claimed or to a divided portion of such land parcel,
provided such divided portion does not fall below the
prescribed minimum extent ;


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 7

(b) order for the sale, among the claimants of the whole
land parcel or a divided portion of the land parcel,
provided such divided portion does not fall below
the prescribed minimum extent ;

(c) Order costs of action as the Court deems appropriate
payable by each or any of the claimants,

25. (1) Ona reference or appeaf made to a District Court
under the provisions of this Act, such Court shall issue a
Commission to the Surveyor-General to conduct such
additional surveys and for the amendment of cadastral maps
as are necessary to give effect to the order of such Court.

(2) The Surveyor-General shail carry out such Commission
and make his return to the Commission and transmit to the
District Court a detailed report pertaining to the action taken
by him together with a bill of costs.

(3) The District Court shall, on receipt of such return to
Commission, order the payment by the claimants of the survey
fees as indicated in the bill of costs forwarded by the Surveyor-
General.

(4) The District Court where it has ordered a sale
shalt issue a commission for such sale to a Licensed
Auctioneer. Such auctioneer shall proceed to conduct the
sale in such manner as_ prescribed and make his return to
commission.

(5) On receipt of such return to commission, the District
~ Court shall make order for the deposit by the person who has
tendered the highest bid of purchase money and the
auctioneer’s fees in Court.

(6) On the deposit of the survey fees, purchase money
and auctioneer’ s fees, the District Court shall—

(a) order—

(i) the payment of survey fees to the Surveyor-
General ;

Commission to
Surveyor- General.


8 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

(ii) disbursement of the purchase money among the
claimants concerned in accordance with their
claims; and .

(iii) the payment of auctioneer’s fees to the
Licensed Auctioncer concerned ;

(b) enter decree determining title to the parcels of land
adjudicated upon ; and

(c) despatch a copy of such decree to the Commissioner
of Title Settlement.

Schedule of Title to 26. On the conclusion of the investigations referred to in

be despatched to sections 13 and 21 or the Court proceedings as specified in

Registrar of Tide on . os .

conclusion of section 22 the Commissioner of Title Settlement shall prepare

investigations. Schedules of Title and despatch such Schedules to the
appropriate Registrar of Title, with copy thereof to the

Surveyor-General for the revision of his records.

Contents of 27. (1) Onreceipt of the Schedules of Title referred to in

Schedule to be section 26, the Registrar of Title shall cause the contents of

entered in Register. . . .
such schedules to be entered in the Registers of Title
maintained by him under the provisions of this Act.

(2) Such entries shall be the initial entries pertaining to
_the registration of title to land parcels under the provisions of
thissAct.

Transactions 28. From the date of opening of Title registers under this
ies nine y Act, no entries shall be made in respect of transactions relating
inter the Act, not to to land parcels registered under this Act in the Land Registers
be entered under maintained under the Registration of Documents Ordinance
Ree of (Chapter 117) but such Register shall bear a cross reference
Ordinance. to the Title Registers relating to such land parcels and

maintained under the provisions of this Act.

Person aggrieved by 29. (1) Any person aggrieved by the registration of title
registration may of a person with a Second Class Title of Ownership to any
apply to District and parcel may, within a period of ten years from the date of
—— such registration, file action for the amendment of the register,
in the District Court having jurisdiction over the area in which

such land parcel is situate.


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 9

(2) Notice of such action shall be registered in the
Encumbrances Section of the Title Register, and shall Temain
registered until the close of such action.

(3) Notice of such action shall also be conveyed by the
Registrar of Title to the person whose Second Class Title of
Ownership was so registered and to the Commissioner of Title
Settlement and the Surveyor-General.

30. (1) The District Court after due inquiry shall make
order as the justice of the case may require.

(2) (a) Where the District Court orders the amendment of
the Title Register in respect of a land parcel registered with a
Second Class Title of Ownership, such Order shall be
conveyed to the Registrar of Title who shall cause such
amendment of the register to be effected.

(6) Such Order of the Court shall also be conveyed to the
Commissioner of Title Settlement and the Surveyor-General.

31. (1) Aperson registered with a Second Class Title of
Ownership or a person claiming title through him shall at the
end of a period of ten years from such registration, and if
there has been no action under section 29 against such
registration during the intervening period, be eligible for the
conversion of his registration to one of First Class Title of
Absolute Ownership.

(2) At the end of the period referred to in subsection (1),
the Commissioner of Title Settlement shail prepare a Schedule
of Title in terms of the provisions of this Act, certifying such
person as being eligible for registration with a First Class
Title of Absolute Ownership and shall despatch such Schedule
of Title to the appropriate Registrar of Title and to the
Surveyor-General. . ~:

(3) The Registrar of Title shall, on receipt of a Schedule
of Title under subsection (2), cause such person to be
registered with a First Class Title of Absolute Ownership to
the land referred to in such Schedule of Title, and shall inform
the Commissioner of Title Settlement and the Surveyor-
General accordingly.

Where District
Court orders
amendment of
Register.

Conversion of Title
to one of First Class
Title of Absolute
Ownership.


Effect of registra:
han,

Entries: in Title
Register to be
conclusive evidence
of the rights
conferred therein.

Inspection of
Register and
cadastral map.

10 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

32, (1) The registration of a person with a First Class
Title of Absolute Ownership to a land parcel, shall vest in
that person absolute ownership of such land parcel together
with all rights and privileges belonging or appurtenant thereto,
subject to any subsisting interests as registered in the
Encumbrances Section of the Title Register.

(2) The registration of a person under the provisions of
this Act as a person having ownership or an interest ina land
parcel or a charge or encumbrance on or over such land parcel,
or as a Manager or beneficiary shall vest in that person the
rights so registered together with all rights and privileges
belonging or appurtenant thereto, whether express or implied
and subject to any express agreements relating thereto.

33. (1) Entries in the Title Register maintained under
the provisions of this Act, shall be conclusive evidence of the
existence of the ownership or interest specified in such entries
and shall not be questioned in a Court of law except as
provided for in this Act.

(2) The interests of a person whose name appears in the
Title Register may be assailed only as provided for in this
Act, and shall be held by such person together with all rights
and privileges belonging or appurtenant thereto free from all
interests and claims other than those appearing in the Title
Register.

INSPECTION OF REGISTER AND ISSUE OF
CERTIFIED COPIES —

34. (1) Any person may, on application made in the
prescribed form and on payment of the prescribed fee inspect
during office hours, any title register and any cadastral map
maintained under the provisions of this Act.

(2) Any, person shall, on application made to the relevant
Registrar of Title and on payment of the prescribed fee, be
entitled to receive an extract of such Title Register cestifted
by such Registrar of Title.


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 11

(3) Any person on application made to the relevant

Superintendent of Surveys, shall on payment of the prescribed

fee be entitled to receive a copy of an extract of a cadastral

map used for registration of title, certified on behalf of the
Surveyor-General,

35. (1) Every document purporting to be certified bya
Registrar of Title shall in all proceedings be presumed to have
been so certified and shall be accepted as prima facie evidence
of the matter to which it relates without any further proof of
such matter.

(2) Every copy of an extract of cadastral map purporting
to be certified by or on behalf of the Surveyor-General, shall
in all proceedings, be presumed to have been so certified and
shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the matter to
which it relates.

(3) Every entry or note in or on any register, and cadastral
map used for registration of title shall, subject to the provisions
of this Act, be received in all proceedings as conclusive
evidence of the matter or transaction which it records.

SUB-DIVISION AND AMALGAMATION

36. (1) Any owner or owners of any land parcel or land
parcels whose title to which has been registered under this
Act, may amalgamate or sub-divide his or their land parcel
by registering a plan of redivision or amalgamation or
sub-division relating to such land parcels in accordance with
the provisions of this Act.

(2) An application for amalgamation or sub-division shall
be made to the Registrar of Title with copy to the relevant
Superintendant of Surveys and shall contain a declaration in
the prescribed form made by the applicant which shall
conlain—

(a) the particulars of every encumbrance, lis pendens,
seizure, order or decree affecting the land parcel or
land parcels if any ;

Certification by
Registrar to be
prima facie
evidence.

Sub-division or
amalgamation of
units. :


12 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

(b) a reference to the Title Register and a reference to
the cadastral map registered in respect of such land
parcel or land parcels ;

—

(c) asurvey plan prepared by a duly authorized Surveyor
in accordance with any regulation governing the
conduct of such surveys and the preparation of such
cadastral map showing the amalgamation or sub-
division of such land parcel or land parcels bearing

areference to the cadastral map showing such area ;

(3) Where the Superintendent of Surveys is satisfied that
the plan conforms to the cadastral map and any regulation
governing such surveys and cadastral map, he shall notify the
person who tendered such plan accordingly, and shall certify
such plan on behalf of the Surveyor-General and shall cause
necessary amendments to be made showing such sub-division
or amalgamation on the cadastral map and forward a copy of
the section of the cadastral map reflecting such amendment
to the Registrar of Title of the District in which such land is
situate.

(4) The original of the plan tendered, field notes and
request of the owners shall be filed of record in the Office of
the Superintendant of Surveys.

(5) (a) On receipt of a certified section of a cadastral Map
{rom the Superintendent of Surveys the Registrar of Title shall,
if he is satisfied that such application for subdivision or
amalgamation conforms to the provisions of this Act and the
regulations made thereunder, register such land parcel or land
parcels in the Title Register with accurate cross-references to
the former Title records relating to such land.

(b) The application and documents received shall be filed
by the Registrar of Title in the relevant parcels file.

(6) Upon the registration of a plan of amalgamation, or
sub-division—

(a) the land parcel or land parcels depicted therein shall
be deemed to be amalgamated or sub-divided as
defined therein ;


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 13

(6) such land parcel or land parcels shall be subject to
the burden and shall have the benefit, of any
servitudes affecting such land parcel or land parcels
in the original cadastral map relating to such land
parcel or land parcels as are included in the plan of
amalgamation or sub-division.

37. (1) Any person, having a Title of Ownership or other
interest in a land parcel registered under this Act, may on
payment of the prescribed fee, obtain a Certificate of Title in
respect of such Ownership or interest, from the appropriate
Registrar of Title.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, such Certificate
of Title shall form conclusive evidence of the title to such
interest. ,

TRANSACTIONS RELATING TO REGISTERED
LAND

38. No person acquiring an interest in any Jand parcel
registered under the provisions of this Act shall be entitled to
such title or interest unless such title or interest is registered
under the provisions of this Act.

39. No land parcel, title to which has been registered
under this Act, or any interest therein shall be transferred or
dealt with except in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, and every disposition otherwise effected shall be void.

40. (1) An instrument for conveying interest in a land
parcel may be presented for title registration under this Act
to the Registrar of Title by—

(a) any person claiming any interest or benefit
thereunder ;

(6) any person having any interest in or charge on any
land affected thereby ; or

(c) any person attesting such instrument.

Certificate of Title.

Interest in land
parcel not acquired
unless registered.

Transactions
relating to a land
parcel to be made in
accordance with
Act.

Who may present
instrument for
registration.


Day book.

Prior Title.

Form of instruments.

relating to a land
parcel.

Duties of Attestor.

14 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

(2) An. instrument may be presented for registration
through post or under cover if it is accompained by the
appropriate fee, if any.

41. (1) Each Registrar of Title shall keep a book to be.
called the “day book” in which shall be entered the prescribed
particulars of every instrument presented for registration with
the day and hour and if required by the person presenting the
instrument, the minute of presentation, and for the purpose «
of priority the time of presentation shail be taken as the time
of registration.

(2) An instrument presented for registration through the
post or under cover shall be deemed to have been presented
for registration at the time the packet containing the instrument
is opened.

42. (1) Title to a land parcel or any interest pertaining to
a land parce) appearing in the Register shall have priority
according to the order in which the instruments pertaining to
such title or interest were presented for registration irrespective
of the dates of the instruments and the date of the entry in the
Register.

43. (1) Every instrument conveying title or any interest
ina land parcel presented for registration under this Act shall
be effected in the form prescribed for that purpose.

(2) Instruments prepared under the provisions of
subsection (1) shall be signed by the parties to the transaction
and two witnesses and attested by a Notary Public, and in the
case of State land, by a Notary Public or by any public officer
authorised to do so, by or under any law.

44. A Notary Public attesting an instrument in terms of
this Act shall—

(a) satisfy himself regarding the identity of whosoever
of the parties to the transaction and the witnesses, as
are not known to him, by reference to their official
indentity cards or such other means as may reliably
reveal their identity ;


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 15

(b) satisfy himself about the capacity of the persons who
are parties to the instrument by reference to the
records in the Title Registry or by reference to an
extract from the relevant Title Register ;

({c

—

satisfy himself about the identity of the land and the
state of the title dealt with in such instrument by
reference to the Certificate of Title issued by the
Registrar of Title and to the records in the Title

Registry.

45. (1) (a) Any instrument attested in terms of section Attestor to forward
44 together with the Certificate of Title pertaining to the title instruments attested
of the vendor shall be forwarded by the Attestor within seven hin seven days.
working days of such attestation to the Registrar of Title within
whose area of jurisdiction the land parcel dealt with in such
instrument is situate.

(b) Failure to forward the attested instrument within the
stipulated period shall be an offence punishable with the
prescribed penalty.

(2) The Registrar of Title shall record the receipt of such
instrument in the books maintained by him under the
provisions of this Act and satisfy himself of the following :—

(a) that the instrument has been drawn in accordance
with the provisions of this Act ;

(b) that the land parcel has been identified and described
accurately and conforms with the description
of such land parcel in the Registers in the Title
Registry ;

(c) that the person conveying such title or interest had
the capacity to execute such instrument according
to the information available in the Registers in the
Title Registry ;

(d) that the title or interest conveyed or dealt with, has
been unambiguously identified and conforms to that
recorded in the Registers in the Title Registry.


The Registrar of
Title not to register
instrument
conveying title in
future.

Part of land parcel
nol to be transferred
unless new registers
are opened,

Instrument
conferring co-
ownership invalid.

Instrument to take
effect on
fegistration.

16 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

(3) If the Registrar of Title is of the opinion that all
requirements for registration under this Act are complied with,
he shall register such title or interest in the prescribed manner,
ftle the instrument creating or transferring such title or interest
and the Certificate of Title submitted by the vendor in the
relevant parcels file and issue a Certificate of Title to the person
who tendered the instrument :

Provided that where such instrument pertains to a lease or
a mortgage, the old Certificate of Title too shall be returned
to such person with an endorsement made on it by the Registrar
of Title making reference to such lease or mortgage. The
Registrar of Title shall inform the Surveyor-General of all
new entries immediately upon completion of the registration.

46. The Registrar of Title shall not register any instrument
which purports to convey any title or interest to a land parcel
on the happening of any event, or the fulfilment of any
condition at any future time :

Provided however, that a conveyance of title subject to life
interest shalt be acceptable for registration.

47. No part of a land parcel registered with a First Class
Title of Absolute Ownership or a Second Class Title of
Ownership under the provisions of this Act shall be transferred
or otherwise dealt with unless the registered owner has first
sub-divided such land parcel and the land parcel so sub-
divided has been registered under the provisions of this Act.

48. Except in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
an instrument pertaining to the ownership of a land parcel
registered under this Act, made in favour of two or more
persons in common shall be void and shall not be registered
under this Act.

49. An instrument pertaining to land executed in
accordance with the provisions of this Act shall take effect on
registration of such instrument under the provisions of this
Act.


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 17

STRATA TITLES

50. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and of the
Apartment Ownership Law, No. 11 of 1973, the owner of any
land parcel registered under this Act upon which a building
comprising more than one storey has been constructed, may,
upon payment of the prescribed fee make application in the
prescribed form to the Registrar-General of Title for the
registration of horizontal sub-division of buildings (hereinafter
referred to as “condominium parcels”) in accordance with a
cadastral map called a condominium plan which shall
accompany such application.

(2) The reference number of the land parcel on which the
buiiding is constructed and the number of the condominium
parcel as depicted on the cadastral map shall together be a
sufficient reference to a condominium parcel.

(3) The Registrar of Title shall refer such applications
together with the condominium plan and the cadastral map
to the Superintendent of Surveys for certification.

51. On the Superintendent of Surveys being satisfied that
the condominium plan conforms to the provisions of the
Apartment Ownership Law, No. 11 of 1973 and this Act, he
shall certify such plan on behalf of the Surveyor-General,
and—

(a) file the original of the condominium plan after
making a suitable reference on the cadastral map
used for registration of title ; and

(6) forward the duplicate of the condominium plan and
the application of the owner to the appropriate
Registrar of Title.

52. Ifthe Registrar of Title is satisfied that the application
conforms to the provisions of the Apartment Ownership Law,
No. 11 of 1973 and this Act, he shall—

(a) file the duplicate of the condominium plan in the
Parcels File ;

Registration of
horizontal sub-
divisions of
buildings.

Filing of
condominium plan
by Superintendent
of Surveys.

Mode of registration
of condominium
parcels.


Retention and
destruction of
instruments.

18 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

(b) open a new title register in the Register in respe
each condominium parcel shown on
Condominium Plan and make suitable c
references to such register in the register in w
the land parcel is registered ;

(c

—

record in the Property Section in the reg
pertaining to the land parcel that the land comp
therein consists only of common proper

(d) record in the Encumbrances Section that registe
respect of condominium parcels have been ope

(g) inform the applicant that such condominium pa
have been registered and notify him of the refer
numbers of the relevant registers ; and

(f) issue a Certificate of Title after recovery o
prescribed fees.

RETENTION OF INSTRUMENTS

$3. ( 1) Any instrument accepted by the Registrar of
shall be retained in the Title Registry for as long as it sup
a current entry in the register and for ten years thereafte

(2) Where an entry in the register pertaining to title |
interest in a land parcel has been superseded or has ceas
have effect, the Registrar of Title shall make a note tc
effect in the Register against such entry.

(3) On the expiry of ten years after an entry in the re;
pertaining to title or an interest in a land parcel has
superseded or has ceased to have effect, the Registrar of
shall destroy in the prescribed manner any instrument v
supported the entry and make an entry to that effect i

-Register.


Retention and
destruction of
instruments.

18 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

(b)} open a new title register in the Register in respect of
each condominium parcel shown on_ the
Condominium Plan and make suitable cross
references to such register in the register in which
the land parcel is registered ;

(c

—

record in the Property Section in the register
pertaining to the land parce! that the land comprised
therein consists only of common property ;

(d) record in the Encumbrances Section that registers in
respect of condominium parcels have been opened ;

(e

—

inform the applicant that such condominium parcels
have been registered and notify him of the reference
numbers of the relevant registers ; and

(f) issue a Certificate of Title after recovery of the
prescribed fees.

RETENTION OF INSTRUMENTS

$3. (1) Any instrument accepted by the Registrar of Title
shall be retained in the Title Registry for as long as it supports
a current entry in the register and for ten years thereafter.

(2) Where an entry in the register pertaining to title or an
interest in a land parcel has been superseded or has ceased to
have effect, the Registrar of Title shall make a note to that
effect in the Register against such entry.

(3) On the expiry of ten years after an entry in the register
pertaining to title or an interest in a Jand parcel has been,
superseded or has ceased to have effect, the Registrar of Title
shall destroy in the prescribed manner any instrument which
supported the entry and make an entry to that effect in the

-Register.


Registration of Title Act, No, 2] of 1998 19

TRANSMISSION OF TITLE

$4. (1) Where a registered owner dies testate, grant of
probate of the will and any instrument executed in terms of
the will shall be forwarded to the Registrar of Title in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.

(2) Any provision of a will that makes a person owner of
an undivided share or of a divided share smaller in extent
than the prescribed minimum extent of a land parcel that may
be registered under this Act shall have no legal effect.

(3) A Court in which an application is filed or proved in
respect of a provision of a will referred to in sub-section (2)
shall order a sale of such land parce! among the contending
claimants.

(4) The provisions of sections 29 and 30 shall be applicable
lo Court proceedings in case of testate succession.

55. (1) If a registered owner dies intestate, any party
intcrested may inform the Commissioner of Title Settlement
of the death of such registered owner.

(2) The Commissioner of Title Settlement shall on being
so notified, publish a notice in the Prescribed manner calling
for claimants to the land parcel registered in favour of such
deceased person.

(3) The provisions of sections 13, 14, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24,
25, 26 and 27 shall apply on the Commissioner of Title
Settlement calling for claimants in instances of intestate
succession.

56. (1) Where any person has become the owner or has
acquired an interest in any land parcel registered under this
Act by virtue of any order or certificate of sale made or issued
under any law, the Registrar of Title shall, on the application
of such person supported by such evidence as he may require,
register such person as the owner of such land parcel or of
any interest therein.

(2) Where any person becomes entitled to function in the
capacity of an owner by virtue of any court order the Registrar
of Title shall, upon application made in that behalf with
Supporting documentation which shall be to his satisfaction,
register such person in such.capacity.

Registration of
wills, and
instruments
executed in terms
thereof.

Registered owner
dying intestate,

Registration of
Ownership.


Prescription.

Rectification and
indemnity.

Where Court orders
rectification.

20) Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998
GENERAL

57. The Prescription Ordinance (Chapter 68) shall not
apply to lands or interests in land registered under this Act
with a First Class Title of Absolute Ownership or a Second
Class Title of Ownership.

58. The Registrar of Title may rectify the Registers and
other records maintained under this Act in the following
instances: —

{1) On an order from the Registrar-General of Title
where—

(a) errors or omissions not materially affecting the
interests of any proprietor, have been detected;

(6) upon a re-survey as certified by the Surveyor-
General, particulars contained in the register
requirc amendment, on the Registrar-General of
Title giving notice to all shown by such Register
to have an interest in or likely to be affected by
such amendment and calling for written
representations thereon.

(c) upon proof of change of name of the registered
. Owner under the provisions of the Births and
Deaths Registration Act.

(2) On an order of Court to rectify such Register made
under section 59,

59. Subject to section 60, a Court may order rectification
of the Register where it is satisfied that any registration has
been obtained by fraud:

Provided however, that a Court shall not order the
rectification of a register so as to affect the title of a registered
owner who is in possession and who has acquired the land
parcel or interest therein for valuable consideration, unless
such owner was a party to such fraud.


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 21

60. (1) Any person suffering loss or damage or who has
been prejudiced by reason of —

(a) any rectification of the Register in pursuance of an
order of Court under this Act; or

(b) not rectifying the Register in consequence of an order
of Court made under section 59,

shalt on an order of Court be entitled to be indemnified by the
Government out of the Insutance Fund.

(2) No sums shail be paid by way of indemnity under this
Act, to any person who has himself caused, or substantially
contributed to any fraud referred to in section $9 or who
derives his title from a person who has caused or substantially
contributed to such fraud.

(3) Where any sum is awarded by way of indemnity on
account of the loss of title to, or interest in any land it shall
nol exceed in any case where—

(a) the register is rectified, the market value of the land
parcel or the interest in such land parcel immediately
before the rectification ;

(b) the register is not rectified, the market value of the
land parcel or the interest in such land parcel at the
time when the entry relating to such interest was
made in the Register,

(4) Where any sum is awarded by way of indemnity, the
Registrar-General of Title may on application to Court by
way of summary procedure, recover the amount so awarded
from any person who has caused or substantially contributed
to the loss by his fraud or negligence.

61. No claim to indemnity shall arise on account of any
surplus or deficiency in the area or measurement of land
certified by the Surveyor-General.

Person suffering
loss or damage to be
indemnified.

No indemnity
payable on surp'us

or deficiency


Insurance Fund.

Partition Act not to
apply.

Olfences.

Offences refating to
Tegisters.

22 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

62. (1) There shall be an Insurance Fund which shall be
managed by the Registrar-General of Title under the
supervision of the Central Bank.

(2) There shall be credited to the Insurance Fund such
fees recovered under this Act as may be prescribed by the
Minister.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all payments of
indemnity under section 58. :

63. The Partition Act shall not apply to land parcels
registered under this Act with a First Class Title of Absolute
Ownership, or Second Class Title of Ownership.

64, (1) Any person who knowingly misleads or deceives
the Surveyor-General, the Commissioner of Title Settlement
or the Registrar-General of Title or their Assistants or
representatives in the performance of their functions under
this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction after Summary trial by a Magistrate, to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
one year or to a fine not exceeding Rupees Five Thousand or
to both such imprisonment and’such fine.

65. (1) Any person who—

(a) fraudulently issues or makes or fraudulently procures
the issue or making of any extract or other document,
or effects any registration, or any erasure or alteration
in any register or other document maintained under
this Act or any extract thereof ; or

(b

—

fraudulently removes from a registry any register
maintained under this Act or any part of any register
or any instrument filed in such registry; or

(c

—

fraudulently causes any defacement, obliteration,
mutilation or unauthorised entry or alteration to be
made on or in any such register or instrument filed
of record,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction.
after summary trial by a Magistrate, to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine
not exceeding Rupees Fifteen Thousand or to both such
imprisonment and fine.


Registration of Title Act, No. 2] of 1998 23

66. Fecs specified in regulations made under this Act
shall be payable for the matters to which they relate.

67. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act and for any maiter which is required by
this Act to be prescribed, and the procedure and practice to
be observed in carrying out the provisions of this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provisions, the Minister may make regulations for—

—

(a) the procedure for the appointment and functioning

of Conciliation Boards ;
(b) the conduct of investigation into claims ;

{c

—

the procedures for land consolidation and
reapportionment ;

(d) the extent of minimum economic units ;

(e) the maintenance of records under this Act ;

(f) the administration and Management of the Insurance
Fuod ;

(g) the forms required for the purposes of this Act ;

(A) the fees payable under the Act.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation from
the date of such publication.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after publication in the Gazette be brought
before the Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of its disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder. .

Fees.

Regulations.


Misccblancous.

Land Consolidation.

Notice declaring
areas in which the
principle of
minimum economic
unit will apply.

24 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.

68. (1) Any State institution or local authority may make
usc of and have access to the registers maintained under the
provisions of this Act to be used for planning, administration
and other activities of such Institution or local authority.

(2) Any State institution or local authority may request
the Registrar-General of Title to include in the Registers
maintained, under this Act, particulars of payments due to it
on lands registered therein and the Registrar-General of Title
shall accordingly take steps to record such information in the
Title Register in the manner prescribed.

(3) Any State institution or local authority may request
the Registrar-General of Title to include in the Registers
maintained under this Act, particulars pertaining to the natural
properties of the land, any development done on the land and
any servitude ; on receipt of such request the Registrar-General
of Title shatl cause such information to be recorded in the
Title Register in the prescribed manner.

69. (1) The Minister may by notice published in the
Gazette declare any area as an area coming within the
operation of land consolidation and re-apportionment
procedures.

(2) Where a notice has been published under subsection
(1), the Commissioner of Title Settlement shall take steps for
the introduction of procedures for land consolidation and re-
apportionment in the areas referred to in such notice in terms
of regulations made under this Act.

70. (1) The Minister may by Notice published in the
Gazette declare any area for which Registers of Title have,
been compiled, as an area in which the principle of minimum
economic units of land parcels s “all apply.


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 25

(2) Where a notice has been published under sub-section

(1) above, the Commissioner of Title Settlement shall take:

steps for the introduction of procedures in conformity with
regulations made under this Act.

71, Computer and micro filming facilities may be used
for the maintenance of any registers and records under this
AcL.

72. No suit or prosecution shall lie against any officer or
-cmployce of the Departments’ of the Commissioner of the
Title Settlement, the Surveyor-General or the Registrar-
General of Title for any act which in good faith is done or
purported to be done by him in the exercise of his powers or
the performance of his duties under this Act.

73. The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any
other written law, and where there is any conflict or any
inconsistency between the provisions of this Act and any other
law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail over such other
law.

74, Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

~

75. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—

“instrument” means a document having the effect of
conveying title to and interest in any land parcel in
the prescribed form.

“interest in land parcel” means an interest less than full
ownership of the land parcel and includes any
servitudes or encumbrance over such land parcel;

“land” includes land covered with water, and any benefit
arising out of any land, ail things attached to the earth
or permanently fastened thereto ;

Use of computer
and micro filming
facilities.

Protections or
action.

Conflict with other
laws.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.


26 Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998

“licensed auctioneer” means an auctioneer licensed under
the Auctioneers and Brokers Ordinance (Chapter
109) ;

“Minister” means the Minister to whom the subject of lands
has been assigned ;

“owner” means—

(a) in relation toa land parcel the person named in
the Title Register as the owner thereof, and ;

(b) in relation to an interest in a land parcel, the
person named in the register as the person in
whose favour the interest is registered ;

“Land parcel” means an area of land separately delineated
on the cadastral map ;

“Registrar-General of Title” includes any Deputy or
Assistant ;

“Registrar of Title” means any person appointed as
Registrar of Title under this Act ;

“registered land” means a land parcel the title to which is
Tegistered under this Act ;

“servitude” means a right enjoyed by a person over a land
parce! owned by another person ;

“Surveyor-General” means the officer appointed as
Surveyor-General of Sri Lanka or any other officer
appointed in writing to act on his behalf for the
purposes of this Act to the extent specified in such
letter of appointment ;


Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 27

“Superintendent of Surveys” means any person performing
the functions of a Superintendent of Surveys in the
Survey Department ;

“Title Register” means the Title Register under the
provisions of this Act.


eee

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. | .180(Foretgn),

payable to the SuPeRINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PuaLicATions BUREAU, No. 32, Transworks House,
Lorus Roap, Cotomse OF before 15th December each year tn respect of the year following.
