PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
4th Session 1968-69

Imports and Exports
(Control)
Act, No. 1 of 1969 ©

Date of Assent: January 16, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government

and published as a Supplement to Ceylon Government Gazette,
Part I of January 24, 1969

Printed at the GoveRNMENT Press, CEYLON, To be
purchased et the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, CoLomMBO

Annual Subscription (inclu:ling Bills) Rs, 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
Puntications Bureau, P. O. Box 500, CoLomso 1, before 20th
ecember each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.


Imports and Exports (Control)
Ac#, No. 1 of 1969

L. D.—O. 49/64.

yAN AcY T0 PROVIDE FOR THE CONTROL OF THE IMPORTA-

f TION AND EXPORTATION OF GOODS, FOR THE
REGULATION OF THE STANDARDS OF EXPORTABLE
GOODS AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: January 16, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of -the
same, as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Imports and
Exports (Control) Act, No. 1 of 1969, and shall
come into operation on such date as may be appointed
by the Minister by Order published in the Gazette.

2. There may be appointed, by name or by office,
for the purposes of this Act, a Controller of Imports
and Exports and such Deputies and Assistants to him
and such other officers and servants as may be
necessary.

; 8. (1) Every Deputy or Assistant Controller of
Imports and Exports shall, in the exercise of his
powers, the performance of his duties and the
discharge of his functions, be subject to the general
direction and control of the Controller of Imports and
Exports.

(2) Every Deputy or Assistant Controller of
Imports and Exports may, subject to the general
direction and control of the Controller of Imports and
Exports, exercise, perform or discharge all such
powers, @z:ties or functions vested in, imposed upon
or assigned to the Controller of Imports and Exports
by or under this Act as may be delegated to such
Deputy or Assistant by the Controller of Imports and
Exports.

(3) A Deputy or an Assistant Controller of
Imports and Exports exercising, performing or
discharging any power, duty or function of the
‘Controller of Imports and Exports under this Act
shall be deemed for all purposes to have been
delegated to exercise, perform or discharge that
power, duty or function until the contrary is proved.

B 69186 (69/1)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Appointment of
officers and
servants.

Powers and
duties of
officers.


Control of the
import and
export of
goods.

Application for
licences.

Licence fee.

Issue of
licences,

2 Imports and Exports (Control)
Act, No. 1 of 1969

4. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2)

and of any regulations made under sub-section (3), .
no person shall import into, or export from, Ceylon\
any goods except under the authority, or otherwise ’

than in accordance with the conditions, of a licence
issued in that behalf under this Act by the Controller.

(2) The importation into, or the exportation from,
Ceylon after the date of commencement of this Act
by any person of any goods without a licence issued
in that behalf under this Act shall be deemed not to
be a contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1)
if such importation or exportation was authorized by
a licence issued under any written law for the time
being in force.

(8) Regulations may be made exempting any
specified class or classes of persons or goods from the
provisions of sub-section (1).

5. (1) Every application for a licence shall—

(a) be made to the Controller in such one of the
prescribed forms as is, appropriate to the

case, ss
(b) state the particulars which that form requires ”

to be stated, and
(c) be signed by the applicant.

(2) The Controller may direct any applicant for a
licence to furnish him with such information as he
may indicate in the direction for the purpose of
enabling him to dispose of the application; and if
the applicant fails to comply with such direction, the
Controller may refuse to issue the licence to the
applicant.

6. Where a fee is prescribed for the issue of a
licence, such licence shall not be issued by the
Controller except upon the payment of such fee.

7. (1) The Controller shall have full power and
discretion to make a decision either to issue or to
refuse to issue a licence to an applicant therefor.

(2) The Controller may issue a licence subject
to such conditions as he may deem necessary. Such
umditions shall be set out in the licence.

f


Imports and Exports (Control) 3
Act, No. 1 of 1969

(3) Subject as hereafter provided in this Act, the
decision of the Controller to issue or to refuse to issue
'a licence to an applicant therefor shall be final and

conclusive and shall not be called in question in any
court or tribunal whether by way of writ or otherwise.

8. A licence granted to any person shall, subject
to the conditions set out in the licence and to the
provisions of this Act, authorize such person to
import into, or export from, Ceylon goods of such
value and in such quantity or quantities as may be
specified in the licence.

9. (1) It shall be deemed to be a condition of every
licence that the Controller may, at any time by order
in writing, amend, suspend or cancel such licence and
accordingly any of the powers conferred on the Con-
troller by the preceding provisions of this sub-section
may be exercised by the Controller at any time in
respect of a licence.

(2) An order of the Controller amending,
-tispending or cancelling a licence shall, subject to
any decision on an appeal under this Act from the
order of the Controller, be final and conclusive and
shall not be called in question in any court or tribunal
whether by way of writ or otherwise.

10. (1) Where the Controller decides to refuse to
issue a licence under this Act, he shall cause notice of
the decision to be given to the applicant for the licence.

(2) Where the Controller makes an order amending,
suspending or cancelling a licence, he shall cause notice
of such order to be given to the holder of such licence.

(3) A notice under this section to any person shall
be given to him by registered letter addressed to him
and despatched through the post.

(4) A notice given to any person in the manner
‘provided in sub-section (8) shall be deemed to have
been served on him at the time at which the letter
would have been delivered in the ordinary course of
post.

Authority
granted by
licences.

Power to amend,
suspend or
cancel licences.

Communication
of refusal to
issue a licence
to applicant and
of amendment
or cancellation
of a licence to
the holder
thereof,


Appeals.

Power of
Controller to
call for infor-

mation and ins-
pect documents.

4 Imports and Exports (Control)
Ac#, No. 1 of 1969

41. (1) An applicant for a licence who is
aggrieved by the decision of the Controller refusin
to issue such licence and any person who is agerievad
by the order of the Controller amending, suspending
or cancelling a licence issued to such person may
appeal in writing from that decision or order to the
Minister within a period of fourteen days reckoned
from the date of the service of notice of that decision
or order on him.

(2) The decision of the Minister on any appeal
preferred under the preceding provisions of this
section shall be final and conclusive and shall not be
called in question in any court or tribunal whether
by way of writ or otherwise.

12. (1) The Controller may, by written notice,
direct any person to whom a licence to import goods
into Ceylon is issued to furnish before a date specified
in the notice such information as the Controller
may by the notice require in respect of the ware-
housing of such goods.

(2) After the exportation of any goods the
Controller may, by written notice, direct the exportet
of such goods to produce within such time as is
specified in the notice satisfactory evidence that the
goods have reached the ultimate destination specified
in the licence issued to such exporter or in any bill of
oe or other shipping document relating to such
goods.

(3) For the purposes of this Act, the Controller
may, by written notice, direct any person, including
the manager of any bank in Ceylon—

(a) to furnish to such officer, and within such time,
as may be specified in the direction,
information regarding such matters
relevant to the purposes of this Act as may
be so specified, and

(b) to cause to be produced for inspection by suck
officer, within such time, and at such place
as may be so specified, such books, accounts
and other documents relevant to the purposes
of this Act as may he so specified, including
certified copies of entries in those books,
accounts or other documents.


lmports and Exports (Control) 5
Ach, No. 1 of 1969

(4) A notice under this section may be served—

(a) on any individual by delivering it to him or by
leaving it at, or sending it by post to, his
residence;

(b) on any firm by delivering it to any partner of
the firm, or by leaving it at, or sending it by
post to, the office of the firm;

(c) on any company by leaving it at, or sending it
by post to, the registered office of the
company.

43. (1) A person who furnishes any information
under this Act shall verify it by a declaration that
the statements contained therein are true and
accurate.

(2) Every declaration made under this Act shall
be free from stamp duty.

14. The Minister may by regulation—

(a) prohibit or regulate the importation or exporta-
tion of goods from or to countries specified
in the regulation, or

(b) prohibit the importation or exportation of goods
(whether from or to any country whatsoever
or any country specified in the regulation) by
any person, other than the Government of
Ceylon and such corporate or unincorporate
bodies of persons, if any, as may be specified
in the regulation.

45. It shall be deemed to be a condition of every
licence that the Principal Collector of Customs shall
have the power to confiscate on behalf of Her Majesty
any goods or part thereof imported into, or intended
to be exported from, Ceylon—

(a) in contravention of the provisions of this Act
or of the provisions of any regulation made
under this Act, or

(b) otherwise than in conformity with any terms or
conditions stated in the licence relating to
importation or exportation, as the case may
be, of such goods,

and accordingly the power conferred on the Principal
Collector of Customs by the preceding provisions of
this section may be exercised by him in respect of any
such goods.

Verification of
information,

Prohibition or
regulation of
certain imports
and exports,

Confiacation.


Offences.

Paonishment
for offences.

Offences by
bodies of
persons.

No prosecution
without the
sanction of the
Controller.

6 Lmports and Exports (Control)
Act, No. 1 of 1969

16. Any person who—

(a) acts in contravention of any provision of this

Act or of any regulation made thereunder, ort
. . . . ‘

(6) acts in contravention of, or fails to comply with
the condition of, a licence issued under this
Act, or

(c) fails to comply with any direction given by the
Controller in the exercise of his powers under
section 12 of this Act, or

(d) furnishes for the purposes of this Act, any
information which is, or any document the
contents of which are, or any part of the
contents of which is, to his knowledge untrue
or incorrect,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

17. Every person who is guilty of an offence under
this Act shall be liable, on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding five
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either descrip-
tion for a term not exceeding six months or to both
such fine and imprisonment. *

48. Where an offence under this Act is committed
by a body of persons, then—

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director and officer of that body corporate, or

(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner
of that firm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence:

Provided that a director or an officer of such body
corporate, or a partner of such firm shall not be
deemed to be guilty of such offence if he proves that
such offence was committed without his knowledge or
that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of the offence.

19. No prosecution for an offence under this Act
shall be instituted except by, or with the written
sanction of, the Controller.


Imports and Exports (Control) 7
Act, No. 1 of 1969

20. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the  Reguistions.
purposes of carrying out or giving effect to the
Principles and provisions of this Act.
A (2) In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1),
the Minister may make regulations for or in respect of
all or any of the following matters : —
(a) all matters stated or required by this Act to be
prescribed or in respect of which regulations
are authorized by this Act to be made; and

(b) the regulation of the standards of exportable
goods of any specified class or description.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation
on the date of publication or on such later date as
may be specified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
brought before the Senate and the House of Represen-
tatives within a period of one month from the date of
the publication of that regulation under sub-section

+ (3), or, if no meeting is held within that period, at
the first meeting after the expiry of that period, by a
motion that such regulation shall be approved.

(5) Any regulation which the Senate or the House
of Representatives refuses to approve shall be deemed
to be rescinded but without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done thereunder or to the
making of any new regulation. The date on which
such regulation shall be deemed to be rescinded shall
be the date on which the Senate or the House of
Representatives refuses to approve the regulation.

(6) Notification of the date on which any regulation
made by the Minister is deemed to be rescinded shall
be published in the Gazette.

(7) Any regulation made by the Minister shall,
| when approved by the Senate and the House of
\Representatives, be as valid and effectual as if it were

herein enacted. Notification of such approval shall
be published in the Gazette.
2——B 60186 (1/69)


8 Imports and Exports (Control)
Act, No. 1 of 1969

Appitestion ot 21. The provisions of this Act shall be read and
emt "construed as one with the Customs Ordinance, and for
“oo - the purpose of the application of the Customs.

Ordinance— ‘

(2) goods the importation of which is prohibited
by this Act or by regulation made under this
Act shall be deemed to be goods the
importation of which is prohibited by that
Ordinance;

(by goods the exportation of which is prohibited by
this Act or by regulation made under this
Act shall be deemed to be goods the
exportation of which is prohibited by that
Ordinance;

(c) goods the importation of which is restricted by
this Act or by regulation made under this
Act shall be deemed to be goods the
importation of which is restricted by that
Ordinance; and

(2) goods the exportation of which is restricted by
this Act or by regulation made under this
Act shall be deemed to be goods the
exportation of which is restricted by thit-
Ordinance. ‘

(nterprejastoa 22. In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires—

‘ Controller’? means the Controller of Imports
and Exports appointed under this Act, and
includes a Deputy Controller and an Assist-
ant Controller specially authorized by the
Controller either generally or for some
specific purpose to act on behalf of the

ontroller ;

‘export’, with its grammatical variations and
cognate expressions, when used in relation to
any goods, means the carrying and taking out
of Ceylon, or causing to be carried or taken
out of Ceylon, whether by sea or by air of
such goods;

=

se

goods ’’ includes any article, animal, substance or
property whatsoever;


Imports and Ewports (Control) 9
Act, No. 1 of 1969

‘import ’’, with its grammatical variations and
cognate expressions, when used in relation
to aby goods, means the importing or bring-
ing into Ceylon, or causing to be imported
or brought into Ceylon, whether by sea or
by air of such goods;

‘’ prescribed ’’ means prescribed by regulation made
under this Act.

23. The Imports and Exports (Control) Act
(Cap. 236) is hereby repealed:

Provided, however, that notwithstanding such
repeal every licence issued under the Imports and
Exports (Control) Act and having effect immediately
prior to the date on which this Act comes into
operation shall be deemed to be a licence issued under
this Act and ghall continue to have effect accordingly.

Bepeai of
Chapter
