PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

DFCC BANK (REPEAL ANDCONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS)

ACT, No. 39 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 01st November, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 10.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 07, 2014

1DFCC Bank (Repeal and ConsequentialProvisions) DFCC Act, No. 39 of 2014

Short title.

[Certified on 01st November, 2014]

L.D.O.25 / 2014.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF THE DFCC BANK

AS A PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY WITH THE NAME DFCC BANK PLC

AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROVISIONS CONSEQUENTIAL TO SUCH

REGISTRATION ; TO REPEAL THE DFCC BANK ACT (CHAPTER 165)

AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the DFCC Bank (Repealand Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 39 of 2014.

2. The DFCC Bank Act (Chapter 165) shall as from suchdate as may be specified by the Minister by Order publishedin the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the specified date)be repealed. Such date shall be a date which is not later thansix months from the date of commencement of this Act.

3. (1) The Minister may, at any time after the date ofcommencement of this Act, forward to the Registrar ofCompanies Articles of Association duly approved by theMonetary Board together with a direction to such Registrarrequiring him to register the DFCC Bank as a public limitedcompany under the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007, with thename DFCC Bank PLC with effect from the specified date.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in theCompanies Act, No. 07 of 2007, the Registrar of Companiesshall, on receipt of a direction under subsection (1)

(a)issue a Certificate of Incorporation under subsection(1) of section 5 of the aforesaid Act, in the nameDFCC Bank PLC; and

(b)publish an Order in the Gazette declaring that fromthe specified date a public limited company isincorporated in the name DFCC Bank PLC

Repeal of theDFCC Bank Act(Chapter 165).

Registration ofthe DFCC Bankas a publiclimited companyunder theCompanies Act,No. 07 of 2007.

2DFCC Bank (Repeal and ConsequentialProvisions) DFCC Act, No. 39 of 2014

(hereinafter referred to as the Company) to takeover and carry on the business of the DFCC Bankas a going concern.

4.With effect from the specified date, the business ofthe DFCC Bank shall vest absolutely in the Company.

5.With effect from the specified date notwithstandingany provision in any other law

(a)the share capital and any amount lying to the creditof the share premium account, of the DFCC Bankon the day immediately preceding the specifieddate shall be deemed to be the stated capital of theCompany as at the specified date;

(b)all shareholders of the DFCC Bank on the dayimmediately preceding the specified date shall bedeemed to be the shareholders of the Company as atthe specified date and the shares held by suchshareholders in the Company shall be identical innumber to that held by them in the DFCC Bank onthe day immediately preceding the specified dateand all share certificates issued by the DFCC Bankshall be read and construed as if such share certificateswere share certificates issued by the Company;

(c)all securities of any kind issued by the DFCC Bankand outstanding on the day immediately precedingthe specified date shall from the specified date bedeemed to be securities issued by the Company;

(d)the Chairman, directors, officers, employees andservants of the DFCC Bank holding office on theday immediately preceding the specified date shallbe deemed to be the Chairman, directors, officers,employees and servants of the Company with effectfrom the specified date and such Chairman,directors, officers, employees and servants shallcontinue to hold office in the Company on termsand conditions enjoyed by them under the DFCCBank, immediately preceding the specified date;

Business ofDFCC Bank tovest in theCompany.Transitionalprovisions.

3DFCC Bank (Repeal and ConsequentialProvisions) DFCC Act, No. 39 of 2014

(e)all contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, guarantees,powers of attorney, grants of legal representationand other instruments of whatever nature of theDFCC Bank subsisting and having effect on theday immediately preceding the specified date andto which the DFCC Bank is a party or which are infavour of the DFCC Bank shall be deemed witheffect from the specified date to be contracts, deeds,bonds, agreements, guarantees, powers of attorney,grants of legal representation and other instrumentsentered into by or granted in favour of theCompany ;

(f)unless specifically revoked or substituted in themanner provided for in any other law, all approvalsor licences granted to the DFCC Bank by theMonetary Board, the Director of Bank Supervision,Controller of Exchange, Securities and ExchangeCommission, Urban Development Authority, anyother regulatory body or authority, ProvincialCouncil, local authority subsisting or having effecton the day immediately preceding the specifieddate shall be deemed with effect from the specifieddate to be approvals or licences granted to theCompany ;

(g)any account maintained between the DFCC Bankand any other person in or outside Sri Lankaincluding the Government of Sri Lanka, itsdepartments and statutory bodies on the dayimmediately preceeding the specified date, whetherit be an asset or liability of such Bank shall bedeemed with effect from the specified date to be anaccount between the Company and that otherperson with the same rights and subject to the sameobligations and incidents (including rights of setoff) as would have been applicable thereto if theaccount between the DFCC Bank and that otherperson had continued and so that any instruction,

4DFCC Bank (Repeal and ConsequentialProvisions) DFCC Act, No. 39 of 2014

order, direction, mandate or authority given by suchother person in relation to such account andsubsisting on the day immediately preceding thespecified date shall, unless and until revoked orcancelled, apply to and have effect in relation to,the account between the Company and that otherperson ;

(h)any mortgage, security or indemnity held by theDFCC Bank on the day immediately preceding thespecified date as security for the payment of debtsor liabilities (whether present or future actual orcontingent) of any person shall be deemed witheffect from the specified date to be a mortgage,security or indemnity held by and be available tothe Company as security for the payment of suchdebt and liabilities to the Company; and where themoneys secured by such mortgage, security orindemnity include future advances to or liabilitiesof that person, the security for future advances to orliabilities of that person to the Company shall bedeemed to the same extent to which future advancesby or liabilities to the DFCC Bank were securedthereby immediately preceding the specified date;

(i)the custody of any document, goods or otherproperty held by the DFCC Bank on the dayimmediately preceding the specified date as baileefor any other person shall be deemed with effectfrom the specified date to be a document, goods orproperty in the custody of the Company as a baileefor such other person and the rights and obligationsof the DFCC Bank under any contract of bailmentrelating to such document, goods or property shallbe deemed to be the rights and obligations of theCompany;

(j)any listing of shares or securities of any kindwhatsoever issued by the DFCC Bank on a stock

5DFCC Bank (Repeal and ConsequentialProvisions) DFCC Act, No. 39 of 2014

exchange or securities exchange whether inSri Lanka or elsewhere on the day immediatelypreceding the specified date shall be deemed witheffect from the specified date to be listing of suchshares or securities of the Company ;

(k)all reserves maintained by the DFCC Bank for thepurpose of the provision of any law, regulatoryrequirement or otherwise, on the day immediatelypreceding the specified date shall be deemed witheffect from the specified date to be reserves of theCompany held for such purpose;

(l)(i)all property immovable and movable of theDFCC Bank (including cash balances, reservefunds, investments, trade marks, patents,licences and deposits);

(ii)all liabilities, including deposits andcontingent liabilities, of the DFCC Bank;

(iii)all rights, powers, privileges, authorities,obligations, duties and interest arising in orout of the business, such property and suchliabilities including the licence issued to theDFCC Bank by the Monetary Board undersubsection (3) of section 76A of the BankingAct;

(iv)all books, accounts and documents relatingor appertaining to the DFCC Bank or toany property of the Bank,

subsisting on the day immediately precedingthe specified date, shall be deemed as from thespecified date to be property, liabilities, rights,powers, privileges, authorities, obligations, duties,interest, books, accounts and documents of theCompany;

6DFCC Bank (Repeal and ConsequentialProvisions) DFCC Act, No. 39 of 2014

(m)all applications, actions, proceedings or appeals ofwhatever nature instituted under the provision ofany law by or against the DFCC Bank and pendingon the day immediately preceding the specifieddate shall be deemed as from the specified date, tobe applications, actions, proceedings or appealsinstituted by or against the Company and may becontinued accordingly;

(n)any pension fund, gratuity fund or unfundedliability in respect of a pension, gratuity or otherliability relating to post employment benefit to anyemployee or former employee of the DFCC Bankand existing on the day immediately preceding thespecified date shall be deemed as from the specifieddate, to be a pension fund, gratuity fund or suchliability as the case may be, of the Company inrespect of such employee or former employee;

(o)where the DFCC Bank on the day immediatelypreceding the specified date was a contributor toany provident fund approved by the Commissionerof Labour for the benefit of its employees, theCompany shall be deemed as from the specifieddate, to be the contributor to such provident fundin respect of such employees;

(p)all tax credits, refunds, losses, concessions, reliefs,benefits and liabilities of the DFCC Bank subsistingon the day immediately preceding the specifieddate shall be deemed as from the specified date, tobe tax credits, refunds, losses, concessions, reliefs,benefits and liabilities of the Company;

(q)all judgments, decrees or orders entered in favourof, or against the DFCC Bank by any Court inany action or proceeding shall be deemed witheffect from the specified date, to be judgments,decrees or orders entered in favour of, or against theCompany;

7DFCC Bank (Repeal and ConsequentialProvisions) DFCC Act, No. 39 of 2014

(r)all rights to intellectual property includingtrademarks, patents, softwares subsisting in favourof the DFCC Bank on the day immediatelypreceding the specified date shall be deemed asfrom the specified date, to be such rights in favourof the Company.

6.Notwithstanding the repeal of the DFCC Bank Act(Chapter 165) by section 2 of this Act, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 10 and section 14 of the aforesaidrepealed Act shall from and after the specified date, continueto be operative and of full force and avail in law as if suchAct had never been repealed, until the loans so guaranteedby the Government of Sri Lanka in terms of such sectionsare repaid in full and no further. Every loan guaranteed asaforesaid prior to the specified date and subsisting on theday immediately preceding the specified date, shall as fromthe specified date continue to subsist as if the loans soguaranteed were loans raised by the Company.

7.(1) With effect from the specified date, every referenceto the DFCC Bank in any Act, regulation, notification,contract, instrument, record, share certificate, document,deed, bond, agreement, guarantee, power of attorney, grantof legal representation and other instruments of whatevernature shall be deemed to be a reference to the Company togive effect to the provisions of this Act.

(2) For the provisions of section 5 and subsection (1) totake effect, it shall not be necessary to replace the name theDFCC Bank with the name of the Company in any registeror record maintained by any department, court of law,tribunal or agency of the government, provincial council orlocal authority under any law or regulation providedhowever that where the Company makes an application tothe person responsible for maintaining such register or recordwith a copy of the certificate of incorporation certified astrue copy by a notary public, such person shall substitutethe name of the Company in such record or register.

Limitedapplicability ofsection 10 and14 of the DFCCBank Act(Chapter 165).

Consequentialamendments towritten laws &c.

8DFCC Bank (Repeal and ConsequentialProvisions) DFCC Act, No. 39 of 2014

8.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurposes of facilitating the vesting of the business of theDFCC Bank in the Company in pursuance of the provisionsof section 4.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of such publication or onsuch later date as may be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall assoon as convenient be placed before Parliament for approval.Any regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed tobe rescinded as from the date of such disapproval, but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notice of the date on which the regulation isdisapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

9.In the event the Company formed under the provisionsof this Act merges or amalgamates with any other companyunder the provisions of Part VIII of the Companies Act, No. 07of 2007 to carry on business as a licensed commercial bankunder the licence issued by the Monetary Board, section 6 ofthis Act shall mutatis mutandis continue to apply.

10.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

11.For purposes of this Act, unless the context otherwiserequires

Banking Act means the Banking Act, No. 30 of1988 as amended from time to time;

Business includes the business carried on by theDFCC Bank as a licensed specialized bank,as at the specified date;

Regulations.

Merger andamalgamation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Interpretation.

9DFCC Bank (Repeal and ConsequentialProvisions) DFCC Act, No. 39 of 2014

Company means the company referred to in theparagraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 3;

Controller of Exchange means the head of theDepartment of Exchange Control of theCentral Bank, established by the MonetaryBoard under the Exchange Control Act(Chapter 423);

DFCC Bank means the DFCC Bank establishedby the DFCC Bank Act as amended from timeto time (Chapter 165);

Director of Bank Supervision means the head ofthe Department of the Bank Supervision ofthe Central Bank of Sri Lanka established bythe Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422);

Monetary Board means the Monetary Board ofthe Central Bank of Sri Lanka establishedunder the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422);

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished by Chapter XVIIA of theConstitution;

Securities and Exchange Commission meansthe Securities and Exchange Commissionof Sri Lanka established by the Securitiesand Exchange Commission of Sri LankaAct, No. 36 of 1987;

Urban Development Authority means the UrbanDevelopment Authority established by theUrban Development Authority Law, No. 41of 1978.

10DFCC Bank (Repeal and ConsequentialProvisions) DFCC Act, No. 39 of 2014

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.