PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 20, 2009

[Certified on 17th March, 2009]

Printed on the Order of Government

ANIMALS (AMENDMENT) ACT, NO. 10 OF 2009

1Animals (Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 2009

Short title.

20033644,200 (04/2009)

[Certified on 17th March, 2009]

L. D.O. 62/2006.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE ANIMALS ACT, NO. 29 OF 1958

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Animals (Amendment)Act, No. 10 of 2009.

2.The Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958 (hereinafter referredto as the principal enactment) is hereby amended by theinsertion immediately after section 3A thereof of thefollowing new section which shall have effect as section 3AAof that enactment :

3AA. (1) Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other written law, where anoffence in relation to an animal is committedand where such offence is brought to the noticeof the Magistrate having competentjurisdiction, the Magistrate may, pending thedetermination of the case, make an interimOrder to the effect that the animal againstwhom the offence has been committed

(a) be handed into the custody of an AnimalCare Centre approved by the Minister byOrder published in the Gazette;

(b) be handed over to any non-governmentalorganization whose primary objective isconcerned with the welfare of animals; or

(c)be handed over to the custody of anyperson whom the court is satisfied, isactively engaged in caring for animals.

(2) It shall be the duty of such Animal CareCentre, non-governmental organization or

Insertion of newsection 3AA inAct No.29 of1958.

Care ofanimalsagainstwhomoffences arecommitted.

Animals (Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 20092

person as the case may be, to care for suchanimal until the final determination of theproceedings.

(3) Where the person who committed theoffence referred to in subsection (1) is convictedof such offence, the Magistrate shall in additionto the punishment he may impose in relationthereto

(a)make order that the animal beconfiscated; or

(b)make order that the animal be handedover to the owner of the animal, upon hisestablishing ownership of the animal andon the owner showing cause that theoffence was committed or was sought tohave been committed without hisknowledge or connivance.

(4) Where an order is made for theconfiscation of the animal, the Magistrate shallconfirm the interim order made undersubsection (1) and provide for the handingover of the custody and care of the animal toan approved Animal Care Centre, non-governmental organization or person referredto, respectively in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c),of subsection (1).

(5) The Minister may make regulationsspecifying

(a)the standards to be maintained by;

(b)the manner of obtaining approval andthe procedure to be followed for theestablishment of; and

3Animals (Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 2009

(c)the procedure for the monitoring andinspection of,

any animal care centre, non governmentalorganization or person referred to in paragraphs(a), (b) and (c) respectively of subsection (1)..

3. Section 3D of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the renumbering of that section as section 3E ofthat enactment.

4. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately before the section 3E of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 3D of that enactment:

3D. Any person who contravenes theprovisions of this Part of this Act or anyregulation made thereunder, shall commit anoffence and shall on conviction after summarytrail by a Magistrate be liable to a fine notexceeding fifty thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding three years or to both such fineand imprisonment..

5.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Renumbering ofsection 3D of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 3D in theprincipalenactment.

Penalty forthe offencescommittedunder Part II.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

Animals (Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 20094

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.