PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ath Session 1968-69

Government Quarters (Recovery

of Possession) Act, No. 7 of 1969

Date of Assent: April 28, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government’
and published as a Supplement to Ceylon
Government Gazette, Part Ii of i
May 15, 1969

Printed at the GOVERNMENT Press, CEYLON, To pe
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SuprerINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PusLicaTions Bureav, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issucd before the date of payment will not be supplied.


Government Quarters (Recovery of Possession)
Act, No. 7 of 1969

L. D.—O. 10/63.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE RECOVERY OF
POSSESSION OF QUARTERS PROVIDED BY OR ON
BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE OCCUPATION
OF PERSONS, AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: April 28, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present

Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the

same, as follows :—

14. This Act may be cited as the Government
Quarters (Recovery of Possession) Act, No. 7 of
1969.

2. The provisions of this Act—

_«(@) shall apply to all Government quarters; and

ca (b) shall be deemed at all times to have been, and

to be, an implied condition of the occupation
by persons of such quarters.

3. (1) A competent authority may, at any time,
serve or cause to be served on the occupier of any
Government quarters a notice stating the reasons for
the issue of such notice and requiring such occupier—

(a) to vacate such quarters together with his
dependants, if any; and

(b) to deliver vacant possession of such quarters to
such authority, or any other such competent
authority or authorized person as may be
specified in the notice,

before the expiry of such period as shall be specified
in the notice, being a period commencing on such date
as shall be so specified. The specified period shall not
in any instance be less than two months from the date

- of its commencement.

(2) Every notice under sub-section (1) issued in
respect of any Government quarters is in this Act
referred to as a ‘‘ quit notice ’’.

EE *1-B o9326—5,728 (5/69)

Short title.

Application of
Act.

Power to issue
quit notices.


Obligation to
comply with a
quit notice.

Withdrawal
or suspension
of quit
notice,

Effect of non-
compliance with
& quit notice.

2 Government Quarters (Recovery of Possession)
Act, No. 7 of 1969

(3) A quit notice issued in respect of any Govern-
ment quarters shall be deemed to have been served on
the occupier of such quarters if such notice is sent by,<
registered letter through the post to such occupier at ~
the address of such quarters.

(4) Every quit notice shall be in the form A set out
in the Schedule to this Act.

4. Where a quit notice has been served on the |
occupier of any Government quarters—

(a) neither such occupier nor any dependant of his
shall be entitled to occupy such quarters
after the expiry of the period within which
such occupier is required by such notice to
vacate such quarters ; and

(b) such occupier shall, before the expiry of that
period, deliver vacant possession of such
quarters to the authority or person to whom
he is required to do so by the quit notice, and
together with his dependants, if any, depart
from such quarters.

5. The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury may, at
any stage withdraw any quit notice or suspend its pe
operation for such period as he deems fit. |

6. (1) In any case where the occupier of any Gov-
ernment quarters fails to comply with the provisions
of paragraph (0) of section 4 in respect of any quit
notice served on him relating to any Government quar-
ters, any competent authority (whether or not he is
the competent authority who issued such notice) may
make an application in writing in the form B set out
in the Schedule to this Act to the Magistrate’s Court
having jurisdiction over the area in which such
quarters are situated—

(a) setting forth the following facts, namely—

(i) that he is a competent authority for the
purposes of this Act,

(ii) that a quit notice (a copy of which is
attached to the application) was
served on the occupier of such’
quarters,

(iii) the reason for the serving of such quit
notice on the occupier, and

, ,


Government Quarters (Recovery of Possession) 3
Act, No. 7 of 1969

(iv) that such occupier has failed to comply
with the provisions of the aforesaid ,
paragraph (b) in respect of such
notice relating to such quarters; and

(b) praying for the recovery of possession of such
quarters and for the ejectment of such occu-
pier and his dependants, if any, from such
quarters.

(2) Every application under sub-section (1) shall be
supported by an affidavit in the form C set out in the
Schedule to this Act verifying the facts set forth in
such application, and shall also be accompanied by a
capy of the quit notice.

(3) Every application supported by an affidavit and
accompanied by a copy of a quit notice under the
preceding provisions of this section is in this Act
referred to as an ‘‘ application for ejectment ’’.

(4) Every application for ejectment shall be con-
clusive evidence of the facts stated therein.

.(5) No stamp duties shall be payable for any
application for ejectment.

4

7. Upon receipt of an application for ejectment Proceedings on
in respect of any Government quarters, a Magistrate’s apiece ua
Court shall forthwith issue, and if need be reissue, a «iectment.
writ of possession to the Fiscal of the district in which
such quarters are situated requiring and authorizing
such Fiscal before a date specified in the writ, not
being a date earlier than three or later than seven clear
days from the date of the issue of such writ, to deliver
possession of such quarters to the competent authority
or other authorized person specified in the quit notice
relating to such premises. Such writ shall be sufficient
authority for the said Fiscal or any police officer
authorized by him in that behalf to enter such quarters
with such assistants as the Fiscal or such officer shall
deem necessary and to give possession accordingly,
and to eject the occupier and his dependants, if any,
from such quarters. :

c

_8. Nothing in the provisions of the Rent Restric-  Excinsion af ap.
tion Act shall apply to tho ejectment of any person in Rit Rate"

occupation of any Government quarters. tion Aol,


4 Government Quarters (Recovery of Possession)
Act, No. 7 of 1969

Interpretation. 9. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—

‘* authorized person ’’, in relation to any Govern-
ment quarters, means any person, other than
a competent authority, authorized by a quit
notice issued in respect of such quarters to
take possession of such quarters;

‘* competent authority ’? means the Deputy Secre-
tary to the Treasury, or any other public
officer authorized by such Deputy Secretary
to be a competent authority for the purposes
of this Act;

‘“‘ dependant ’’, in relation to the occupier of
Government quarters, means any person who
is dependent on the occupier, whether as
spouse, child or otherwise, and includes any
other person who is permitted by the occupier
to reside in such quarters;

‘* Government quarters’? means any building or
room or other accommodation occupied or
used for the purposes of residence which is
provided by or on behalf of the Government
to any person, and includes any land or pre*
mises in which such building or room or
other accommodation is situated, but does not
include any house provided by the Commis-
sioner for National Housing to which Part V
of the National Housing Act applies;

‘occupier ’’, in the event of the death of the per-
son who first came into occupation, includes
a dependant of that person.

SCHEDULE
Form A
Quit Notice

T, saivnsnsseaugeownnaweeamusstwsnewanaig , (state name and designation if
any) a competent authority for the purposes of the Government
Quarters (Recovery of Possession) Act, do, by virtue of the
powers vested in me by section 3 of that Act, require
YOU) ssueerrewvevsesccseeeverep seuss eeueeeeapersesaes (state name and desig-

nation if any) the occupier of Government Quarters .............60...
(state address of such quarters)—

(a) to vacate possession of such quarters together with your
dependants if any; and


Government Quarters (Recovery of Possession) 5
Act, No. 7 of 1969

_(b) to deliver vacant possession of such quarters to me*/or

stnennveseacscconespeseascconenss (state name and designation
j if any) a competent authority for the purposes of
that Act¥/Or ...ccccssccsssseceneceteeeseeeseeensereeees (state

name and designation if any),

before the expiry of a period of two months commencing on
the ...sc.se000 (state date), because ............ (state reason).

se ececcccccccccces dee ceercecececseccees

Signature and designation, if any,
of competent authority.

Date:
" Omit if inapplicable.

Form B
Application for Ejectment

FiTo the Magistrate’s Court of

(state name of such Court)

Ly dts a. ctbies, seeeeeenesseneessentpeemts , (state name and designation
if any) a competent authority for the purposes of the Govern-
ment Quarters (Recovery of Possession) Act, do, by virtue
of the powers vested in me by section 6 of that Act, by this
application—

(a) set forth the following facts, namely,—
(i) that I am such competent authority;

(ii) that a quit notice (a copy of which is attached to

this application) was served on ..... gaeeawesesaes
(state name and designation if any) the
occupier of Government Quarters
Re COCCCO eC COC oe (state address of such
quarters);

(iii) that the reason for the serving of such quit notice on
such occupier was that® .........ccccseseecseeeeeeeees
ejsioissrejazeinsidlsSlalaeeeeies 3 and

* State whether the period for which the Government quarters were given
to the occupier has expired, or whether the occupier has been transferred
from the station which qualified bim to ocenpy the Government quarters, or
whether the occupier to whom the Government quarters were originally given
bss died, or any other reason which is considered sdequate,


6 Government Quarters (Recovery of Possession)
Act, No. 7 of 1969

(iv) that such occupier has failed to comply with the
provisions of paragraph (b) of section 4 of that
Act in respect of such notice relating to such
quarters; and

(b) pray for the recovery of possession of such premises and
for the ejectment of such occupier and his dependants,
if any, from such premises.

Signature and designation, if any,
of competent authority.

Date: ....ccccccscscserscccocssessescee
Form C
Affidavit j
i
T., we onensttaein seeeeseeeresetesteeeresees , (state name and designation

if any) do, as required by section 6 of the Government Quarters
(Recovery of Possession) Act, hereby solemnly, sincerely and
truly affirm and declare—

(a) that 1 am a competent authority for the purposes of
that Act;

(b) that a quit notice (a copy of which is attached to my
application for ejectment) was served under that Act

OD. ..eeeeee RE OOOO ODO OC OCCT (state name and
designation if any) the occupier of Government
QUALLERS: .....i25 seexeneeer siemens setememeees (state address

of such quarters);

(c) that the reason for the serving of such quit notice on
such occupier was that* ...........ccsesccssecesseeeeeeeerens
susueueceuessevenssesereeseses ; and

* State whether the period for which the Government quarters were given
to the occupier bas expired, or whether the occupier has been transferred
from the station which qnalified bim to ocenpy the Governmant quarters, oF
whether the occupiar to whom the Govarnment quarters wera originally given
bas died, or any other reason which Is considered adequate,

ee, fa


Government Quarters (Recovery of Possession) 7
Act, No. 7 of 1969

(d) that such occupier has failed to comply with the pro-
visions of paragraph (b) of section 4 of that Act in
respect of such notice relating to such quarters,

re rrrrrt Sr ree rer rrr reer errr yy

Signature and designation, if any,
of deponent.

Affirmed before me by the deponent on the ..........sccccccssseeseees

Signature and designation, if any.
of person administering the
affirmation.
