PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CONVENTION ON THE SUPPRESSION OFTERRORIST FINANCING (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 3 OF 2013

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 12th February, 2013]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 15, 2013

1Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2013

2PL 0068884,090 (01/2013)

Short title.

[Certified on 12th February, 2013]

L.D.O. 30/2012.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CONVENTION ON THE SUPPRESSION OFTERRORIST FINANCING ACT, NO. 25 OF 2005.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Convention on theSuppression of Terrorist Financing (Amendment) Act,No. 3 of 2013.

2.Section 3 of the Convention on the Suppression ofTerrorist Financing Act, No. 25 of 2005 (hereinafter referredto as the principal enactment) is hereby amended asfollows:

(1)by the repeal of subsection (2A) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(2A) Any person who unlawfully and willfullyby any direct or indirect means provides orconspires to provide, material support or resourcesto any terrorist, terrorists or a terrorist organizationshall be guilty of an offence under this Act.;

(2)in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution for thewords and figures specified in subsection (1) orsubsection (2) of this section of the words andfigures specified in subsection (1), subsection (2)or subsection (2A) of this section; and

(3)in subsection (4) thereof by the substitution for thewords and figures under subsection (1) orsubsection (2) of this section,, of the words andfigures under subsection (1), subsection (2) orsubsection (2A) of this section,.

Amendment ofsection 3 of Act,No. 25 of 2005.

2Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment)

3.Section 4F of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution forthe words order him to pay a such value fine within suchperiod as may be specified by Court. of the words orderhim to pay such value as a fine within such period as may bespecified by Court..

4.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution forthe words and figures for an offence under subsection (1) orsubsection (2) of section 3, that of the words and figuresfor an offence under subsection (1), subsection (2) orsubsection (2A) of section 3, that.

5.Section 16A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression person of the following newdefinition:

terrorist means any person who

(a)directly or indirectly and willfully commitsor attempts to commit a terrorist act;

(b)participates as an accomplice in committinga terrorist act;

(c)organizes, directs or aids or abets thecommission of a terrorist act; or

(d)contributes to the commission of a terroristact by a group of persons acting with acommon purpose where the contribution ismade intentionally and with the aim offurthering the terrorist act or with theknowledge of the intention of the group tocommit a terrorist act;;

Amendment ofsection 4F of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 16A ofthe principalenactment.

3Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2013

(2)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionterrorist act and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:

terrorist act means

(a)an act which constitutes an offence withinthe scope of or within the definition of anyone of the Treaties specified in Schedule I tothis Act;

(b)any other act intended to cause death orserious bodily injury, to civilians or to anyother person not taking an active part in thehostilities, in a situation of armed conflict orotherwise and the purpose of such act, by itsnature or context is to intimidate apopulation, or to compel a government or aninternational organization, to do or to abstainfrom doing any act; or

(c)the use or threat of action

(i)which is designed to influence thegovernment or to intimidate the publicor a section of the public; and

(ii)which is made for the purpose ofadvancing a political, religious orideological purpose,

and such action,

(aa)involves serious violence against aperson;

(bb)involves serious damage to property;

(cc)endangers the life of another person,other than the person committing theaction;

4Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment)

(dd)creates a serious risk to health or safetyof the public or a section of the public;or

(ee) is designed seriously to interfere withor seriously to disrupt an electronicsystem..

6.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

5Convention on the Suppression of TerroristFinancing (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2013

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.