7National Savings Bank (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL SAVINGS BANK (AMENDMENT)ACT, No.22 OF 1999

[Certified on 12th August , 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 13, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price: Rs. 5.75Postage: Rs.3.50

[Internet Version]

1National Savings Bank (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 1999

[Certified on 12th August, 1999]

L. D. O - 8/98.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL SAVINGS BANK ACT,NO. 30 OF 1971

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the National Savings Bank(Amendment) Act, No.22 of 1999.

2.Section 3 of the National Savings Bank Act, No.30 of1971 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) ishereby amended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution,for the words The Seal of the Bank, of the wordsSubject to the provisions of subsection (4), the Sealof the Bank ; and

(2) by the addition, immediately after subsection (3) ofthat section, of the following new subsection:-

(4) Where due to sickness, temporaryabsence from Sri Lanka or there beingvacancies in the membership of the Board,affixing of the seal under subsection (3) cannotbe done in the presence of two members, theseal may be affixed to any instrument ordocument in the presence of one member andthe General- Manager of the Bank.

3.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section, andthe substitution of the following subsectiontherefor:-

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 3 of ActNo.30 of 1971.

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

H- 022545

2National Savings Bank (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 1999

(1) The Bank shall have its principal placeof business in Colombo and may have suchbranches, and may appoint such agenciesand agents as may be necessary for thetransaction of business of the Bank and mayalso appoint agents and establishrepresentative offices outside Sri Lanka forpurpose of mobilisation of deposits. and(2) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of thatsection, for the words, appoint as an agency oragent. of the words appoint as an agent. ;4.Section 6 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No.28 of 1995 is herey further amended in subsection (1)of that section, as follows:-(1)by the substitution for the words provisionsof this Act,, of the words provisions of thisAct and any other law including regulationsmade or directions issued thereunder, ;(2)in paragraph (a) of that subsection, by thesubstitution, for the words savings accountsand the issue of savings certificates; , of thewords savings certificate or any otherinstrument or product that will enable the Bankto mobilise savings; ;(3)in paragraph (e) of that subsection, by thesubstitution, for the words against thesecurity of their deposits, of the words againstthe security of their deposits or any other secu-rity or guarantee as determined by the Board;;(4)in paragraph (f) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words housing loans onsecurity, of the words housing loans or otherloans for non commercial purposes on security;(5)in paragraph (h) of that subsection, by thesubstitution, for the words acquiring anyimmovable or movable property , of the wordspurchasing, taking on lease, exchange, hiringor otherwise acquiring any immovable or mov-able property or any rights in such property ;

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment

3National Savings Bank (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 1999

(6) by the repeal of paragraph (j) of thatsubsection, and the substitution therefor of thefollowing paragraph:-(j) trading in financial instruments issued orguaranteed by financial institutions andquoted companies approved by the Board;.

(7) by the addition immediately after paragraph (j)of that subsection the following newparagraphs:-

(k) Providing re-finance facilities to licensedcommercial banks and licensed specialisedbanks, for the purpose of medium and longterm project lending;

(l) issuing letters of guarantee againstdeposits;

(m) borrowing monies from local andinternational credit institutions or agencies;

(n) conducting lotteries and prize competitions;

(o) investing in equity capital of any licensedcommercial bank, licensed specialised bank,a subsidiary of any licensed commercial bankor licensed specialised bank or in any publiccompany listed or seeking listing in a licensedstock exchange;

(p) opening of rupee accounts for non residents;

(q) collection and conversion of foreign currencyfrom depositors;

(r) providing safe custody and safe depositlocker facilities to customers;

(s) undertaking pawnbroking business subjectto such conditions as may be determined bythe Monetary Board:

(t) providing facilities for money transfers;

(u) establishing subsidiary companies with thewritten approval of the Monetary Board;

4National Savings Bank (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 1999

(v) undertaking trust and estate administration;

(w) carrying on such other activities as may beincidental or conducive to the functions andactivities referred to above.

5.Section 26 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No.28 of 1995, is hereby further amended in subsection(1) of that section by the substitution for the words GeneralManager of the Bank , of the words General Manager of theBank who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Bank.

6.The following new section is hereby inserted imme-diately after section 26 and shall have effect as section 26A ofthe principal enactment:-

26 A (1) The Board may, from time to time byresolution made in that behalf delegate to theGeneral Manager or to any other officer of theBank any of its functions or activities, subjectto such terms and conditions as may be specified in such resolution and the Board mayrevoke or withdraw any such delegation.

(2) Notwithstanding any delegation madeunder subsection (1) to the General Manageror to any other officer of the Bank, the Boardshall have the right to discharge or perform anyfunction or activity so delegated.

7.Section 41 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 28 of 1995 is hereby repealed and the followingsection is substituted therefor :-

41. Interest shall be paid by the Bank atrates to be determined by the Board, onmoneys deposited with it, including moneystransferred to the Unclaimed Deposits Reserve,for the period during which the money waslying in such Unclaimed Deposits Reserve..

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 26A inthe principalenactment.

Replacement of

Section 41 of theprincipalenactment

Delegationof powers tothe GeneralManager andany otherofficer.

Interest to be paid

5National Savings Bank (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 1999

Insertion of newsection 42 in theprincipalenactment.

8.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 41, and shall have effect as section42 of the principal enactment :-

42. the Board may make payments, otherthan interest, on such classes of accounts as itmay specify, and at such rates as it maydetermine.

9.Section 47 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No.28 of 1995 is hereby further amended in subsection(4) of that section, by the substitution, for the words Pay andamount equivalent to the amount which was in the account,to the claimant , of the words pay to the claimant an amountequivalent to the amount which was in the account togetherwith interest calculated in accordance with rates asdetermined by the Board under section 41,.

10.the following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 78, and shall have effect as section79 of the principal enactment:-

79. the provisions of the PawnbrokersOrdinance (Chapter 90) shall not apply inrespect of pawnbroking business undertakenby the Bank..

11.Section 87 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No.28 of 1995 is hereby further amended as follows:-

(1)by the insertion immediately after the definitionof the word guardian of the following newdefinition:-

licensed commercial bank and Iicensedspecialised bank shall have the same meaning,respectively as in Banking Act, No.30 of 1988,and ; and

Amendment ofSection 47 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 79 in theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 87 of theprincipalenactment.

PawnbrokersOrdinance notto apply

Paymentsotherthaninterest.

6National Savings Bank (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 1999

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

(2)by the insertion immediately after the definitionof the expression savings certificate, of thefollowing new definition:-

savings instrument or product means anyinstrument or product that will enable the Bankto mobilise savings.

12.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180(Foreign). Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the yearfollowing.