PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 03rd of September, 2018]

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 07, 2018

AMARADEVA AESTHETIC ANDRESEARCH CENTRE ACT, No. 27 OF 2018

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 16.00Postage : Rs. 35.00

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 20181

[Certified on 03rd of September, 2018]

L.D.O. 46/2017

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN AESTHETIC ANDRESEARCH CENTRE CALLED THE AMARADEVA AESTHETIC ANDRESEARCH CENTRE IN GRATITUDE OF THE LEGENDARY MUSIC ICON INSRI LANKA, LATE PANDITH WANNAKUWATTAWADUGE DONAMARADEVA; TO SPECIFY ITS OBJECTS AND POWERS AND TO PROVIDEFOR THE MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Amaradeva Aestheticand Research Centre Act, No. 27 of 2018.

2.(1) There shall be established an aesthetic and researchcentre which shall be called the Amaradeva Aesthetic andResearch Centre (hereinafter referred to as the Centre) andalso known as Amaradeva Asapuwa equipped with a researchlaboratory, an archive, a library and a museum.

(2) The Centre shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession,and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3.The general objects for which the body corporate isestablished are

(a) to secure and archive the instruments of the Centre;

(b) to facilitate research activities of graduate andpostgraduate courses on aesthetic studies; and

(c) to conduct workshops, lectures and appreciationprogrammes or any other function to promote thestyle of music of late Pandith WannakuwattawadugeDon Amaradeva (hereinafter referred to asW. D. Amaradeva).

4.The objects of the Centre shall be carried out in suchmanner so as not to create any conflict between the work ofthe Centre and any work being carried out simultaneouslyby any Ministry or Department of the Government or of anyProvincial Council or Amaradeva Foundation.

Short title.

Establishment ofAmaradevaAesthetic andResearch Centre.

General objectsof the Centre.

Centre to ensureno conflict withwork of Ministryor Departmentetc.

2Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 2018

5.(1) The administration and management of the affairsof the Centre shall be vested in a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as the Board).

(2) The Board shall consist of the following members:

(a)Ex-officio members:

(i) Secretary to the Ministry of HigherEducation or a representative of theMinistry nominated by him;

(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry to which theCentre for the time being assigned to or arepresentative nominated by him;

(iii) the Director General of the Department ofNational Archives or any personnominated by him;

(iv) Chairman of the National Library andDocumentation Services Board or anyperson nominated by him;

(v) the Director of the Department of NationalMuseums or any person nominated by him;and

(vi) the Director of the Department of CulturalAffairs or any person nominated by him.

(b)Nominated or appointed members:

(i)a member appointed by the President;

(ii)a member appointed by the PrimeMinister;

(iii)the family members of late W. D.Amaradeva namely Wimala Amaradeva,Ranjana Amaradeva, PriyanvadaAmaradeva and Subhanie Amaradeva;

Composition ofthe Board ofManagement.

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 20183

(iv)a member nominated by the AmaradevaFoundation incorporated under theCompanies Act, No. 07 of 2007; and

(v)four members, who have experience andshown capacity in the fields of aestheticsand literature, appointed by the Ministerwith the concurrence of the AmaradevaFoundation.

(3) The President shall appoint one of the members of theBoard to be the Chairman of the Board.

(4) A vacancy occurring as a result of a member appointedunder subparagraphs (i) or (ii) of paragraph (b) of subsection(2) vacating office by death, resignation or removal shall befilled by the President or the Prime Minister as the case maybe. Any person so appointed to fill a vacancy shall holdoffice for the unexpired period of the term of the predecessor.

(5) A vacancy occurring as a result of a member appointedunder subparagraph (iii) of paragraph (b) of subsection (2)vacating office by death, resignation or removal, thesuccessive member shall be appointed with the concurrenceof the majority of the remaining family members and suchappointee shall not necessarily be a family member of latePandith W. D. Amaradeva:

Provided that, where there are no family membersremaining on the Board, the successive member shall beappointed with the concurrence of the majority of themembers of the Board.

(6) A vacancy occurring as a result of a member appointedunder subparagraphs (iv) and (v) of paragraph (b) ofsubsection (2) vacating office by death, resignation, cessationof office as a member or removal shall be filled by the Boardby nominating a member from the Amaradeva Foundationor by appointing a member as the case may be for theunexpired period of the term of office.

4Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 2018

(7) The members of the Board may be paid suchremuneration out of the Fund of the Centre as may bedetermined by the Minister.

6.(1) All members specified in paragraph (b) ofsubsection (2) of section 5 shall hold office for a period ofthree years from the date of nomination or appointment:

Provided however, if any nominated or appointed membervacates his office prior to the expiry of his term, his successorshall, unless he vacates his office earlier, hold office for theunexpired period of the term of office of his predecessor.

(2) Where the Chairman or any other member of the Boardbecomes by reason of illness, infirmity or absence from SriLanka, unable to perform the duties of his office for a periodof not less than one month, another person may having regardto the provisions of section 5, be appointed to act in hisplace.

7.(1) The Director General of the Centre shall be theChief Executive Officer of the Centre and shall be appointedby the Board.

(2) The Director General shall be responsible for generalmanagement and administration of officers and employeesof the Centre.

(3) The required number of officers and employees forthe management and administration of the Centre shall bedetermined by the Board and they shall be paid suchremuneration determined by the Board in consultation withthe Minister to whom the subject of Finance is assigned.

8.(1) At the request of the Board any officer in thepublic service may with the consent of that officer and theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Centre for such period as may be determinedby the Board, or with like consent be permanently appointedto such staff.

Staff of theCentre.

Terms of officeof members ofthe Board.

Appointment ofpublic officers tothe staff of theCentre.

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 20185

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Centre, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in respect of such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Centre, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in respect of such officer.

(4) Where the Board employs any person who has agreedto serve the Government for a specified period, any periodof service to the Centre by that person shall be regarded asservice to the Government for the purpose of dischargingthe obligations of such agreement.

(5) At the request of the Board, any member of the LocalGovernment Service or any officer or servant of a localauthority may, with the consent of such member, officer orservant and the Local Government Service Commission orthe local authority, as the case may be, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Centre for such period as may bedetermined by the Board or with like consent be permanentlyappointed to such staff on such terms and conditions,including those relating to pension or provident fund rights,as may be agreed upon by the Centre and the LocalGovernment Service Commission or the Local Authority.

(6) At the request of the Board any officer or servant of apublic corporation may, with the consent of such officer orservant and the governing body of such public corporation,be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Centre for such

6Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 2018

period as may be determined by the Board or with likeconsent be permanently appointed to such staff on such termsand condidtions, including those relating to pension orprovident fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Boardand the governing body of such public corporation.

(7) Where any person is temporarily appointed to thestaff of the Centre under subsection (5) or (6) of this section,such person shall be subject to the same disciplinary controlas any other member of such staff.

9.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Centre shall have the power

(a)to accept and receive books, documents, files,photographs, films, disks, audio and video tapes,significant personal belongings and souvenirs ofthe childhood and youth of late Pandith W. D.Amaradeva, his creations and collections withpersonal interest, official portraits, grants, awardsand gifts received by him to be deposited, and totake all measures to secure, archive, administer andexhibit those instruments;

(b)to purchase, lease and rent, lands or buildings whichmay be required for the purposes of the Centre andto transfer, sell or exchange of the same as may bedeemed expedient with a view to promoting theobjects of the Centre;

(c)to construct and renovate any building required forthe objects specified herein;

(d)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Powers of theCentre.

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 20187

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Centre;

(e)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instruments,and to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(f)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the Centre, in such manner asmay be determined by the Centre;

(g)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust or any real or personalproperty of the Centre with a view to promoting theobjects of the Centre;

(h)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the Centre and exercisedisciplinary control over them and to pay them suchsalaries, allowances and gratuities in terms of thewritten laws;

(i)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of the Centre;

(j)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of theCentre; and

(k)to do all other things as are necessary or expedientfor the proper and effective carrying out of theobjects of the Centre.

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 20188

10.(1) It shall be lawful for the Board, from time totime, at any general meeting and by a majority of not lessthan two-thirds of the members present and voting, to makerules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or anyother written law, for all or any of the following matters:

(a)admission, expulsion or resignation of members andany other matter relating to membership;

(b)the qualifications or disqualifications to be a memberof the Board;

(c)the procedure to be followed for the summoning andholding of meetings of the Centre and of the Board,the quorum of such meeting and the exercise andperformance of the powers and duties of the Board;

(d)the appointment, powers, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and employees of the Centre;and

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Centre.

(2) Any rule made by the Board may be amended, altered,added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner, asa rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be publishedin the Gazette.

(4) The members of the Board shall at all times be subjectto the rules of the Centre.

11.(1) The Centre shall have its own Fund called andknown as Amaradeva Asapuwa Development Fund(hereinafter referred to as the Fund) and all moneysheretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,

Fund of the Centre.

Rules of the Centre.

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 20189

bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees orgrants for and on account of the Centre shall be deposited tothe credit of the Fund in one or more banks as the Boardshall determine.

(2) All such sums of money as are required to defray theexpenses incurred by the Centre in the exercise, performanceand discharge of the powers, duties and functions of theCentre shall be paid out of the Fund.

12.Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Centre shallbe able and capable in law to acquire and hold any property,both movable and immovable, which may become vested init by virtue of any purchase, grant, lease, gift, testamentarydisposition or otherwise and all such property shall be heldby the Centre for the purposes of this Act and subject to therules made under section 10, with power to sell, mortgage,lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the same.

13.The moneys and property of the Centre howeverderived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of itsobjects as setforth herein and no portion thereof shall be paidor transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bouns,profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of the Board.

14.(1) If upon the dissolution of the Centre thereremains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Board but shall begiven or transferred to some other institution or institutionshaving objects similar to those of the Centre which is or areby its or their rules, prohibited from distributing any incomeor property among their members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the appropriateinstitution or institutions shall be determined by the membersof the Board immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

Centre may holdproperty movableand immovable.

Application ofmoney andproperty.

Property remainingon dissolution.

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 201810

15.(1) The Centre shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Centre.

(2) The financial year of the Centre shall be the calendaryear.

(3) The accounts of the Centre shall be audited annuallyby the Auditor-General or a qualified auditor appointed bythe Auditor-General in terms of the provisions of Article 154of the Constitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section qualified auditormeans:-

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate issued by the Council of such Institute topractice as an accountant; or

(b)a firm of accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by Law, possesses a certificateissued by the Council of such Institute to practiceas an accountant.

16.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the Centre for each financial year and submit such reporttogether with the audited statement of accounts to theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom the Centrefor the time being is assigned before the expiration of sixmonths of the year succeeding the year to which such reportrelates.

Audit of Accounts.

Annual report.

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 201811

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign andlocal funds received by the Centre during the financial yearshall be attached to the report referred to in subsection (1).

17.(1) The seal of the Centre shall not be affixed to anyinstrument whatsoever except in the presence of such numberof persons as may be provided for in the rules made undersection 10 who shall sign their names to the instrument intoken of their presence and such signing shall be independentof the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the Centre shall be in the custody ofthe persons as may be determined by the rules made undersection 10.

18.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofmatters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect ofwhich regulations are authorized to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall beplaced before the Parliament within three months from thedate of publication of such regulation in the Gazette.

(4) A notification specifying the date on which theParliament has approved the regulation shall be published inthe Gazette. Any regulation which is not so approved shallbe deemed to be rescinded from the date of disapproval butwithout prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

Regulations.

Seal of the Centre.

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 201812

Savings of therights of theRepublic.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

19.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic of any body politic orcorporate.

20.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-

Aesthetics means fine arts including music, dancing,art, sculpture and the literary arts including poems,short stories, novels and any activity in the fieldof cinema; and

Minister means the Minister of the Ministry to whomthe Centre is assigned to.

21.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Interpretation.

Amaradeva Aesthetic and Research CentreAct, No. 27 of 201813

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.