PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

NATIONAL HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL OF
SRI LANKA
ACT, No. 18 OF 1997

t

[Certified on 12th August, 1997]
Printed on the Order of Government
\
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 15, 1997

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price : Rs, 12.50 Postage : Rs. 4.60


National Human Resources Development Council
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

(Certified on 12th “fugest 1997] yay!
L.D.—O 19/96.

a 3 he See Bees 5

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL
HuMAN Resources DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL OF SRI LANKA,
FOR THE PURPOSE OF INITIATING, PROMOTING, AND PARTICIPATING
IN THE IMPLIMENTATION OF, POLICIES RELATING TO HUMAN
RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTIAL THERETO. ts

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:. —

1. This Act may be cited as the Natioiial Hunan Resources
Development Council of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of | 997.

PART 1 te? eit

THE NATIONAL Human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT Counc. OF
. SRI LANKA.

-”

2. ( 1) There shall be established a Council which shall be
called the National Human Resources Development Council
of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Council”).

(2) The Council shall, by the name assigned to it by

subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession

and a common seal and may sue and be sued in that name.

3. (1) The. coun aatal consist of the following

members : Ties asf avn dite AIead P.

(a) ‘the Secretiry i to she Ministry of the Minister in charge
92% of the subject of Education.and Higher Education ;
(b). the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge

of the subject of Finance; — .

”~
~~

(c) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the Subject of Health ;

(d) ‘the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Science, and Technology ; :
(e) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Labour ;
2—D 042362—8,550 (96/11)

Short title.

Establishment of
the National
Human Re-
sources
Development
Council of Sn
Lanka.

Constitution
of the
Council.


2 ,. National Human Resources Development Council
, of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

(f) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge
‘of the subject of Public Administration ;

@) the Chairman of the National | : Education
iawexrs” Commission ;: ay es eee Cyt

1h) the Secretary to the seidtaisee> of the Ministers in charge
“of the subject of Youth Affairs ; |

_@ i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister i in charge
“of the subject of Industrial Development ;

. moO} the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge
—_ of the subject of Agriculture ;

(k) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister i in recharge
ASG Of the: subject of Plan Implementation ; :

ae the ‘Chairman of the Tertiary and Vocational Educa-
tion Commission established by the Tertiary and
Vocational Education Act, No. 20 of 1990 ;

¥ “(m) the Chairman of the National Apprentice and Indus-
trial Training Authority establishice by | the Act,
vie” 1 No. 20 of 1990 ; |
Mn) the Chairman of the University Grants Commission
~ established by the Universities Act No. 16 of 1978 ;

" a) the Director-General of Tertiary Education and Voca-
ii _ tonal Education appointed under the Act No. 20 of
~'1990 ; and

"1:“(p).five other members appointed by the Minister from

among persons who have had experience or have

sti «i qualifications, or shown capacity, in the fields of

. education; health, employment; development oF

_ research, and at least two of whom shall be persons

“~ "employed in the private sector. (A member ap-

pointed under this paragraph is hereinafter referred
Sythe i to-as“‘an appointed member)" Se) SG

(2) Aperson shall be disqualified com being 2 iced or
“from continuing as a member of the Council if he is or
becomes a Member of Parliament, a Member of 2 a Provincial
-Council or a Member of any local autho T

tak ets


i National Human Resources Development Council . 3
- of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

4. The Minister may remove an appointed member of the

Council without assigning any reason therefor,and the: re-

moval of the member of the Council shall not be called in
question in any court.

* §. (1) An appointed member af the Council may, at any
time, resign his office by letter addressed to the Minister, and
such resignation shall not take effect until the Minister inti-
mates in writing to such member that such resignation has
been accepted.

(2) Where an appointed member of ihe Council dies,
resigns or is removed from office, the Minister may, having
regard to the provisions of section 3, appoint another person
in place of such member, and the person so appointed shall,
_ unless he earlier dies, resigns or is removed from office, hold
. Office for the unexpired period of the term of ein ice of the
member whom he succeeds. ae aa

6. Where an appointed member of the Council is by
reason of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a
_ period of not less than three months, temporarily. unable
to perform the duties of his office, it shall be the duty: of
such a member to inform the Minister in writing of such
inability. The Minister may, having regard to the provisions
of section.3, appoint another person to act in his place.

7. (1) Amember of the Council referred to in paragraphs
(2), (b),(c), (d), (e), (A (8), (A), )s Gs (K), D, (am), () and (0)
of subsection'(1) of section 3 shall hold office so long as he

holds the office by. virtue of. which he is a neni ot the
wouticls } a, gira 2 se ‘

* (2) Subject to ne provisions of sections 4 and 5, the term
of office of an appointed member of the Council shall be four
years, 7 |

fs igs gt

(3): An appointed member of ite + Council, who vacates
office by effluxion of time, shall be eligible for reappoint:
ment.
8° The Minister shall, with ha cGncarrence of the Minister
_ in charge of the subject of Finance, determine the remunera-
‘tion payable to the members of the Council. :

Power of the
Ministerto |...
remove from
office an
appointed member
of the Council.
Resignation of
appointed
members &c.

Temporary
appointments of
members of the ,
Council

Term of office of
ex-officio
members &c.

Remuneration of
the members of
the Council.


“4 National ‘Human Resources Development Council
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997
9, (1) The Minister shall appoint a Chairman of the Coun-

cil (hereinafter referred to as “the Chairman’) from amongst
“1 © the appointed members of the Council: IN

Chairman of
the Council.’ _

(2) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairman
“by letter addressed to the Minister and such resignation shall
- take effect upon‘its acceptance by the Minister.
“ (3) The Minister may, without assigning reason therefor,
“ remove the Chairman from office-and such removal shall not
be questioned in court. |

‘*"“" (4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of
- this section, the term of office of the Chairman shall be his
period of membership of the Council. —

(S) Where the Chairman, by reason of illness or other
“infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, is temporarily unable to
" perform the duties of his office the Minister may, having due
regard to the provisions of subsection (1), appoint another

.,¥ «appointed member of the Council to act in his place.

Meetings of “© 10. (1) TheChairman shall preside at every meeting of the
the Council.” Council. In the absence of the Chairman from any meeting of
nt". the Council, the members present at such meeting shall elect

. from. among themselves a Chairman for that meeting. .

(2) The Minister shall appoint a Secretary of the Council,
who shall be responsible for the maintenance ofall records
and of the proceedings of the Council. 0... 4

»\1.(3) The.quorum. for any meeting of the Council, shall be
_ one-third of the total number of members of the Council.
uti (4) Any question arising for decision at any meeting of the
Council shall be decided by a majority of the votes of the
members present and voting. In the event of an equality of
‘votes, the Chairman or the member presiding at'such meeting
‘shall, in addition-to his vote, have a casting vote.

(5) Subject to the preceding provision of this section, the

, Council may regulate the procedure to be-followed in regard

_ to its meetings, and-the transaction of business at such meet-
ings. :

-

—

_, (6) No act or decision or proceeding of the Council shall
be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence ofa
~ Vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment

of a member thereof. -° 2“


National Human Resources Development Council © 5
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

11.’ (1) The seal of the Council shall bein rine Custody of the
Council.

(2) The seal of the Council a be altered in such manner
as may be determined by the Council.

(3) The seal of the Council shall not be affixed to any
instrument except in the presence of two members of the
Council and the Secretary all of whom shall sign the instru-
ment or document in token of their presence.

12. (1) The Minister may from time to time issue to the
Council such special or general directions as he may deem
necessary as to the discharge of its functions, and the exercise
of its powers, by the Council.

(2) The Minister may from time to time direct the Council
to furnish such information as he may deem necessary relating
to its functions.

13. Provincial Councils and the Local Government
Authorities may, in formulating their policies and strategies
on Human Resources ae vceme ny act in consultation with
the Council.

PART II

Duties, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF THE COUNCIL

14.(1) The duties and functions of the Council shall be—

_, fi) to advise the Minister on national human resources

.. policy in all its aspects, including the rationalization

and co-ordination of sectoral human resources
development concerning, or related to—

(a) employment, training and education ;
‘1, (b) the application of Science and Technology ;
'(c) the enhancement of the quality of life ;.
(d) the designing of social protection for disadvan-
- ‘taged groups of persons ; and
= (e) maintaining entitlements with economic

reforms ;
3—D 042362

Seal of the
Council.

Directions.

Development
Policy.

Duties and
Functions of
the Council.


Powers of
Ministers not
to be affected,

Powers of the
Council,

' 6 © National Human Resources Development Council

‘Of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

(ii) to make recommendations to the Minister, on plans
and programmes on human resources development,
in accordance with the national policy, for submis-
sion to the Government ;

(ili) to review and examine, periodically, the national
human resources development policy, plans and
programmes in.operation and where necessary, to
recommend to the Minister, changes in such policy,
plans and programmes ;

(iv) to monitor the implementation of human resources
development plans and programmes approved by
the Government ; and

(v) to implement any project related to any subject re-
ferred to in the Schedule to this Act, provided that,
where such project relates to a subject which has
been assigend to any other Minister, implementation
shall be with the concurrence of that other Minister ;
and ; wa

_(vi) to do all such other acts which in the opinion of the
Council are necessary for, or conducive or incidental
to , human resources development in accordance
with the national objectives.

(2) The Council shall, in the discharge of its functions
under this section have special regard to the subjects referred
to in the Schedule to this Act, and it shall work in consultation
with the relevant department or institution of the Ministry to
which such subject has been assigned.

15. Nothing in this Act shall affect, or be deemed to affect
or prejudice, the powers exercisable by the Minister in charge
of any subject or function relating to human resources devel-
opment or by a public officer, under any written law on any
matter referred to in section 14. :

16. (1) The Council shall have the power to do all such acts
as may be necessary for the discharge of all or any of its

_functions,

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred on the Council by subsection (1), the Council shall
have the power—


National Human Resources Development Council 7

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(A)

~@

of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

lo carry out such surveys, investigations studies and
research as may be necessary for the discharge of the
functions of the Council ;.

to conduct public or private hearings with a view to
ascertaining the opinion of experts, professionals or
the general public, on matters relating to human
resources development ;

to establish and maintain liaison with international
agencies and other organizations outside Sri Lanka
discharging functions similar to those discharged by
the Council ;

to enter into and perform, all such contracts and
agreements as may be necessary for the discharge of
its functions under this Act :

to arrange for the conduct of human resources
development research by Institutions or individuals
either in Sri Lanka or abroad ;

to establish and maintain an information data bank on
human resources development and related fields in
Sri Lanka and in other countries ;

to open and maintain, current, savings or deposit
accounts, in any bank or banks ;

to accept and receive. grants and donations, both
movable and immovable ; |

to take such steps as may be necessary to advance the
skills of its officers. with a view to developing a pool
of expertise in all aspects of human resources
development ;

(j) to appoint such committees, expert groups and advi-

* sory bodies as may be necessary for the effective
discharge of its functions ; fire |


Chief
Executive
Officer.

Secretary of
the Council.

8 National Human Resources Development Council

of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997 —

“ (k) tocall for, and obtain such information as the Council

may deem necessary including statistics and data

from Ministries, Government departments, public

corporations, statutory boards, Provincial Councils,
“ local authorities and private sector establishments +
‘and i al

(1) to adopt all measures, which in the opinion of the
Council are considered necessary for, conducive or
incidental to, the discharge, exercise and performance,
of the functions, powers and duties of the Council.

PART ITI
STAFF OF THE COUNCIL

17. (1) The Chairman shall be the chief executive officer
of the Council.

(2) The Chairman shall be responsible for the preparation
of the agenda for the meetings of the Council and the submission
for the consideration of the Council, of policies and measures
considered by him to be necessary for the purpose of giving

‘effect to the principles and piovasions of the Act.

(3) The Council may by resolution, delegate to the

"Chairman any of the powers conferred on it by this Act (other

than the power conferred on it by this subsection) and in the
exercise of any such power delegated to him, the Chairman
Shall be subject to the general direction of the Council.

(4) The Chairman shall notwithstanding that he is the chief
executive officer of the Council, be deemed not to be a

- member of the staff of the Council.

18. “) There shall be couoluted a Secretary of the
Council, who shall be called the Secretary of the National
Human Resources Development Council of Sri Lanka (in this
Act referred to as “the Secretary”) and who shall also be in
charge of the Council’s Secretariat.


National Human Resources Development Council 9

of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

(2) The Secretary shall keep arecord of the meetings of the

Council and shall be entitled to speak at such meetings but

Shall not be entitled to vote thereat. -

(3) The Secretary shall exercise such powers as are.

delegated to him by the Council.

(4) In the exercise of his powers under this section, the
Secretary shall have the power to make such orders as may
seem to him to be necessary.

(5) The Council shall have the power to amend, revise or
revoke any order made by the Secretary.

19. (1) The Council may, subject to the provisions of this
Act—

(a) appoint such officers and servants as it considers
necessary for the exercise or discharge of the powers
and functions of the Council and may exercise

' disciplinary control over, or dismiss such officers or
servants ;

(b) fix the wages or salary or other remuneration of such
officers and servants ;

(c) establish and regulate a provident fund or pension
scheme for the benefit of such officers and servants
and make contributions to any such fund or scheme.

(2) Rules may be made under this Act in respect of all
matters referred to in subsection (1).

20. (1) Atthe request of the Council, any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed to
the staff of the Council for such period as may be determined
by the Council with like consent, or be permanently appointed
to such staff.

Appointment
of the staff of
the Council.

Appointment
of officers in
the public
service to the
staff of the
Council.


Fund of the
Council.

Payment out
of the Fund.

Financial
year of the
Council.

10 National Human Resources Development Council
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to such officer.

PART IV

FINANCE
21. (1) The Council shall have its Fund.
2) There shall be oaidlt to the Fund of the Council —

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time to
time by Parliament for the use of the Council ;

(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Council in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions ;

~ (c) all such sums of money as may be received by way of
loans, donations, gifts or grants.

22. There shal] be paid out of the Fund of the Council all
sums of money required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the Council in the exercise and discharge of its powers and
functions under this Act and all such sums of money as are
required or authorised to be paid out of the Pune of the Council
by or under this eee

23. The Financial: year of the Council shall be the 3 éslendat
year,


National Human Resources Development Council 11
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

24. The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall
apply to the audit of the accounts of the Council. :

PART V
GENERAL

25. Every member of the Council and all officers and
servants of the Council shall before entering upon his duties
Sign a declaration pledging himself to observe strict secrecy
respecting all matters connected with the working of the
Council, and shall by such declaration pledge himself not to
disclose any matters which may come to his knowledge in the
discharge of his duties and functions, except —

(a) when required to do so by a court of law, or

(6) in order to comply with any of the provisions of this
Act.

26. (1) For the purpose of enabling the Council to exercise
and discharge any of its powers and functions under this Act,
the Council or any person authorized in that behalf by the
Council may, by notice in writing require any person to
furnish to the Council or to the person authorized by the
Council, within such period as may be specified in the notice,
such returns or information as shall be specified in such notice
or require any person to be present at any hearing to be
conducted by the Council or any person authorized in that
behalf by the Council, and to furnish such information as may
be required, by the Council or such person.

(2) It shall be the duty of any person who is required by a
notice under subsection (1) of this section, to furnish any
return or information or to be present at any hearing and to
Provide any information to comply with the requirements of
such notice within the period specified in such notice, except
where such person is prohibited from furnishing such returns
or information under the provisions of any law.

Audit of
accounts of
the Council.

Declaration
of secrecy.

Retums and
Information


12° National Human Resources Development Council
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

(3) No information contained in a return furnished under
subsection (1) of this section, in compliance with the
requirements of a notice issued under this section shall be
published or communicated by the Council to any other
person except with the consent of the person furnishing such
return or information or in the course of the exercise and
discharge of the powers or functions of the Council.

Offences, 27. (1) Every person who—

(a) fails orrefuses to comply with the requirements of any
notice sent to him under section 26 ;

_ (b), knowingly makes any false or incorrect statement in

| any return or information furnished by him, in
compliance with the requirements of a notice sent to
him under section 26 ;

(c) knowingly makes any false or incorect statement in
any information furnished by him at any hearing
conducted by the Council or by a person authorized
by' the Council ; or

(d) being a member or officer or servant of the Council,

| discloses any information obtained by him or coming

Ot to his knowledge,in, or in connection with, the

exercise of his powers or discharge of his functions

“ under this Act, to any person for any purpose other

| \ than for a purpose for which he is authorized to
disclose such information by this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Every person guilty of an offence under this Act, shall
on conviction after trial brfore a Magistrate, be liable to a fine
not exceeding ten thousand rupees.

(3) Where an offence under this Act is s committed by a
body of persons, then,— -

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director or officer of that body corporate, or

(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of that
firm,

shall be deemed to be auillty, of that offence


National Human Resources Development Council 13
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

Provided, however, that a director or an officer of
such body corporate or partner of such firm shall be
deemed not to be guilty of such offence, if he proves
that such offence was committed without his
knowledge or that he used all diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.

28. No suit or prosecution shall lie against any member,
offi:er or servant of the Council for any act which is in good
faithdone, or purported to be done, by him under this Act, or
on ihe direction of the Council. ‘

29. ¢! )The Minister may make reguilltiOn’ for the purpose
of giving effect to the principles and provisions of this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be pub-
lished inthe Gazette and shall come into operation on the date
of such publication or on such later date as may be specifed in
the regultion.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenitnt after publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parlizment for approval. Any regulation which is not so
approved shill be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of
its disapproval but without prejudice to anything done there-
under.

(4) Notificaion of the date on which any revelation made
by the Minister isso deemed to be rescinded, shall be published
in the Gazette.

30. All members, officers and servants of the Council
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of
and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

31. The Council’ shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bridery Act, and. the
Provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

| iy '

i
t

Protection for
action taken
under this Act
or on the
direction of
the Council.

Regulations.

Members,
officers, servants
of the Council
deemed to be
public servants.

The Council
deemed to be
a Scheduled
Institution
within the
meaning 0
the Bribery
Act.


14 National Human Resources Development Council
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

Sinhala text to ' 32. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

Prevail incase of ~~ and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
inconsistency, :

Interpretation. 33. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Establishment” means any place where industry, trade,
business or profession is carried on;

‘ “Human Resources Development” includes economic znd
Pp
social development activities related to—

(a) manpower utilization, employment genera‘ion,
education and training for skills development;

(b) application of scienceand technology for prodiction
of economic goods and services ; and

(c) enhancement of the quality of life with improved

nutrition, shelter, health care, and other basic

~ needs, environmental protection and social se-
curity ;

“local authority " means any Municipal Courcil, Urban

_ Council or Pradeshiya Sabha, and includes ary Authority

created and established by or under any lav to exercise,

perform or discharge powers, duties aid functions

" corresponding to, or similiar to, the powers, duties and

functions exercises, performed or discharged by any
such Council or Sabha ;

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of
Human Resources Development.;

“National Education Commission” means the National
Education Commission established by the National
Education Commission Act, No. 19 of 1991 ;

“ Provincial Council ” means a Provincial Council
established by Chapter XVIIA of the Constitution ;

“ public corporation ” means any corporation, board or

1 Other body which was or is established by or under any
written law with funds or capiial wholly or partly
provided by Government, by wey of grant, loans or
otherwise.


National Human Resources Development Council 15
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

SCHEDULE I ~ (SEcTION 14)

¢ ] y Governance: 5
1.1 Responsible participation by the people in
Governance by increasing their access to
information and awareness so that they will
be able to make well-informed decisions.

1.2 The provision of opportunities for produc-
tive economic and social participation by
the people.

1.3 Improvement of human resources utilization
in the public and private sectors.

1.4 Women’s participation in the economic, so-
cial and political life of the country.

1.5 The maximum use of government
facilities at the central and provincial
levels for the development of human
resources.

(2) Education :

2.1 Functional literacy and universal basic edu-
cation.

' 2.2 The development of secondary and tertiary
_, education systems.

2. 3 ‘The establishment of appraptiate post-
graduate educational and research institu-
tions to meet the developmental needs of
the country.

Voie) -

2.4 The development of a distance education
..,, hetwork.

2.5 The development and functioning of appro-
priate centres of vocational and skills
training and their co-ordination to meet the
developmental needs of the country.


16° National Human Resources Development Council
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

- (3) Employment :

3.1 Matching labour force training with employ-
ment requirements, and upgrading labour
skills to be. commensurate with industriali-

zation trends. . 2.9

3.2 Unemployment and underemployment
trends, and identification of their causes.

3.3. Promotion of small and medium enterprises,

- the strengthening of informal sector to
enhance its absorptive capacity for unskilled
and semi-skilled labour.

3.4 Employment opportunities overseas and the
exploration of possibilities of training
personnel to utilize these opportunities fully.

(4) Science and Technology : |
| 4.1 Upgrading of scientific and technological
_ Skills among the youth.

_ 4.2 Introduction. of Computer Technology to

‘*- youth. sh
4.3 Promotion of the development of computer
skills so as to make use of software market

possibilities.

4.4 Widening of access to electronic
communications and information systems.
_ 4.5 The problems of the brain drain and assistance
in improving the conditions under which
science and technology personnel function.

ae (5) Entitlements :

at!

5.1 The formulation of successful poverty
alleviation strategies.
5.2 The designing of social protection measures
- for disadvantaged groups.
5.3 Ensuring that all disadvantaged social groups
_ gain access to their entitlements.
5.4 Minimizing gender discrimination and
thereby reducing the. waste of human
4 fesources potential. ,


National Human Resources Development Council 17
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1997

(6) Population:

6.1 Demographic changes and related issues of
social disintegration.

6.2 Rural urban migration and its consequences
such as overcrowding and poverty.

6.3 The break up of the extended family and the
impact of the increase of nuclear and single

parent families.

6.4 The problem of the commercial exploitation
'_ of sex, including child prostitution.

6.5 The problems of drug addiction and the spread
of sexually transmitted diseases.

6.6 Responsible parenthood among the youth.
