PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
4th Session 1968-69

Institute of Surveying and
Mapping Act, No. 21
of 1969

Date of Assent: June 25, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government
and published as a Supplement to Ceylon Government Gazette,
Part II of July 4, 1969

Printed at the DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, CeyLon. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, CoLtomso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.


Institute of Surveying and Mapping Act,
No. 21 of 1969

L. D. -0. 8/54.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN.

INSTITUTE OF SURVEYING AND MAPPING AND FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH.

[Date of Assent: June 25, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
and the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority:
of the same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Institute of
Surveying and Mapping Act, No. 21 of 1969.

2. There shall be established an Institute which
shall be called the Institute of Surveying and
Mapping, hereafter in this Act referred to as “‘ the
Institute ”’.

8. The functions of the Institute shall be—

(a) to provide instruction in surveying, levelling
and mapping;

(b) to hold examinations for the purpose of

ascertaining the persons who have acquired
’ proficiency in surveying, levelling and
mapping;

(c) to grant diplomas to persons who have pursued
approved courses of study in the Institute
and who have passed the examinations of
the Institute. .

4, (1) During the period commencing on the date
of enactment of this Act and ending on February 20,
1971, the affairs of the Institute shall be administered
and the functions of the Institute shall be discharged
by the Government Project Representative in consul-
tation with the Project Manager.

(2) The Government Project Representative may
assign to the Project Co-Manager the functicns and
duties to be carried out by him. In the discharge of
his functions and duties, the Project Co-Manager shall
be subject to the general direction and control of the
Government Project Representative.

J 339—3,508 (1/69)

Bhort title.

Establishment

of Institute
of Surveying
and Mapping.

Functions of
the Institute.

Administration
of the

affaire of the
Institute.


2 Institute of Surveying and Mapping Act,
No. 21 of 1969

(3) After the expiry of the period referred to in
sub-section (1), the affairs of the Institute shall be
administered and its functions shall be discharged by
such officer of the Survey Department as is appointed
for the purpose by the Survevor-General. The officer
sO appointed shall administer the affairs of the
Institute and discharge its functions subject to the
general or special directions of the Surveyor-General.

#

Advisory and 5. (1) For the purpose of advising the person who
on ama under this Act is responsible for administering the

affairs of the Institute and for discharging its:
_ functions, there shall be a Board to be called and
* known as the Advisory and Co-ordinating Board.

(2) (a2) During the period commencing on the date
of enactment of this Act and ending on February 20,
1971, the Advisory and Co-ordinating Board shall

~ consist of—

ary

(i) the Government Project Representative;

(ii) the Director of Foreign Aid or his represen-
tative;

(iii) the Director-General of Education or his repre-
sentative; rs e

.; mat
(iv) the Resident Representative of the United
Nations Development Programme in Ceylon
or his representative ;

(v) the Project Mauager;
(vi) the Project Co-Manager; and

(vii) not more than two members appointed by the
Minister from persons who have wide
experience and knowledge of matters relating
to surveying and levelling and the functions
of the Institute and who are uot practising
surveyors or levellers.

(b) After the expiry of the period referred to in
aragraph (@) of this sub-section, the Advisory an
so-ordiuating Board shall consist of—

(i) the Surveyor-General,
(ii) the officer of the Survey Department appointed
: by the Surveyor-General to administer the

affairs of the Institute and to discharge its
functions,


Institute of Surveying and Mapping Act, 3
No. 21 of 1969

(iii) the Director-General of Education or his
representative,

=

™ (iv) not more than two members appointed by the
Minister from persons who have wide
experience and knowledge of matters relating
to surveying and levelling and the functions
of the Institute and who are not practising
surveyors or levellers.

(3) The members of the Advisory and Co-ordinating
Board shall elect a Chairman from among its members.

(4) The Minister may, without assigning a reason,
remove from office a member of the Advisory and Co-
ordinating Board appointed under sub-paragraph
(vii) of paragraph (a) of sub-section (2) or under sub-
paragraph (iv) of paragraph (6) of that sub-section.

(5) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (6) the
Advisory and Co-ordinating Board may regulate the
procedure in regard to the meetings of the Board and
the transaction of business at such meetings.

(6) The person referred to in sub-paragraph (iv)
‘af paragraph (a) of sub-section (2) and the person
referred to in sub-paragraph (v) of that paragraph
may speak but shall not be entitled to vote on any
question coming up for decision at a meeting of the
Advisory and Co-ordinating Board.

6. There shall be a fund of the Institute into
which shall be paid—

(2) any gifts or donations received for the purposes
of the Institute;

(b) all moneys voted out of the Consolidated Fund
of Ceylon for the purposes of the Institute,
and

(c) any other moneys that the Minister may direct
to be so paid.

~. 7. No disbursement shall be made out of the fund
except on the authority of the Government Project
Representative in consultation with the Project
Manager.

Fund of the
Institute.

Disbursement
of moneys of
the fund.


o

.

Acconnts of
the Institute

* Loan to the

ry

Tnstitute of

the’ Government

Training
School for
Surveyors.

¢

Annual report.

Interpretation.

4 Institute of Surveying and Mapping Act,

No. 21 of 1969

8. (1) The accounts of the Institute shall be main-
tained by the Project Co-Manager in such manner as
the Treasury may direct. ay

(2) The accounts of the Institute shall be annually
audited by the Auditor-General if necessary with the
assistance of a qualified auditor.

9. The land, buildings, furniture and fixtures and
any other property used for the maintenance of the
Survey Department’s Training School for Surveyors
at Diyatalawa shall be loaned to the Institute of
Surveying and Mapping on such terms and conditions
and for such period as may be determined by the
Minister.

10. (1) The Government Project Representative
shall submit to the Minister a report of the work of the
Institute and the audited statement of accounts as
soon as may be after the completion of each financial
year.

(2) The report of the Government Project
Representative together with the statement of
accounts and the comments of the ed ay Era
thereon shall be tabled in the Senate and the Housé
of Representatives.

11. In this Act—

‘* Government Project Representative ’’ means the
Surveyor-General ;
‘* Project Co-Manager’’ means the person

appointed by the Government, in consultation
with the Executive Agency namely, the ,
United Nations Organization, as Co-
Manager of the Project known as the
Institute of Surveying and Mapping,
Diyatalawa; and
‘* Project Manager ’’ means the person appointed
by the United Nations Organization, in
consultation with the Government, as Leader,
of the International Team assisting the
Project known as the Institute of Surveying
and Mapping, Diyatalawa.
