PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 45.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 18, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th of November, 2022]

JUDICATURE (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 34 OF 2022

1Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

Short title anddate ofoperation

L.D.O. 45/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE JUDICATURE ACT, NO. 2 OF 1978

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Judicature(Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operationon such date or dates as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

(3) Different dates may be appointed for bringing intooperation different provisions of this Act.

2. Section 2 of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978,(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor :-

2.The Courts of First Instance for theadministration of justice in the Republic of SriLanka shall be-

(a)the High Court of the Republic ofSri Lanka;

(b)the High Courts for the Provincesestablished by Article 154P of theConstitution;

(c)the District Courts;

(d)the Family Courts;

(e)the Small Claims Courts;

(f)the Magistrates Courts; and

(g)the Primary Courts..

Replacement ofsection 2 of Act,No. 2 of 1978

The Courtsof FirstInstance

[Certified on 17th of November, 2022]

2Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor: -

5. (1) There shall be in each judicial districtof Sri Lanka a District Court which shall bedeemed to be the Family Court whenexercising the jurisdiction vested in a FamilyCourt under this Act or any written law, andwhich shall be deemed to be the Small ClaimsCourt when exercising the jurisdiction vestedin a Small Claims Court under this Act or anyother written law, and in every judicial divisionthere shall be a Magistrates Court and aPrimary Court and, each such Court shall beholden by and before a person to be called theDistrict Judge, Judge of the Family Court,Judge of the Small Claims Court,Magistrate and Judge of the Primary Courtrespectively.

(2) Each Court referred to in subsection (1)may be held at such convenient place or placeswithin such judicial district or division, as thecase may be, as the Minister shall, by regulationfrom time to time appoint:

Provided that nothing in this section shallbe construed to restrict or curtail the powerpossessed by every Judge to hold the Court atany convenient place within his territorialjurisdiction..

4. Section 5B of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor: -

Replacement ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactmentDistrictCourts,FamilyCourts, SmallClaimsCourts,MagistratesCourts andPrimaryCourts

Replacement ofsection 5B of theprincipalenactment

3Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

5B. (1) The Judicial Service Commissionshall appoint a judicial officer from among theDistrict Judges and Magistrates to be calledthe Pre-Trial Judge, to any one or more Courtof First Instance exercising civil jurisdiction,where the Judicial Service Commission is ofthe opinion that such appointment is required.

(2) The Pre-Trial Judge shall attend to anddeal with pre-trial conferences as specified inthe provisions of the Civil Procedure Code(Chapter 101) and post-trial matters assignedby the Judicial Service Commission whichhave arisen in the course of a civil proceedinginstituted in the Court to which he isappointed..

5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and the substitutiontherefor, of the following: -

(1) All District Judges, Judges of the FamilyCourts, Judges of the Small Claims Courts,Magistrates and Judges of the Primary Courts and allsuch Additional Judges and Additional Magistratesof such Courts shall be appointed to their offices bythe Judicial Service Commission..

6. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the repeal of subsections (1) and (2) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following: -

(1) The Judicial Service Commission mayappoint as many additional District Judges,Additional Judges of the Family Court, AdditionalJudges of the Small Claims Court, AdditionalMagistrates or Additional Judges of the Primary Courtto the same District Court, Family Court, Small ClaimsCourt, Magistrates Court, and Primary Courtrespectively as the occasion may require.

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment

Appointmentof the Pre-Trial Judge

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment

4Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

(2) Every Additional District Judge, AdditionalJudge of the Family Court, Additional Judge of theSmall Claims Court, Additional Magistrate, orAdditional Judge of the Primary Court appointed toany such Court, shall sit separately and exercise allthe powers and the jurisdiction vested in the DistrictCourt, Family Court, Small Claims Court,Magistrates Court and Primary Court, respectively,of that district or division, as the case may be, forwhich such Additional District Judge, AdditionalJudge of the Family Court, Additional Judge of theSmall Claims Court, Additional Magistrate orAdditional Judge of the Primary Court, is soappointed..

7. Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words the High Courtmay, of the words and figures the High Court of theRepublic of Sri Lanka or the High Court for the Provinceestablished by Article 154P of the Constitution may.

8. Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) in paragraph (a) thereof, by the substitution for thewords by a High Court-, of the words and figures by aHigh Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka or a High Court forthe Province established by Article 154P of the Constitution-; and

(2) in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitution for thewords order of the High Court., of the words and figuresorder of the High Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka or theHigh Court for the Province established by Article 154P ofthe Constitution..

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment

5Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

9. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution for

the words of the High Court, of the words and figures ofthe High Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka or the High

Court for the Province established by Article 154P of the

Constitution.

10. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby

repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

19. Every District Court shall be a court of

record and shall within its district have

unlimited original jurisdiction in all civil,

revenue, trust, insolvency and testamentarymatters, save and except such of the aforesaid

matters as are by or under Chapter VA of this

Act or by virtue of the provisions of any other

enactment exclusively assigned by way of

original jurisdiction to any other court or vested

in any other authority and in the exercise ofsuch jurisdiction to impose fines, penalties and

forfeitures and shall, in like manner also have

jurisdiction over the persons and estates of

persons of unsound mind and wards, over the

estates of cestuis que trust and over guardians

and trustees and in any other matter in whichjurisdiction is given to District Court by law..

11. Section 19A of the principal enactment is hereby

repealed.

Replacement ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment

Jurisdictionof DistrictCourts

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment

Repeal ofsection 19A ofthe principalenactment

6Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

12. Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords the Court of Appeal, of the words and figures theHigh Court for the Province established by Article 154P ofthe Constitution; and

(2) in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords to the Court of Appeal and of the Court of Appeal,respectively, of the words and figures to the High Court forthe Province established by Article 154P of the Constitutionand of the High Court for the Province established by Article154P of the Constitution.

13. Chapter V of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following Chapter is substituted therefor: -

CHAPTER V

FAMILY COURTS

24. (1) Every Family Court shall be a courtof record and shall have sole originaljurisdiction in respect of matrimonial disputes,actions for divorce, nullity and separation,damages for adultery, claims for alimony,disputes between spouses, parents and childrenas to matrimonial property, custody of minorchildren, dependants claims, guardianshipand curatorship matters, claims in respect ofdeclaration of legitimacy and, illegitimacy andmarriage, adoption and applications foramendment of birth registration entries, claimsfor seduction and breach of promise of marriageand such other matters provided for by anyother written law:

Replacement ofChapter V of theprincipalenactment

Jurisdictionof a DistrictCourt

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment

7Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

Provided that anything in the precedingprovisions of this subsection shall not affectthe provisions of the Kandyan Marriage andDivorce Act (Chapter 113) and the provisionsof the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act(Chapter 115).

(2) The Family Court shall also have soleand exclusive jurisdiction in respect of allmatters specified in subsection (1) and wherereference is made to any court in respect ofsuch matters in any of the enactments referredto in the Third Schedule hereto, it shall bedeemed to be a reference to a Family Court:

Provided that this subsection shall have noapplication to any offences alleged to havebeen committed in violation of the provisionsof any such enactment.

(3) An application for the custody of a minorchild or of the spouse of any marriage allegedto be kept in wrongful or illegal custody byany parent or by the other spouse or guardianor relative of such minor child or spouse shallbe heard and determined by the Family Court;and such Court shall have full power andjurisdiction to hear and determine the sameand make such orders both interim and final asthe justice of the case shall require.

25. The jurisdiction and powers of DistrictCourts under section 20 as regards the care andcustody of persons of unsound mind andmentally deficient persons and the charge oftheir property shall, in like manner and withthe same powers be exercised by a Family Court

Care ofminors, andcharge oftheirproperty

8Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

as regards the care of the persons of minors andwards and the charge of their property and shallextend to the charge of the property in SriLanka of minors and wards who are not residentin Sri Lanka.

26. (1) There shall be for every judicialdistrict an officer who shall be called theFamily Counsellor.

(2) Where a dispute in any action in respectof any matter within the jurisdiction of a FamilyCourt, or any application for maintenance,comes up for inquiry or trial before a DistrictJudge, Judge of the Family Court or Magistrate,as the case may be, such District Judge, Judgeof the Family Court or Magistrate shall, unlessany party to the action expresses in writing adesire to the contrary, refer such dispute to aFamily Counsellor, who shall-

(a)make every effort to induce theparties to settle such dispute; and

(b)submit his report thereon to theDistrict Judge, Judge of theFamily Court or Magistrate as thecase may be, within such time asmay be specified by such DistrictJudge, Judge of the Family Courtor Magistrate.

(3) Where any dispute is settled, the termsof settlement shall be entered, signed by eachparty to the dispute and the Family Counsellor,and be forwarded to the District Judge, Judgeof the Family Court or Magistrate as the casemay be who shall enter such terms of settlementas a decree of such Court.

FamilyCounsellor

9Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

(4) Where a Family Counsellor is not ableto settle any dispute referred to in subsection(1), he shall refer such dispute to the DistrictJudge, Judge of the Family Court or Magistratefor determination after inquiry or trial.

(5) No District Judge, Judge of a FamilyCourt or Magistrate shall hold any inquiry ortrial in respect of any dispute, until suchdispute is referred to him by the FamilyCounsellor under subsection (4).

27. A person who is dissatisfied with ajudgment, decree or order pronounced by theFamily Court after inquiry or trial may, inaccordance with any law, regulation or rulegoverning the manner and procedure forappeals from the District Court, prefer an appealtherefrom to the High Court for the Provinceestablished by Article 154P of the Constitutionfor any error in law or in fact.

28. (1) In the event of two or more separateproceedings or actions being instituted inrespect of the same or substantially the samefamily dispute in more than one Family Court,any party to such proceedings or actions mayapply, or any Judge of such Family Court inwhich the said proceedings or actions had beeninstituted may refer the matter, to the Court ofAppeal which shall, in the exercise of itspowers, as it may deem fit, transfer one or moreof such proceedings or actions to one of theFamily Courts, in which proceedings or actionshave already been instituted by the said parties;so that, all such disputes may be convenientlyor expeditiously heard and determined in oneFamily Court.

Transfercases fromone FamilyCourt toanother andconsolidation

Appeals

10Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

(2) In the event of there being two or moreproceedings or actions instituted or pendingin the same Family Court as between the sameparties or relating to substantially the samematter, it shall be competent for the said Courtto direct that such proceedings or actions beconsolidated into a single proceeding, if in theopinion of the said Court it is convenient to doso or it be so necessary in the interest of justiceand the expeditious disposal of such mattersin dispute. The Court may, in such an eventmake such order or deliver such judgment orenter such decree from time to time as theexigencies and justice of the case may require.

29. (1) All proceedings in a Family Courtshall be instituted and conducted asexpeditiously as possible in accordance withsuch regulations as may be prescribed:

Provided that until such regulations havebeen so prescribed, the Family Court shall, asfar as practicable, follow the provisions relatingto summary procedure in the Civil ProcedureCode (Chapter 101).

(2) The provisions of the Adoption ofChildren Ordinance (Chapter 61) governingthe institution and conducting of proceedingsunder the said Ordinance shall be deemed toapply to such proceedings that may beinstituted in the Family Court.

(3) All applications for the care and custodyof minor children shall take precedence overall other matters in every Family Court andshall, unless exceptional circumstances sowarrant, be heard from day to day to ensure theexpeditious disposal of the same..

Procedure inFamilyCourts

11Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

14. The following new Chapter is hereby insertedimmediately after Chapter V of the principal enactment andshall have effect as Chapter VA of that enactment: -

CHAPTER VA

SMALL CLAIMS COURTS

29A. (1) Every Small Claims Court shall bea court of record and shall have exclusiveoriginal civil jurisdiction and shall havecognizance of and full power to hear anddetermine all actions specified in the SeventhSchedule hereto:

Provided however, a Small Claims Courtshall have no jurisdiction or power to hear anddetermine any action filed under the provisionsof Chapter LIII of the Civil Procedure Code(Chapter 101) or action for the recovery ofmoney to which special provisions are madeunder any other written law.

(2) All actions specified in the SeventhSchedule shall not exceed a sum of rupees onemillion and five hundred thousand excludinginterest, or such other amount as may be fixedby the Minister from time to time, by an Orderpublished in the Gazette.

(3) An Order made under subsection (2) shallnot have effect, until it is approved byParliament and notification of such approvalis published in the Gazette.

Insertion ofnew ChapterVA in theprincipalenactment

Jurisdictionof SmallClaimsCourts

12Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

29B. The proceedings before any SmallClaims Court may be taken by the specialprocedure for Small Claims Court as providedin the Small Claims Courts Procedure Act,No. 33 of 2022 and any other written law.

29C. It shall be lawful for the Judge ofevery Small Claims Court, in pronouncing hisorder or judgment in any case, to make suchorder in respect of the payment of costs andexpenses as to him shall appear just andreasonable.

29D. (1) Any person who is dissatisfiedwith any judgment pronounced by any SmallClaims Court in any action, proceeding ormatter to which he is a party, may, except wheresuch right is expressly disallowed, prefer anappeal therefrom to the High Court for theProvince established by Article 154P of theConstitution in which such Small Claims Courtis situated for any error in law or in fact.

(2) Any person who is dissatisfied with anyorder made by any Small Claims Court in thecourse of any action, proceeding, or matter towhich he is or seeks to be a party, may prefer anappeal to the High Court for the Provinceestablished by Article 154P of the Constitutionin which such Small Claims Court is situatedagainst such order for the correction of anyerror in law or in fact, with the leave of suchHigh Court first had and obtained.

(3) Any person who is dissatisfied with anyorder made by any Small Claims Court setting

Procedurebefore theSmall ClaimsCourts

Orderrespectingpayment ofcosts andexpenses

Appeals

13Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

aside or refusing to set aside the judgmententered upon default in the course of anyaction, proceeding or matter to which he is, orseeks to be a party, may prefer an appeal to theHigh Court for the Province established byArticle 154P of the Constitution in which suchSmall Claims Court is situated, for thecorrection of any error of law or fact, with theleave of such High Court first had and obtained.

(4) The provisions of Chapters LVIII, LIX,LX and LXI of the Civil Procedure Code(Chapter 101) with reference to appeal and thestay of execution pending appeal, shall applyso far as they are not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Chapter.

(5) The Judge of every Small Claims Courtshall conform to and execute all suchjudgments, orders, and decrees of the SupremeCourt, Court of Appeal or High Court for theProvince established by Article 154P of theConstitution as shall be made and pronouncedin any appeal, in like manner as any originaljudgment or order pronounced by the saidJudge could or might have been executed.

29E. It shall be the duty of the Judge of theSmall Claims Court by all lawful means to makeevery effort to induce the parties, before orduring the trial, to arrive at a settlement whereappropriate and if the parties agree to asettlement, the settlement shall be recorded andsigned by the parties and a judgment made inaccordance with the terms as settled..

15. Section 31 of the principal enactment ishereby amended by the substitution for thewords appeal therefrom to the Court ofAppeal, of the words and figures appeal

Amendment ofsection 31 of theprincipalenactment

Amicablesettlements

14Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

therefrom to the High Court for the Provinceestablished by Article 154P of theConstitution..

16. The following new Chapter is hereby insertedimmediately after Chapter VI of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as Chapter VII of that enactment: -

CHAPTER VII

PRIMARY COURTS

32. (1) Every Primary Court shall, subjectto the provisions of any other law, have originalcivil jurisdiction where the debt, damage,demand or claim does not exceed one thousandfive hundred rupees and shall also havejurisdiction in respect of the enforcement ofby-laws of local authorities and matters relatingto the recovery of revenue of such localauthorities.

(2) The Primary Courts shall have nojurisdiction in respect of the disputes referredto in the Fourth Schedule hereto, irrespectiveof the value of such claim.

33. (1) Every Primary Court shall haveexclusive original criminal jurisdiction inrespect of such offences as may, by regulation,be prescribed by the Minister and the Ministermay, in that regulation specify in the case ofeach offence the limitations, restrictions andconditions in respect of each such offence.

(2) The Primary Courts shall have sole andexclusive jurisdiction in respect of all offencesalleged to have been committed in violationof the provisions of any enactment or anysubsidiary legislation made thereunder, inrespect of which jurisdiction is vested in suchCourt.

Insertion of newChapter VII inthe principalenactment

Criminaljurisdiction

Civiljurisdiction

15Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

(3) Anything in this section shall not precludea Magistrate from convicting and passingsentence on any person found guilty after trial ofany offence specified in subsection (1).

34. (1) Where any civil proceeding or matteris instituted in a Primary Court, it shall be theduty of the Judge of that Primary Court tosummon the parties to appear before him andwherever appropriate to make every effort toinduce such parties to arrive at a settlementbefore proceeding to inquiry or trial. Wheresuch parties agree to a settlement, suchsettlement shall be recorded and signed by theparties thereto and shall be entered as a decreeof the said Primary Court and be enforceable,as a decree thereof.

(2) Where any criminal proceeding or matteris instituted in a Primary Court, it shall be theduty of the Judge of that Court to summon theparties concerned to appear before him andwherever appropriate to induce such parties toarrive at a settlement. Where such parties agreeto a settlement, such settlement shall be recordedand signed by the parties concerned andnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother law, the offence to which the proceedingor matter relates shall be compounded.

35. (1) Any party aggrieved by any judgment,order, decree, conviction or sentence, enteredor imposed after inquiry or trial by a PrimaryCourt may, subject to any law and in accordancewith any law, regulation or rule governing theprocedure and manner for so appealing, preferan appeal therefrom to the High Court for theProvince established by Article 154P of theConstitution for any error in law or in fact:

Duty toconciliatedisputes

Appeals

16Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

Provided that where there is no such law,regulation or rule governing the procedure andmanner for so appealing, the provisions relatingto appeals from a Magistrates Court shall applyto an appeal in a criminal matter or proceedingand the provisions relating to appeals from aDistrict Court shall apply to an appeal in acivil matter or proceeding.

(2) No appeal shall lie from any judgment,order, decree, conviction or sentence enteredor imposed by reason of a settlement of thedispute between the parties arrived at underthe provisions of this Chapter.

36. All proceedings in a Primary Court shallbe instituted and conducted as expeditiouslyas possible in accordance with such law as maybe applicable thereto and, if there be no suchlaw, in accordance with the provisions relatingto summary procedure in the Civil ProcedureCode (Chapter 101) in respect of a civil matteror proceeding and in accordance with theprovisions relating to summary trials in aMagistrates Court in respect of a criminalmatter or proceeding..

17. Section 37 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

37. There shall be a right of appeal to theSupreme Court in accordance with theprovisions of the Constitution and of any otherlaw

(a)from any judgment or order of the Courtof Appeal in any appeal from the HighCout of the Republic of Sri Lanka or theHigh Court for the Province establishedby Article 154P of the Constitution; or

Procedure inPrimaryCourts

Replacement ofsection 37 of theprincipalenactmentRight ofappeal to theSupremeCourt

17Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

(b)from any judgment or order of the HighCourt for the Province established byArticle 154P of the Constituton in anyappeal from the District Courts, thefamily Courts, the Small Claims Courts,the Magistrates Courts or the PrimaryCourts..

18. Section 38 of the principal enactment is herebyamended follows:-

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) thereof ; and

(2)by the addition immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) thereof, of the following subsection:-

(2) Every Courts of First Instance other thanthe High Court for the Province established byArtcle 154P of the Constitution shall in all cases ofappeal from such Courts of First Instance to theHigh Court for the Province established by Article154P of the Constitution conform to and executeall such judgments, orders and decrees of the HighCourt for the Province established by Article 154Pof the Constitution, as shall be made andpronounced in such appeal in like manner as thoughsuch judgment, order or decree was made andpronounced by such Courts of First Instance..

19. Section 45 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (4) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following: -

(4) Every Justice of the Peace and everyUnofficial Magistrate appointed under subsections(2 ) and (3 ) shall take and subscribe or make andsubscribe an oath or affirmation of office in suchform as may be determined by the Minister before aJudge of the High Court, District Judge, Judge ofthe Family Court, Judge of the Small Claims Court,

Amendmentof section 38of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section 45of theprincipalenactment

18Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

Magistrate, or Judge of the Primary Court and everysuch Judge is empowered and required, uponapplication in that behalf, to administer the sameand to enter in the records of his court that the saidoath or affirmation was duly administered and takenby him, and forthwith to transmit a copy of suchentry to the Registrar of the Supreme Court to beentered in the records of that Court..

20. Section 49 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the proviso to subsection (3) ofthat section and the substitution therefor, of the following :-

Provided that in every other case some other Judgeof the High Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka, theHigh Court for the Province established by Article154P of the Constitution, the District Court, FamilyCourt, Small Claims Court, Magistrate of theMagistrates Court and Judge of the Primary Court, asthe case may be, of any adjoining zone, district ordivision shall have jurisdiction to hear, try anddetermine such action, prosecution, proceeding ormatter..

21. Section 52 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords to the High Court and to each of the DistrictCourts, Small Claims Courts and MagistratesCourts, of the words and figures to the High Courtof the Republic of Sri Lanka, and to the High Courtfor the Province established by Article 154P of theConstitution and to each of the District Courts,Family Courts, Small Claims Courts, MagistratesCourts and Primary Courts; and

Amendment ofsection 49 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 52 of theprincipalenactment

19Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords Registrar of the High Court, of the wordsand figures Registrar of the High Court of theRepublic of Sri Lanka and the Registrar of the HighCourt for the Province established by Article 154Pof the Constitution.

22. Section 54 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereto by the substitution forthe words Where in any action instituted in a High Court,District Court or Small Claims Court, it appears-, of thewords Where in any action instituted in a High Court of theRepublic of Sri Lanka, High Court for the Provinceestablished by Article 154P of the Constitution, DistrictCourt, Family Court or Small Claims Court, it appears-.

23. Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

55. (1) Every District Court, Family Court,Small Claims Court, Magistrates Court andPrimary Court shall, for the purpose ofmaintaining its proper authority and efficiency,have a special jurisdiction to take cognizanceof, and to punish with the penalties in thatbehalf as hereinafter provided, every offenceof contempt of court committed in the presenceof the court itself and all offences which arecommitted in the course of any act orproceeding in the said court respectively, andwhich are declared by any law for the timebeing in force to be punishable as contempt ofcourt.

(2) The following sentences of fines orimprisonment as the case may be, may beimposed on conviction for contempt by thefollowing courts respectively, namely-

Amendmentof section 54of theprincipalenactment

Contemptproceedings

Replacement ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment

20Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

(a)by a District Court and FamilyCourt a fine not exceeding twothousand five hundred rupees orimprisonment, either simple orrigorous, for a period notexceeding two years;

(b)by a Small Claims Court andMagistrates Court a fine notexceeding one thousand fivehundred rupees or imprisonmenteither simple or rigorous, for aperiod not exceeding eighteenmonths; and

(c)by a Primary Court a fine notexceeding five hundred rupees orimprisonment, either simple orrigorous, for a period notexceeding three months..

24. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 56 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 57 of that enactment: -

57. Where a Judge of a primary Court of anyjudicial division established under this Act hasnot been appointed, the Magistrate of suchdivision shall be deemed for all purpose to beand shall exercise all jurisdiction of the Judgeof the Primary Court of such division until aJudge of such Primary Court is appointed:

Provided that where a Judge of a PrimaryCourt of such division is appointed, theMagistrate of such division may hear anddetermine all prosecutions, actions,proceedings or matters in which suchMagistrate has commenced the recording ofany evidence..

Insertion ofsection 57 in theprincipalenactment

WhereJudge of aPrimaryCourt is notappointed

21Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

25. The principal enactment is hereby amended by theinsertion immediately after the Second Schedule thereof, ofthe following new Schedules: -

THIRD SCHEDULE

Enactments

(1)Adoption of Children Ordinance (Chapter 61)

(2)Births and Deaths Registration Act (Chapter 110)

(3)Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101)

(4)Jaffna Matrimonial Rights and Inheritance Ordinance(Chapter 58)

(5)Legitimacy Act, No. 3 of 1970

(6)Marriage Registration Ordinance (Chapter 112)

(7)Married Womens Property Ordinance (Chapter 56)

(8)Matrimonial Rights and Inheritance Ordinance (Chapter 57)

FOURTH SCHEDULE

Actions excluded from the jurisdiction of Primary Courts

(1)Any action concerning an act or order purporting to bedone or made by the State or concerning an act purportingto be done by any person by order of the State.

(2)Any action concerning an act purporting to be done by anyperson in pursuance of a judgement or order of a court orof a judicial officer acting in the execution of his office.

(3)Any action concerning any act or order purporting to bedone or made by any officer of the State in his officialcapacity.

(4)Any action for the partition or sale of immovable propertyunder the law relating to partition for the time being inforce.

Addition of theThird andFourthSchedules to theprincipalenactment

[Section 32(2)]

[Section 24(2)]

22Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

(5)Any action by a mortgagee of immovable property for theenforcement of the mortgage or for the sale of the property,or by a mortgagor of immovable property for the redemptionof the mortgage.

(6)Any action to restrain waste.

(7)Any action to recover from a person to whom compensationhas been paid under the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter460) or Land Reform Law No. 1 of 1972, the whole or anypart of the compensation.

(8)Any action for the specific performance or rescission of acontract or for damages for breach of contract.

(9)Any action for the rectification or cancellation of aninjunction.

(10) Any action to obtain an injunction.

(11) Any action relating to a trust including an action to makegood out of the general estate of a deceased trustee the lossoccasioned by a breach of trust, and any action by a co-trustee to enforce against the estate of a deceased trustee aclaim for the contribution.

(12) Any action for a declaratory decree including a decree forthe declaration of title to land.

(13) Any action for a property which the plaintiff has conveyedwhile insane or under other incapacity.

(14) Any action to contest an award made by an arbitrator.

(15) Any action upon a foreign judgement as defined in the CivilProcedure Code (Chapter 101) or upon a judgementobtained in any court in Sri Lanka.

(16) Any action to compel a refund by a person to whom anexecutor or administrator has paid a legacy or distributedassets.

(17) Any action for a legacy or for the whole or a share of aresidue bequeathed by a testator or for the whole or a shareof the property of an intestate.

(18) Any action-

23Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

(a)for a dissolution of partnership or for the windingup of the business of a partnership after itsdissolution;

(b)for an account of partnership transactions; or

(c)for a balance of partnership-account.

(19) Any action for an account of property administered underdecree or order of any court.

(20) Any other action for an account, including an action by amortgagor, after the mortgage has been satisfied, to recoversurplus collection received by the mortgagee, and any actionfor the profits on immovable property belonging to theplaintiff which has been wrongfully received by thedefendant.

(21) Any action for a general average loss or for salvage.

(22) Any action for compensation in respect of collision betweenships.

(23) Any action on a policy of insurance or for the recovery ofany premium paid under any such policy.

(24) Any action for compensation or damages -

(a)for loss resulting from the death of a personcaused by actionable wrong;

(b)for wrongful arrest;

(c)for malicious prosecution;

(d)for wrongful restraint or confinement;

(e)for defamation;

(f)for adultery or seduction;

(g)for breach of contract of betrothal or promise ofmarriage;

(h)for inducing a person to break a contract madewith the plaintiff;

(i)for obstruction to or interference with theenjoyment of any servitude or the exercise ofany right over property.

24Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

(25) Any action by a Muslim for the recovery of Mahr.

(26) Any action for the custody of a minor.

(27) Any action for a divorce or a judicial separation.

(28) Any action relating to maintenance, affiliation or adoption.

(29) Any action for contribution by a sharer in joint property inrespect of a payment made by him of money due from aco-sharer.

(30) Any action by one of several joint mortgagors of immovableproperty for contribution in respect of money paid by himfor the redemption of the mortgaged property.

(31) Any action against the State or a local authority to recovermoney paid under protest in satisfaction of a claim made onaccount of any tax or rate or other levy.

(32) Any action under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 asamended from time to time.

(33) Any action relating to trade marks, patents or copyrightsunder the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003.

(34) Any action founded on nuisance.

(35) Any action for rent and ejectment and proceedings underthe Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972.

(36) Any action expressly or by implication excluded from thejurisdiction of Primary Courts by any written law (otherthan this Act) for the time being in force..

26. The principal enactment is hereby amended by theaddition immediately after the Sixth Schedule thereof, ofthe following new Schedule: -

SEVENTH SCHEDULE

Actions

1.Any action for the recovery of money (either as a debt orfee or payment or damage or demand including an actionfor the recovery of damages on accident or personal injuryor in any other similar category);

Addition of theSeventhSchedule to theprincipalenactment[Section 29A(2)]

25Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

2.Any action for the recovery of movable property;

3.Any action for a counterclaim in respect of any cause ofaction specified in items 1 and 2;

4.Any other jurisdiction as is conferred upon it by any otherlaw..

27. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

26Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.