PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

NATIONAL AUTHORITY ON TEACHER
EDUCATION ACT, No. 32 OF 1997

{Certified on 3rd December, 1997 ]

Printed on the Order of Government

- Published asa Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
- Republic of Sri Lanka of December 05, 1997

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO l.

Price: Rs. 13.50 Postage : Rs. 4.60


. National Authority on Teacher Education
Act, No. 32 of 1997

gs (Certified on 3rd December, 1997]
L.D.—O. 68/96.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL
AUTHORITY ON TEACHER EDUCATION ; AND FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO;

BE it enacted by the Parliament of. the Democratic Socialist -

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :— 59

_.. 1. This Act may be cited as the National Authority on
Teacher Education Act, No. 32 of 1997, and shall come into
Operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as “the
appointed date”’). 1 Aj

PART I ni

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY ON TEACHER
EDUCATION
"2. (1) There shall be established an Authority which shall
be called the National Authority on Teacher Education
(hereinafter referred to as the “Authority”).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it by
Subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3. .- The functions of the Authority shall be to promote the
development of teacher education and in particular to—

(a) advise the Minister regarding overall policy
development for establishing and maintaining an
integrated national system of teacher education

- including initial teacher education, continuing teacher
education, and teacher deployment ;

(6) plan and co-ordinate the activities of the national

- system of teacher education with a view to

rationalizing the existing teacher education system to
meet the assessed needs for trained teachers ;

Short title and
date of operation.

Establishment of
the National
Authority on
Teacher
Education.

Functions of the
Authority.


(c)

(d)

, (e)

* National Authority on Teacher Education
Act, No. 32 of 1997

promote and co-ordinate studies and research
on teacher education, disseminate the findings of
such studies and research and initiate tallow “up
activities ;

monitor the progress aid i perforntanice of the wacher
education programmes and courses of study, and the
need for the revision of the content of such
programmes and courses of study ;

initiate and promote the use of innovative practices,

,,. techniques and methods in the teacher education

-{ : .. system of Sri Lanka, with appropriate modifi cations,
.to suit the local conditions ;

formulate in consultation with the Colleges of
Education Board, guidelines for, schemes of
recruitment and procedures for appointment of, the

’ “staff and the heads of teacher education institutions ;

(8)

provide for the development of managerial and

-.4, professional competence of instructors at teacher

education institutions and others engaged in

‘managerial positions in , teacher education

coh) I

lay dowi—a;,,.

Institutions;

(i) in consultation with the- Colleges of Education
Board, guidelines for, the selection and
registration of student teacher trainees for

different courses of study and programmes at
\j,,,. teacher training institutions, including the
... guidelines relating to the minimum qualifications
.for admission to teacher education institutions ;

(ii) in consultation with the National Institute of

Education, guidelines for the commencement of
new courses of study and programmes or the
termination of existing courses of study and
_ programmes in teacher education institutions,
having regard to the need to meet the demand for
trained teachers in the field of education ;


* National Authority on Teacher Education 3
Act, No. 32 of 1997

(iii) in consultation with the National Institute of
Education, guidelines for the content of
examinations conducted by teacher training
institutions for the purpose of ascertaining the
student teacher trainees who have acquired
proficiency in the different courses of study or
programmes followed by them; ., -

(iv) guidelines for the levying of fees and other
charges by teacher training institutions ;

(i) allocate student teacher trainees to teacher education
institutions on the basis of courses of study or
programmes followed by such student trainee
teachers ;

(j) examine and review periodically, the implementation
’ of the guidelines laid down by the Authority and
initiate appropriate follow up activities ;

(k) develop appropriate performance appraisal systems
and mechanisms for the purpose of enforcing
accountability on teacher education institutions ;

(D co-ordinate and collaborate with other institutions and
organisations in Sri Lanka and abroad engaged in
teacher education ;

(m) establish and maintain, in consultation with the
National Institute of Education or the University
Grants Commission, as the case may be, appropriate
mechanisms for accreditation of teacher training
programmes. :

4. The Authority shall, subject to the provisions of this — Powers of the
Act, have the following powers :-— ‘ Authority.

(a) to appoint professional and support staff on such
schemes of recruitment as may be decided by the

. Council established under section 7 ;-


: National Authority on Teacher Education
Act, No. 32: of 1997

(b) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease, mortgage or
hire, pledge or sell or otherwise dispose of, any

,287) movable or immovable property for the purpose of

cpischareng the funcuens of the euler

Provided however that 1 no immovable property of

the Authority shall be sold without the prior approval
| in beige of the Minister ;

(c) ‘to open and maintain current, savings and deposit
_ accounts, in any bank or banks ;

7 (d) to accept grants or donations from persons or
. organisations, for the development of teacher
education

“1. (e), to enter. into and: perform, all such contracts as may
be necessary for the discharge of the functions of the
Authority ;

(to enter into. agreements for co-operation with
institutions in or outside Sri Lanka engaged in the
development of teacher education, for nr exchange of
poonnet ene material

(g) to levy and charge fees or other charges for any

.;,. services rendered or facilities provided, by the
‘Authority for teacher education ; |

(kh) to make rules in respect of the administration of the

affairs of the Authority and in relation to its officers
and servants, including their appointment, promotions,
remuneration, disciplinary control and the grant of
leave to them ; and

ape
By

(‘) generally, to do all such other things as are necessary
to facilitate the proper i giscbatge of the functions of
the Authority.


National Authority on Teacher Education 5
Act, No. 32 -of 1997

5. (1) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred upon it by section 4, the Authority shall exercise,
the following academic powers =

a) to provide for *-alessiotal development and research
in teaches education ;

EY Eee aie: i :
dPibitors if} 3 . +" a
=o ue 4 , ae Bs

(b) to recognise the exeniitiation: passed and the courses

‘of studies pursued by, persons seeking admission to

the teaching profession, having regard to the standard

_,, Of such examinations and the content and duration of

Such courses of study : ;

Provided however that the Minister may withdraw
such Recoenuon whenever he thinks it appropriale 5"

(c) to initiate, — conduct and soronilinas research,
surveys and investigations relating to the development
i, ,, Of teacher education ; and

aes BEN |

(d) to make grants to any person, or a team of persons, or

to any recognised institution or institutions, for a

_,. Specific research project, study or I SUEME Ye in the field

~ ‘of teacher education. me

Tan ¥INCHUs t “3 said 8 a

6. (1) The sdnsinistedion, management and control of

the affairs of the Authority shall be vested in the Council of
Une Authority rereinaeer refeites to as the & Connell)

, i ‘

°(2)'7 "The Council shall for the purpose of fadisiftistering the
affairs of the Authority exercise, discharge and perform the
powers, functions and duties conferred, or imposed on or
assigned to the Authority by this Act.-.)

“) It shall be the duty of the Council to prepare in
accordance with regulations made in that behalf, the annual
programme and-plan of work and the annual budget and
submits such plan, programme, and the annual budget for
approval by the Minister. Ae

Academic
powers of the
Authority.

Administration
of the
Authority.


Constitution of the
Council.

(iii)

()

* Commission established by the Universities Act,

“wvi)
(ii

National Authority on Teacher Education
Act, No. 32 of 1997

7... (1) The Council shall consist of the.following :—
(a) ‘ex-officio members, namely—

(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Education who shall be

the Chairman ;

(11) the Director-General of the National Institute of
0" Education established by the National Institute
of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985, who shall be a

~ + Vice Chairman ;

shall be a Vice Chairman ;

the Chairman of the University Grants

‘3s. No. 16 of 1978 ;
(v

—

to be established under the Universities ASH No.
~ 16 of 1978 ; z

the Director-General of the Authority appointed
under section 10 ; :

(b) thier members, namely—

(i) a representative of the Secretary’ to the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
. appointed by the Minister ;

' (ii) ‘a representative of the Secretary to the Ministry

of the Minister in charge of the subject of Public
_ Administration, appointed by the Minister ;
~ and a Hoe GME

>. (ill) eight other persons appointed by the Minister

from among persons who have distinguished them
selves in the field of education. ,

the Chairman of the National Education
Commission established by the National
Education Commission Act, No. 19 of 1991 who

the Deans of the Faculties of Education in all
Universities of Sri Lanka established or deemed

The Chief Commissioner of Teacher Education ;


_ National Authority on Teacher Education gl s
Act, No. 32. of 1997

(2) A person shall be disqualificd from being appointed
or from continuing as a member of the Council, if he is or
becomes; a member of. Parliament, a member of a Provincial
Council or member of a local authority. _.

(3) Every member of the Council appointed under
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) shall vacate office as such
member if he—

© (a) is removed from office by the Minister ; or .

(b) resigns his office by letter addressed to ‘the Minister
and the resignation is accepted in writing by the
Minister,

(c) retires from office under subsection (8).

’ (4) (a) Where a member of the Council appointed under
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) dies or resigns or is removed
or retires from office, the Minister may, having regard to the:
Provisions of that paragraph, appoint another person to be a _
‘member in place of the member who dies, resigns or is
removed or retires from office.

(b) Any member of the Council appointed under paragraph
(a) of this subsection, shall, unless he earlier resigns or vacates -
his office by death, removal or retirement, hold office for the
unexpired part of the term of office of the member whom he
succeeds.

(5) Where a member of the Council appointed under
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) is by reason of illness or other
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily unable to
perform the duties of his office, the Minister may appoint

another person to act in his place.

(6) Subject to the provisions of subsection (9), every
member appointed under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) shall,
‘unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation or
removal, hold office for a period of four years from the date
of his appointment to such office.

(7) Every ex-officio member of the Council shall hold
' office as long as he holds the post by virtue of which he is a
member of the Council.

2—D 04571 1—8,550 (97/08)


Seal of the
Authority.

8 National Authority on Teacher Education

' Act, No. 32 of 1997
~ (8) One-half of the members of the Council appointed

under sub-paragraph ‘(iii) of paragraph (b) of subsection (1)

shall retire at the end of every second years calculated from

the appointed date. °

(9) The members of the Council who shall retire under
subsection (8) shall, subject to the provisions of subsection
(10), be the members who have served the longest in office as
at the end of every second year, but as between members who
have served for periods of equal length, the member who shall
retire shall be determined by lot drawn by the Chairman of
the Council. )

(10) For the purpose of securing that one half of the
members of the Council appointed under sub-paragraph (111)

-of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) shall retire every second

year, the term of office of four of the members first appointed

“to the Council shall terminate at the expiry of a period of two
- years from the dates of their appointment, as specified in their

letters of appointment.

“ (11) Any member who vacates his office otherwise than
by removal from office under paragraph (a) of subsection (3),

) shall be eligible for reappointment.

(12) The members of the Council may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund of the Authority as may be

determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
., Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

- 8. The seal of the Authority—

_.. (a) shall be in the custody of such persed as the Council

_, May determine from time to time ;

(6) may be altered in such manner as may b be determined
‘ by the Council ; and

(c) shall not be affixed to any decuiient without the
‘~~ sanction. of the Council and in presence of the
Secretary and a member of the Council who shall sign

the document in token of their presence.


"National Authority on Teacher Education 9
Act, No. 32 of 1997

9. (1) The Chairman or in his absence one of the Vice-
Chairmen shall preside at meetings of the Council. In the
absence of the Chairman and both the Vice-Chairmen, a
member elected by the members present shall preside at such
meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall not
be less than eight members of the Council. .

(3) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Council
Shall be decided by the vote of a majority of the members
present. In the case of an equality of votes, the Chairman or
any other member presiding at any meeting of the Council
shall in addition to his own vote, have a casting vote..

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the Council
may regulate the procedure in regard to its meetings and the
transaction of business at such meetings.

- (5) No act or decision or proceeding of the Council shall

be invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy
among its members or any defect in the appointment of a
member thereof.

PART II —

APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND STAFF OF THE
AUTHORITY

10. (1) The Minister may appoint to the staff of the
Authority a Director-General (hereinafter referred to as “the
Director-General”) who shall be the principal executive officer
as well as the principal academic officer of the Authority.

_°(2) The Director-General appointed under subsection (1)

shall unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation or
removal hold office for a period of four years from the date of
his appointment.

Meetings of
the Council.

Appointment of
the Director-
General of the
Authority.


10 National Authority on Teacher Education
\ Act, No. 32 of 1997

(3) The Director-General shall, subject to the direction of
the Council, be charged with the administration of the affairs,
and the control-of the staff, of the Authority. He shall also be

_responsible for the execution of all decisions of the Council.

(4) The Director-General shall submit for the consideration
of the Council, policies and measures considered by him to
be necessary for the purpose of discharging the functions of
the Authority.

(5) The Director-General shall be entitled to be present,
speak and vote, at any meeting of the Council or any
committee establ ished by or under this Act.

(6) The Minister may remove the Director-General from
office —.. ..

(a) if he becomes permanently incapable of performing
his duties; or r ”

- (b) if he has done any act or thing which, in the opinion
of the Minister, is of a fraudulent or illegal character
or 1s prejudical to the interests of the Authority; or’

(c) if he acts contrary to national policy.

(7) The office of the Director-General shall become vacant
upon the death, removal from office under subsection (6) or
resignation by letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister,
_ by the holder of that office.

| (8) ‘Unless removed from office under.subsection (6), any
person who has been appointed as Director-General shall be
eligible for reappointment as Director-General.

: (9) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the Director-
General, the Minister may appoint a member of the Council
to perform the duties of the Director-General until an
appointment is made under subsection (1).


National Authority on Teacher Education “ll
Act, No. 32 of 1997

(10) The Director-General shall be the accounting officer
of the Authority. -

11. (1) The Director-General shall exercise and discharge
such powers or functions as may be delegated to him by the
Council.

- (2) The Director-General to whom any of the powers or
functions of the Council has been delegated under subsection
(1), shall exercise and discharge the powers and functions so
delegated, subject to the apeen or general directions of the
Council. rr,

(3) The Director-General may, with the written approval
of the Council, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate in writing to any officer or servant, or to any
Committee of the Authority, any power or function delegated
to him under subsection (1). :

| 12. The Council may, with the approval of the Minister,
appoint such committees as may be necessary for the proper
discharge of the functions of the Authority and consisting of
members with the prescribed qualifications, and may delegate
to such Committees, any functions assigned to it by this Act.

13. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and
any regulations made by the Minister, the Council shall
have the power to appoint the officers and servants of the
Authority. .

-.(2) Every appointment of the officers and servants of the
Authority shall be made by the Council in accordance with
the scheme of recruitment and procedures for appointment
prescribed by regulations. |

~ (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any regulations
made by the Minister, the Council shall determine the terms
and conditions of service of the officers and servants of the
Authority including their wages, salaries anid) other
remuneration. ‘tits

Delegation of
powers of the
Council.

Committees.

Officers and
servants of the
Authority.


Service to the
Authority deemed
to be service to
the Government
for the propose of
certain contracts.

Appointment of
public officers to
the staff of the

Authority, |

12 National Authority on Teacher Education
Act, No. 32 of 1997

(4) The officers and servants of the Authority shall be
subject to the disciplinary control, including power of
dismissal, of the Council. The Council may make rules in
regard to matters of discipline. ft

~ (5) The Council may establish and regulate provident funds
and schemes for the benefit of the officers and servants of the
Authority and may make contributions to any such fund or
scheme.

14. Where the s Authority employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Authority by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
cchatging the obligations of such contract. J

a At the request of the Council, any officer in the
nxiite service serving in any institution or Department coming
under the Ministry of the Minister may, with the consent of
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister given with the
concurrence of the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Public Administration, and of the
officer, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority
for such period as may be determined by the Council with
like consent or with like consent be permanently appointed
to the staff of the Authority.

. * Q) At the request of the Council, any officer in the public
service other than an officer referred to in subsection (1) may,
with the consent of that officer and of the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Public
Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Authority for such period as may be determined by the Council
with like consent or with like consent be permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority.

(3) Where any officer in the pubilc service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
section 14(2) of the National Transport Commission Act,
No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in
relation to him.


National Authority on Teacher Education 13 |

‘Act, No. 32. of 1997

(4) Where any officer in the pubilc service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of section
14(3) of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of
1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to him.

(5) At the request of the Council, any officer or servant of
any Higher Educational Institution established under the
Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, may, with the consent of

that officer or servant, the University Grants Commission and _

the principle executive officer of that Higher Educational
Institution, be temporarily appointed.to the staff of the
Authority for such period as may be determined by the Council
with like consent, or with like consent be permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority.

(6) Where any officer or servant of any Higher Educational
Institution is temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Authority, he shall be subject to the same disciplinary control
as any other member of such staff.

PART III
FINANCE ©

16. (1) The initial capital of the Authority shall be such
sum as may be determined by Parliament by resolution.

(2) The capital of the Authority may be increased by such
amounts as may be authorised by and Appropriation Act or
by any resolution of Parliament.

17, (1) The aunty shall have its own fund.

(2) There shall be credited to ‘the fund of Authority —

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time to
_time by Parliament for the use of the Authority ; ;

(bd) all wack sums of money as may be received by the
Authority in the exercise and discharge of its powers,

and functions; and

Initial capital of
the Authority.

Fund of the
Authority.


Financial year of
the Authority.

Application of the
Provisions of the
Finance Act, No.
38 of 1971.

14 National Authority on Teacher Education
Act, No. 32 of 1997

- (c) all such sum of money as may be received by the

“Authority by way of loans, interest on investments,
donations, gifts or grants from any source whatsoever
and fees charged for services rendered or facilities
provided, by the Authority.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Authority—

ita) all ai | sums ‘af money as are earequired to 5 deteay any
“ ‘. expenditure incurred by the Authority in the exercise,
and discharge of its powers and functions under this

Act ; and | : ! :

_ (b) all such sums of money as are required to be paid out
of the fund, by or under this Act.

* (4) All monies Beloiging to the fund shall be deposited in
such bank or banks or invested in such manner as may be
decided by the Council.

18. (1) The financial year of the Authority shall be the
calendar year.

- (2) The Authority shall cause proper books of accounts to

_be'kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Authority. . .

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to and in reiaiai to the audit of the accounts of
the Authority. ' | ei The, SBE

19. Subject to any express provision made in the
preceding provisions of this Act, the provisions of part II of
the Finance Act, No 38 of 1971, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to the eifaniet) control anidia accounts
of the Authority. é ,


National Authority on Teacher Education 15
Act, No. 32 of 1997

_ PART IV

(GENERAL

20. (1) The Minister may from time to time give such
general or special directions in writing to the Council as to
the exercise of the powers, and the discharge of the functions
of the Council and it shall be the duty of the Council to carry
out such directions.

_ {2) The Minister may, from time to time, order all or any
of the activities of the Authority to be investigated and reported
upon by such person or persons as he may specify, and upon
Such order being made the Council shall afford all such
facilities and furnish all such information to such person or
persons as may be necessary to give effect to such order.

(3) The Council shall submit to the Minister, the three
year plan of work, the annual plan and programme and the
annual budget, for his concurrence. 6 OREN

21. (1) The Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette, transfer to the Authority such movable or immovable
Property of the Ministry of the Minister as is required by the
Authority for the purposes of the Authority and any property
SO transferred shall, with effect from the date of the Order
vest in, and become the property of, the Authority.

(2) Where any immovable property other than immovable
Property vested in the State is required to be acquired for any
Specific purpose of the Authority and the Minister by Order
published in the Gazette approves of the proposed acquisition
for that purpose, that property shall be deemed to be required
for a public purpose and may accordingly be acquired under
the Land negeeiion Ac and transferred to the Authonty.

@) Any sum payable, for the acquisition of any immovable
Property under the Land Acquisition Act for the Authority,
shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority.

Powers of
Minister in
relation to the
Council.

State property
both movable and
immovable to be
made available to
the Authonity.


Council’s report to
be placed before
Parliament.

Authority deemed
to be a scheduled
institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Me .feiesy Sh

Members of the |
Council, and
officers and
servants of the
Authority deemed
to be public
servants.

Protection of
action taken under
this Act.

16 National Authority on Teacher Education
Act, No. 32 of 1997

(4) Where any movable property of the State is required
for the purpose of the Authority, the Minister may, by Order
published in the Gazette, transfer to, and vest in the Authority,
the possession and use of such movable property :

Provided however that no Order affecting any movable
property, of the State shall be made by the Minister under the
preceding provisions of this subsection, without the
concurrence of the Minister having control over such property.

-'22. -The Council shall, within a period of six months after
the closure of each financial year submit a report giving a full
account of the activities of the Authority during that year to
the Minister who shall cause such report to be placed before
Parliament, prior to the end of the year next following the
year to which such report relates. '

23... The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning: of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

24, _All members, of the Council and officers and servants
of the Authority shall be deemed to be public servants within
the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

25. (No suit or prosecution n shall lige: Soh

_ (a) against the Authority for any act which in good faith
..,,.. isdone or purported to be done by, the Authority under
1, this Act; |

(b) against any member of the Council, officer or servant
“of the Authority for any act which in good faith is,
done or purported to be done by him under as ACK
or on the direction of the Council. Uroc


National Authority on Teacher Education 17
‘Act, No. 32 of 1997

i. (2) Any. expense incurred by the Authority in any suit or
prosecution brought by or against the Authority before any
court, shall be paid out of the fund of the Authority and any
costs paid to, or recovered by the Authority in any such suit
or prosecution shall be credited to the fund of the Authority.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referred
to in paragraph (5) of subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution
brought against him before any court in respect of any act
which is done or purported to be done, by him under this Act,
or on the direction of the Authority shall, if the court holds
that such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund
of the Authority, unless such eRpeinsals is recovered by him i in
such suit or Prosecution. ieaye

26. ) Subject to they provisions of this Act, the Minister
may, after consultation with the Council, make regulations
for, and in respect of, all or any of the following matters :—

(a) the terms and conditions of service, including
remuneration, of the staff of the Authority ;

(6) the schemes ‘of recruitment and procedure for
appointment to the staff of the Authority ;

(c) the composition and the conduct of the affairs of the
- Council ; 7, cy

(d) the form of the three year plan of work, the annual

plan and programme and the annual budget of the

__ Authority, and the manner in which these are to be
i Prepared ; and.

(e) all matters hich: are erequire’ by this Act to be
prescribed or in respect of. which regulations are
akan to be made byt this pace

-Q) Every recitation made by the. Minister shall be
published in Gazette, and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.

Regulations.


This Act to prevail
over certain other
laws.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.

18 National Authority on Teacher Education

Act, No. 32: of 1997

“ (3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation, which is not
so approved, Shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.

_ (4) Notification of the date on which any regulation made

by the Minister is so. deemed to be rescinded, shall be
paves in the Gazette. .
27: In the event of any inconsistency between the
provisions of this Act and the provisions of the Colleges of
Education Act, No. 30 of 1986 or the National Institute of
Education Act, No. 28 of shee the provisions’ of this Act
shall Preval sided Bay ae

28. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

29. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Colleges of Education Board” means the Colleges of
| Education Board established by the Colleges of
. _jPaucation Act, Noe Ee of 1986 7
. “Higher Education Institution” and “principal executive
. - officer” shall have the respective meanings assigned
to them en the Universiies ‘Act, No. 16 of 1978 ;

; “local sLauttoriny™ means any vMinicipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority created or established by or under any law

'- to exercise, perform, or discharge, powers, duties and

* functions. corresponding or similar to, the powers,

‘’ “duties and functions exercised, performed discharged
by any such Council or Sabha ; |


National Authority on Teacher Education 19
Act, No. 32 of 1997

“National Institute of Education” means the National
Institute of Education established under the National
Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985 ;

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council
established by Chapter XVIIA of the Constitution ;

“University Grants Commission” means the University
Grants Commission established by the Universities

Act, No. 16 of 1978.
