PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 9.50 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 1, 2005

[Certified on 31st March, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

FINANCE (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 7 OF 2005

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20051

Short title.

2 PL 000175 5,650 (03/2005)

[Certified on 31st March, 2005]

L. D. O. 11/2005.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FINANCE ACT, NO.11 OF 2004; TO PROVIDE FOR THE

IMPOSITION OF A WITHHOLDING TAX ON THE REGISTRATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES;

AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Finance (Amendment) Act,No. 7 of 2005.

PART I

AMENDMENT OF PART I OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF 2004

2.The Finance Act, No. 11 of 2004 (in this Part referred toas the principal enactment) is hereby amended in subsection(3) of section 2 of Part I (Imposition of an Economic ServiceCharge) of that Act, as follows :

(1)in the definition of the expression of liable turnoverby the substitution for the words other than anytrade, business, profession or vocation of the wordsother than any trade, business (not being any tradeor business which deals in the wholesale or retail ofsuch goods, not manufactured or produced by suchperson or partnership), or profession or vocation;and

(2)in the definition of the expression of turnover bythe repeal of paragraph (ii) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraph :

(ii) the total proceeds from the disposal of anycapital assets ; and.

Amendment ofsection 2 ofPart 1 of ActNo. 11 of2004.

2Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005

3.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words any person or partnership for anyrelevant year of assessment may be deducted fromthe relevant income tax payable by that person orpartnership for that relevant year of the words anyperson for any relevant year of assessment, shall bededucted from the relevant income tax if any, payableby that person for that relevant year ;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, of the following new subsection, whichshall have effect as subsection (1A) thereof :

(1A) The amount of any service charge paid byany partnership for any relevant year of assessmentshall be apportioned among the partners of suchpartnership in the ratio in which such partners sharethe profits or lossess of such partnership for thatrelevant year of assessment : the amount of theservice charge so apportioned to any partner, shallbe deducted from the relevant income tax payableby such partner for such relevant year of assessment(hereinafter referred to as the first - mentionedrelevant year of assessment).;

(3)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words The balance, if any, of such servicecharge after its deduction in accordance withsubsection (1) shall be deducted from the relevantincome tax payable by such person or partnershipfor the relevant year of the words The balance, ifany, of such service charge paid by any person afterits deduction in accordance with subsection (1) shallbe deducted from the relevant income tax payableby such person for that relevant year. ;

(4)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) ofthat section, of the following new subsection, whichshall have effect as subsection (2A) thereof :

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20053

(2A) The balance, if any, of any service chargeapportioned to any partner in accordance withsubsection (1A), after its deduction in accordance withsubsection (1A) shall be deducted from the relevantincome tax payable by such partner for the relevantyear of assessment immediately succeeding the first mentioned relevant year of assessment (hereinafterreferred to as the first succeeding relevant year ofassessment).;

(5)in subsection (3) of that section by the substitution forthe words The residue, if any, of the balance of suchservice charge after its deduction in accordance withsubsection (2), shall be deducted from the relevantincome tax payable for the relevant year of the wordsThe residue, if any, of the balance of such servicecharge or of the portion of such service charge, as thecase may be, after its deduction in accordance with theprovisions of either subsection (2) or subsection (2A),shall be deducted from the relevant income tax payableby such person or such partner of such partnership asthe case may be, for the relevant year ;

(6)by the repeal of subsection (5) of the principalenactment and the substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(5) For the purposes of this section and in relationto any relevant year of assessment, the expression

attributable to the liable turnover in relation toany part of the share of the divisible profits ofany partner of any partnership means the sumwhich bears to the share of the divisible profitsof such partner from such partnership for suchrelevant year of assessment the same proportionas the liable turnover of such partnership for suchrelevant year of assessment bears to the turnoverof such partnership for such relevant year ofassessment ;

4Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005

relevant income tax payable in relation to

(a)any person in so far as such person is nota partner of any partnership, means thesum which bears to the aggregatestatutory income of that person for thatrelevant year of assessment, from everytrade, business, profession or vocationcarried on or exercised by that person,other than any trade, business, (not beingany trade or business which deals in thewholesale or retail of such goods, notmanufactured or produced by suchperson), profession or vocation, thecommercial operations of which hascommenced, whether by such person orby any other person or partnership, on adate which falls within the period ofthirty six months immediately precedingthe first day of that relevant year ofassessment, the same proportion as thetotal income tax payable by such personfor that relevant year of assessment bearsto the total statutory income of thatperson for that relevant year ofassessment; and

(b)any person, in so far as such person is apartner of any partnership, means the sumwhich bears to such part of the share ofthe divisible profits of such person fromsuch partnership as is attributable to theliable turnover of every trade, business,profession or vocation carried on orexercised by such partnership, the sameproportion as the total income taxpayable by such person for that relevantyear of assessment bears to the totalstatutory income of that person for thatrelevant year of assessment;

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20055

total income tax payble in relation to any personmeans the sum ascertained by the application ofthe income tax rate as is specified in theappropriate Schedule to the Inland Revenue Act,to the taxable income of such person for thatrelevant year of assessment; and

(7)by the substitution for the marginal note to that sectionof the following :

Service Charge to be deducted from the relevantincome tax.

4.Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words and figures Chapters XIX,XX, XXI of the words and figures Chapters XII, XIX, XX,XXI.

5. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 11 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 11A of that enactment :

11A. (1) The Minister may make regulations inrespect of all matters which are required by thisAct to be prescribed or in respect of whichregulations are required or authorized to be madeunder this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to thegenerality of the powers conferred by subsection(1), the Minster may make regulations specifyingthe guidlines relating to the meaning of theexpression turnover as is used in subsection (3)of section 2 is to be ascertained in its applicationto cases where the proviso to the definition of theexpression turnover in that subsection does notapply.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection(1) shall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of publication, oron such later date as may be specified therein.

Amendmentof section 11of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion ofnew section11A in theprincipalenactment.Regulations.

6Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005

(4) Every regulation made under subsection(1) shall, as soon as convenient after itspublication in the Gazette, be placed beforeParliament for approval. Every regulation whichis not so approved shall be deemed to berescinded as from the date of disapproval, butwithout prejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which anyregulation is deemed to be so rescinded shallbe published in the Gazette..

6.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the substitution in the definition of theexpressions agent, allowance for depreciation,and Assessor, the expressions agent, allowancefor depreciation, Assessor and Company ;

(2)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionBOI enterprise and the substitution therefor ofthe following :

BOI enterprise in relation to any relevantyear of assessment means any enterprisein relation to which the exemption of itsprofits and income from income tax, interms of any agreement entered into bythe Board of Investment of Sri Lanka withsuch enterprise under section 17 of theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No.4 of 1978, subsists during the whole orany part thereof of that relevant year ofassessment ;;

(3)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionperson and the substitution therefor of thefollowing :

person includes a company or a body of persons,but does not include-

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20057

(a)any registered society, within the meaningof the Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of1972 ;

(b)any non-resident person carrying onbusiness as an owner or charterer of anaircraft or ship ; .

7. (1) The provisions of Part 1 of this Act shall subject tosubsection (2) be deemed for all purposes to have come intoeffect on April 1, 2005.

(2) The following provisions shall be deemed for all purposesto have come into operation from April 1, 2004 :

(a)the amendment made to section 3 of theprincipal enactment by items (1), (2), (3),(4), (5) and (6) of section 3 of this Act ; and

(b)the amendment made to section 12 of theprincipal enactment by item (2) of section6 of this Act.

PART II

AMENDMENT OF FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF 2004 TO INCLUDE NEW PART IIIA.

8.The following new Part is hereby inserted immediatelyafter section 28 of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 2004 and shallhave effect as Part IIIA (sections 28A, 28B, 28c, and 28D) of thatenactment :

PART IIIA

IMPOSITION OF WITHHOLDING TAX ON THEREGISTRATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES

28A. (1) There shall be levied in accordancewith the rates as are specified in section 28B, witheffect from April 1, 2005, a withholding tax, onevery applicant seeking to register a motor vehicle,in respect of every motor vehicle registered by theCommissioner of Motor Traffic in accordance withthe provisions of the Motor Traffic Act, (Chapter203) other than on three-wheelers, lorries and busesused solely for the purpose of providing publictransport.

Insertion ofnew Part IIIAin the FinanceAct, No. 11 of2004.

Imposition ofwithholdingtax on motorvehicles.

Operation ofPart 1 andretrospectiveoperation ofsections.

8Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005

For the purpose of this section motorvehicle shall have the same meaning as in theMotor Traffic Act (Chapter 203).

(2) The Commissioner of Motor Traffic shallnot issue in respect of any motor vehicle aCertificate of Registration unless thewithholding tax payable in terms of this sectionhas been paid by the applicant. Any tax paidunder this section shall be duly acknowledgedby the issue of a Certificate to the applicant.

28B. The collection of the withholding taximposed under section 28A shall be at thefollowing rates :

(a)for a first registration of a motor vehicle,a sum of rupees five thousand ; and

(b)for every other registration a sum of rupeesone thousand.

28C. The Commissioner of Motor Trafficshall remit the amount collected by him aswithholding tax in terms of this Part to theCommissioner-General on or before thefifteenth day of the month following the monthin which the tax was collected along with areturn of the moneys collected by him.

28D. Any person who has paid thewithholding tax in terms of this part of the Act,shall be entitled to deduct such withholdingtax from the income tax payable by such personunder the Inland Revenue Act..

PART III

AMENDMENT OF SCHEDULE TO THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF 2004

9.The Schedule to the Finance Act, No. 11 of 2004,(relating to the rate of Service Charge chargeble under Part I)is hereby amended as follows :

Rate atwhich thetax is to becalculated.

Amountcollected tobe remittedto theSecretary totheTreasury.

Amendment ofSchedule to theFinance Act, No.11 of 2004.

Withholdingtax to bedeductedfromincome tax.

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20059

(1)by the substitution in item 2 that Schedule for the wordsand figures any BOI enterprise which had entered intoan agreement under section 17 of the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978. of thewords any BOI enterprise.;

(2)by the substitution in item 4 of that Schedule for thewords any trade, business, profession or vocation ofthe words any trade or business (not being any tradeor business which deals in the wholesale or retail ofsuch goods, not manufactured or produced by thedealer) or profession or vocation ; and

(3)by the addition immediately after item 4 of thatSchedule, of the following new item :

5. Such part of the liable turnover asconsists of the turnover from any tradeor business which deals in thewholesale or retail of such goods, notmanufactured or produced by thedealer.

10.In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

0.5 per centum..

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

10Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.