PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

FISHERIES (REGULATION OF
FOREIGN FISHING BOATS)
ACT, No. 59 OF 1979

[Certified on 25th September, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
ee
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price: Re. 1.00 Postage : 50 cents


Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)
Act, No. 59 of 1979

[Certified on 25th September, 1979]
L. D.—O. 66/77.

An Act To REGULATE, CONTROL AND MANAGE FISHING AND
ReLaTeD ACTIVITIES BY ForeEIGN Boats mn Sri LANKA

_ WATERS ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Fisheries (Regulation
of Foreign Fishing Boats) Act, No. 59 of 1979. ;

PART 1—ADMINISTRATION

2. The Director shall be responsible for the administra-
tion of this Act and for the implementation and enforcement
of its provisions.

3. The commanders of the armed forces shall render all
such forms of assistance as may be necessary to ensure the
proper enforcement of this Act and to establish and maintain
an effective system of surveillance over fishing and related
activities by foreign fishing boats in Sri Lanka waters.

PART IJ—CONTROLS OVER FISHING AND RELATED
ACTIVITIES BY FOREIGN FISHING BOATS IN
SRI LANKA WATERS

4, Subject to the provisions of section 12, no foreign
fishing boat shall be used for fishing or related activities
in Sri Lanka waters except under the authority of a permit

issued under section 6.

5. Where any foreign fishing boat enters Sri Lanka waters
otherwise than under the authority of a permit issued under
section 6, the fishing gear of such boat shall, at all times
while it is in such waters, be kept:stowed in the prescribed
manner.

_6. (1) The Director or any person specially authorized
by him may, with the approval of the Minister, on appli-
cation made therefor and pavment of the prescribed fee

2—A 43692—12,350 (79/08) |

Short
title.

Administra-
tion of the
Act.

Armed
forces to
co-operate
in imple-
mentation
and
enforce-
ment of
this Act.

Prohibition
of fishing
and related
activities
by foreign
fishing
boats.

Foreign
fishing

boats
entering

Sri Lanka
waters
without

a permit

to stow gear.

Foreign
fishing
boat
permifs.


Minister
may
reserve
areas of Sri
Lanka
waters
for fishing
by Sri
Lanka
fishermen
and local

fishing boats.

Conditions
of foreign
fishin

boat per-
mits.

Director’s
power

to vary
certain
conditions
in the
permit.

Director’s
power to
suspend or
cancel
permits.

2 Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)
Act, No. 59 of 1979

issue a permit in respect of any foreign fishing boat, autho-
rizing that boat to be used for such fishing and related acti-
vities, in such area or areas of Sri Lanka waters, and during
such periods, as may be specified in the permit. Every such
permit shall be in the prescribed form.

(2) Every application for a permit shall be made to the
Director in the prescribed form and shall contain the Pres-
cribed particulars.

7. (1) The Minister may prescribe the areas of Sri Lanka
waters which shall be reserved for fishing by Sri Lanka
fishermen and by local fishing boats.

(2) No permit issued under section 6 shall authorize or
be valid for, fishing or related activities by any foreign
fishing boat in any area prescribed for the purposes of this
section.

8. Every permit issued under section 6 shall be subject
to such conditions as may be prescribed and to such other
conditions (hereinafter referred to as “special conditions ”’).
as the Director may think fit to attach to such permit, having
regard to the period for which the permit is been issued,
the areas within which the foreign fishing boat is authorized
by such permit to be used for fishing and related activities,
the methods of fishing employed, and the type of gear used,
by such boat. |

9. (1) The Director may from time to time, where he
is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient for the proper
management of fisheries in Sri Lanka waters, vary any
special conditions attached to any permit issued under sec-
tion 6.

(2) Where in pursuance of the powers vested in him by
subsection (1), the Director varies any special condition
attached to any permit issued under section 6, he shall
cause notice of such variation to be given to the holder
of the permit as soon as practicable.

10. (1) The Director may make order suspending any

permit issued under section 6 or cancel such permit—

(a) where he is satisfied that the foreign fishing boat in
respect of which the permit is issued, has been used
in contravention of the provisions of this Act or
of any regulation made under this Act or of any
condition attached to such permit ;


Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats) 3
Act, No. 59 of 1979

(b) where he is satisfied that such action is necessary or
expedient for the proper maneeenicny of fisheries in
Sri Lanka waters.

Every order made under this subsection shall state the
grounds therefor.

(2) Where any permit is suspended or cancelled on the
ground specified in subsection (1) (b), such proportion of
the fee paid for such permit as represents the unexpired
portion of the period for which the permit was issued shall
be reimbursed to the holder of the permit on his request.

Any such request shall be made in writing to the Director— |

(a) within sixty days from the date of the order suspend-
ing or cancelling the permit ; or

(b) where an appeal is made to the Minister against an

order suspending or cancelling a permit, within ©

thirty days of the decision of the Minister on such
appeal.

11, (1) Any person aggrieved by an order made by the
Director under section 10(1) may appeal therefrom to the
Minister within thirty days of the making of the order.

The decision of the Minister on any such appeal shall be
final,

(2) No variation made by the Director under section 9 (1)
or order of suspension or cancellation made under section
10(1) or decision of the Minister under subsection (1) shall
be called in question in any court on the ground that such
variation, suspension or cancellation or decision as the case
may be, was not necessary or expedient for the proper
management of fisheries in Sri Lanka waters.

12. (1) The Director may give written permission autho-
rizing any foreign fishing boat to be used for research opera-
tions, experimental fishing or scientific investigations relat-
ing to fisheries resources in Sri Lanka waters.

(2) The Director may, in giving his written permission
under subsection (1), attach such conditions as he may think
fit, regarding the conduct of such research operations, expe-
rimental fishing or scientific investigations as such foreign
fishing boat is authorized to be used for.

(3) Nothing in section 4 or section 5 shall apply to any
boat operating under the authority of, and in accordance
with, the written permission of the Director given under
subsection (1).

Appeal to
the Minis-

. ter.

Fishing for
research or
scientific
purposes.


4 Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)
; Act, No. 59 of 1979 ,

(4) The Director may at any time, rescind any written
permission given under subsection (1) or vary the condi-
tions attached to such permission, where he considers that
such recision or variation is necessary in the public interest.

\ PART JIII—POWERS OF AUTHORIZED OFFICERS

Powers of 13. (1) For the purposes of enforcing this Act, any
authorized ‘
officers. authorized officer may—

' (a) stop, board and search any foreign fishing boat in
Sri Lanka waters ;

(b) require to be produced, examine and take copies of,
any permit, log-book or other document required
to be kept or maintained by or under this Act ;

(c) require to be produced, and examine, any fishing
nets or other fishing gear on board, or belonging to,
the boat and inspect any fish or aquatic plant on

: board the boat;

(d@) make such enquiries of the master and crew of
the boat. as may be necessary to ascertain whether
any offence has been committed under this Act.

(2) Any authorized officer, where he has reasonable
grounds to believe that an offence has been committed
under the Act may, with or without a warrant—

(a) seize and detain any boat, used in, or in connection
with , the commission of the offence including any
fishing gear, fish or aquatic plants, equipment, stores
and cargo found on board, or belonging to, the boat,
or seize any fishing gear abandoned by the boat;
and |

(b) arrest any person who he has reason to believe has
committed such offence.

(3) In effecting the seizure of a boat under this section,
an authorized officer may use such force as may be reasona-
bly necessary.

(4) Any foreign fishing boat seized under this section,
and the crew thereof, shall be brought to the nearest or
most convenient port in Sri Lanka.


Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats) © 5.

_ Act, No. 59 of 1979

(5) Where any foreign fishing boat or other thing is
seized under this section, the authorized officer by whom
such boat or other thing was seized, shall as soon as
possible produce the boat or other thing before, or make
it available for inspection by, a Judge of the High Court,
who shall make such order as he may deem fit relating to
the detention or custody of such boat or other thing pending
the conclusion of a prosecution instituted in respect of that
boat or other thing: .

Provided however that where any fish or acquatic plant
so seized is subject to speedy decay, an authorized officer
may, on the direction of the Director or the Government
Agent, sell such fish or acquatic plant and shall deposit the
proceeds of sale in the High Court.

(6) Every person arrested under this section shall be
informed of the reason for his arrest and shall (subject, in
the case of an arrest under a warrant, to any endorsement
in such warrant) be produced before a Judge of the High
Court within twenty-four hours of the arrest, exclusive of
the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest
to that Judge.

(7) Where, following the commission of an offence under
this Act or any other law relating to fisheries by any foreign
boat in Sri Lanka waters, such foreign fishing boat is pursued
beyond the limits of Sri Lanka waters, the powers conferred
on authorized officers by this section may be exercised
beyond the limits of Sri Lanka waters in the circumstances,
and to the extent, recognized by international law.

14, (1) No action shall lie against the Government of
Sri Lanka or against any authorized officer for damages in
any civil court, for any act done or ordered to be done in
good faith in pursuance of any provision of this Act.

(2) No prosecution against an authorized officer in respect
of any act done by such officer in purported pursuance of
any provision of this Act shall be entertained by any court
unless such action is instituted within six months of the
date of the act complained of.

Protection
of action


Contraven-
tion of pro-
visions of
section 4 or
section 5
ah offence.

Non-
compli-
ance with
conditions
of permit
to be an
offence.

Obstruction
of autho-
rized officers
&e.

6 Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)
Act, No. 59 of 1979

PART IV
OFFENCES

15. Where any foreign fishing boat is used in contraven-
tion of the provisions of section 4 or section 5 the master,
owner and charterer, if any, of such boat shall each be
guilty of an offence under this Act and shall each be liable
on conviction after trial without a jury before a Judge of
the High Court,—

(a) in the case of a contravention of section 4, to a fine
not exceeding one million five hundred thousand
rupees ; or

(b) in the case of a contravention of section 5, to a fine
not exceeding seven hundred and iifty thousand
rupees.

16. Where any foreign fishing boat in respect of which
a permit has been issued under section 6 is used in contra-
vention of the conditions of such permit, the master, owner
and charterer, if any, of such boat shall each be guilty of
an offence under this Act and shall each be liable on con-
viction after trial without a jury before a Judge of the
High Court, to a fine not exceeding seven hundred and
fifty thousand rupees.

17. Any person who—

(a) wilfully obstructs any authorized officer in the exer-
cise of any powers conferred on him by this Act ;

or

(b) fails to produce—

(i) any permit, log-book or other document requir.
ed to be maintained by or under this Act; 01

(ii) any fishing nets or fishing gear on board, 01
belonging to, a foreign fishing boat,

when required to do so by an authorized officer

or

(c) fails to comply with any enquiry or requirement
made by an authorized officer in accordance witt
the provisions of this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be
liable on conviction after trial without a jury before a
Judge of the High Court to a fine not exceeding twenty-
five thousand rupees.


Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats) 7
' Act, No. 59 of 1979

18. Where any person is convicted of an offence under
this Act, the Court—

(a) may, and in the case of a contravention of section 4
shall, make order that any boat used, in, or in
connection with, the commission of the offence,
together with its fishing gear, equipment, stores and
cargo and any fish or aquatic plants found on board
such boat or the proceeds of sale of any such fish or
acquatic plants deposited in Court under the proviso
to section 13(5), shall be forfeited ;

(b) shall order that any costs incurred in holding the
boat in detention, and any costs of repatriation
of any member or members of the crew of the boat,
shall be payable by the person convicted.

19. (1) Any boat, fishing gear, fish, aquatic plant, equip-

ment, stores or cargo forfeited under section 18 shall upon

such forfeiture vest absolutely in the State. Such vesting
shall take effect—

(a) after the expiration of the period within which an
appeal may be preferred to the Court of Appeal
against the order of forfeiture ; or

(b) where an appeal has been preferred to the Court
of Appeal against the order of forfeiture, upon
the determination of such appeal, confirming or
up-holding the order of forfeiture.

(2) The Director shall take possession of any boat, fish-
ing gear, fish, aquatic plant, equipment, stores or cargo
vested in the State under subsection (1) and may sell or
otherwise dispose of them as he may think fit.

20. (1) The Director or Deputy Director or any Govern-
ment Agent or Additional Government Agent may, having
regard to the circumstances in which the offence was
committed and with the approval of the Minister, compound
any offence under this Act for a sum of money equal to
not less than one-fifth of the maximum fine imposable for
such offence, and may, as part of the compounding of ths
offence, with the approval of the Minister, order the release
of any boat, fish or other thing seized under section 13,
’ (and in respect of which no order of detention has been
made by a Judge of the High Court), on payment of a sum
of money not exceeding the aggregate of the estimated

value of the boat, fish or other thing, and the costs incurred —

in the detention of the boat and repatriation of its crew.

Power of
court to
order
forfeiture.

Disposal of
forfeited
goods.

Compoun-
ding cf
offences.


Release
of boat
- against
bond or
other secu-

rity.

& ‘ Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)
Act, No. 59 of 1979

(2) The compounding of any offence under this section—

(a) shall be notified in writing under the signature of
both parties to the High Court ;

(b) shall have the effect of an acquittal of the accused. |

21. (1) Where a Judge of the High Court has ordered the
detention of a foreign fishing boat pending the conclusion
of any prosecution instituted in respect of that boat, the
owner of the boat, permit holder, master or the authorized
local representative appointed in respect of the boat, may
apply to that Judge for the release of the boat on the provi-
sion of a satisfactory bond or other form of security in
accordance with this section.

(2) A Judge of the High Court to whom an application
is made under subsection (1), shall order the release of the
boat on the execution by a person approved by the Judge,
of a satisfactory bond or other form of security in an amount
not less than the aggregate of the value of the boat,
(including all fishing gear, equipment, stores and cargo,
the value of the fish or aquatic plants on board at the
time of seizure, other than the value of any fish or aquatic
plants which have been sold and the proceeds deposited in
Court in accordance with the proviso to section 13(5) ),
the expenses incurred in the detention and in the repatria-
tion of any member or members of the crew of the
boat and the maximum fine to which the master, owner
or charterer of such boat would be liable if convicted of the
offence in respect of which a prosecution against such
master, cwner or character has been or is to’ be instituted.

(3) The release of any bond or other form of security
executed under this section shall be conditioned upon—

(a) a finding by the Court that the boat has not been
_ used in, or in connection with, the commission of an
offence under this Act; or

(b) (i) payment in full, within fourteen days of the daie
of the judgment of the Court, of any fine im-
posed by the Court and any costs ordered to
be paid under section 18(b) ; and

(ii) delivery to the Court, on the order of the Court,
of the boat (including all fishing gear, equip-
ment stores and cargo, and of any fish or
aquatic plants ordered to be forfeited) with-


Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats) 9
" Act, No. 59 of 1979

out any impairment of its value, or payment
of the monetary value thereof as determined

by the Court, where the Court finds that
the boat has been used in, or in connection
with, the commission of an offence under this
Act.

(4) The amount specified in the bond or other form of
security shall be recoverable in full in any court of compe-
tent jurisdiction, as a debt due to the State jointly and
severally by the person or persons by whom the bond or
other form of security is given, unless such person or persons
prove the due performance of the condition on which the
bond is released.

22. Where the master, owner or charterer of a foreign
fishing boat, has been convicted of an offence under section
15 or 16, the boat, (including its fishing gear, equipment,
stores and cargo) if not ordered to be forfeit by the Court,
shall be held until such time as the fine, costs and other
moneys ordered by the Court to be paid have been paid,
and if payment in full has not been made within thirty days
of the date on which the fine is imposed or the costs and
other moneys are ordered to be paid, the boat shall be sold
and the fine, costs and other moneys shall be recovered from

the proceeds of the sale.

_ 23. Where in any prosecution instituted under this Act
following the seizure of a foreign fishing boat by an enforce-
ment vessel, the place in which an event is alleged to have
taken place is in issue, the place stated in a certified copy
of the relevant entry in the logbook or other official record
of the enforcement vessel as being the place in which the
event took place shall be presumed until the contrary is
proved, to be the place in which such event took place.

24. Any offence under this Act committed in Sri Lanka
waters shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
any other law relating to the territorial jurisdiction of the
High Court, be triable by the High Court sitting in any
judicial zone of Sri Lanka.

Boat to

be held
pending
payment
of fines,
&c.

Presump-
tion.

Jurisdic-
tion of the
Courts.


Service

of notice,
summons or
other docu-
ment.

Minister’s
power

to make
regulations.

10 + Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)
Act, No. 59 of 1979

25. Where for the purposes of any prosecution or other
proceeding instituted under this Act, any notice, summons
or other document is required to be served on the owner
or charterer of a foreign fishing boat, such notice, summons.
or other document shall be.deemed to have been properly
served, if it is served in person or by registered post on
the master of such boat, or on the authorized local repre-
sentative appointed by the owner or charterer of such boat.

26. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out and giving effect to the principles
and provisions of this Act.

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations for, or in respect of, all or any of the
following matters :—

(a) the manner in which the fishing gear of foreign fish-
ing boats.shall be stewed, when prohibited from
fishing in Sri Lanka waters;

(6) the form of applications for a permit under section 6,
the particulars to be contained in such applications,
and the manner in which such applications shall be
made ;

(c) the forms of permits issued under section 6 and the
fees to be paid therefor ;

(d) the conditions to be attached to a permit issued under
section 6, including conditions relating to—

(i) the appointment by permit holders, of autho-
rized local representatives or agents in Sri
Lanka in respect of fishing operations ;

(ii) the maintenance by permit holders, of bonds
and other forms of security for the fulfilment
of the conditions attached to the permit;

(iii) the requirements to be observed by the boat
in respect of which the permit is issued, while
such boat is in Sri Lanka waters ;

(iv) the maintenance by the boat in respect of which |
the permit is issued, of log books and other —
records of position, catch and fishing efforts
and of the transporting and processing opera-
tions carried out by such boat;


Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats) IL
Act, No. 59 of 1979

(v) furnishing by the permit holder, of statistical
and other information, including statistics re-
lating to catch and effort and of reports as
to the position of the boat ;

(vi) the marking of the boat in respect of which
the permit is issued, and the installation and
maintenance on board such boat, of transpon-
ders and other equipment for the identifica--
tion and location of boats and of adequate
navigational equipment to enable boats to fix.
their positions themselves ;

(vii) the provision of facilities by the permit-holder,
for the placing of trainees and other person-
nel on board the boat in respect of which the
permit is issued ;

(viii) the employment of Sri Lanka citizens on board.
the boat in respect of which the permit is.
issued ;

(ix) the placing the Sri Lanka observers on board.
the boat in respect of which the permit is
issued ;

(x) the compliance by the boat in respect of which
the permit is issued, with directions, instruc-
tions or other requirements given by authoris-
ed officers acting in pursuance of the powers
conferred on them by this Act or by any other
law.

(e) the procedures to be conformed to by foreign capital.

investment in fisheries, including joint-venture
proposals ;

(f) the conditions under which foreign fishing boats shall
be allowed to enter into Sri Lanka ports, whether:
for inspection of the catch or for other purposes ;

(g) the Sri Lanka waters within which a foreign fishing
boat may be authorized by a permit issued under
section 6, to be used for fishing and related activities;

(h) the procedures to be adopted by an authorized officers
in effecting the seizure of a foreign Ashing boat.

under scetion 13 ;


Amend.
ment to the

12 Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)
Act, No. 59 of 1979

(i) provision that the contravention of, or failure to com-
ply with, any regulation made under this section
shall be an offence under this Act triable by a Judge
of the High Court without a jury and punishable
with a fine not exceeding one million rupees ;

(j) any other matter which is required or authorized by
this Act to be prescribed.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be pub-
lished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so appreved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the date
of disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is so
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

27. The Fisheries Ordinance is hereby amended as
follows :—
_ (a) by the repeal of sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 of that
Ordinance ;

(b) in section 9 of thiaat Ordinance, by the substitution,
for the expression “fishing boat” wherever: that
expression occurs in that section, of the expression
“local fishing boat”;

(c) in section 10 of that Ordinance, by the substitution
for the expression “ fishing boat”, of the expression
“local fishing boat”;

(d) in subsection (1) of section 22 of that Ordinance,
by the substitution, for the expression “ fishing
boat”, of the expression “local fishing boat” ;

(e) in section 23 of that Ordinance, by the repeal of
paragraph (b) of that section ;

(f) in subsection (2) of section 33 of that Ordinance—
(i) by the repeal of paragraphs (b) and (c) of

that subsection ;
(ii) by the substitution, in paragraph (d) of that
subsection, for the expression “ fishing boats ”,
of the expression “local fishing boats” ; and


Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats) 13

Act, No. 59 of 1979

(iii) by the repeal of paragraphs (e), (f) and (g)
of that subsection ; and

(g) in section 35 of that Ordinance—

(i) by the omission of the definitions respectively,
of “ Ceylonese ”, “ Ceylonese company ” and
“fishing licence” ; and

(ii) by the insertion, immediately after the defini-
tion of “inland water”, of the following new
definition :—
“local fishing boat”, has the same meaning

as in the Fisheries Seen of
Foreign Fishing Boats) Act, 1979 ;

28. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“aquatic plant” means any seaweed, photoplankton or
other aquatic flora ;

“ authorized officer” means any officer not below the rank
of Fisheries Inspector appointed under the Fisheries
Ordinance, any member of the Navy not below the
rank of petty officer, any member of the Air Force
not below the rank of Sergeant, any police officer
not below the rank of Sergeant and any other person
designated as such by name or by office, by the
Minister in writing ;

“Director? means the Director of Fisheries appointed
under section 2 of the Fisheries Ordinance ;

“Deputy Director” means a Deputy Director of Fisheries
appointed under section 2 of the Fisheries

Ordinance ; ‘
“nr. : 7 opal
fish” means any aquatic animal, whether piscine or

not, and includes any _ shellfish, crustacean,

mollusc, holothurian or aquatic mammal, and its

young, fry, eggs or spawn ;

“fishing” means catching, taking or killing fish or
collecting aquatic plants by any method and
includes an attempt to catch, Cane or kill fish, or to

collect aquatic plants ;

“fishing boat” means any vessel for fhe time being used
for fishing or related activities ; .

Interpre- -
tation.


14 Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats)
Act, No. 59 of 1979

“ foreign fishing boat” means any fishing boat other than
a local fishing boat ;

“local fishing boat” means any fishing boat—

(a) wholly owned by the Government of Sri Lanka
or any public corporation established by, or
under, any law of Sri Lanka ;

(b) wholly owned by one or more persons who are
citizens of Sri Lanka ; or.

(c) wholly owned by any company, society or other
association of persons, incorporated or esta-
blished under the law of Sri Lanka, a
majority of the voting shares of which are
held by citizens of Sri Lanka,

and registered under the Merchant Shipping Act,
No. 52 of 1971 ;

“‘ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulation made under
this Act;

“related activities” in relation to fishing means—
(a) transhipping fish to or from any boat or vessel ;

(b) storing, processing or transporting fish or
aquatic plants obtained from _ fishing
operations ;

(c) refuelling or supplying fishing boats or perform
ing other activities in support of, or ancillary
to, fishing operations ;

(d) attempting or preparing to do any of the above ;

“Sri Lanka waters”? means—

(a) the area declared to be the territorial sea of
Sri Lanka by proclamation made under
section 2 of the Maritime Zones Law, No. 22
of 1976; .

(b) the area declared to be the contiguous zone
of Sri Lanka by proclamation made under
section 4 of the Maritime Zones Law, No. 22 -
of 1976 ;


Fisheries (Regulation of Foreign Fishing Boats) 15
Act, No. 59 of 1979

(c) the area declared to be the exclusive economic
zone of Sri Lanka by proclamation made
under section 5 of the Maritime Zones Law,
No. 22 of 1976 ;

(d) the area declared to be the historic waters of
Sri Lanka by proclamation made under
section 9 of the Maritime Zones Law, No. 22
of 1976; and

(e) all public bays, rivers, lakes, lagoons, estuaries,
streams, tanks, pools, ponds, channels and all
other public inland or internal waters.
