PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 25 OF 2017

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 02nd of November, 2017]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 16.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 02, 2017

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1 Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2017

2PL 0054002962 (08/2017)

Short title.

Amendment ofthe long title ofAct, No. 19 of2006.

Amendment ofsection 2 of theprincipalenactment.

[Certified on 02nd of November, 2017]

L.D.O 22/2016.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONSACT, NO. 19 OF 2006

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Electronic Transactions(Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 2017.

2.The long title of the Electronic Transactions Act,No. 19 of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended, by the substitution forthe words AND ACCREDITATION OF CERTIFICATIONSERVICE PROVIDERS; AND, of the words ANDLICENSING AND AUTHORISING OF CERTIFICATIONSERVICE PROVIDERS; TO GIVE EFFECT TO THEPROVISIONS OF THE UNITED NATIONS CONVENTIONON THE USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS ININTERNATIONAL CONTRACTS AND.

3.Section 2 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraphs:-

(c)to facilitate electronic filing of anyapplication, petition, plaint, answer, writtensubmission or any other document with anycourt;

(ca)to facilitate electronic filing of any form,application, or any other document with any

Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 20172

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

ministry, department, provincial council,provincial ministry and department or localauthority or, office, body or agency ownedor controlled by the Government or astatutory body in a particular manner and topromote efficient delivery of public serviceby means of reliable forms of electroniccommunications;;

(2)in paragraph (d) thereof, by the substitution for thewords other communications., of the words othercommunications; and;

(3)by the insertion of new paragraph immediately afterparagraph (d) thereof, of the following newparagraph:-

(e)to implement the provisions of theConvention subject to such restrictionsspecified in section 23 of this Act declared atthe time of ratification of the Convention..

4.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words the time when it was made available in electronicform, of the words the time when it was first generated inits final form as a data message, electronic document,electronic record or communication or otherwise.

5.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:-

7. Where any written law provides that acommunication or any other document shall,be signed or bear the signature of any person,then notwithstanding anything to the contrary

Replacement ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

Legalrecognitionof electronicsignatures.

3 Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2017

in such written law, that requirement shall bedeemed to be met in relation to a data message,electronic document, electronic record orcommunication if-

(a)a method is used to identify that personand to indicate that persons intentionin respect of the information containedin the electronic communication; and

(b)the method used is,

(i)as reliable as appropriate for thepurpose for which the electroniccommunication was generated, sentor communicated, in the light of allthe circumstances, including anyrelevant agreement; or

(ii)proven to have fulfilled thefunctions described in paragraph(a) by itself or together with furtherevidence..

6.Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby furtheramended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords contained in any other law and electronicrecords as, of the words contained in any otherwritten law and electronic records, electronicdocument, data message or any electroniccommunication as respectively;

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words any license, permit orapproval;, of the words any license, certificate,permit or any other form of approval;; and

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 20174

(3)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords requiring the use of electronic recordsspecified in subsection (1), may recommendthe making of regulations for the purpose ofauthorizing or facilitating the use of electroniccommunications or electronic records,, of the wordsrequiring the use of data message, electronic record,electronic document or electronic communicationspecified in subsection (1), may recommend themaking of regulations for the purpose of authorizingor facilitating the use of such data message,electronic record, electronic document or electroniccommunication,.

7.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:-

10. Every ministry, department, institution,public corporation or other similar body may,subject to the provisions of this Act, acceptor issue, any document in the form of datamessage, electronic record, electronicdocument or other communication inelectronic form..

8.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 11 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 11A of that enactment :-

11A. A proposal to conclude a contractmade through one or more electroniccommunications which is not addressed to oneor more specific parties, but is generallyaccessible to parties making use of anyinformation systems, shall be considered as aninvitation to make offers, unless it clearlyindicates the intention of the party making theproposal to be bound in case of acceptance..

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.Ministry,department,& etc, toaccept orissue anydocument inelectronicform.

Insertion of newsection 11A inthe principalenactment.

Invitation tomake offers.

5 Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2017

9.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyamended:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords enters an information system outside thecontrol of the originator,, of the words leaves aninformation system under the control of theoriginator,;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newsubsection:-

(2) (a) Unless otherwise agreed between theoriginator and the addressee, the time of receiptof a data message, electronic document, electronicrecord or other communication shall bedetermined as follows, namely-

(i)if the addressee has designated anelectronic address for the purpose ofreceiving data message, electronicdocument, electronic record or othercommunication, time of receipt occursat the time when the said data message,electronic document, electronic recordor other communication becomescapable of being retrieved by theaddressee; or

(ii)if the addressee has not designatedan electronic address or has indicatedanother electronic address for the purposeof receiving data message, electronicdocument, electronic record or other

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.

Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 20176

communication, time of receipt occurs atthe time when the said data message,electronic document, electronic record orother communication becomes capableof being retrieved by the addresseeat that electronic address and theaddressee becomes aware that the saiddata message, electronic document,electronic record or other communicationhas been sent to that electronic address.

(b) For the purpose of this subsection, a datamessage, electronic document, electronic recordor other communication is presumed to be capableof being retrieved by the addressee when the saiddata message, electronic document, electronicrecord or other communication reaches theaddressees electronic address.;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (5) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newsubsection-

(5) For the purposes of this section

(a)if the originator or the addressee has notindicated a place of business or has morethan one place of business, the place ofbusiness is that which has the closestrelationship to the relevant contract,having regard to the circumstancesknown to or contemplated by theoriginator or the addressee before or atthe conclusion of the contract;

7 Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2017

(b)if the originator or the addressee doesnot have a place of business, his usualplace of residence shall be deemed tobe the place of business;

(c)a location is not a place of businessmerely because-

(i)the equipment and technologysupporting an information systemused by a particular originator orthe addressee in connection withthe formation of a contract, are inthat particular location; or

(ii)the information system may beaccessed by addressee in thatlocation;

(d)the fact that the originator or theaddressee makes use of a domain nameor electronic mail address connected toa specific country does not create apresumption that the said originator orthe addressees place of business islocated in that country;

(e)a partys place of business is presumedto be the location indicated bythat party, unless another partydemonstrates that the party making theindication does not have a place ofbusiness at that location; and

(f)usual place of residence in relationto a body corporate, means the placewhere it is registered..

8Electronic Transactions (Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 2017

10.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 14 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 14A of that enactment:-

14A. (1) Where a natural person in relationto the formation or performance of anelectronic contract, makes an input error in anelectronic communication exchanged with theautomated message system of another party andthe automated message system does notprovide the person with an opportunity tocorrect the error, that person, or the party onwhose behalf that person was acting, has theright to withdraw the portion of the electroniccommunication in which the input error wasmade, if-

(a) the person, or the party on whose behalfthat person was acting, notifies the otherparty of the error as soon as possibleafter having learned of the error andindicates that he made an error in theelectronic communication; and

(b) the person, or the party on whose behalfthat person was acting, has not used orreceived any material benefit or valuefrom the goods and services, if any,received from the other party.

(2) Nothing in this section affects theapplication of any rule of law that may governthe consequences of any error other than asprovided for in subsection (1)..

11.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words of this Chapter and accredited CertificationService Providers., of the words of this Act and licensedor authorized Certification Service Providers. respectively.

Insertion of newsection 14A inthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

Error inelectroniccommunica-tions.

Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 20179

12.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 18 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 18A of that enactment:-

18A. The Minister shall, on therecommendation of the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister, appoint a task forceor a body of persons to manage and administerthe Certification Authority, having regard tothe qualifications and experience as well asthe need to represent relevant stakeholders,with the objective of ensuring its properadministration..

13.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (a) thereof, by the substitution for thewords accreditation, of the words licensing orauthorization;

(2)by the repeal of paragraphs (b) and (c) thereof andthe substitution therefor of the following newparagraphs:-

(b) hear appeals and specify the procedure to befollowed in the granting of a license or anauthorization for the purposes of this Act;

(c) specify the procedure for the hearing ofappeals in the event of a refusal to grant orrenew a license or an authorization undersection 20, as the case may be;; and

(3)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (d)thereof, of the following new paragraph:-

(da) authorize Certification Service Providers toissue various types of electronic signatures

Insertion of newsection 18A inthe principalenactment.

Minister toappoint thetask forces.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

10Electronic Transactions (Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 2017

in accordance with such criteria andguidelines as may be prescribed, includingoperational framework and securityprocedure for the use of biometric data andother authentication technologies forverification purposes;.

14.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newsubsection:-

(1) A Certification Service Provider maybe licensed or authorized by the CertificationAuthority in accordance with the criteriaprescribed from time to time.;

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords without being accredited, of the wordswithout being licensed or authorized;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof; and

(4)by the repeal of the marginal note thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

Licensing or authorizing the CertificationService Providers..

15.Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (c)thereof, of the following new paragraph:-

(ca) any financial matter in the nature of thefollowing:-

(i) transactions on a regulated exchange;

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment.

Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 201711

(ii) foreign exchange transactions;

(iii) inter-bank payment systems, inter-bankpayment agreements or clearance andsettlement systems relating to securitiesor other financial assets or instruments;and

(iv) the transfer of security rights in sale,loan or holding of or agreement torepurchase securities or other financialassets or instruments held with anintermediary;;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (e) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following:-

(e) a trust as defined in the Trusts Ordinance(Chapter 87) excluding a constructive,implied and resulting trust;.

16.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords and figures subsection (2), of the wordsand figures section 2.;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (c) of subsection (2)thereof and the substitution therefor, of thefollowing new paragraph:-

(c) the powers, duties and functions of the TaskForce or body of persons being appointed tomanage and administer the CertificationAuthority in terms of section 18A and theother terms and conditions applicable tothem;;

(3)in paragraph (d) of subsection (2) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words criteria for accreditation

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

12Electronic Transactions (Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 2017

of certification service providers under section 20,of the words criteria for licensing or authorizingof certification service providers under section 20;

(4)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (d)of subsection (2) thereof, of the following newparagraph-

(da) prescribe criteria and guidelines forCertification Service Providers to issuevarious types of electronic signatures,including the operational framework andsecurity procedures for the use of biometricdata and other authentication technologiesfor verification purposes ;; and

(5)in paragraph (e) of subsection (2) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words an accreditationcertificate, of the words a license or anauthorization.

17.Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the insertion immediately after the definition ofterm of expression addressee, of the followingnew definition:-

automated message system means a computerprogram or an electronic or other automatedmeans used to initiate an action or respond todata messages or performances in whole or inpart, without review or intervention by anatural person each time an action is initiatedor a response is generated by the system;;

(2) by the insertion immediately after the definitionof term of expression computer, of the followingnew definition:-

Convention means the United NationsConvention on the Use of Electronic

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 201713

Communications in International Contractsratified by Sri Lanka on July 7, 2015 subjectto the declaration made at the time ofratification;;

(3)by the insertion immediately after the definitionof term of expression electronic, of the followingnew definitions:-

electronic address means a communicationnetwork or an electronic mailbox, telecopydevise or a designated portion or location inan information system that a person uses toreceive a data message, electronic document,electronic record or any communication;

electronic communication means anycommunication made by means of datamessage;;

(4)by the repeal of the definition of term of expressionelectronic signature and the substitution therefor,of the following definition:-

electronic signature means data in electronicform, affixed to logically associated with adata message, electronic document, electronicrecord or communication which may be usedto identify the signatory in relation to thedata message, electronic document, electronicrecord or communication and to indicate thesignatorys intention in respect of theinformation contained therein;;

(5)by the insertion immediately after the definitionof term of expression intermediary, of thefollowing new definition:-

Minister means the Minister to whom theimplementation of the provisions of

14Electronic Transactions (Amendment) Act, No. 25 of 2017

Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006is assigned;;

(6)by the repeal of the definition of term of expressionoriginator and the substitution therefor, of thefollowing definitions:-

originator of an electronic communicationmeans a person by whom, or on whose behalf,the electronic communication has been sentor generated prior to storage, if any, but itdoes not include a person acting as anintermediary with respect to that electroniccommunication;

prescribe means prescribe by regulations madeunder this Act;; and

(7) by the substitution, in the definition of the term ofexpression security procedure, for the wordsa certificate issued of the words a license or anauthorization issued.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Electronic Transactions (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 201715