PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 14.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 29th of March, 2022]

PREVENTION OF TERRORISM(TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 12 OF 2022

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 20221

[Certified on 29th of March, 2022]

L.D.O. 1/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PREVENTION OF TERRORISM(TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 48 OF 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Prevention of Terrorism(Temporary Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022.

2.Section 9 of the Prevention of Terrorism (TemporaryProvisions) Act, No. 48 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to asthe principal enactment) is hereby amended in the provisoto subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for the wordseighteen months. of the words twelve months..

3.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 9 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 9A and 9B of that enactment: -

9A. (1) The officer in charge of the place ofdetention shall, forthwith and in any case, notlater than forty-eight hours from the time ofissuance of an Order under section 9, makeavailable a certified copy of such Order to theMagistrate within whose judicial division theplace of detention of the person in respect ofwhom such Order relates is situated, for theMagistrate to visit such place of detention, interms of section 9B.

(2) The detention of any person undersection 9 shall be communicated to the HumanRights Commission of Sri Lanka in terms ofsection 28 of the Human Rights Commissionof Sri Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996, for the personsauthorized by the Human Rights Commissionof Sri Lanka to visit the place of detention interms of that Act.

Short title

Amendment ofsection 9 of Act,No. 48 of 1979

Certifiedcopy of thedetentionOrder to beserved on theMagistrate

Insertion ofsections 9A and9B in theprincipalenactment

2Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

9B. (1) It shall be the duty of everyMagistrate who has received a certified copyof a detention Order in terms of subsection (1)of section 9A, to visit the place of detention ofthe person to whom the Order relates (in thissection referred to as the suspect) at leastonce in every month during the period ofdetention, to ensure that the suspect is protectedto the extent provided for in the ConventionAgainst Torture and other Cruel, Inhumane ordegrading Treatment or Punishment Act, No.22of 1994.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), theMagistrate who visits any place of detention,shall

(a) personally see the suspect, and lookinto his wellbeing, welfare andconditions under which he is kept atsuch place of detention; and

(b) record his observations and anycomplaint the suspect may make.

(3) Where the Magistrate is of the opinion,that the suspect may have been subjected totorture, the Magistrate may

(a)direct that the suspect be producedbefore a Judicial Medical Officer formedical examination, and a report besubmitted to him by such JudicialMedical Officer; and

(b)make an order to change the place ofdetention of the suspect.

Duty of theMagistrate tovisit place ofdetention

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 20223

(4) Where the report of such JudicialMedical Officer reveals that the suspect hasbeen subjected to torture, the Magistrate shallmake an appropriate order, to provide necessarymedical treatment to the suspect.

(5) The Magistrate shall also direct theInspector General of Police to commence aninvestigation into the alleged torture in orderto enable the Attorney-General to institutecriminal proceedings against the person whois alleged to have committed the torture..

4.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

10. An Order made under section 9 shall befinal and shall not be called in question in anyproceedings or in any court of law, save andexcept in proceedings under Article 126,140or 141 of the Constitution..

5. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 10 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 10A of that enactment:-

10A. (1) An Attorney- at- Law representinga person remanded or detained under this Act,shall have the right of access to such personand to make representations on behalf of suchperson, subject to such conditions as may beprescribed by regulations made under this Actor as provided for in other written law.

(2) A person remanded or detained underthis Act shall have the right to communicatewith his relatives, as provided for in writtenlaw..

Order undersection 9 tobe final

Insertion ofsection 10A inthe principalenactment

AnAttorney- at-Law to haveaccess to aperson inremand or indetention

Replacement ofsection 10 ofthe principalenactment

4Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

6.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)thereof, of the following subsections:-

(1A) The person to whom an Order made undersubsection (1) relates, shall be produced before aJudicial Medical Officer for medical examinationbefore serving such Order to such person and areport be submitted by the Judicial Medical Officerin respect of such person.

(1B) An Order made under subsection (1) shall beserved on the person to whom the Order relates, bythe Magistrate in whose judicial division suchperson resides and the report of the JudicialMedical Officer referred to in subsection (1A) shallbe produced before the Magistrate to ensure thatsuch person has not been subjected to torture beforeserving such Order on such person.

(1C) Where the report issued by the JudicialMedical Officer under subsection (1A) reveals thatsuch person has been subjected to torture, theMagistrate shall

(a) make an appropriate order to provide necessarymedical treatment to such person; and

(b) where, at the time of serving on such person,an order made under subsection (1), an order ofdetention in respect of such person is also inforce, make an order to change the place ofdetention of such person.

(1D) The Magistrate shall also direct theInspector General of Police to commence aninvestigation into the alleged torture in order toenable the Attorney-General to institute criminalproceedings against the person who is alleged tohave committed the torture..

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 20225

(2) in the proviso to subsection (3) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words eighteen months. ofthe words twelve months.;

(3) by the repeal of subsection (5) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:-

(5) An Order made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall be final and shall not be calledin question in any proceedings or in any court oflaw, save and except in proceedings under Article126, 140 or 141 of the Constitution..

7.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

8.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (2)thereof, of the following new subsection:-

(3) Every trial under this Act shall be held on a day today basis, unless in the opinion of the court exceptionalcircumstances warrant postponement of thecommencement or continuation of trial, for reasons whichshall be recorded by court..

9.Section 15A of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words and figures section 19(a), of the word and figuresection 19.

10.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 15A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 15B of that enactment:-

Repeal ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment

Insertion of newsection 15B inthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 15A ofthe principalenactment

6Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

15B. Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in the provisions of this Act, if thetrial against a person remanded or detainedunder this Act has not commenced after theexpiration of twelve months, from the date ofarrest, the Court of Appeal may release suchperson on bail, upon an application in thatbehalf, made by the suspect or an Attorney- at-Law on his behalf:

Provided however, notwithstanding theprovisions of subection (2) of section 15, theHigh Court may in exceptional circumstancesrelease the suspect on bail subject to suchconditions as the High Court may deem fit:

Provided further, where the trial against anaccused in respect of whom the indictment hasbeen forwarded and filed in the High Court,has not commenced after the expiration oftwelve months from the date of such filing, theHigh Court may consider to release such personon bail, upon an application in that behalfmade by the accused or an Attorney- at-Lawon his behalf..

11.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

19. Notwithstanding the provisions of anyother written law, every person convicted byany court of any offence under this Act shall,notwithstanding that he has lodged a petitionof appeal against his conviction or the sentenceimposed on him, be kept on remand until thedetermination of the appeal:

Provided however, that the Court of Appealmay in exceptional circumstances release onbail any such person subject to such conditionsas the Court of Appeal may deem fit ..

Provisionsof anywritten lawrelating tothe grant ofbail not toapply topersonsaccused ofany offenceunder thisAct

Grant ofbail topersons inremand or indetention

Replacement ofsection 19 ofthe principalenactment

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 20227

Protectionof officers&c.

12.Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

26. (1) An Order made or direction givenunder this Act may be questioned inproceedings under Article 126, 140 or 141 ofthe Constitution.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection(1), no suit, prosecution or other proceeding,civil or criminal, shall lie against any officer orperson for any act or thing done in good faithin pursuance of any Order made or directiongiven under this Act..

13.Section 31 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of the definition of the expressionnewspaper;

(2) by the repeal of the definition of the expressionprinting press; and

(3) by the insertion immediately after the definitionspecified person of the following definition:-

torture shall have the same meaning assignedto such expression under the ConventionAgainst Torture and other Cruel, Inhumaneor degrading Treatment or Punishment Act,No.22 of 1994;.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Amendment ofsection 31 of theprincipalenactment

Replacementof section 26of theprincipalenactment

8Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.