PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

GOODS AND SERVICES TAX (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 5 OF 2001

[Certified on 11th April, 2001]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 12, 2001

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO O1

Price : Rs. 4.50 Postage : Rs, 3.50


Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 5 of 2001

(Certified on 11th April, 2001}
L. D.—O, 20/2001.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE GOOpS AND SERVICES Tax Act, No. 34 oF
1996; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Goods and Services Tax
(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2001.

2. Section 7 of the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34
of 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment’)
as last amended by Act No. 26 of 2000, is hereby further
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :—

(1) in paragraph (c) of that subsection, by the substitution
for the words “shall be zero rated.” of the words
“shall be zero rated;”; and

(2) by the addition at the end of that subsection of the
following paragraph :—

“(d) any of the following services shall be zero
rated—

(i) the services of a computer software
developer, in respect of software developed
by him for use wholly outside Sri Lanka,
and for which payment is received in
foreign currency through a bank, if and
only if, documentary evidence is produced
to the salisfaction of the Corinissioner-
General, of the supply of such service;

(ii) client support services provided over the
internet or the telephone by an enterprise
set up on or after April 1, 2001, exclusively
for the provision of such services to one
or more identified clients outside Sri
Lanka, for which payment is received in
foreign currency, through a bank.”.

2—H 011621—5,550 (2001/04)

Short title.

Amendment of
section 7 of Act
No. 34 of 1996.


Amendment of
section 22 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 58 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 76 of the
principal
enactment.

Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 5 of 2001

3. Section 22 of the principal enactment as last amended
by Act No. 26 of 2000, is hereby further amended in
subsection (4) of that section, as follows :—

(1)

(2)

by the substitution for the words “the end of such
taxable period in which such refund became duc,
and”, of the words “the end of the taxable period in
which the application for the refund was made, and”;

by the substitution, in paragraph (d) of the proviso
to that subsection, for the words “falls immediately
before”, of the words “falls before”’.

4. Section 58 of the principal enactment as last amended
by Act No. 11 of 1998, is hereby further amended in
subsection (1) of that section by the repeal of the proviso to
that subsection and the substitution therefor of the following
proviso :-—

“Provided however, that any such amount paid in
excess by a registered person referred to in
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of subsection (4) of
section 22, shall be refunded to such person within
one month from the end of the taxable period, or
from the date of the receipt of the return for the
taxable period, in which the excess arose, whichever
is later.”

5. Section 76 of the principal enactment as last amended
by Act No. 26 of 2000 is hereby further amended in paragraph
(a) of the definition of the expression “taxable period” as
follows :—

(1)

(2)

in sub-paragraph (v) of that paragraph, by the
substitution for the words “of the Schedule;”. of the
words “of the Schedule, prior to April 1, 2001;”; and

by the addition, at the end of that paragraph, of the
following sub-paragraph :—

(vii) where any person has entered into any such
agreement with the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka, as referred to in item (XXVIID) of


Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 5 of 2001

the Schedule and such person could not
commence making taxable supplies under the
project to which the agreement relates, by
March 31, 2001.”.

6. The Schedule to the principal enactment as last Amendment of the
amended by Act, No. 26 of 2000, is hereby further amended Schedule to the
as follows :— principal

enactment.
(1) in item (XXIII) of that Schedule, by the substitution
for the words “not less than thirty passenger seats”,
of the words “not less than twenty eight passenger
seats”;

(2) initem (XXVIII) of that Schedule, by the substitution
for all the words from “specified in the agrecment,”
to the end of that item, of the following :-—

“specified in the agreement.—
(a) for-

(1) aperiod of three years from the appointed
date, in the case of any person making
supplies liable to the tax, after completion
of the project;

(ti) a period of four years from the appointed
date, in the case of any person making
only exempt supplies after completion of
the project; or

(b) until the completion of the project,

whichever is earlier”;

(3) _ by the repeal of item (XXXII) of that Schedule, and
the substitution therefor of the following item :—

“(XXXH) the supply, lease or rent of residential
accommodation other than the supply,
lease or rent of residential accommodation
by an enterprise which has entered into


Retrospective
effect.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

4 Goods and Services Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 5 of 2001

an agreement with the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka, under section 17
of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
Law, No. 4 of 1978, on or after April 1,
2001 and the total cost of the project to
which such agreement relates is not less
than ten million United States dollars or
its equivalent in any other currency and
the project relates exclusively to the
aforesaid supply, lease or rental.”; and

(4) by the repeal of item (XXXIV) of that Schedule,
and the substitution therefor of the following item :—

“(XXXIV) The supply of all health care services
provided by medical institutions or
professionally qualified persons providing
such care, other than the supply of health
care services by a medical institution
which has entered into an agreement with
the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
under section 17 of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of
1978, on or after April 1, 2001, and the
total cost of the project to which such
agreement relates is not less than ten
million United States dollars or its
equivalent in any other currency.”.

7. (1) The amendment made to section 7 of the principal
enactment by section 2 (2) of this Act, shall, insofar as such
amendment relates to computer software developers be
deemed to have come into force on April 1, 1998.

(2) The amendment made to the Schedule to the principal
enactment by section 6 (1) of this Act shall be deemed to
have come into force on July 13, 2000.

8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180

(Foreign), Payable to the SuperInTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PuBLicaTions Burtau, No. 32,

Transworks House. Lotus Roap, CoLomao 01 before 15th December each year in respect
of the year following.
