PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

COAST CONSERVATION.
(AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 64 OF 1988

{Certified on 17th December, 1988]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 90 cents. Postage : 75 cents


Coast Conservation (Amenmdent) Act, No. 64 of 1988

[Certified on Vth December, 1988]
L. DO. 8/84.: ;

AN ACT TO AMEND THE Coast Cansexvavion AG, No. 57 OF
1981 .

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the enigeratic Socia-
list Revublic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

“1. This Act may be cited as the Coast Conservation
(Amendment) Act, No. 64 of 1988.

a Section 5 of the Coast Conservation Act, No. 57 of 1981 *

’ (hereinatter referred to-as “the principal enactment”) is
hereby repealed and, the sole section sane
therefor :—.

“Director. 5, The Government Agent of any adminis- ,

Short title,

Replacement
of section

5 of Act

No, 57 of 198:.

ers pare ‘+ . trative district within which any part of the
ates oy - ~ Coastal Zone is situated, or any other public
functions: officer who is entitled to a salary scale of
pnd Part —*Rs. 24,000 per annum or above and whose - .
Govern- .. annual increment is Rs. 600 or more, may, ..
om & ae ; upon an authorization in ‘writing in that
other . behalf .by the Director and subject. to. the
officers. general direction and control of the Director,

exercise, perform and discharge within that
administrative district, all or any of the
powers, duties and functions conferred or
imposed on,. or assigned to, the Director by
Part III of this Act.”.

3. Section 10 of the principal enprimett is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof, and the
substitution therefor, of the following subsection :— _

“ (1) A meeting of the Council a be held at least once -

in every six months.”.

4. The following new section is ae inserted imme-
- diately after section 27 of the principal enactmnet, and shall
have effect as section 27A of that enactments —

“ Seizure ; * ‘STA; (1) Where any vehicles vessel, boat,

18) .. A

Geuainod = craft, machinery or equipment is used by »

cone ! any person in contravention of the provision

vention ; ; : .
of provisions £ subsection (1) of section 14, any. police

cfsection14, _ officer shall have the power to seize any such
"ge 4 vehicle; vessel, boat, craft, machinery or

- other equipment, along with any. article or ©

¥ sHpsianee found thereon.

2--A 102771--10, 110 (04/88)

. Amendment
' of secliun

‘10 ofthe
principal
‘enactment,

Insertion

- ofnew section |

27a in the
principal

enactment,


’ Amendment -

of section
28 of the
principal,
enactment. |

2 Coast Conservation (Amendment): ach No. 64 of 1988

(2) No vehicle, vessel, boat: craft, ‘machi-

' nery or equipment seized under the provi-

. sions of subsection (1), shall be released

_ umiess an order of court, permitting such
release has been obtained. ‘ie a

5. Section 28 of the principal: andctment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section,

‘ and | the substitution. BHETEKOE, of the pollowiHe', sub-
- sections: — “ ; :

(2) Upon the conviction of any lei for an often
under the provisions of subsection (1): the Magistrate may
make order declaring that—

(a) any substance. or article. which. is hot t the
property of the State in respect of which
such offence has-been committed ; and

" (b), all vehicles; vessels, ‘boats, crafts, ‘machinery:
and other equipment used in, or in connec-
‘tion with, the commission of stich offence
. (whether such vehicles, boats, crafts; machi-
‘nery are owned by such person:.< Or mnot

shall be forfeited. to the State.

(3). “Any property fortei ted'to the State under subsection
(2) shall— | i rs
(a). if no. appeal figs been preferred to the Court
' of. Appeal against the relevant conviction, ©
: vest absolutely in the State with effect from
the date on which the period prescribed for
' preferring an appeal against such conviction | .
expires ; : wef 9

(b) if an appeal has poet preferred to the Court .
of Appeal against the relevant conviction, ~
vest absolutely in the State with effect from
the date on which such i a is affirmed

/ on appeal. | " ;

- In this subsection “ relevant conviction ”: ‘means
the conviction in -consequence of which any.
property is. forreited to the State Under subsection’
(Bat eo
Provided however, that the court may make orien
releasing any substance -or. article in respect of
which the offence has been committed, or any -
“vehicle, vessel, boat, craft, machinery.and equip- -
__ ment used in, or in connection with the offence, if


Coas Conser vation (Amendment) Act, No. 5 ‘ofa 1988 3

‘itis proved that nich substance, article, vehicle,
_vessel, boat, craft, machinery and equipment
belongs to a person other than the person convictec
* of the offence: and-that other person satisfies the
court that he had’ no knowledge that it would be
- used in respect of the pee or in connection with
the commission of the offence.”

6. Suction 29 . of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after pareerap (d)
thereof, of the following new paragraph :— -

“ (é@) contravenes the provisions of section 31a (1) or.

31c, ”.

yh Sectiori 31 of the principal enactment: is hereby’

amended by. the addition at the end of that subsection, of
the following new subsections —

AE (5) Where the Director. is andbia, or apprehends thax
he will be unable, to proceed’ with the inking down
-and removal of any structure, house; hut, shed or
other building as hereinbefore provided, because

of any obstruction or resistance which has been, or -

is likely to be offered, the Director shall on making
an application in -that behalf .to the Magistrate’s

Amendment
of section -
29 of the
principal
enactment.

- Amendment

of section
31 ofthe
principal
enactimacg,

.Court having -judisdiction over the place where the -

‘structure, house, hut, shed or other building is:

.situatéd -be entitled to. an order’ of ‘that caure
directing the Fiscal te take down and remove. suc.

structure, house, nen shed or other building as the case -

. may be.

(6). Where an order under sutdection (1) ‘is ‘feeued to |
the Fiscal by a. Magistrate’s Court, he shall forthwith |

execute ‘such order. and.shall in writing report to such
court. the manner in which such order was executed. ”..

8. The iSllowine new sections are hereby inserted imme-

diately after section 31, of the principal enactment and

shall. have Sect as sections 31a, 31z, Sle, ‘Blp, 31E and She
thereof ;-- a

- Prohibition - ‘Bia, re No. paren shall within the: ‘Coastal
cm mining, '

collecting) . -Zone— '
fie, of coral »  *(@) engage in the mining ‘electing, pos-
Coastal Zone.” : . - sessing, processing, storing, burning

Insertion of

new sections

Sia, 31B, 3lc ©

3ln, 31e ‘and -
3iF in
the.

- principal

enactment. -

and anspor in any form what- _

soever, of coral ;


4 Coast Conservation (Amendment) Act, No. 64 of 1988

Certificate
. by Director...

as to place |
where _
offence was
committed

to be prima’:

. facie

evidence. : —

Demolition
of. kilns °
within the
‘Coastal
Zone, .

(b) own, possess, occupy, rent, lease, hold
- or operate kilns for the burning. and
processing of coral ;

(c) use or possess any equipment, ‘machi- .
nery article or substance for the
purpose of breaking up coral; and

( (d) use any vehicle, craft, or boat in, or in .
connection with, :the breaking up or
. transporting of any coral:

- Provided however that the Director,. may
under the autnority of a licence issued in
that behalf, permit the removal of coral for _

_ the purpose of scientific research.

-(2). Where any vehicle, vessel, boat, craft,

- machinery or other.equipment is used in

contravention of the provisions of subsection |

(1) any police officer shall have the power.
' to seize any such vehicle, vessel, craft, boat,
- equipment or machinery along with any

article or substance found thereon.

(3) No vehicle, vessel, ‘craft, boat, equip-

iene or machinery seized under the provi-—-

sions of subsection. (2), shall be -released
unless an order of court PEmnitling such
release has been obtained.

(4) Any police . officer shall have the
power to confiscate any coral, found stored
or stacked within the Coastal Zone in contra-
vention of the provisions of subsection (1)

_ and any such coral so found shall be handed

over to the Director or his representative or
disposed of in any manner as may be deter-
mined by the Director. .

31z. A certificate -issued under the hand
of the Director, containing a statement that
the acts referred - to ‘in section 31a, took

place within the Coastal Zone, shall be prima

facie evidence of the facts stated therein.

31c. Every. person, who within the Coastal
Zone, owns, or possesses or occupies one or
more kilns, shall within thirty days of the
coming into operation of this section, demo-

lish, or cause such kilns to be demolished. "


Coast Conservation (Amendment). Act, No. 64 of 1988 9

Title to
beaches
cannot be .
acquired by .
possessicn,
or use.

Transport 7

of sand and
-sea shells.

Fifty per
centum of

fines to be ~

credited

to the Police

Reward
Fund,

31p. (1) ‘No person shall, by reason of pos-
session or use of any specific portion of the
beach claim to have acquired title to such —

_ portion of the beach as against the State.

(2): (a) fi any dispute concerning the area
comprising. the beach in any part of the

. island a certificate signed by the Director or
’ a*person, authorized by him in that behalf.

containing a statement that a particular area

forms part of the beach, shall be prima facie -

evidence of the facts stated therein, —

(b) In arriving at a determination for the.
purpose of issuing a certificate under para- .

graph (a), the Director or any other person —
‘ authorized by him in that behalf, shall take
‘into consideration the extent of accretion

along the coastline which is caused by depo-

sition of sand brought in by long shore

- transport from other areas along the. coast

line, or by the transport of material along ©
the . rivers, , ;

(c) For the purpose. of this Act accretions _
adjoining private property shall be deemed ~
to belong to the State. “- ; 7 |

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of.
paragraph (2) of this:section, the public
shall have the right to use or enjoy any por-

tion of the beach.

3lE. (1) Any. wpaliée officer shall: have’ the
power to examine: any vehicle, vessel, boat —

‘or craft transporting or suspected of trans- -
porting sand and sea shells.

(2) The onus of proving that such sand

or sea shells were lawfully obtained, shall.
‘lie on the person transporting such sand and.

sea shells.

. Bir. There: disil. be credited to the Police

‘Reward Fund established under the Police

Ordinance, fifty per.centum of the moneys

received by way of fines.”.


6 Coast Conservation (Amendment) Act, No. 64 a4 1988

Insertion

Gt AGW 9. The “rollowing. x new. sect’ are Hereby inserted 3 imme- .

pections 35a, diately after section 35 of the principal enactment, and

Pmt 8° shall have effect as sections 35a, 35p, 35c, of that enact-—

principal ment:— — os pie, ‘

enactment. ak H ‘ “ ' wae |
“ Power of 35a. (1) Any + police officer may without: -
police to’ orders from a-Magistrate and without a
“etreet warrant, arrest any person reasonably sus— .-
Wwithouw :

pected of having been’ cdncerned in, or
‘connected with, the commission of any

offence under this’ Act, punishable’ with

imprisonment for a. term exceeding six

months if such person refuses to give, his .
name or address or gives a name or address.
_ which he has reason: to believe to be false,
7". oy if there is reason to believe that, such
: person may abscond.

warrant.

2 (2) Every police officer alive an arrest
PS 8 _.* under this section shall, without unnecess-—
3 | "+s sary delay, take or. send the person, arrested
sha | to the nearest police station, together with
a statement setting out the offence with which
the accused is charged. The officer in charge.
- of the police station shall, without unneces-.
sary delay; take or send the person arrested .
_ to the nearest Magistrate. '

Vower of ' 358. Every police officer shall —_—

iT cer iy and may interfere for the purpose of pre-"_
prevent . venting, : the commission. of any ‘offence

- commission .
of offence. _ under this Act. May * | {i

. Penalty 20 a 35c. Any person: who. threatens: intimi-
obstructing .

' or interfering’ dates or obstructs or otherwise impedes, or _ -

._ with police in any way interferes with a police officer or

officers. any other officer authorized to act in that

behalf in the exercise, performance and dis-
‘charge of his powers, duties‘ and functions
under this Act, shall be guilty of an offence
and shall on conviction be liable to impri-
sonment of either description for a term not

i exceeding six months or to a fine not exceed-
ing one thousand rupees or. to both such |

‘ Hiiprisoningnt and fine: ° : -

‘Provided that a. prosecution “ghall not be -
‘instituted under this section, except with
the sanction of an officer not below the rani
of a Superintendent of Police. ”.


“Coast Conservation (Amendment) Act, No. 64 of 1938 1

10. Section 42 of the prineipal ‘enactment is + hereby re
amended as follows :—~ a . 42 of the
"4 : principal
enactment,
- (1) by_ ‘the insertion imm vabiiataly before the ‘definition
‘of the expression “coast” , of the following new,

definition :—

' * beach’? means a gently sloping area of unconsoli-
dated material, typically sand, that extends
landward from the mean high water mark
1 | to the area where there is a marked change
‘in material or natural physiographic form. - .
In cases where there is no marked change in |
the material or natural physiographic form,
. . the beach will be deemed to extend to a dis-.
. tance of 20 metres landward from mean high .
water level, or to a level of 2. 5 meters above
* mean high. water level, whichever is less) e's |
and ;

@) by es sabidintion, for the. definition of the expres- no
sion of ‘ development activity % of the following © ‘y
definition : —

es development’ activity ” means any activity likely -
| to alter the physical nature of the Coastal
.. Zone in any way and includes the construc- °
tion of buildings and works, the deposit of
. waste or other material ‘from outfalls, °—
vessels or by other means, the removal of
‘sand, sea shells, natural vegetation, sea grass
| a and’ other substances, dredging and filling,
land reclaiming and mining or drilling for. ~
minerals, but does not include fishing ;’..
