PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

REHABILITATION OF THE VISUALLY
HANDICAPPED TRUST FUND |

ACT, No. 9 OF 1992

~

[Certified on 5th March, 1992]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 06, 1992

PRINTED AT ‘THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

a cs a a EE EE SS as

TO BRE PURLHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 75 cents. Postage: Re. 1.00


Rehabilitation of the Visually Haadivapped Trust Fund
Act, No. 9 of 1992

[Certified on 5th March, 1992]
L. D.—O. 82/88

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A TRUST FUND’

CALLED REHABILITATION OF THE VISUALLY HANDICAPPED

TRUST FUND; TO SPECIFY ITS OBJECTS ; AND POWERS AND TO :

PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socia-
list Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Rehabilitation of the
Visually Handicapped Trust Fund Act, No. 9 of 1992.

2. (1) There shall be established a Trust Fund which
_ shall be called the Rehabilitation of the Visually Handicapp—
ed Trust Fund (hereinafter referred to as “the Fund”).

(2) The Fund shall, by the name assigned to it by sub-
section (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession, and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.

3. (1) The administration, management and control of
the Fund shall be vested in a Board of Management con-
stituted as hereinafter provided.

_ (2) The Board of Management of the Fund (hereinafter
referred to as “the Board”) shall consist of—

(i) Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Social Services and Social Welfare
who shall be the Chairman of the Board (herein-
after referred to as “the Chairman ”) ;

(ii) Venerable Galaboda Gnanissara Thero ; who shall bea
member of the Board during his lifetime ;

(iii) the person for the time being holding the office of
Director of Social Services to be appointed by the
Minister ;

(iv) the persons for the time being holding the offices of
Chairman and Secretary of the Sri Lanka Federa-
tion of the Blind incorporated under the Com-
panies Act, No. 17 of 1982;

Short
title.

Establish-
ment

for the
Rehabiltita-
tion of the
Visually
Handi-
capped
Trust
Fund.

Board of
Management
of the
Funda.


Seal
of the
Fund.

The objects
of the
Fund.

2 Rehabilitation of the Visually Handicapped Trust Fund
‘Act, No. 9 of 1992

(v) one representative of the Sri Lanka Council for the
Blind ;

(vi) a representative of the Sri Lanka National Federation
of the visually handicapped ;

(vii) the Secretary to the Prime Minister or his represen-
tative ; ;

“(viii) a representative of the Lions’ Club Sri Lanka to be

appointed by the Minister.

(3) Every member of the Board appointed by the

‘ Minister shall hold office for a period of two years unless

removed earlier by the Minister.

(4) The Chairman shall preside at meetings of the Board.
In the absence of the Chairman from any meeting, any
member elected from among the members present, shall
preside at such meeting.

(5) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be five
members.

(6) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5), the Board

‘ may regulate the procedure in regard to the meetings of

the Board, and the transaction of business at such meetings.

(7) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed
to be invalid by reason only of the existence of a vacancy

among its members or any defect in the appointment of a
member.

4. The seal of the Fund shall be in the custody of such
persons as the Board may from time to time determine. |
The seal shall not be affixed to any instrument or docu-
ment except with the sanction of the Board and in the
presence of two members of the Board who shall sign the
instrument or document in token of their presence.

5. The objects of the Fund shall be—

(a) to provide educational and vocational training
facilities for the visually handicapped ;

(b) to create employment opportunities for the handi-
capped and where necessary, to provide them, with
financial assistance and guidance for self employ-
ment ;


Rehabilitation of the Visually Handicapped Trust Fund 3
Act, No. 9 of 1992

(c) to provide housing facilities to the visually handi-
cappeds to enable them to pursue academic coures
or to obtain vocational training ;

(d) to implement schemes for the welfare of the visually
handicapped ;

(e) to provide facilities for the marketing of products
manufactured by the visually handicapped; and

(f) to take action to eliminate conditions that prevent
visually handicapped persons gaining equal
rights and equal opportunities.

6. (1) The Board shall, in the name of the Fund, have

the power to do all things necessary for, or conducive or
incidental to, the carrying out of the objects of the Fund.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Board shall have the
following powers and functions: — ;

(a) to acquire and hold any property, movable .%r
immovable which may. become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, devise or
otherwise ;

(b) to sell, mortgage, lease, grant, convey, devise,
assign, exchange or otherwise dispose of, any such
property ;

(c) to erect any building on any land vested, acquired
or held by the Fund;

(d) to invest moneys belonging to the Fund in such

securities as may be determined by the Board; —
\

(e) to open, operate and close bank accounts and _ to
borrow or raise money with the property of the
Fund as security or without such security, for the
purpose of the Fund;

(J) to raise funds and to rece‘ve grants, gifts. or don’
tions in cash or kind whether from local or foreign
sources; and

(9) to do all such other acts and things as are incidental
or conducive to the carrying out of the objects of
the Fund.

° —D 013584 (91/05) eB ak” ie SiGe aetg eg ead

Powers
and func-
tion of the
Board


Payments
to the
Fund.

Payments
out

of the
Fund.

Accounts
and audit.

Power of
Board to
make
rules,

Protection
of

members ot
the Board
for action
under the
Act.

4 Rehabilitation of the Visually Handicapped Trust Fund
- - Act, No. 9 of 1992

7. There shall be paid into the Fund—

(a) any funds raised or grants, gifts or donations
received, locally or from abroad or moneys realised
or collected ; and

(b) any income derived from investments or other
receipts due to the Fund.

8. There shall be paid out of the Fund—

(a) expenses incurred in the working, establishment or
maintenance of the Fund ; and

(b) all such other payments as are approved by the
Board as being necessary for the purpose of
carrying out the objects of the Fund, or as are
authorized by this Act, to be paid out of the Fund.

9. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and
liabilities and other transactions of the Fund.

(2) The accounts of the Fund shall be audited by a quali-
fied Auditor or Auditor appointed by the Board.

(3) The income and expenditure account and the balance
sheet shall be signed by two members of the Board autho-
rised to do so by a resolution passed by the Board.

(4) The financial year of the Board shall be the calendar
year.

10. The Board may make such rules as it may consider
necessary in relation to any matter affecting or connected
with, or incidental to, the exercise, discharge and perfar-
mances of its powers, duties and functions.

11. (1) No suit or prosecution shall be instituted
against any member of the Board for any act which is in
good faith done or purported to be done by such person
under this Act or on the direction of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Fund in any suit 0
prosecution brought by, or against, the Fund before any
court shall be paid out of the Fund, and any costs paid
<n or received by, the Fund in any such suit or prosecution
shall be credited to the Fund.


Rehabilitation of the Visually Handicapped Trust Fund 5
Act,‘No. 9 of 1992

(3) Any expense incurred by any member as is referred
to in subsection (1) in any. suit or prosecution brought
against him before any court in respect of any act which
is done or purported to be done, by him under this Act, or
on the direction of the Board shall, if the Court holds that
such act, was done in good faith be paid out of the Fund,
unless such expense is recovered by him in such suit or
prosecution.

12. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against any member of the Board in any action brought
against the Fund.

13. The Fund shall be deemed to be a scheduled _institu-
tion within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the pro-
visions of that Act shall accordingly apply.

~

14, In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

“qualified auditor” means—

(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka or of any other Institute established
by law, possesses a certificate to practice as
an accountant issued by the Council of such
institute ; or

| (b) a firm of accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka, or of any other Institute ‘established
by law, possesses a certificate to practise as

‘an accountant issued by the Council of such

institute ;

No writ

to issue
against
person or
property of
a

member
of the
Board.

Fund
deemed

to be a
scheduled
institution
within _
the
meaning

of the
Bribery Act.

Interpretation.


6 Rehabilitation of the Visually Handicapped Trust Kuna
Act, No. 9 of 1992

“visually handicapped” means a person who by birth
or otherwise, is subject to a total or near-total |
blindness in both eyes and includes a person with
the absence of both eyes and a person with one eye
which is subject to total or near-total blindness.

eres 15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
prevail : Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text
in case O

inconsis- shall prevail.

tency.
