PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 29 OF 2023

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th of November, 2023]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 48.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 17, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

WS 6P L 01400806.09. 2023

Short title

Amendment ofsection 5 ofChapter 101

[Certified on 17th of November, 2023]

L.D.-O 63/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE (CHAPTER 101)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Civil Procedure Code(Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2023.

2. Section 5 of the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended by the insertion, immediately after the definitionof the expression decree, of the following new definitions:-

document includes a document in electronic form;

document in electronic form includes -

(a)any information consisting of anycontemporaneous recording or reproductionthereof or any information contained in astatement produced by a computer within themeaning of the Evidence (Special Provisions)Act, No. 14 of 1995;

(b)any information contained in a data message,electronic document, electronic record,electronic communication or otherinformation or transaction in electronic formwithin the meaning of the ElectronicTransactions Act, No. 19 of 2006;

(c)such other document or information or recordor communication or transaction in electronicform that may be specified by any otherwritten law;

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 20232

(d)such other document or information orrecord or communication that is stored ondevices, servers and back-up systems in anymedium that encompasses computertechnology or any such document orinformation or record or communication thathas been deleted; or

(e)any metadata and other embedded datawhich is not typically visible on a computerscreen or print out;.

3. Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution forthe words before the hearing, of the words before the dayfirst fixed for the pre-trial conference,.

4. Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution for the words before thehearing. of the words before the day first fixed forpre-trial conference.; and

(2)by the repeal of the marginal note thereof andsubstitution therefor of the following marginalnote:-

Objections for

non-joinder or

mis joinder to be

taken before the

day first fixed

for pre-trial

conference..

Amendmentof section 18of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section 22of theprincipalenactment

3Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

5. Chapter XA (section 79A) of the principal enactment ishereby repealed and the following Chapter is substitutedtherefor: -

CHAPTER XA

FIXING DAY OF PRE-TRIAL CONFERENCE

79A. The court shall-

(a) upon the filing of the answer; or

(b) where a replication is permitted, onthe last day of the period of timeallowed for the filing of thereplication, whether suchreplication is filed or not,

appoint a date not less than three months andnot exceeding five months from such date, forpre-trial conference to be commenced, eitherin the presence of all parties to the action orsuch parties as are present..

6. The following new Chapter is hereby insertedimmediately after Chapter XA of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as Chapter XB of that enactment: -

CHAPTER XB

PRE-TRIAL STEPS TO BE TAKEN BEFORE THEPRE-TRIAL CONFERENCE

79B. The parties shall, in addition to anyother pre-trial step that may be taken by suchparties before the case is fixed for pre-trialconference, tender -

(a) their proposed admissions andissues of fact and law in writing;

Replacementof ChapterXA in theprincipalenactment

Date forpre-trialconferenceorder

Insertion ofnew ChapterXB in theprincipalenactment

Pre- trialsteps to betaken beforethe date fixedfor thepre-trialconference

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 20234

(b) (i) lists of witnesses to be calledby such parties at the trial; and

(ii) lists of documents relied uponby such parties and to beproduced at the trial;

(c) copies of documents listed in thelists of documents which are in thepossession of or under the controlof such parties,

to the registry of the court, not less than thirtydays before the date first fixed for the pre-trialconference and after giving notice to all otherparties with proof of service thereof.

79C. (1) Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary contained in the Evidence (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 14 of 1995, ElectronicTransactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 or any otherwritten law, where any party proposes to tenderany document in electronic form, theprovisions of this section shall apply in relationto the tendering of such documents.

(2) Any party proposing to tender documentsin electronic form shall, not less than thirtydays before the date first fixed for pre-trialconference, file in court, after giving notice tothe opposing party or parties

(a)the list of such documents inelectronic form together with an indexthereof; and

Tendering ofdocuments inelectronicform

5Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

(b)a copy or copies of such documentsas is sufficient to enable the party tounderstand the nature of suchevidence.

(3) Any party to whom a notice has beengiven under subsection (2) may, within fifteendays of the receipt of such notice apply forpermission from the party giving such notice,to access and inspect -

(a)the documents in electronic form,sought to be tendered in court undersubsection (2);

(b)the machine, device, computer orinformation system, as the case maybe, used to produce, reproduce,generate, create, send, receive, store,display, communicate or process thedocuments in electronic form referredto in paragraph (a); and

(c)any records relating to the production,reproduction, generation, creation,sending, receipt, storage, display,communication or processing ofthe documents referred to inparagraph (a).

(4) Upon receipt of an application forpermission to access and inspection undersubsection (3), the party proposing to tendersuch documents in electronic form shall, withinreasonable time, but not later than fifteen daysafter the receipt of such application, provide a

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 20236

reasonable opportunity to the party applyingor his agents or nominees, to have access to,and inspect such documents in electronic form,machine, device, computer, information systemor records referred to in the application.

(5) Where

(a)the party proposing to tenderdocuments in electronic form isunable to give permission or does notgive permission for access andinspection as applied for undersubsection (3); or

(b)the parties are unable to agree on anymatter relating to -

(i)the notice given undersubsection (2); or

(ii)an application for access andinspection made undersubsection (3) or the manner andextent of such access andinspection,

the court may on application made by eitherparty, make such order or give suchdirection, as the interest of the justice mayrequire.

(6) The time period referred to in subsection(3) or (4) may be extended at the discretion ofthe court, based on the special circumstancesof each case.

7Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

(7) Where any party proposing to tenderany document in electronic form under thissection

(a)fails to give notice under subsection(2);

(b)upon application being made foraccess and inspection undersubsection (3), fails to provide areasonable opportunity therefor; or

(c)fails to comply with any order ordirection given by court undersubsection (5),

such party shall not be permitted to tender suchdocuments in electronic form, in respect ofwhich the failure was occasioned:

Provided however, the steps or applicationsreferred to in this Chapter shall be followedprior to the conclusion of the pre-trialconference.

(8) Where any party objects to theadmissibility of any document in electronicform tendered under this section, such partyshall file in court, objections with reasonstherefor in writing with copies to all otherparties, either before the pre trial conference orat the pre trial conference, as the case may be.

(9) Where any party files objections undersubsection (8), the court shall hear the partiesto ascertain whether the parties can admit such

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 20238

documents in electronic form, and where nosuch admission is recorded, the court shallmake an appropriate pre-trial order undersection 142B with regard to the admissibilityof such documents at the pre-trialconference..

7. Section 80 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor: -

80. (1) After the issues are settled and theJudge conducting the pre-trial conference issatisfied that the case is ready for trial, theJudge shall forthwith appoint a date not laterthan fourteen days from the date of theconclusion of the pre-trial conference for thecase to be called in order to fix a date for thetrial, in the trial court.

(2) The trial shall be conducted by aJudge appointed for such purpose, other thanthe Judge who conducted the pre-trialconference:

Provided that, where a Judge has not beenseparately appointed to conduct the pre-trialconference, the Judge who has been appointedfor such court shall conduct both pre-trialconference and the trial of such action.

(3) The Judge who is fixing the case for trialmay, in any appropriate case, fix several datesfor trial..

Replacementof section 80of theprincipalenactment

Fixing thecase for trial

9Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

8. Section 80A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

9. Section 93 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, as follows:-

(1)by the substitution, in subsection (1) thereof, forthe words first fixed for Pre-Trial of the action ofthe words first fixed for pre-trial conference of theaction; and

(2)by the substitution, in subsection (2) thereof, forthe words first fixed for Pre-Trial of the action ofthe words first fixed for pre-trial conference, of theaction.

10. Section 94 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution, in subsection (1) thereof, forthe words Any party may at any time before hearing, ofthe words Any party may, fifteen days before the date firstfixed for the pre-trial conference,.

11. Section 101 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution, in subsection (1) thereof, forthe words on motion ex-parte within a reasonable time notless than ten days before the hearing, of the words onmotion ex-parte not less than fifteen days before the datefirst fixed for the pre-trial conference,.

12. Section 102 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution, in subsection (1) thereof, forthe words party to the action may, at any time before thehearing, of the words parties to the action may, fifteendays before the date first fixed for the pre-trial conference.

Repeal ofsection 80Aof theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section 93of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section 94of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section101 of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section102 of theprincipalenactment

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 202310

13. Section 103 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the re-numbering of that section as subsection(1) thereof;

(2)by the substitution, in the re-numbered subsection(1) thereof, for the words order the production byany party and when produced in such manner,of the words order the production or preservationby any party and when produced or preserved insuch manner, respectively;

(3)by the insertion, immediately after the re-numberedsubsection (1) thereof, of the following newsubsections:-

(2) A party intending to institute any proceedingbefore court may, prior to the institution of suchproceedings, make an application ex parte, by wayof petition supported by an affidavit, for an order tobe made requiring a person or entity havingpossession of any document in electronic form, whoshall be made the respondent in such application,to preserve, disclose or produce such document, asmay be specified in such order.

(3) The court may, upon the receipt of anapplication under subsection (2), make an order asprayed for in such application, if

(a)the person or entity against whom an orderis sought is likely to be a party to theproceeding to be instituted subsequently;

(b)the applicant is also likely to be a party tosuch proceeding to be institutedsubsequently;

Amendmentof section103 of theprincipalenactment

11Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

(c)the document in electronic form sought tobe preserved, disclosed or produced isrelevant to the matter in dispute in respectof which the proceedings are intended tobe instituted and is in the possession orcontrol of such respondent;

(d)the duty to preserve, disclose or produceany electronic document upon the receiptof such order extends to the document inelectronic form of which the applicantseeks preservation, disclosure orproduction, if proceedings hadcommenced against such person or entity;

(e)preservation, disclosure or production ofsuch document in electronic form isdesirable in order to

(i)dispose the intended proceedings ina fair manner;

(ii)assist the dispute to be resolvedwithout proceedings; or

(iii)save costs.

(4) Any person who or entity which receives anorder made under subsection (3) shall have a dutyto comply therewith and in the event of non-compliance, such person or entity shall be guilty ofthe offence of contempt of court.

(5) Any party to any proceeding pending beforea court may, not less than forty-five days before thedate first fixed for the pre-trial conference, make an

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 202312

application for an order to be made requiring anyother party to such action to preserve, disclose orproduce any relevant document in electronic form,as may be specified in such order.

(6) Any party making an application undersubsection (5) of this section shall

(a)describe with reasonable particularity eachitem or category of items to be preservedor disclosed or produced; and

(b)specify the manner of preservation,disclosure or production and by whomsuch preservation, disclosure orproduction is to be performed.

(7) A party who receives an order made undersubsection (5) shall have a duty to comply therewithand in the event of non-compliance, the court may

(a)where the restoration of such document inelectronic form is possible, order for therestoration of the same and award costs;

(b)where the restoration of the document inelectronic form is not possible and wherethe court is of the opinion that prejudicehas been caused to the party making theapplication, due to the loss of suchdocument and that non-complying partyhas acted with the intention of deprivingthe use of such document by the otherparty-

(i)impose costs in a sum as may bedeemed reasonable by the court; or

13Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

(ii)where the prejudice cause cannot becured by way of costs, in case of aplaintiff, order to have his actiondismissed for want of prosecution,and in case of a defendant, to havehis defence, if any, struck out, andto be placed in the same position asif he had not appeared andanswered.

(8) A party or person failing to comply with anorder made under subsection (5) of this section shallnot be entitled to produce any such document inelectronic form in evidence on his behalf in suchaction, unless he satisfies the court that suchelectronic document relates only to his own title,or that he had some other sufficient cause for notcomplying with such order.

(9) A party to any proceeding may make anapplication ex-parte by way of a petition supportedby an affidavit, not less than forty-five days beforethe date fixed for pre-trial conference, for an orderto be made requiring any person or entity who isnot a party to such proceeding, to preserve, disclose,or produce any document in electronic form in thepossession or control of such person or entity. Theperson or entity against whom such order is soughtshall only be made the respondent in suchapplication.

(10) Upon receipt of an application undersubsection (9), the court may make an order asprayed for in such application, if

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 202314

(a)the document in electronic form of whichthe preservation, disclosure or productionis sought is likely to support the case ofthe applicant or adversely affect the caseof any party to such proceeding;

(b)preservation, disclosure or production isnecessary in order to disprove the claim ina fair manner or to save costs.

(11) An order made under subsection (10) may-

(a)specify the documents in electronic formwhich the respondent is required topreserve, disclose or produce;

(b)if relevant, specify the time and place ofpreservation, disclosure or production totake place;

(c)specify the format or formats in whichdocument in electronic form is to beproduced; and

(d)require the respondent, when makingpreservation or disclosure, to specify thedocuments, if any, which are or not in hiscontrol or possession with reasons therefor.

(12) Any person or entity who fails to complywith an order made under subsection (10), shall beguilty of the offence of contempt of court.

(13) Where a person, entity or party from whompreservation, disclosure or production of adocument is sought under subsection (2), (5) or (9)

15Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

objects to such preservation, disclosure orproduction from the source of such document fornot being reasonably accessible due to the burdenof cost, the court may limit the extent of suchpreservation, disclosure or production otherwiseallowed under the said subsections where

(a)the preservation, discovery or productionsought is unreasonably cumulative,duplicative, disproportionate or excessiveto the material facts of the case;

(b)the requested document in electronic formcan be obtained from any other sourcewhich is more convenient, lessburdensome or less expensive;

(c)the party seeking preservation, disclosureor production has had ample opportunityto obtain such document by discovery inthe action; or

(d)the requested document in electronic formis irrelevant or not proportionate to theissues in dispute or the partys resourcesor the burden of expense of the proposeddiscovery outweighs the possible benefitsand importance in resolving the issues:

Provided however, the court may orderpreservation, disclosure or production from thesources of such document in electronic form, if theparty making the application for preservation,disclosure or production is able to show good cause,subject to such limitations as may be imposed bythe court.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 202316

(14) Unless otherwise agreed or ordered,electronic copies of the disclosed documents inelectronic form shall be produced

(a)in their native format;

(b)in a manner which preserves metadatarelating to the date of creation of eachsuch document; and

(c)organised and labeled in a manner thatcorresponds with the categories of suchdocuments as requested.; and

(4) by the repeal of the marginal note thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following marginalnote:-

14. Section 104 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution in subsection (1) thereof, forthe words party to an action may, at any time before or atthe hearing thereof, of the words party to an action may,fifteen days before the date first fixed for the pre-trialconference thereof,.

15. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 104 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 104A of that enactment: -

Amendmentof section104 of theprincipalenactment

Insertion ofnew section104A in theprincipalenactment

Orders forpreservation,disclosure orproduction ofdocuments ordocuments inelectronicform..

17Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

104A. A party, person or an entity againstwhom the discovery, production or preservationof a document or document in electronic formis sought, may apply for a protective order tothe court within which such action is pending.The court may, for good cause, make one ormore of the following orders to protect anysuch document or the interests of a person,entity or party: -

(a)prohibiting the disclosure ordiscovery;

(b)specifying terms, including the time,place, forms and manner of thedisclosure or discovery;

(c)prescribing a discovery methodother than the one selected by theparty seeking discovery;

(d)prohibiting inquiry into certainmatters or limiting the scope ofdisclosures or discovery to othermatters;

(e)designating persons or experts whomay be present while the discoveryis conducted;

(f)appointing persons or experts whoshall conduct the disclosure,discovery, preservation,inspections, keep custody,examination, analysis, reportingand presenting them in court;

Protectiveorders

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 202318

(g)directing that a confidentialresearch, development or tradesecret or undisclosed or confidentialinformation of commercial naturenot to be disclosed or disclosedonly in a specified manner; or

(h)directing that a document inrelation to undisclosed confidentialresearch, development or tradesecret or undisclosed or confidentialinformation of commercial naturenot to be disclosed or disclosedonly in a specified manner..

16. Section 109 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution, in subsection (1) thereof, forthe words interrogatories, or for discovery, production, orinspection, which of the words interrogatories, or fordiscovery, production, inspection, preservation or protection,which.

17. Section 117 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

117. The provisions of this Chapter as todocuments shall, mutatis mutandis, apply toall other material objects producible asevidence and to all documents in electronicform, to the extent not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Chapter..

18. Section 121 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof.

Amendmentof section109 of theprincipalenactment

Replacementof section117 of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section121 of theprincipalenactment

Provisions asto documentsapply to othermaterialobjects anddocuments inelectronicform

19Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

19. Chapter XVIIA (sections 142A, 142B, 142C, 142D, 142E,142F, 142G, 142H and 142I) of the principal enactment ishereby repealed and the following Chapter is substitutedtherefor: -

CHAPTER XVIIA

PRE -TRIAL CONFERENCE AND PRE-TRIAL ORDERS

142A. (1) The court shall conduct a pre-trialconference with the Attorneys-at-lawrepresenting the parties and the parties not sorepresented, for the following purposes :-

(a)to facilitate a settlement between theparties as specified in subsection (2),ensuring that the matters not sosettled shall only be fixed for trial;

(b)to expedite the disposition of theaction through judicial casemanagement;

(c)improving the quality of the trialthrough prior preparation and casemanagement orders so that the actionwill not be protracted due to lack oftrial management;

(d)to identify the key issues at an earlystage, in order to discourageunnecessary pre-trial applications;

(e)to facilitate the discovery ofevidence;

Replacementof ChapterXVIIA of theprincipalenactment

Pre-trialconference

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 202320

(f)to identify the witnesses anddocuments and avoid unnecessaryproduction of evidence at the trial;and

(g)to fix strict time limits for pre-trialorders and enforcement thereof.

(2) (a) The Judge shall, at the pre-trialconference, make every effort to persuade theparties to arrive at a settlement of the disputeand where the parties agree for a settlement,such settlement shall be recorded and signedby the parties and an order shall be made inaccordance with the terms of such settlement.

(b) The Judge in an appropriate case, maydirect the parties to appear either in person orin the case of a party being a legal person, anauthorized representative thereof to be presentat the pre-trial conference in order to facilitatea settlement, adjustment, compromise or otheragreements.

(3) The judge at the pre-trial conference maydetermine unresolved jurisdictional and legalissues.

142B. Subject to the provisions of section104A, the Judge shall, at the pre-trialconference, discuss with the parties, and makeappropriate pre-trial orders on the followingmatters: -

(a)identifying and obtainingadmissions of facts or documents;

Pre-trialorders

21Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

(b)identifying the number of witnessesto be called at the trial based on therelevancy and admissibility to thecase and dispensing with calling ofunnecessary witnesses;

(c)identifying the documents to beproduced at the trial based on therelevancy, admissibility, to the caseand authenticity of documents andin appropriate instances dispensewith proof of such documents;

(d)with regard to the discovery,inspection, protection, preservationand production of documents andtangible things includingspecification of terms, time, place,manner and form in which suchdocuments and tangible things to bediscovered, protected, preserved andproduced in court andauthentication of documents andsignatures;

(e)the protection of trade secrets, otherconfidential research informationand undisclosed commercialinformation subject to privileges andlimitations;

(f)issuing of certified copies ofdocuments in the custody of anypublic office, public corporation,provincial council, local authority,bank, body incorporate or

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 202322

unincorporate, partnership, hospital,medical institute, court,tribunal or any such similarinstitution:

Provided that, the provisions ofthis paragraph shall not prejudice theright of the State to withhold anydocument on the ground that in theopinion of the Minister assigned interms of Article 44 or 45 of theConstitution the subject to whichthe document relates, the publicinterest would suffer by suchdisclosure;

(g)upon the agreement of the parties,issuing of commissions to a single,joint or court appointed independentexperts to inquire and report on anyquestion of fact and express anopinion thereof:

Provided that, any applicationfor the issue of a commission forlocal investigation as referred to inChapter XXIX shall be made priorto the day first fixed for the pre-trialconference:

Provided further, that the courtmay, in its discretion, issue acommission for such localinvestigation after the day first fixedfor pre-trial conference if it issatisfied, for reasons to be recordedand subject to terms as to costs orotherwise, that a commission is

23Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

necessary for the determination ofthe matters in dispute or settlementof the dispute between the parties;

(h)recording of any agreement ofparties with regard to any matter,including any issues of facts or law,mode of proof of any fact ordocument or the number of witnessesto be called or number of documentsto be produced at the trial, andentering of orders or judgment inaccordance with such agreement ofparties:

Provided that, the court shallread out and explain the effect ofsuch agreement to the partiesconcerned and record the fact thatthe parties understand the contentsof such agreement and the effectthereof and the parties shall sign theagreement or the case record wheresuch agreement is recorded orally inopen court;

(i)consolidating two or more actions,subject to the provisions of section149A;

(j)withdrawal of actions;

(k)the use of technology oremploying a special interpreter atthe trial;

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 202324

(l)identifying the number of trial datesor period within which a trial maybe concluded and how the timeavailable for the trial will be used;or

(m)any other step as may be necessaryor desirable for the just andexpeditious disposal of the action.

142C. The parties or their registeredattorneys shall, at the pre-trial conference,bring with them and have in readiness at thepre-trial conference, original or certified copiesof all documents specified in the list ofdocuments and tendered to the registry of thecourt under section 79B.

142D. (1) The court shall, at the pre-trialconference, on application of any party, grantpermission to such party, to call any witness orproduce any document at the trial, if suchwitness or document is identified at suchconference to be relevant to the matters indispute, notwithstanding such witness ordocument not being included in the list ofwitnesses or documents filed under paragraph(b) of section 79B:

Provided that, the pre-trial Judge mayaward costs against the party seeking to tenderdocuments or summon witnesses which hadnot been included in the list filed underparagraph (b) of section 79B unless such partycan adduce sufficient reasons for the failure toinclude such documents or witnesses in thesaid list.

Permission ofcourt to calladditionalwitnesses andadditionaldocumentsidentified ordiscovered atpre-trialconference

Parties to beready withoriginaldocuments

25Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

(2) The court may, at its discretion, grantpermission at the pre- trial conference, to anyparty to produce any document at the trial andcall any witness in proof thereof, if suchdocument is discovered under Chapter XVIrelevant to the matters in dispute.

(3) Where the court grants permission to callany additional witness or document undersubsection (1) or (2), the court shall, at the pre-trial conference, record the fact that such partyis entitled to call such witness or produce suchdocument at the trial and no further list ofwitnesses or documents is required to be filedthereafter.

142E. Subject to the provisions of this Act,any application for pre-trial steps shall not beallowed after the conclusion of the pre-trialconference of an action unless the court issatisfied for reasons to be recorded and subjectto costs that a grave and irremediable injusticewould be caused if such steps are not permittedand the party applying for such steps is notguilty of laches.

142F. (1) Where the judge is satisfied thatall the pre-trial steps have been taken, the Judgeshall determine the issues, taking intoconsideration the pleadings, proposedadmissions and issues of the parties,interrogatories, documents, agreement of theparties and reports if any, submitted to courtduring the pre-trial conference.

Pre-trial stepsnot to beallowed afterfixing thedate of trial

Determinationof issues

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 202326

(2) Where issues both of law and facts arisein the same action, and the court is of theopinion that the case may be disposed of onthe issues of law only, the court shall try suchissues first and for that purpose the court may,if it thinks fit, postpone the settlement of theissues of fact until after the issues of law havebeen determined.

142G. The Judge conducting the pre-trialconference may, either on his own motion oron the application of any party and forsufficient cause shown, advance or postponethe date fixed for the pre-trial conference:

Provided that, the Judge conducting thepre- trial conference shall conclude the hearingwithin four months from the commencementof such conference, unless the Judge isprevented from acting accordingly for reasonswhich shall be recorded, including delays inadducing evidence or discoveries.

142H. Where any party-

(a)fails to diligently take stepsaccording to the provisions ofChapters XB and this Chapter ordiligently prosecute or defend thecase during the pre- trial conferenceor fails to comply with any pre-trialorder without any reasonableground; or

(b)fails to appear without sufficientcause on the day fixed for the pre-trial conference or on any other dayto which it is adjourned,

Advancementorpostponementof pre-trial

Default ofparties

27Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

the Judge conducting the pre-trial conferencemay, taking into consideration all appropriatecircumstances -

(i)subject to the payment of costs orpre-payment of costs, make suchappropriate order as he may thinkfit, including, directing such partyto comply with the requirementwhich was not complied with, unlesssuch non-compliance wassubstantially justified;

(ii)continue further proceedingsnotwithstanding such default wasmade by any party who has obtainedany pre- trial order, disregarding anysuch pre- trial order and upon suchterms as to costs being awardedagainst such defaulting party; or

(iii)proceed to dispose of the action inone of the methods specified inChapter XII:

Provided that, the Judge shall make everyendeavor to make orders in terms of paragraph(i) or (ii), prior to an order being made underparagraph (iii), unless a party is absent andunrepresented at the pre-trial conference..

20. Section 175 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-

Amendmentof section175 of theprincipalenactment

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 202328

(1)by the substitution in subsection (1) thereof, for thewords as provided by section 121: of the wordsas provided by subparagraph (i) of paragraph (b)of section 79B or permitted by court under section142D:

(2)by the substitution, in subsection (2) thereof, forthe words as provided by section 121 and which isnot so included of the words as provided bysubparagraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of section 79Band which is not so included or not permitted bycourt under section 142D; and

(3)by the insertion, immediately after subsection (2)thereof, of the following subsection: -

(3) Where an order is made under this section,the court shall take into consideration any ordermade under section 142B..

21. Notwithstanding the repeal of Chapter XA (section79A), Chapter XVIIA (sections 142A, 142B, 142C, 142D, 142E,142F, 142G, 142H, and 142I) and section 80A of the principalenactment (in this section referred to as the repealedprovisions), all actions and matters filed in the District courtand pending on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, in respect of which

(a)a date for pre-trial hearing has already been fixed;or

(b)any pre-trial step has already been taken under therepealed Chapter XVIIA,

shall be dealt with under the repealed provisions.

22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Transitionalprovisions

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency

29Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)

Act, No. 29 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.