PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

CULTURAL PROPERTY
ACT, No. 73 OF 1988

ne

[Certified on 17th December, 1988]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplenent to Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

it i i ast a
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

|

‘rice ; Re. 1.20 Postage : 75 cents.

\


Cultural Property Act, No. 73 of 1988

_ [Certified on 17th December, 1988]
L.D—O. 23/79

Aw ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE CONTROL OF THE EXPORT OF CULTURAL

PROPERTY TO PROVIDE FOR A SCHEME OF LICENSING TO DEAL IN
CULTURAL PhOPERTY ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Denioerathe Socialist -

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Cultural Property Act,

No. 73 ci 1988
PART I |
Export oF CULTURAL Proumey

2. (1) No person shall, except upon a licence in the pres-

cribed form issued by the Controller of Exports (hereinafter —

referred to as the “ Controller”) and upon the payment of a
prescribed fee export or attempt to export any eultural pro-
perty from Sri Lanka.

(2) This section shall have effect as if it formed ark of
the Customs Ordinance and the provisions of that Ordinance
Shall apply accordingly.

3. (1) Every application for. a. finance under section | 2
shall be made to the Controller in the prescribed form and
shall be accompanied by a statement from the Archaeologi-
cal Commissioner stating that he has no objection to the
issue of such licence to the applicant. ._,

(2) The Controller may refuse to issue a license where—

(a) the Archaeological Commissioner in the statement
issued by him objects to the issue of such licence ; or

(b) he is of opinion that any cultural property sought to
be exported is a property which is 8 required for a
museum in Sri Lanka. —

4. Any person aggrieved by the refusal of the Controller
to issue any licence under section 3 may appeal against such
refusal to the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the

subject of Cultural Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the

“ Secretary”) against such refusal.

(2) The Secretary may in dealing with any appeal pre-
ferred to him under subsection (1), affirm or set aside the
decision of the Controller against which the appeal has been
preferred, _

Short title.

- Application

for licence .
to export.
cultural
property,

Appeal
agains
refusal of
licence.


Penalty
for export
of cultural
property
without
permis-
sion.

Delegation
of powers
and duties
of the

Controller.

Establish-
ment of the
Cultural
Property
Board.

Constitution: »

of the

9 Cultural Property Act, No. 73 of 1988

5. If any person, himself or by another person on his
behalf exports or attempts to export any cultural property
in contravention of section 2, he shall, without prejudice to
any forfeiture or penalty to which he may be liable under
the provisions of the Customs Ordinance, be guilty..of an
offence and shall, upon conviction after summary trial be-
fore a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding five theu~
sand rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a
period not exceeding three years or to both such fine and
imprisonment. , |

ob. (1) The Controller may delegate to an officer of the
Department of Archaeology the power to issue licence.

(2) Every officer appointed under subsection (1) shall

. exercise the power delegated to him subject to the general.
. or special directions of the Controller. er

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE Cuntdnst megane BoARp ¢

7. There shall be established a Board called the Culturat

A Pioperty Board (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Board”).

8. me ) The Board shall consist of— .

(a) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in diatke:
. of the subject of Cultural Affairs, who shall be the

Chairman; =
(b) the Director of Museu 2
(c) the Director of National Archives ;° ‘igo Te
(d) Chairman, Central Eniviorrimental Authority's x

‘(e) two members who shall have specialized knowledge
and experience in matters relating to cultural pro-
perty appointed by the Minister.

(2) A person shall be disqualified for appointment or con-
tinuing as a member of the Board under paragraph (e) of
subsection (1)—

(a) if he is or becomes a member of Parliament ; or

(b) if he is not, or ceases to be a Gitizen of Sri Lanka.


Cultural Property Act, No. 73 of 1988 3

(3) The members appointed by the Minister under para-
gcaph (e) of subsection (1) subject to the provisions of
subsections (4) and (5).shall hold office for a term of three
years but shall be eligible for reappointment.

(4) The Minister may remove from office any member of
the Board appointed under paragraph (e) of subsection (1)
without assigning any reason therefor and such removal
shall net be called in question in any court.

(5) In the event of the vacation of office of any member
appuinted under paragraph (e), or his removal from office
under the provision, of the preceding subsection, the Minister
may appoint another person to hold such office during the
unexpired part of the term of office of the member whom he
succeeds. |

(6) If any member of the Board appointed under para-
graph (e) is temporarily unable to discharge the duties of
his office due to ill-health or absence from Sri Lanka or for
any other cause, the Minister may appoint some other person
to act in his place as member. |

(7) The members of the Board shall be remunerated at
such rates as may be determined by the Minister in consul-
tation with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

9. (1) The Board may regulate its procedure in regard
to the meetings of the Board and the transaction of business

at such meetings,

(2) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall unless
the Board otherwise determines be four members.

10. (1) The Board shall be an Advisory Board and shall
advise the Archaeological Commissioner in the exercise of
his powers or on any other matters referred to the Board
for their opinion.

(2) The Board may in the exercise of their power retain
the services of any person having a specialised knowledge
and experience in matters relating to cultural property.

Meetings
and quorum
of the
Board,

Power of
the Board.


Minister
to specify

the categories
of cultural.

property
to be
registered.

Registra-
tion of
cultural
property
in private
possession.

Govern-
ment Agent
to be the
registering
officer.

Applica-

tions for .¥:

certificate
of regis-
tration.

Grant of
certificate
of regis-~
tration.

A Cultural Property Act, No. 73 of 1988

PART III

. REGISTRATION OF CULTURAL PROPERTY

11. The Minister in consultation with the Board and with
the approval of the Cabinet may from time to time by Noti-
fication published in the Gazette specify the categories of
cultural property that shall be registered under this. Act,
having due regard to the following considerations :—

‘ (a) the necessity for conserving such category of cultural

property ; o i:

(b) the need to preserve such objects within Sri Lanka

for the better appreciation of her cuitural heritage ;

| (c) such other factors as will or are likely to contribute
to the safeguarding of the cuttcral nernage of Sri
Lanka. ° : ‘

12. No person shall own or have in his custody or pos-
session any cultural property specified in the Notification
referred to in.section 11 unless such cultural property: is
registered by the registering officer and such officer has
issued a certificate of registration in respect of such property.

13. The Minister may, by Notification published in the
Gazette appoint for the purpose of section 12 the Govern-
ment Agent to be the ‘registering officer for the adminis-
trative district for which he has been appointed: Govern-
ment Agent.

14, The Minister may, by Order 17 published i in. the Gazette,
prescribe the period within which an application. for a certi-'
ficate of registration may be made under section 15.

\

15. (1) Every person required to obtain a certificate of
registration under section 12 shall make an application for
such certificate, to the registering officer of the administra-
tive district within which he resides on an BEpucaton, somms
prescribed for the purpose.

(2) On receipt of an application under subsection (1) the
registering officer may, after holding such inquiry as he
deems fit, grant a certificate of registration containing such
particulars as may be prescribed.


Cultural Property Act, No. 73. of 1988 pa)

(83) Where an application received under subsection (1)
has been rejected, the registering officer shall inform the ap-
plicant in writing stating his reasons for such rejection.

(4) Where an application for a certificate of registration
has been rejected, the applicant may, within fourteen days
from the date of such rejection, appeal to the Archaeological
Commissioner against such rejection.

'(5) Any applicant who is aggrieved by a decision of the
Archaeological Commissioner rejecting an application for
registration may appeal against such decision to the Court

of Appeal.

16. Where any person transfers the ownership or custody
or possession of any cultural property regitstered under sec-
tion 12 such person shall intimate within fourteen days from
the date of such transfer, the fact of such transfer to tha
registering officer of the administrative district within wich
such person resides.

17. Any person who—

(c) owns or has the custody or possession of any cultura!
property, fails to make an application under secticn
15, or

(b) transfers the ownership or custody or possession of
any cultural property and fails to notify such trans-
fer to the registering officer, under section 16,

‘shall be guilty of an offence and shall, upon conviction after

summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a period not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonment.. : :

PART IV

Li@eNGE TO DEAL IN CULTURAL PROPERTY

t

-18. No person shall, by himself or by any ‘other person
on his behalf, carry on the business of selling or offering to
sell any cultural property, except under the authority of a
licence issued under section 19.

Transfer

of owner-
ship of any
registered
cultural
property

o be ‘
intimated \
to the |

registering

officer.

Penalty.

Licence

to deal

in cultural
property.


Grant of
licence,

€ Cultural Property Act, No. 73 of 1988

19. (1) The Archaeological Commissioner may issue ;
‘licence to any person to carry on the business of selling or
eftering to sell any cultural property after taking into con.

_ sideration—

{a) the experience of the applicant with respect to tradc
in cultural property ;

{b) the town, village or area where the business is to he
carried on ; and :

{c) such other matters as may be prescribed.

(2) (a) Every application for a licence to carry on any
business as specified in subsection (1) shall be in the pres-
cribed form and shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee ;

(b) She Archaeological Commissioner may, after holding
such inquiry as he deems ff, issue or refuse to issue a licence
to an applicant tnerefor.

(c) Where the Archaeological Commissioner refuses to
issue a licence to an applicant, he shall inform the applicant
wot the refusal to issue a licence,

{@) Every licence authorising the carrying on of any such
wusmess as specified in subsection (1) shall be in the pre-
scribed form, for a prescribed period and shall be subject to
such terms and conditions, as may be necessary to ensure
that the business authorized by such licence is carried on in
compliance with the provisions of the Act.

{e) Vhe Archaeological Commissioner may catnrel a
licence issued under subsection (1), if the licencee contra-
venes or fails to comply with any condition attached to the
licence,

(f) Where the Archaeological Commissioner cancels the
licence under paragraph (e), he shall cause notice of such
cancellation to be given to the licencee.

(g) An applicant for a licence who is aggrieved by the
decision of the Archaeological Commissioner refusing to is-
sue a licence, or the licencee who is aggrieved by the decision
of the Archaeological Commissioner cancelling his licence
may, within thirty days from the date of such decision, ap-

‘peal in writing to the Secretary from such decision.


Cultural Property Act, No. 73 of 1988 7

20. Notwithstanding anything contained iri section 18, any
person whose licence has been cancelled under paragraph
(e) of subsection (2) of section 19, may, after making a
declaration in writing to the Archaeological Commissioner
within such period and in such form and manner as may be
prescribed, of all the cultural property in his ownership,
custody and possession inimediately before the date of such
cancellation, sell such cultural property to any other person
holding a valid licence issued under section 19:

Provided that no such cultural property shall be sold
after a period of six months from the date of cancellation of
the licence.

21. Any person who— |

(a) by himself or by other person on his behalf, sells or
attempts to sell any cultural property to a person
outside Sri Lanka in contravention of section 18, or

(b) contravenes the provisions of section 19 or section 20,
Shall be liable on conviction after summarv trial before a
Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees or
to imprisonment of either description for a period not less
than three vears or to both such rine and imprisonment.

PART V

Po'“,ERS AND DUTIES OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL COMMISSIONEF

22, The Archaeological Commissioner is hereby em-
powered—

(a) tc prepare a list of the categories of cultural property
required to be registered under section 12 ;

{b) to conserve, maintain, repair and restore cultural
property that requires registration ;

(c) to control and administer the registration, sale and
protection of cultural property that require regis-
tration ;

(d) to purchase valuable cultural property with such
funds as may be granted for the purpose by Parlia-
ment,

23. The Archaeological Commissioner shall perform and
discharge all such duties and functions as are assigned to
him by this Act or by any regulation made thereunder.

cultural

' property

to other
licencees.

Powers

3)
Archaeolo-
gical
Commis.
sioner.

Duties

of the
Archaeolo-
gical .
Commis.
sioner.


Power of
inspection
of
cultural

property.

Direction
by the
Archaeolo-
gical
Commis-
sioner

8 Cultural Property Act, No. I3 of 1988

24. (1) The Archaeological Commissioner or any officer
authorized by him in writing for the purpose may, at all
reasonable times, inspect any cultural property in the
possession of any person and it shall be the duty of every
such person to permit such inspection and to give to the
Archacclogicsl Commissioner or such officer all reasonable
facilities to study such cultural property and to make
drawings, photographs or reproductions thereol by the mak-
ing of casts or by any other means:

Provided that no such drawings, photographs o1 repro-
cuctions shall be sold without the consent of the person in
possession of the cultural property :

Provided further that, in the making of eigis ghe prior
consent cf the person in possession of the cultural property
shall be obtained.

(2) Any person who fails to comply with the provisions
of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or to imprison-
ment of either description for a term not exceeding three
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

25. (1) Where the Archaeological Commissioner is of the
opinion that any cultural property of national importance.
owned ly or in the custody or possession of any persori, is
in danger of being destroyed, defaced, misused, allowed to
fall into decay or where the character of such property is
about to be, or is being, or has been changed, he shall with
the concurrence of the Board give directions to the owner
or the persons who have custody or possession of such cul-
tural property to safeguard.such property.

(2) Where the Archaeological Commissioner is of opinion
that the owner or person in possession is unable to comply
with his directions within a reasonable time or where he'is
of opinion that such directions will not be complied with
or that such cultural property will be removed from’ Sri
Lanka without a licence he shall with the concurrence of
the Board take such property into his custody.

(3) Any person who wilfully obstructs the Archaeological
Commissioner in performing the duties made under sub-
section (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall on con-
viction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or to imprison-~
ment of either description for a term not exceeding three
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.


Cultural Property Act, No. 73 of 1988 9

(4) Where the Archaeological Commissioner subsequent
to the taking of into his custody any cultural property under
subsection (2) is satisfied that the owner or the person who
had custody or possession of such property is now ina
position to comply with his directions or has complied with
such directions and that such property will not be in any
danger of being destroyed, defaced, misused or allowed to
fall into decay he may with the concurrence of the Board,
return such property to such owner or person.

under
subsection (2) may be handed over to the Director of
Museurns by the Archaeological Commissioner for exhibi-

(5) Any property taken into ~~ custody

tion at a Museum for public display.

26. The Archaeological Commissioner may generally cr
specially authorize the exercise, performance or discharge
of any of his powers, duties or functions under this Act—

(a) by the Government Agent of any district, within that
district ; or

(b) by any officer of the Department of Archaeology in
any part of Sri Lanka. ©

“PART VI -

GENERAL

27. No suit or proceeding shall be instituted against any
officer appointed under this Act, for any act which is done
in good faith or is purported to be done by him in the per-
formance of his duties or the discharge of his functions
under this Act. _

28. (1) The Minister may make. regulations in respect of
any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in res-
pect of which regulations are authorized by this Act to be
made.

_ (2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on

the date of such publication or on such later date as may -

be specified in the regulation.

Authoriza-
tion

ut GOVeTn-
ment
Agents

end

other
officers

to

exercise
powers

pf
Arecnaeolo-
gical
Commis-
sioner.

Protection
of
officers.

Regula-
tions.


Interpreta-
tion.

1g Cultural Property Act, No. 73 of 1988

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as_ soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval.. Any regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the
date of its disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder. Notification of the date on which
any regulation is deemed to be nescinded shall be published

in the Gazette.

29, In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“antiquity” includes any of the following objects lying
or being found in Sri Lanka, and has been in exis-
tence for more than one hundred years—

Statues sculptured or dressed stone and marbles
of all descriptions, engravings, carvings, incriptions,
paintings, writings, and the material where on the
same appear all specimen of ceramic, glytic metel-
lurgic and textile art, coins, gems, seals, jewels,

' jewellery, arms, tools. ornaments, furniture, house-
hold utensils, and all other objects of art which are
movable property ;

‘“ Archaeological Commissioner” means the person ap-
pointed to be or to act as Archaeological Commis-
sioner and includes any person authorized in res-
pect of any power, duty or function of the Archaeo-
logical Commissioner under this Act;

“euitural property” includes cultural property which oa
’ religious or secular grounds is specifically designat-
ed by the Minister with the approval of the Cabinet,
as being of importance for archaeology, prehistory,
history, literature, art or science, and which belongs

to one of the following categories :—

(i) rare collections and specimens of fauna, flora,
minerals and anatomy ;
(ii) property relating—

(a) to history, including the history of science
and technology, military and social
history ; or

(b) to the life of national leaders, thinkers,
scientists and artists ; or

(c) to events of national importance ;


Cultural Property Act, No. 73 of 1988 11

(iii)

products of archaeological excavations or of
archaeological discoveries ;

(iv) elements of artistic or historic monuments or

(v)

(vi)

(vii)
(viii)

x)
(x)

(xi)
(xii)

(xiii)

_ iv)

archaeological sites which have been dismem-
bered ;

antiquities more than one hundred years old,
such as inscription, coins, currency notes and
engraved seals ;

objects of ethonological interest ;

pictures, paintings and drawings produced en-
tirely by hand ;

original marks of statutory art and sculpture ;
original engravings, prints and lithographs ;

rare manuscripts, old books, documents, draw-
ings, maps, plans and publications of special
interest ;

postage revenue and similar stamps;
archives ;

articles of furniture more than one hundred
years old ; and

old musical instruments.
