bass!

‘PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

EMPLOYEES’ COUNCILS ACT,
Z | No. 32 OF 1979 .

[Certified on 23rd May, 1979}

a?
.

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
* Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 08, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT ERINIENG, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMAO

Price: Re 1.10 Postage: 50 cents


Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979, :

[Certified on 23rd May, 1979]
L.D—0.48/78 |

AN Act To PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF iiuorvee
CouncILs IN STATE UNDERTAKINGS AND TO SPECIFY THEIR
FUNCTIONS, TO PROVIDE FOR EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION IN
GOVERNING BODIES OF SUCH UNDERTAKINGS, AND TO PROVIDE
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Employees’ Councils
Act, No. 32 of 1979.

\

(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operation
on such. date or dates as the Minister may from time to
time appoint by Order published in the Gazette. Different
dates may be appointed by the Minister for the coming 1 into
operation of different Parts of this Act.

2. (1) The Minister may, by Oiiier published in the
Gazette declare that the provisions of this Act shall apply
to every State undertaking belonging to any such class or
category of State undertaking specified in the Order.

. (2) Every State undertaking to which the provisions of
this Act applies by virtue of an Order made under subsec-
tion (1) is hereinafter. referred to as a “specified under-
taking”.

s,

PART I

_ PRELOMONARY

3. (1) The Commissioner of Labour (hereinafter referred
to as the “ Commissioner”) shall, unless otherwise provid-
ed for in this Act, be in charge ¢ of the general administra-

‘tion of this Act.

-(2) There may be aupointed such number of Deputy

Commissioners, Senie= Assistant Commissioners and Assis-
tant Commissioners of Labour, and other officers as may
be required for the purpose of carying out or giving effect
to the provisions of this Act.

(3) Every Deputy Commissioner, Senior Assistant Com-

missioner, and Assistant Commissioner of Labour shall .in.

the exercise, discharge and performance of his powers,
functions and duties be subject to any general or special
directions of the Commissioner. |

2—2 40760—13,950 (79/06)

Short title

Application
of this Act.

 Adminis-

tratior .
of this Act. .

~


This Act

. Shall be in
addition to
and not in
derogation
of any
other law.

Agreements
contrary

to the |
provisions
of this

Act to be

* mull and
void.

Employees’
Councils,

Constitution
of first
Electoral
Board.

' Com-

_ missioner to
appoint
Electoral
Board.

- Eligibility of
,employees
to be

elected and
* to vote
at elections
of the
Council.

2 : ‘Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 ‘of 1979

4. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and
not in derogation 6f the provisions of the Trade Unions -~
Ordinance or of any other written law pea to employ-
yers or employees. ;

5. Any agreement, whether oral or in writing, or whether

expressed or implied, whereby any right conferred on an
employee by this Act is in any way affected or modified
to his disadvantage or whereby any liability imposed on
an employer by this Act is in any way removed or reduced
shall be nuil and void in so far as it affects or modifies such

‘right or removes or reduces such liability.

PART II
ESTABLISHMENT OF EMPLOYEES’ COUNCILS

6. Subject to the provisions of this Part, there shall be
established an Employees’ Council (hereinafter referred to
as the “Council”) in every specified undertaking, within
six-months of the date on which the provisions of this Act
commence to apply to such undertaking.

7. (1) In respect of every specified undertaking, the
Commissioner shall appoint the first Electoral Board which
shall consist of five members of whom two shall be eligible
employees of the undertaking. The Commissioner ‘shall
appoint one member to be the Chairman of the Board.

(2) The first Electoral Board of a specified undertaking
shall be constituted within six weeks of the date on which
the provisions of this Act commence to apply to such
tndertaking, ‘

8. The Commissioner shall appoint an Electoral Board
not less than six weeks before the expiry of the term of
office. of such Council and such Electoral Board shall con-
sist of five eligible employees of whom one shall be appoint-

. ed to be the Chairman of such Electoral Board.

9. Every eligible employee in any specified undertaking

shall be entitled to be elected to and to vote at elections

for membership of the Conzeil established in such under-
taking. ,


Employees’, Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979 83

10. The Council of a specified undertaking shall aoneiat Nines of
of such number of members according to the number of ponsieting .
eligible employees regularly employed in such undertaking, ~-Council.

determined as follows :—

(a) where the number of eligible employees does not
exceed fifty the Council shall consist of three
members ;

(b) where the number of eligible employees exceeds fifty
but does not exceed one hundred and fifty the
Council shall consist of five members; —

{c) where the number of eligible employees exceeds one
hundred and fifty but does not exceed three hundred
the Council shall consist of seven members ;

(d) where the number of eligible employees exceeds three
hundred but does not exceed six hundred the Coun-
cil shall consist of nine members ;

{e) where the number of eligible employees exceeds six
hundred but does not exceed one thousand the
Council shall consist of eleven members ; and

(f) where the number of eligible employees exceeds one
thousand the Council shall consist of eighteen
members. _

11. Every member of a Council shall be elected by secret Mode of |
election of

ballot by the eligible employees of the REECE under- J,embers of
taking. the Council
Power of
12, (1) The Minister may make rules in respect of the Power 0 ‘0

’ following matters : — make

rules.
(a) the manner and procedure of elections of members

of Employees’ Councils ;

(b) the representation of different categories of mEloyees
on a Council ; ;

(c) representation of sections or ribranehes of an under-
taking’ on a Council established in respect of such
undertaking ; and

-(d) any matter incidental to or connected with any of the
matters aforesaid. — |

(2) The rules made by the Minister shall be binding on
the employees, employer and Council of every specified
undertaking.


- Functions of

the Electoral
Board.

Commissioner
to decide
branch or
section of an
undertaking
an under- .
taking &c.

Election
petitions.

4 Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979

13. (1) The Electoral Board shall perform all acts and do
all things as may be necessary for the purpose of conducting
the election of the members of the Council. ‘

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Electoral Board shall—

(a) explain to the employees in the specified undertaking
the purpose and effect of the provisions contained
in this Act and the nature and functions of the
Council ;

(b)- call for and receive riominations of candidates for
election to membership of the Council ;

. (c) arrange, hold and supervise the elections of the mem-
bers of the Council.

(3) If the Electoral Board fails to carry out its functions
within.a period of six weeks from the appointment of such
Electoral Board, the Commissioner shall carry out such
functions and the provisions of this Act shall apply as though
a reference to the Electoral Board were a reterence to the
Commissioner.

14, Where any question arises as to whether an under-
taking is a branch or section of a specified undertaking for
the purpose of the establishment of a Council or as to whe-
ther an employee is an eligible employee or not, such ques-
tion shall be decided by the Commissioner whose decision

thereon shall be final.

15. (1) Any three or more eligible employees shall be

entitled to petition the Commissioner against an election

result, within fourteen days of the announcement of such
result, if it appears to them that in the conduct of such
election, there has been an infringement of any rule relating

to the eligibility to vote or of any provision, relating to the
electoral procedure.

(2) Where the Commissioner is satisfied after such inquiry

.as he considers necessary that there has been an infringe-

ment of any rule relating to the eligibility to°vote or of any
provision relating to the electoral procedure he shall set aside
the election unless he is of opinion that such infringement
would not have altered or affected the result of such election.

\

(3) The decision of the Commissioner | on such petition
shall be Anal, ‘ :


Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979 5

16. Every person who—

(a): obstructs the conduct of the election of the members
of a Council ;

(>) restricts the right of an eligible employee to vote at
“the election stand for election ;

(c) attempts to influence an election by imposing or
threatening to impose any disadvantage or disabi-
lity on any eligible employee ;

(d) attempts to influence an election by granting or pro-
mising any advantage or benefit to any eligible
employee,

,

shall be guilty of an offence.

17. The cost of the Sivetioh of members of a Council
shall be borne by the specified undertaking.

18. Any person, being the employer of any other person

who is entitled to vote at any election of the member of a”

Council or who is a candidate at any such election, or who
being a member of an Electoral Board is called upon to per-
form any duty as a member of an Electoral Board, shall,
upon application in writing in that behalf made by such
other person, grant such other person leave, without loss of
' pay for such period of time as may be required for any one
of the aforesaid purposes. ; “

19. The term of office of a Council shall unless it is earlier
terminated under section 20 be two years.

20. (1) The term of office of a Council shall terminate—

{a) if at any time after the lapse of one year from the
date of commencement of the term of office of that
Council the number of eligible employees regularly

employed in the specified undertaking is found to

have been increased or decreased by one-half ;

(b) if the majority of.the members of the Council, in-
cluding those not present, decide that the term of
office of the Council shall be terminated ;

Election
offences.

Cost of
election.

Duty of
employers
to grant
leave with~
out loss

of pay to *
enable
employees
to vote.

Term of

_ Office of
Council.

Where term
of office is .
terminated
earlier.

(c) if the Council is dissolved by the Commissioner in | r

accordance with the provisions of this Act.

(2) Where the term of office of'a Council ceases in the cir
cumstances referred to in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)

of subsection (1), such Council shall continue to deal with ©

all current business until a new Council is elected.


Dissolution
of Council
by the
Commi-
ssioner.

Commissioner
may remove’

any member
of the
Council.

Termination

0
membership.

Filling of
vacancies,

6 Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979 ~

21.. (1) The Commissioner may order the dissolution of
a Council where he is satisfied after such inquiry as he may
consider necessary that there has been gross negligence in
the exercise of its isiutory duties on the part of Hae
Council.

(2) Where a Council is dissdived as provided in subsec-

tion (1), the Commissioner shall without delay appoint an
' Electoral Board for the purpose of conducting the election

of the members of the Council in that specified under-
taking.

22. The Commissioner may on receipt of a memorandum
signed by not less than two-thirds of the members of a Coun~~
cil or by not less than one-half of the eligible employees of
a specified undertaking alleging that any member of the
Council is guilty of gross negligence in the exercise of his
statutory duties, order the removal of such member from
office.

23. The term of office of a member of the Council shalt
terminate on the expiry of the term of office of the Council,
or on theresignation of such member, or on such member
ceasing to be an eligible employee of the specified under-
taking or an order of the Commissioner under section 21
or section 22. :

2A. (1) Whenever the membership of any — of the ©
Council is terminated, otherwise than on the expiry of the
term of office of such Council, the Commissioner shalt
appoint an Electoral Board which shall within six weeks of
such termination, take necessary action for the election of
a member to fill such vacancy and the provisions of this Act
relating to the election of the members of a Council shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to the election of such member.

(2) If the Electoral Board fails to carry out its functions
within a period of six weeks, the Commissioner shall carry
out its functions and the provisions of this Act shall apply
to such election as though the reference to the Council were
a reference to the Commissioner.

PART ITI .

CONDUCT OF BUSINESS OF EMPLOYEES’ Councms

25. (1) The Council shall elect two of its members as :
Chairman and Vice-Chairman, respectively.


Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979 “4

(2) Where the Council is composed of representatives of
more than one category of employees, the Chairman and
Vice-Chairman shall not be elected from the same category
of employees.

(3) Unless otherwise decided by the Council the Chair-
man or if he is unable to act, the Vice-Chairman shall be
entitled to represent the views of the Council.

~ 26. (1) Not later than one week after the election of the

Council, the Electoral Board shall convene a meeting of the |
members of the Council for the elections under section 25. _

(2) All subsequent meetings of the Council shall be con-
vened by. the Chairman of the Council. :

(3) The Chairman shall draw up the agenda and conduct
the proceedings of the Council. The Chairman shall give
seven days’ notice of the meetings of the Council to the

members and inform the members of the agenda of such
meetings.

(4) At tive request of one-fourth of the members of the
Council or of the employer, the Chairman shall convene a
meeting of the Council and place on its agenda the matter
on which a discussion has been requested.

(5) The employer shall be invited to be present at the
meetings which are convened at his request.

27. (1) The decision of the Council shall be the majority
decision of the members present and voting.

(2) In the event of an equality of votes the Chairman
shall have a casting vote.

" (3) One-half of the members of the Council shall consti-
- tute a quorum for a meeting of the Council,

28. (1) Minutes shall be kept of all proceedings at.

meetings of the Council giving the text of all decisions taken
and the voting thereon. The minutes shall be signed by. the
Chairman and one other member. There shall be attached

_ to the minutes a list of the members present signed by each .

such member.

(2) Where the employer is present at a meeting, that
portion of the minutes which concern him shall be presented
for his signature and a copy thereof shall-be given to him.

Meetings of
the Council,

a3

Decisions of
meetings of
the Council

Minutes of
meetings.


Postponement
of decisions,

Standing
Orders.

No extra
remuneration
for members

Council.

Duty of
employers
to grant /
leave to
members of
Councils.

Publication of

report of
Council
activities, -

Objects of ~
the Council.

8 Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979

29. (1) If a majority of the representatives of any one
category of employees are of the opinion that any decision
of the Council considerably prejudices the interests of the
employees whom they represent, a decision shall, at their

. request; be postponed for a period of one week so that an
- attempt may be made to reach an agreement.

(2) Not more than one postponement may be granted in
respect of any such decision.

30. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the Council
may make Standing Orders in respect of the conduct of its
business.

(2) Such Standing Orders shall take effect upon the
approval of the Commissioner.

31. No member of the Council shall be entitled to be

‘ paid any remuneration or allowance in respect of his
of the F

functions as such member.

7

‘32. (1) Every employee who is a member of the Council
of a specified undertaking shall be granted leave by his
employer, without less of pay for such periods as may be
reasonably necessary for the due discharge and performance
of his functions and duties as such member.

(2) The Council or its representatives may by prior
appointment, consult the employer on any matter relating -
to the affairs of the Council during working hours.

(3) Any expense incurred by the Council of any specified
undertaking in the discharge and performance’ of its func-
tions and duties shall be defrayed by the employer.

(4) The employer shall provide the necessary premises
and facilities for conducting the affairs of the Council.

33. (1) The Council shall publish a report of its activities
once in every three months.
(2) A copy of each such report shall be surnisice to the
employer.
PART IV

OBJECTS AND FUNCTIONS OF EMPLOYEES’ Counens :

34, The objects of the Council shall be—

(a) the promotion and maintenance of effective partici-
pation of employees'in the affairs of the specified
undertaking ;


Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979 9

(b) the securing of the mutual co-operation of the

employees and employer in ‘achieving industiral
peace and greater efficiency and productivity in the
specified undertaking and with <o to matters
connected therewith ; and

(6) the carnying out of such other ee ‘as may be
prescribed ‘by the Minister by. Regulation,

35. (1) It shall be the duty of the employer and the
Council to work together in a spirit of mutual trust for the
good of the specified undertaking and its employees, having
due regard to the interest of the community.

(2) The employer and the Council shall secure that every
person employed in the specified undertaking is treated with
raltness in accordance! with the principles of law.

(3) The enivieyer and the Council shall refrain from
doing’ anything likely to impair the efficiency and products
vity of the specified undertaking.

36. The general duties of the Council shall include the
following :— :

(a) making recommendations to the employer on matters
benefiting the specified undertaking and the
employees ; ‘and

(2), securing ‘that effect is given to any written Jaw

' affecting employees.

$7. The Council shall be entitled to receive information
from the employer and advice from any person employed,
in the specified undertaking, on the following matters
relating to such undertaking :—

_ (a) methods of manufacture’ and work of a general
nature ;

(b) the. statement’ of financial accounts of the under-_

taking ; and

(c) other matters in resect, of which the Council oh

entitled to the right of consultation under the
provisions of this Act:

Provided .that the Council shall not be entitled to any

information and advice the furnishing of which is prejudicial
_ to the pUSIEUES or other interests of the undertaking.

_ Relationship

between
employee and

the Council

Duties of
the Council.

Council
entitled to -
receive
certain
information.


Meeting of
emplorcr
. and Coumeil.

Proceedings
before
Commis-
sioner,

Settlement
before the
Commissioner
binding.

Council or a
member of
the Council:
not to
interfere in
the ,

management
of the

undertaking.

Obstructing
or

hindering a
¢ member of

the Council:

an offence.

Member of
the Council
, not to be
prejudiced
or favoured.

10 § ‘°Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979

38. (1) The employer eae the Council shall meet once
in each month. ,

(2) The employer may nominate not more than five
persons to represent him at such meetings.

‘(3) The employer and the Council shall discuss every
disputed matter including any alleged contravention of the
provisions of this Act, with a view to settlement.

(4) Any settlement of a disputed matter between the
employer and the Council shall be binding on the employer,
the Council and the employees in the specified undertaking.

39. (1) Where a dispute is not settled between the
Employees Council and the employer, the employer or the
Employees Council may refer the dispute to the Commis-

. sioner for settlement.

(2) The employee, the Council and any trade union acting
on behalf of its member, shall be entitled to participate in
proceedings before the Commissioner of Labour.

40. A settlement before the Commissioner shall be bind~

ing on the employer, the Council and the employees in the

specified undertaking.

41. 'The Council or a member thereof shall not interfere
by any unilateral action in the management of the specified
undertaking.

42. (1) No person shall obstruct or hinder a member of
the Council in the discharge of his functions.

(2) Any person who obstructs or hinders a member in
the execution of his functions shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.

43. A member of the Council shall not be prejudiced or
favoured by the employer by reason of any act or thing
done in the exercise of his functions as such member.


Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979 11

44, The Council shall have the right—

(a) to advice and assist the employer to take adequate
steps to—_ ,

?

(i) prevent the occurrence of accidents by providing —

safety measures, and
(ii) eliminate any health hazards,
in the premises of the specified undertaking ;

(b) to provide information and advice to Government

departments and other institutions on such matters
as may be referred to the Council for advice ; and

(c) to promote the implementation of all such measures
as may be necessary to prevent industrial accidents.

45. (1) The Council shall have the right of consultation

with the employer in the following matters relating to the

‘ specified undertaking in so far as they are not determined
by any written law :—

(a) the hours of work, the preparation of the roster of .

‘shift workers, and intervals for meals and rest ;

(b) the time and place for payment of wages and other
remuneration ;

(ce) the preparation of the annual leave schedule ;
(d) the carrying out of vocational training ;

(e) the administration of welfare, recreational and social:
activities ;

(f) matters relating to the maintenance of order and
discipline and the conduct of employees ;

(g) matters regarding transfers and dismissals of eligible
employees ;

(h) matters concerning safety and occupational hazards.

(2) (a) The assignment of an employee to perform work

of a different nature in the same undertaking without any

- change in the terms and conditions of his employment shall :

be deemed not to be a transfer unless such assignment pIAces
him in a less favourable position. '

(b) In the case of employees who, by reason of the nature

is to be performed shall be deemed not to be a transfer
Within the meaning of this section. |

of their employment or rank, do not perform their duties ~
at any one place, the change of the place where the work .

Rights of the
Couneil in
respect of
accidents
risks &c.

Right of
consultation
vested in
the Council.

s


Regulations

~ to be made
for election
of employees
of specified
undertakings
to governing
nodes.

Commissioner
or officer
authorized
by him to
issue direc-
tions to
employer.

Offences and
penalties,

12 - Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979

PART V
REPRESENTATION OF GOVERNING BODIES

46. Regulations may be made providing for the appoint-
ment or election of employees of specified undertakings to
governing bodies, the duration of office of, and ‘terms and
conditions applicable to, such employees and in respect of
matters connected with or incidental to the matters afore-

said.

; PART VI
GENERAL

47. . The’ Commissioner of any office nominated by him
may direct an employer to furnish to the Commissioner or
such officer before a date specified in the direction—

(a) a return containing such particulars in respect of all
_ or any of the employees of that employer as may
be specified in the direction ;

(b) such information or explanation in respect of any
particulars stated in any return furnished by that
employer as may be specified in the direction ; and

(c) a true copy of any register required by this Act to
be kept by that employer or any part of such
Tegister.

48. Every person who—

(a) contravenes or fails to comply with any of the pro-
visions of this Act; or

| (b) makes default in complying with any direction or

order made or given under this Act; or

(c) knowingly furnishes or causes to bé furnished any
- false return, or information required: to be furnished
under section 47,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction before |

a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding six months, or to both such fine and imprisor
ment, ,


Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979 - 18

49. Every person guilty of an offence under this Act for
which no penalty is prescribed shall be liable to a fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a period not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonment. .

50. In the case of any offence under this Act committed ,

by a body of persons—.

(a) where the body of persons is a body corporate, every
director and officer of that body qonporaty ;

(b) here the body of persons is a firm, every Hansen of
that firm; —

(c) where the body of persons is an aninemepevated body,
the president, manager, secretary and every other
officer of that unincorporated body.

shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence.

&

51. No employer shall do any act rehadiclall to any
employee who is a member of the Employees’ Council, ‘based
on his status or activities as a member of the Employees’
Council, in so far as such employee acts in conformity with
the provisions of this Act.

52. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be

instituted except by or with the written sanction of the
Commissioner.

53. No prosecution instituted under this Act against any

person for any offence under this Act shall be a bar to any -

civil action brought against such person in respect of any
matter arising out of this Act.

54. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the pur-
pose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality

of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may ,

make regulations in respect of matters which are stated or

_ required by this Act to be prescribed or authorized to be

made.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister under this
Act shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into
operation on the date of such publication or on such later
date as may be specified in the regulation.

’

Penalty for
offence for
which no
penalty is
prescribed.

Liability of
certain per-
sons in
respect of °
offences
committed by
bodies corpo-
rate or
unincorpo-
rate. |

Protection for
members of
Employees’
Councils
against
victimization
by employers.

No prosecu-
tion for - i.
offence

without

-ganction of

Commis-

: gioner, .

Prosecution _
no bar to
civil action.

. Regulations.


14 Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979

(4). Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after the date of its publication, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which
is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from

the date of such disapproval but without prejudice to any-
thing previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is deemed to be recinded shall be published
in the Gazette.

Interpretation, 55. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“casual employee” means any employee employed by an
employer to perform work of a casual nature on not
more than one hundred and eighty days in any year
in the aggregate ;

“Commissioner” means the person for the time ‘being
holding the office of the Commissioner of Labour

. and includes—

(a) any person for the trme being holding the office
of Deputy or Senior Assistant Commissioner
or Assistant Commissioner of Labour ;

(b) in respect of any power, duty or function of the
Commissioner under this Act, any person
authorised in writing by the Commissioner
to exercise such power, perform such duty or
discharge such function ;

“disputed matter ” includes any industrial dispute ;

“eligible employee” means any employee other than
a casual employee or a temporary employee or an
employee employed in a managerial or supervisory
capacity ;

“employer ” means any person who employs or on whose
behalf any other person employs any employee and
includes a body of employers (whether such body
is corporate or unincorporate) and any person who
on behalf of any other person employe any emplo-
yee ; ,

a governing body” used with reference to a specified
undertaking means the board of directors of that
undertaking or other body of persons, by whatever
name called, having control over the management

- and administration of that undertaking ;


Employees’ Councils Act, No. 32 of 1979 15
j x

“industrial dispute ” means any dispute or difference bet-
Ween an employer and an employee or between
employers and employees connected with the
“employment or non-employment, or the terms of
employment or with conditions of labour or the
* termination of employment or the remstatement

- in employment of any person ;

“public corporation” means any corporation, board or
other body which was or is established under any
written law, other than the Companies Ordinance,
with funds or capital wholly or partly provided by
the Government by way of grant, loan or otherwise ;

“galary ” means remuneration earned by an employee in
accordance with the terms and conditions of his
employment and includes any cost of living allow-
ance or special living allowance but does not include
any bonus or payment in respect of overtime ;

“State undertaking” means any public corporation or any
business undertaking vested in the Government
under any written law or any branch or section of
such corporation or business undertaking ;

“temporary employee” means any employee employed
temporarily by an employer to perform work of a °
temporary nature. on not more than one hundred
and eighty days in any year in the aggregate.
