PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA BUREAU OF FOREIGNEMPLOYMENT(AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 56 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 01st October, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.50Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 02, 2009

1Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment(Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 2009

2PL 0043614,250 (09/2009)

[Certified on 01st October, 2009]

L.D.O. 11/2008.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE SRI LANKA BUREAU OF FOREIGNEMPLOYMENT ACT, NO. 21 OF 1985

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Bureau ofForeign Employment (Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 2009.

2.Section 16 of the Sri Lanka Bureau of ForeignEmployment Act, No. 21 of 1985 (hereinafter referred toas the principal enactment) is hereby amended insubsection (2) of that section as follows:

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (i) thereof, for theword choice. of the word choice;; and

(b)by the addition immediately after paragraph (i)thereof, of the following new paragraphs:

(j)to authorize officers of the Bureau to examineany document in the possession of a persongoing abroad for employment, at any port ofembarkation, for the purpose of verifyingwhether registration has been obtained incompliance with the Act, where officers havereason to believe that such person is goingabroad without having obtained the requiredregistration under the Act; and

(k)to receive social security levies fromemployers abroad for the welfare of SriLankan employees..

3.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(a)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section; and

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 16 ofAct, No. 21 of1985.

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment.

Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment(Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 20092

(b)by the addition immediately after renumberedsubsection (1) of the following new subsection:

(2) No licence shall be issued in terms of theprovisions of this Act, if the applicant is at the timeof making the application for a licence, alreadyholding a licence issued under the Act..

4.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 37 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 37A of that enactment:

37A. (1) No person shall print or publishor cause to be printed or published in anymedia, any advertisement or noticesubmitted to it by a licensee or any otherperson, calling for applications from personsfor employment outside Sri Lanka, withoutsatisfying himself that such advertisementor notice has been approved by the Bureaufor such publication under section 37.

(2) Any person who contravenes theprovisions of subsection (1), shall be guilty ofan offence under this Act..

5.Section 51 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(a)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words is recruited, of the word leaves ;and

(b)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words is recruited, of the word leaves.

Insertion of newsection 37A inthe principalenactment.

Restrictiononpublicationofadvertisement&c, withoutapproval.

Amendment ofsection 51 of theprincipalenactment.

3Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment(Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 2009

6.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 51 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 51A of that enactment:

51A. (1) If any licensee does not receive anycommission or any other payment to secureemployment opportunities outside Sri Lanka,he may charge the actual expenses to beincurred, in addition to the registration fee fromany recruit, after having obtained priorapproval for the same from the Bureau. Wherethe Bureau believes that the expenses requestedare unreasonable, the Bureau may refuse togrant approval under section 37.

(2) Where a licensee having receivedpayment for expenses from the employerabroad, conceals the receipt of such paymentand requests payment for those expenses, suchlicensee shall be guilty of an offence underthis Act.

(3) Where a licensee in terms of subsection(1) receives a payment approved by the Bureau,the licensee shall issue a receipt for the amount,so received.

(4) A licensee who does not issue a receiptin terms of subsection (3) shall be guilty of anoffence under this Act..

7.Section 52 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (4)of the following new subsection:

(5) Where in the opinion of the Bureau, theamount which is disclosed in the returns furnishedunder subsection (2) by a licensee as having beenreceived as commission is not reasonable and

Insertion of newsection 51A inthe principalenactment.

Charging ofcommissionand otherpayments.

Amendment ofsection 52 of theprincipalenactment.

Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment(Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 20094

below such amount as ought to have been receivedas commission, the amount of commission for thepurpose of assessment under subsection (4), shallbe deemed to be as prescribed by the Ministerhaving considered the nature of the employmentand the quantum of the benefits to be received bythe Agents.

(6) Where a licensee defaults in payment of thecess under subsection (3) or where an assessment ismade in relation to a licensee by the Bureau undersubsection (4) in relation to the cess, where theamount of the commission is below that which oughtto have been received as commission, the licenseeshall be guilty of an offence and liable onconviction after summary trial by a Magistrate to afine not less than five thousand rupees. TheMagistrate shall, in addition, order the licensee topay the amount of cess which is in default..

8.Section 54 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (3) of that section by the substitution for thewords every licensee shall of the words a licensee may.

9.Section 60 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) (b) of that section by thesubstitution for the words copies of any records of thewords any documents relating to foreign employment orany records.

10.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 60A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as sections 60B, 60C and 60D of thatenactment:

60B. Every officer or servant of the Bureaushall be deemed

(a)to be a public officer; and

(b)a peace officer,

Amendment ofsection 54 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 60 of theprincipalenactment.

Officers andservants of theBureau to bedeemed to bepublic officersfor thepurposes of theCode ofCriminalProcedure Act.

Insertion of newsections 60B,60Cand 60D in theprincipalenactment.

5Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment(Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 2009

within the meaning and for the purposes of theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

60C. Every officer and servant of the Bureau,shall be deemed to be a public officer, withinthe meaning and for the purposes of the PenalCode (Chapter 19).

60D. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie

(a)against the Bureau for any lawful act,which in good faith is done or purportedto be done by the Bureau under thisAct; or

(b)against any member, officer, servantor agent of the Bureau for any lawfulact, which in good faith is done orpurported to be done by him underthis Act or on the directions of theBureau.

(2) Any expenses incurred by the Bureau inany suit or prosecution by or against theBureau before any court shall be paid out ofthe funds of the Bureau and any costs paid to,or recovered by, the Bureau in any such suit orprosecution shall be credited to the funds ofthe Bureau..

11.Section 62 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(a)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from one thousand rupees to theend of that subsection, of the words one hundredthousand rupees and to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding four years.;and

Officers andservants of theBureau deemedto be publicofficers for thepurposes of thePenal Code.

Immunity fromsuit.

Amendment ofsection 62 of theprincipalenactment.

Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment(Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 20096

(b)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from twenty thousand rupees tothe end of that subsection, of the words one hundredthousand rupees and to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding four years..

12.Section 63 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for all the words from onethousand rupees to the end of that section, of the wordstwenty five thousand rupees and to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding two years. .

13.Section 64 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for all the words from onethousand rupees to two years. of the words fifty thousandrupees and not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees andto imprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding two years. .

14.Section 65 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words one thousandrupees and not exceeding one thousand five hundred rupeesof the words five thousand rupees.

15.Section 66 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words one thousandrupees and not exceeding one thousand five hundred rupeesof the words five thousand rupees.

16.Section 67 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for all the words from onethousand rupees to the end of that section, of the wordstwenty five thousand rupees and not exceeding fiftythousand rupees and imprisonment of either description fora term not exceeding two years,.

17.Section 67A of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words one thousand rupees of the words twentyfive thousand rupees.

Amendment ofsection 63 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 64 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 65 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 66 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 67 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 67A ofthe principalenactment.

7Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment(Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 2009

18.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 67A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 67B of that enactment:

67B. Any person who aids or abets a licenseeor his employee in the commission of anyoffence under this Act, shall be guilty of anoffence and be liable on conviction aftersummary trial by a Magistrate, to a fine notexceeding twenty five thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding two years..

19.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 69 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 69A and 69B of that enactment:

69A. Where any person who commits anoffence under sections 37A, 62, 63 or 64 oragainst whom reasonable suspicion exists thathe is guilty of the commission of any suchoffence, such person may be arrested withoutany warrant within any place either upon landor water by a police officer, or by an employeeof the Bureau authorized by the Bureau in thatbehalf, and every person so arrested shallforthwith:

(i)be produced before a Magistrate to bedealt with according to law; or

(ii)where it is impracticable so to do, behanded over to the officer-in-charge ofthe nearest police station to be dealtwith according to law.

69B. (1) Where any person is convicted anda penalty is imposed for an offence under anyprovision of this Act, seventy five per centumof any fine so imposed and recovered shall beremitted to the Workers Welfare Fund of theBureau established under section 45 of the Act.

Insertion of newsection 67B inthe principalenactment.

Aiding andabetting anoffence.

Insertion of newsections 69A and69B in theprincipalenactment.Powers ofarrest.

Certainportion offines to beremitted tothe WorkersWelfare Fundof theBureau.

Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment(Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 20098

(2) The Magistrate hearing the summary trialin respect of any offence under any provisionof this Act, shall, in addition to the sentence,make Order that seventy five per centum of thefine so imposed and recovered be remitted tothe Workers Welfare Fund of the Bureau..

20.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

9Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment(Amendment) Act, No. 56 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.