PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 26, 2006

[Certified on 23rd May, 2006]

Printed on the Order of Government

RUBBER REPLANTING SUBSIDY(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 20 OF 2006

Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 20061

2 PL 0010995,650 (03/2006)

[Certified on 23rd May, 2006]

L. D.O. 8/2005

AN ACT TO AMEND THE RUBBER REPLANTING SUBSIDYACT (CHAPTER 437)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Rubber ReplantingSubsidy (Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2006.

2. Section 7 of the Rubber Replanting Subsidy Act(Chapter 437) (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby repealed and the following sectionssubstituted therefor :

7. (1) There shall be charged and levied acess, at such rate as the Minister shall determineby Order published in the Gazette, taking intoconsideration the conditions prevailing inrelation to the rubber industry as a whole. Thecess so determined shall be payable in respectof the identified rubber products, in the mannerand at the respective times hereinafter set out.

(2) In making the Order under subsection(1) the Minister shall determine the rate of thecess to be levied in respect of

(a)the import of

(i)raw natural rubber;

(ii)synthetic rubber; and

(iii)rubber based products,

calculated on the value of suchproduct or the percentage of therubber content of such product as thecase may be and the cess so calculatedshall be payable at the point ofimport;

Replacement ofsection 7 ofChapter 437.

Levy of Cess.

Short title.

2Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2006

(b)the export of

(i)raw natural rubber;

(ii)dry rubber; and

(iii)rubber based productsmanufactured for export,

calculated on the percentage of therubber content of such product andthe cess so calculated shall be payableat the point of purchase of the rawrubber by the manufacturer of therubber product or at point of export,as the case may be;

(c)the manufacture of rubber basedproducts manufactured for domesticconsumption, calculated on thepercentage of the rubber content ofsuch product and the cess so calculatedshall be payable at the point ofpurchase within the country.

(3) The amount imposed as cess undersubsection (1) may be varied or rescinded bythe Minister by Order published in theGazette.

(4) An Order made under subsection (1)or subsection (3) shall be in operation as fromthe date of publication of such Order in theGazette. Every Order shall before the expiryof four months from the date of publication inthe Gazette, be placed before Parliament forits approval. Any Order not so approved shallbe deemed to be rescinded as from the date ofits disapproval but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 20063

(5) Notification of the date on which anyOrder is rescinded under subsection (4) shallbe published in the Gazette.

(6) The cess calculated and paid in termsof the aforesaid subsections shall be creditedto the Fund established under section 2.

(7) The total amount of the levy collectedin terms of this section, shall be utilised inconsultation with the Sri Lanka RubberResearch Institute and the Sri Lanka IndustrialDevelopment Board established under theIndustrial Development Board of CeylonAct, No. 36 of 1969, for the development ofrubber based small and medium scale localenterprises and for the cultivation of rubber.

(8) For the avoidance of doubt it is herebystated that all items of rubber to which theprovisions of this section apply, may beidentified in relation to the relevant H. S. CodeNo. under which they are classified in CustomsNotification (RPO) No. 91/11 published inGazette Extraordinary No. 682/16 of October1, 1991 or any other Code No. which may besubstituted therefore and shall be in force atany future date.

7A. (1) Any person may make anapplication to the Director-General of theRubber development Department for a refundof any cess paid by him in excess.

(2) The Director-General of the RubberDevelopment Department may submit theapplication to the Rubber ReplantingAdvisory Board, requesting the Board to makea recommendation as to whether such refundcould be made.

Refund ofexcess of thecess.

4Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2006

(3) On the recommendations of theRubber Replanting Advisory Board made onthe basis of criteria as determined, the Ministermay Order the refund of the amount as isrequired to be refunded by the RubberDevelopment Department to such personunder this Act in the manner as may beprescribed..

3. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (1) of that section by the insertion immediatelyafter paragraph (a) thereof, of the following new paragraphs :

(aa)establish a scheme for the registration of exportersand importers of raw natural rubber and rubberbased products and for the manufacturers of rubberbased products ;

(aaa)the manner and mode in which the content ofrubber present in rubber and rubber based productsand the actual percentage thereof, should bedeclared; .

4. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 10 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 10A of that enactment :

10A. Every person who contravenes or failsto comply with the provisions of this Act or anyregulation made thereunder shall on convictionafter summary trial by a Magistrate be liable toimprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding one year or to a fine notexceeding one hundred thousand rupees, or toboth such fine and imprisonment..

5.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal therefrom of the definition of theexpression raw natural rubber.

Insertion of newsection 10A inthe principalenactment.

Offences.

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 20065

GazetteNotification tobe rescinded.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

6. The Order made under subsection (1) of section 14 ofthe Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979 and publishedin Gazette Extraordinary No. 1362 of October 15, 2004, ishereby rescinded.

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

6Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2006

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.