PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON.

Ath Session 1968-69
a

Public Performances

(Amendment) Act, No. U
of 1969

Date of Assent: June 1, 1969

rinted on the Orders of Government and published as a Supplement tc
Ceylon Government Gazette, Part II of June 13, 1969

Printed at the DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, CEYLON, To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, CoLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local),
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PusiicaTions Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment, will not be supplied.

*

Rs. 40


Public Performances (Amendment) :
Act, No. 11 of 1969

L. D.—O. 52/66.

An ACT TO AMEND THE PuBLIC PERFORMANCES Soapton te
ORDINANCE. page 725, |

[Date of Assent: June 1, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Public Perfor- Short title.
mances (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 1969.

2. The long title of the Public Performances Amendment of

Ordinance (as last amended by Act No. 40 of 1961 and the jong title
Act No. 26 of 1964), hereinafter referred to as “‘ the . °
principal enactment’, is hereby amended by the
substitution, for the words ‘“‘ PUBLIC PERFOR-
MANCES AND CARNIVALS. ”’, of the words
“PUBLIC PERFORMANCES AND CARNIVALS,
AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THERE-
WITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO. ”’.

-- ~§. Section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the insertion, immediately after the ffeton 2 of -

Oe ‘ fj the principal
definition of ‘‘carnival’’, of the following new  ensctment.
definitions :— By:

| © ** ginema,’’ means any place ordinarily used for

the exhibition of pictures or optical effects
by means of a cinematograph, magic lantern,
or other similar apparatus;

‘club’? means any body of persons, whether
corporate or umincorporate, associated
together for a common purpose; ’.

4. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby arin oa a
‘ section 6 o'
amended as follows: — tis paueleal
enactment.

(a) by the repeal of sub-section (1) of that section,
and the substitution therefor of the following
new sub-section :—

‘* (1) (a) Subject to the provisions of sub-

section (9), no public performance shall,

unless it has been certified by a certifying
B 69848—5,728 (6/60)


> Public Performances (Amendment)
Act, No. 11 of 1969

authority as suitable for public exhibition
and such certificate remains unrevoked, be
exhibited or presented either— ‘

bau

(i) to the public in any premises, whether
public or private; or

(ii) to the members of any club in any
cinema, building, erection or other
premises authorized, for the time
being, to be used for public perfor-
mances under a licence or permit '
issued by a Municipal Council or
other local authority.

(b) No exhibition of pictures or optical
effects, by means of a cinematograph, magic
lantern or other similar apparatus, which
has not been submitted to or viewed by a
certifying authority, shall be exhibited or:
presented either—

(i) to the public in any premises, whether
public or private; or

(ii) to the members of any club in any™
cinema, building, erection or other
premises authorized, for the time
being, to be used for public perfor-
mances under a licence or permit
issued by a Municipal Council or
other local authority. ’’; and

.b) by the repeal of sub-section (10) of that section,
and the substitution therefor of the following ©
new sub-section : —

**(10) The Minister may by Order
published in the Gazette—

(2) prescribe a fee or charge to be paid in
respect of any public performance
submitted to and viewed by the
certifying authority ;

ae.
(b) provide for the collection or recovery of
such fee or charge and the disposal
thereof upon collection or recovery;


Public Performances (Amendment) « 3
Act, No. 11 of 1969 oe

(c) make such provision as he may consider
necessary for carrying out or giving
effect to the principles and purposes
of this section, including provision
for or in respect of any matter ”’
authorized or required by this
section to be prescribed. ”’.

~~

5.. The following new section is hereby inserted Insertion of
. new section 7

immediately after section 6, and shall have effect as ihe pepe
section 7, of the principal enactment :— ;

tnecarence to «= 7, Any person who, without the
certifying previous sanction of a certifying
authority in, authority, prints, publishes, distributes
relating to or posts up, or causes to be printed,
sia ’ published, distributed or posted up, any

newspaper advertisement, handbill,
placard or poster which contains any
reference to any order or decision of such
certifying authority or any part thereof
in respect of any public performance,
shall be guilty of an offence, and shall
be liable, on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate, to a fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for
any period not exceeding six months. ’’.
