PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
3rd Session 1958-59 NE .

is

Estate Duty (Amendment)
Act, No. 15 of 1959

Date of Assent: May, 15, 1959

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the Goverment Pars, Ceyton, To be
Purchased at the Govenwamenr Punucations Bureau, Covomso
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the Surermrennewr, GoveRnMment | Pustications
Buneav, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 25 cents.                       Postage: 10 cents.


Estate Duty (Amendment) Act,       3
No. 15 of 1959

L. D0. 46/58.

An Act 10 AMEND THE Estate Duty ORDINANCE AND
TO MAKE CERTAIN CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS.

[Date of Assent: May 15, 1959]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows: —

4, This Act may be cited as the Estate Duty,
(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1959.

2. Section 2 of the Estate Duty Ordinance (herein-
after referred to as the ‘‘ principal enactment ’’) is
hereby repealed and the following section is
substituted therefor: —

* Oficer,    2. (1) For the purposes of this
Ordinance, there may be appointed such
number of Deputy Commissioners of
Inland Revenue, Assistant Commis-
sioners of Inland Revenue and Assessors
of Estate Duty as may be necessary.

(2) A Deputy Commissioner of Inland
Revenue appointed for the purposes of
the Income ‘Tax Ordinance shall have all
the powers under this Ordinance of a
Deputy Commissioner of Inland Revenue
appointed for the purposes of this
Ordinance.

3) An Assistant Commissioner of
Inland Revenue appointed for the
purposes of the Income Tax Ordinance
shall have all the powers under this
Ordinance of an Assistant, Commissioner
of Inland Revenue appointed for the
purposes of this Ordinance.

(4) An Assistant Commissioner exer-
cising or performing any power, duty or
function of the Commissioner under this
Ordinance shall, until the contrary is
proved, be deemed for all purposes to
be authorised to exercise or perform such
power, duty or function.

2.x re-set)

Obepter 387
(al. TV,
page 614).

Shor title,

Replacement
of nection 9
‘of Chapter 187,


4       Estate Duty (Amendment) Act,
No. 15 of 1959

(6) The Commissioner or an Assistant
Commissioner may exercise any powers
conferred on an Assessor by this
Ordinance.

(6) An Assessor of Income Tax
appointed for the purposes of the Ineome

‘ax Ordinance shall have all the powers
of an Assessor of Estate Duty under this
Ordinance.”".

3. Section 5 of the principal enactment, as amended
by Act No. 3 of 1948, Act No. 34 of 1955 and Act
No. 50 of 1956, is hereby amended, in sub-section (1)
of that section, as follows:—

(1) by the substitution, in paragraph (iv) of that
sub-section, for the words “‘ the appointed
date or any subsequent date,”, of the
following :—

“ not earlier than the first day of April,
1956, and not later than the
seventeenth day of July, 1958,”
(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (iv) of that
¥ sub-section, for the wa e pee ”, of
the words “ Part; and ”’; and

(8) by the addition, immediately after paragraph
(iv) of that’ sub-section, of the following
paragraph :—

“(~) where the date of his death is the
eighteenth day of July, 1958, or any
subsequent date, be computed in
accordance with’ the provisions of
this Ordinance—

(@) if the value of his total estate
does not exceed the value of
his Ceylon estate, at the rates
shown in the second column
of Part V of the Schedule,
each such rate being applic-
able to such portion of the
value of the estate as is shown
in the corresponding entry in
column I of the Schedule,
and

(b) if the value of his total estate
exceeds the value of his
Ceylon estate, at a rate equal


Estate Duty (Amendment) Act,        5
No. 15 of 1959

.                  to the percentage which the
amount that would be estate
duty on his total estate, if his
total estate were entirely his
Ceylon estate, bears to the
value of his total estate.’’.

4%. Section 6 of the principal enactment, as amended
by Act No. 3 of 1948, 1s hereby amended as follows: —

(1) in paragraph » of that section by the sub-
stitution, for the words ‘made or
effected ’”, of the words and figures ‘“ made
or effected before July 18, 1958, and ”’;

) in paragraph (¢) of that section by the substi-
ation, for the words * made of effected",
of the words and figures ‘‘ made or effected
before July 18, 1958, and”; and

(3) in paragraph (@) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, for the words
<Cwhich shall not have been bona
fide made”, of the words and figures
“which, if the disposition ” was
made before July 18, 1958, shall not
have been bona fide made *”;

(®) by the substitution, for the words
“contract or otherwise:”, of the
following: —

“contract or otherwise, or taken
under a gift of any description
whatsoever made on or after
July 18, 1958:”.

(0) in the proviso to that paragraph—

(j) by the substitution, in paragraph

* NG) of that proviso, for the
words “ by means”, of the
words and figures“ but
before July 18, 1958, by
means”;

(ii) by the substitution, in paragraph
oie of that provise, for the
words “‘ gift made”, of the

Amendment of
‘ection 6 of
the principal
enactsent,


the principal
enactment,

6       Estate Duty (Amendment) Act,
No. 15 of 1959

words and figures “gift
Inade before July 18, 1958," ;
an

(iii) by the substitution, in paragraph
(iii) of that proviso, for the
words “gifts made”, of the
following:

“gifts made before July
18, 1958, which are’;

(iv) by the renumbering of paragraph
(iv) of that proviso as para-
graph (v); and

(v) by the insertion, immediately
after paragraph (iii) of that
proviso, of the following
paragraph :—

“ (iv) nothing herein con-
tained shall apply to
ifts, to which the
‘ersonal Tax Act of
1959 does not apply,
other than any gift
specified in paragraph
), paragraph 6) ‘or
paragraph (i) of sec-

tion 21 (1) of that

Acts”.

8. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words ‘ made by
the deceased more than”, of the words and figures
jjmade by the deceased before July 18, 1958, and more

an”,

6. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words “ deducted
from the amount of the estate duty payable in respect
of that property: ”, of the words and figures
“ deducted from the amount of the estate duty payable
in respect of that property unless that property is
gitted ‘property in respect of which a contribution has

een made, or has to be made, to the Persona] Tax
under the Personal Tax Act of 1959:’”.


Estate Duty (Amendment) Act,        7
No. 16 of 1959

7. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 16, and shall have effect as
section 16a, of the principal enactment :—

betins       16a. Where any contribution has
eiuw'awy been made, or has to be made, to the
sigur.” Personal ‘Tax under the Personal Tax
ferpeet ot Act of 1959 in respect of any property
ited "|, which has been gifted by any person,

Foren fax. the amount of such contribution, without
deducting from that amount any sum
allowed to be deducted under section 19
(8) of the Personal Tax Act of 1959, shall
be set off against the amount of the estate
duty payable on his Ceylon estate upon
his death.”’.

8. Section 20 of the principal enactment, as
amended by Ordinance No. Bef O41 and Act No. 34
of 1955, is hereby amended by the addition, at the end
of that section, of the following new sub-section:

“ (%) Where the property to be valued is pro-
perty in respect of which a contribution has been
made, or has to be made, to the Personal Tax
under Chapter IV of the Personal Tax Act of
1959, the value of such property fr the purposes
of this Ordinance shall be the value of such
property for the purposes of the determination of
Such contribution increased by the amount of such
contribution, without deducting from that amount
any sum allowed to be deducted under section 19
(3) of the Personal Tax Act of 1959.”.

9. Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, in sub-section 2 of that section, by the
substitution for the word “‘ three’, wherever that
word occurs in that sub-section, of the word “‘ six ’*.

40. Section 54 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, in sub-section (1) of that section, by the
SUiition, at the end of that sub-section, of the
following proviso:—

“Provided that property by the sale of which
the duty may be recovered shall not include pro,
perty gifted by the deceased in respect of which a
contribution has been made, or has to be made, to
the Personal ‘Tax uncer the Personal Tax Act of

Ineertion of
ow section
46a in tbe
priveipal

nackment.

Amendment of
Gestion 20 of
‘he. principal
fenaciment.

Amendment of
‘ection 98 of

the principal

‘enactment.

Amendment of
seston 64 of
the principal


Amendment of
fection TT
the prineipal
enactment,

Amendment of
‘the Sobedale
tothe

principal
Eactment

8        Estate Duty (Amendment) Act,
No. 15 of 1959

44. Section 75 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the word “ Commis-
sioner ””, wherever that word occurs in that section, of
the word ‘* Minister ””.

12, Section 77 of the principal enactment is hereby -
amended as follows :—

(a) in the definition of “ Assistant Commis-
sioner ”, by the substitution, for the words
“Estate Duty”, of the words ‘ Inland
‘Revenue ”; an¢

(®) by the substitution, for the definition of
“Commissioner”, of the following
definition: —

“Commissioner ” means the Commis-
sioner of Inland Revenue appointed
for the purposes of the Income Tax
Ordinance and includes a Deputy
Commissioner of Inland Revenue

jinted for the purposes of this
inance or of the Income Tax

Ordinance, and an Assistant Com-

missioner of Inland Revenue who is
appointed for the purposes of this
Ordinance or of the Income Tax
Ordinance and who is authorised
by the Commissioner either
generally or for some specific
Purpose to act on behalf of the
yommissioner ; *.

43. ‘The Schedule to the principal enactment, as
amended by Act No. 3 of 1948, Act No. 34 of 1955 and
‘Act No, 60 of 1956, ig hereby amended by the addition,
at the end of that Schedule, of the following new
Part:—

“ Part V.
mW

Rate per cent
On the first Rs. 20,000 of the value of

the estate            at              Nil
On the next Rs. 30,000 of the value of

the estate            abe              a      5
On the next Rs. 30,000 of the value of       :

the estate            a              a
On the next Rs. 30,000 of the value of

the estate           i            ager 10
On the next Rs. 40,000 of the value of     i
the estate          :              ro


Estate Duty (Amendment) Act,        9
No. 15 of 1959

I                                           it
Rate per cent

On the next Rs. 50,000 of the value of

the estate           ass             woe 0 AE,
On the next Rs. 100,000 of the value of

the estate            me              a 1
On the next Rs. 100,000 of the value of

the estate          mi            a
On the next Rs. 100,000 of the value of

the estate         aoe           54.    20
On the next Rs. 100,000 of the value of

the estate            "            =e    25
On the next Rs. 125,000 of the value of

the estate           =              a OT
On the next Rs. 125,000 of the value of

the estate            ae              a     30
On the next Rs. 200,000 of the value of

the estate              -                a 8B
On the next Rs. 350,000 of the value of

the estate              oe                a      40
On the next Rs. 750,000 of the value of

the estate                                .       45
On the balance         4                        50.”.

4%. (1) All suits, prosecutions, appeals or other
legal proceedings, cl or criminal, instituted by or
against the Commissioner of Estate Duty before the
date on which this Act comes into operation may be
continued by or against the Commissioner of Inland
Revenue.

(2) Any proxy signed by the Commissioner of
Estate Daty and filed of record in any legal proceedings
pending on the day immediately preceding the date on
which this Act comes into operation shall on and after
that date have effect as if it had been signed by the
Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(3) All decrees or orders made by any competent
court in favour of, or against, the Commissioner of
Estate Duty before the date on which this Act comes
into operation shall on and after that date be deemed
to have been made in favour of, or against, the
Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(4) All notices, certificates, other documents or
orders issued or made under the principal enactment.
by the Commissioner of Estate Duty before the date

Savings.


10       Estate Duty (Amendment) Act,
No. 15 of 1959

on which this Act comes into operation shall on and
after that date have effect as if they were issued or
made by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(5) Every contract, agreement, or other instrument,
made or executed by or in favour of the Commissioner
of Estate Duty and in force on the day immediately
preceding the date on which this Act comes into
operation shall on and after that date be deemed to
have been made or executed by or in favour of the
Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(6) Any notice of objection given under the
rincipal enactment to the Commissioner of Estate
uty and pending on the day immediately precedin,

the date on which this Act comes into operation shall
on and after that date be deemed to have been given
to the Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(7) Any appeal referred under the principal enact-
ment io the Supreme Court by the Commissioner of
Estate Duty and pending on the day immediately
preceding the date on which this Act comes into
operation shall on and after that date be deemed to
have been referred by the Commissioner of Inland
Revenue.

(8) Any act or proceeding commenced under the
principal enactment by the Commissioner of Estate
Duty and not completed before the date on which this
Act comes into operation may be completed by the
Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(9) Any notice, assessment, certificate or order
issued or made under the principal enactment by a
Deputy Commissioner of Estate Duty or an Assistant
Commissioner of Estate Duty before the date on which
this Act ‘comes into operation shall on and after that
date have effect as if it was issued or made by a Deputy
Commissioner of Inland Revenue or an Assistant
Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(10) Any act or proceeding commenced under the
principal enactment by a Deputy Commissioner of
Estate Duty or an Assistant Commissioner of Estate
Duty and not completed before the date on which this
Act comes into operation may be completed by a Deputy
Commissioner of Inland Revenue or an’ Assistant
Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(11) The reference to Commissioner of Estate Duty
in any written law shall, on or after the date on which
this Act comes into operation, be deemed to be &
reference to the Commissioner of Inland Revenue.
