PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 19, 2016.

[Certified on 17th February, 2016]

Printed on the Order of Government

LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 1 OF 2016

Local Authorities Elections(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 20161

2PL 0096402,950 (01/2016)

[Certified on 17th February, 2016]

L.D.O. 50/2015

AN ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 262)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Local AuthoritiesElections (Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2016.

2.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 27E of the Local AuthoritiesElections Ordinance (Chapter 262) (hereinafter referred to asthe principal enactment) and shall have effect as section27F of that enactment:

27F. (1) The total number of members of eachlocal authority as determined by the Ministerby Order made under subsection (1) of section5 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance (Chapter252), under subsection (1) of section 5 of theUrban Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255) orunder subsection (1) of section 4 of thePradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987 shall befurther increased by one third of such totalnumber of members :

Provided that, where the number constitutinga fourth of the total of the number of membersis an integer and fraction, the integer shall bedeemed to be the number which shall constitutea fourth of the total number of such members.

Short title.

Insertion of newsection 27F in(Chapter 262).

Increasingthe totalnumber ofmembers.

2Local Authorities Elections(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2016

(2) The number so increased undersubsection (1), as determined by the Ministerby Order made under section 3c of thisOrdinance shall form the list of womencandidates to be submitted by each recognizedpolitical party or any group of persons(hereinafter referred to as the independentgroup) contesting at the elections.

(3) The number so increased undersubsection (1) shall be published in the Gazetteby Order made by the Minister..

3.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words commencing from Any recognizedpolitical party and ending with the words settingout the names:-, of the following:-

Any recognized political party or any independentgroup shall, for the purpose of election as members ofany local authority and for the returning of womenmembers of such local authority, submit twonomination papers containing the lists of candidatesin respect of all wards of such local authority. One ofthe two nomination papers submitted by eachrecognized political party or independent group inrespect of all wards of any local authority shall consistof a list of names of candidates for the purpose ofelection as members of such local authority,substantially in the Form set out in the First Schedule,setting out the names:-;

(2) by the renumbering of subsections (2A), (2B) and(2C) of that section, respectively as (2C), (2D) and(2E) of that section;

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Local Authorities Elections(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 20163

(3) by the insertion of the following new subsection (2A)immediately after the proviso to subsection (2) ofthat section:-

(2A) The other nomination paper in respect of allwards of any local authority referred to in subsection(2) of this section shall consist of a list of names ofsuch number of women candidates ranked in order ofpriority.;

(4) by numbering the paragraph following the proviso tosubsection (2) as (2B) of that section.

4. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 65A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 65AA of that enactment:

65AA. In the apportionment, in accordancewith the order of priority of ranking, of thenumber of women members to be returned fromall the wards of such local authority area amongthe recognized political parties andindependent groups, as referred to in section28(2A), the Commissioner of Elections shalltake into consideration the number of validvotes polled by each recognized political partyand independent group in all the wards of suchlocal authority area, and the method ofapportionment set out in Article 99A of theConstitution of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka shall, mutatis mutandis,apply thereto:

Provided that, the Commissioner ofElections shall not require the Secretary of anyrecognized political party or group leader ofany independent group to make anynomination of persons in addition to the personsalready nominated under section 28 nor shallthe Secretary or group leader, as the case maybe, submit any list making any nomination..

Insertion of newsection 65AA inthe principalenactment.

Declartionof womenmembers tobe returned.

4Local Authorities Elections(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2016

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

5.Section 66 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words and figure returned under section 65A of thisOrdinance of the words and figures returned under section65A and section 65AA of this Ordinance..

6.Section 66A of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof as follows:

(a)in paragraph (b), of that subsection

(1) by the substitution for the words and figurereturned under section 65A of this of thewords and figures returned under section65A and 65AA of this;

(2) by the substitution for the wordsOrdinance to fill such vacancy. of thewords Ordinance to fill such vacancy; or;

(b)by the addition of the following new paragraphimmediately after paragraph (b) of thatsubsection:

(c)who is returned as a woman member under theprovisions of section 65AA of this Ordinance,declare returned within thirty days of theoccurrence of the vacancy, the womancandidate whose name appears next on thepriority ranking of the other nomination papersubmitted by the respective recognizedpolitical party or independent group, as thecase may be, in terms of subsection (2A) ofsection 28..

7.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment ofsection 66A ofthe principalenactment.

Amendmentsection 66 of theprincipalenactment.

Local Authorities Elections(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 20165

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.