Price : Rs. 42.75 Postage : Rs. 10.50

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

REGULATION OF INSURANCE INDUSTRYACT, No. 43 OF 2000

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 11, 2000

[Certified on 9th August, 2000]

Printed on the Order of Government

1Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

2H 0080365,575 (00/07)

[Certified on 9th August, 2000]

L.D.O. 84/93.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN INSURANCEBOARD FOR PURPOSE OF DEVELOPING, SUPERVISING AND REGULATING

THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY ; FOR THE REPEAL OF THE CONTROL OFINSURANCE ACT, NO. 25 OF 1962 ; AND FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Regulation of InsuranceIndustry Act, No. 43 of 2000 and shall come into operationon such date as the Minister may appoint by Order publishedin the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

ESTABLISHMENT AND CONSTITUTION OF THE INSURANCE BOARD

OF SRI LANKA

2. (1) There shall be established a board which shall becalled the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referredto as the Board) which shall be responsible for thedevelopment, supervision and regulation of the insuranceindustry in Sri Lanka.

(2) The Board shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

3.The object and responsibility of the Board shall be, toensure that insurance business in Sri Lanka is carried on withintegrity and in a professional and prudent manner with aview to safeguarding the interests of the policy-holders andpotential policy holders.

4. (1) The Board shall consist of the followingmembers :

(a)Deputy Secretary to the Treasury ;

Short title.

Establishment ofthe InsuranceBoard of SriLanka.

Object andresponsibility ofthe Board.

Constitution of theBoard.

2Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(b)a Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lankanominated by the Monetary Board ;

(c)the Director-General of the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka ;

(d)four members appointed by the Minister from amongpersons who have had academic or professionalqualifications and experience in the field ofinsurance, commerce, financial management,business management, economics, law or any otherrelated field (in this Act referred to as appointedmembers).

(2) The Minister shall nominate one of the members ofthe Board as the Chairman of the Board.

(3) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall haveeffect in relation to the term of office of the appointed membersits of the Board, remuneration payable to members of theBoard, meetings and the Seal of the Board.

5. For the purpose of fulfilling its object and responsibility,the Board may exercise, perform and discharge all or any ofthe following powers, duties and functions

(a)register as insurers persons carrying on insurancebusiness in Sri Lanka ;

(b)register persons as insurance brokers ;

(c)advise the Government on the development andregulation of the insurance industry ;

(d)implement the policies and programmes of theGovernment with respect to the insurance industry ;

(e)employ such officers and servants as may benecessary for the purpose of exercising, performingand discharging the powers, duties and functions ofthe Board ;

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Board.

3Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(f)acquire and hold any property, movable orimmovable and sell, lease, mortgage or otherwisedispose of the same ;

(g)enter into all such contracts as may be necessary forthe exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions ; and

(h)do all such other acts as may be necessary for thedue exercise, discharge and performance of itsspowers, duties and functions under this Act.

6. (1) The Board shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Board

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by Parliament for the use of the Board ;

(b)all such sums of money as may be paid as registrationfees under sections 14, 81 and 83 of this Act ;

(c)all such sums of money paid by insurers as an annualfee under section 16 of this Act ;

(d)all such sums of money as may be received by theBoard in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under this Act ;and

(e)all such sums of money as may be received by theBoard by way of loans, donations, gifts and grantsfrom any source whatsoever, whether in or outsideSri Lanka.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Board, allsuch sums of money required to defray the expenditureincurred by the Board, in the exercise of its powers, dischargeof its functions and performance of its duties.

Fund of theBoard.

4Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

7. (1) There shall be charged, levied and paid a cess atsuch rates as may be determined by the Minister withthe(concurrence of the Board from time to time by Orderpublished in the Gazette, on the annual net premium incomeof every insurer, so however that such rate shall not exceedone half per centum of such annual net premium income.

(2) Every Order made by the Minister under this sectionshall come into force on the date of its publication in theGazette or on such later date as may be specified therein, andshall be brought before Parliament for approval within fourmonths of the date of its publication. Any such Order whichis not so approved shall be deemed to be revoked from thedate of disapproval, but without prejudice to the validity ofanything previously done thereunder.

(3) The cess imposed under this section shall be in additionto any other tax or cess levied under any other written law.

(4) For the purpose of subsection (1) annual net premiumincome means the gross insurance premium income, lessreinsurance premium.

8. (1) The financial year of the Board shall be the calendaryear.

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to bekept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the Board.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of Public Corporationsshall apply to the audit of accounts of the Board.

9. (1) The Minister shall, in consultation with the Board,appoint a Director-General of the Board, who shall be its chiefexecutive officer. The conditions of employment includingremuneration of the Director-General, shall be determinedby the Minister.

Levy of Cess onnet premiumincome.

Financial year andaudit of accountsof the Board.

Director-General

5Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(2) The Director-General shall attend meetings of theBoard on being invited to do so by the Board, but shall not beentitled to vote at such meetings.

(3) The Director-General shall, subject to the generaldirection and control of the Board, be charged with thedirection of the affairs and transaction of all the business ofthe Board in the exercise, discharge and performance of itspowers, functions and duties, and the administration andcontrol of the officers and servants of the Board.

(4) The Director-General may, with the approval of theBoard, whenever he considers it necessary to do so, delegateto any officer or servant of the Board any power, function orduty conferred or imposed on or assigned to him by this Act,and such officer or servant shall exercise, discharge andperform such power, function or duty subject to the generalor special directions of the Director-General.

(5) The Minister may on the recommendation of theBoard, remove from office the Director-General appointedunder subsection (1), for reasons assigned therefor.

10. (1) The Board may appoint such officers and servantsas it considers necessary for the efficient discharge of itsfunctions.

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection(1), shall be remunerated in such manner and at such ratesand shall be subject to such conditions of service as may bedetermined by the Board.

(3) At the request of the Board, any officer in the publicservice may, with the consent of the officer and the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofPublic Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staffof the Board for such period as may be determined by theBoard with like consent, or with like consent be permanentlyappointed to such staff.

Staff of the Board.

6Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions of subsection(2) of section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act,No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and inrelation to, such officer.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Board, the provisions of subsection(3) of section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act,No 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and inrelation to, such officer.

(6) Where the Board employs any person who has agreedto serve the Government for a specified period, any period ofservice to the Board by that person shall be regarded as serviceto the Government for the purpose of discharging theobligations of that person under such agreement.

11. (1) At the request of the Board, any officer or servantof a public Corporation may, with consent of such officer orservant and the governing board of such Corporation, betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Board for such periodas may be determined by the Board with like consent, or withlike consent be permanently appointed to the staff of the Boardon such terms and conditions, including those relating topension or provident fund rights, as may be agreed upon bythe Board and the governing board of such Corporations.

(2) Where any person is appointed whether temporarilyor permanently under subsection (1) to the staff of the Board,he shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as anyofficer or servant of the Board.

PART II

REGISTRATION OF INSURERS

12. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, from andafter the appointed date, no person shall carry on insurancebusiness in Sri Lanka unless such person is for the time beingregistered or deemed to be registered under this Act to carryon such business.

Appointment ofofficers andservants of publiccorporations to thestaff of the Board.

Insurancebusiness to becarried on bycompaniesregistered underthis Act.

7Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(2) A registration under subsection (1) may be for generalinsurance business or for long term insurance business or forboth general and long term insurance business.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theprovisions of this Act shall not apply in respect of theAgricultural and Agrarian Insurance Board established by theAgricultural and Agrarian Insurance Act, No. 20 of 1999, theSri Lanka Export Credit Insurance Corporation establishedby the Sri Lanka Export Credit Insurance Corporation Act,No. 15 of 1978 and the Social Security Board established bythe Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996.

(4) A person registered under subsection (1) shall not carryon any form of business other than insurance business :

Provided that, a person may with the prior written approvalof the Board, carry on any financial services business whichis ancillary or associated with the insurance business for whicha registration is obtained under this Act.

13. (1) No person shall be registered to carry on, eitherone or both classes of insurance business in Sri Lanka, unlesssuch person

(a)is a public company incorporated in Sri Lanka andregistered under the Companies Act, No 17 of 1982 ;

(b)has a paid up share capital of not less than theprescribed amount ;

(c)pays as deposit to the Treasury such amount as maybe determined by the Board, by rules made in thatbehalf ;

(d)pay the prescribed fee ; and

(e)fulfil such other requirements as may be laid downby the Board by rules made in that behalf, for thepurpose of ensuring the proper conduct of insurersto safeguard the interests of the insured public andfor the development of the insurance industry.

Qualifications forregistration.

8Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(2) For the purpose of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) ofsubsection (1), different amounts may be prescribed fordifferent classes of insurance business.

14. (1) Every application for registration under section12, shall be made to the Board in such form as may be providedfor that purpose by the Board, and be accompanied by

(a)a statement in writing by the applicant that theprovisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection(1) of section 13 have been complied with, togetherwith a certificate issued by the Deputy Secretary tothe Treasury specifying the amount deposited underparagraph (c) of that subsection ;

(b)the fee prescribed in respect of the class of insurancebusiness in respect of which the application forregistration is being made ;

(c)a certified copy of the Memorandum and Articles ofAssociation of the company applying forregistration ;

(d)a certified copy of the certificate of incorporation ofthe company applying for registration ;

(e)a certified copy of the certificate to commencebusiness issued by the Registrar of Companies ;

(f)a statement setting out prescribed particulars relatingto

(i)the share holders of the company ;

(ii)the Directors of the company ; and

(iii)the officers referred to in sections 32, 46 and94 ;

Application forregistration.

9Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(g)a statement setting out the class, and where necessarythe sub-class of insurance business proposed to becarried on by the applicant ;

(h)a statement setting out the details of fulfillment ofrequirements, if any, that were laid down by theBoard under paragraph (e) of subsection (1) ofsection 13 ; and

(i)a scheme of work or business plan for a period ofthree years.

(2) Every application under this section shall be certifiedby a declaration signed by the person making the applicationthat the statement accompanying the application are true andaccurate. Every such declaration shall be free of stamp duty.

(3) The Board may conduct such investigations as it mayconsider necessary to verify the accuracy of any detailscontained in the application made under subsection (1), andto determine the suitability of the applicant to be registeredunder this Act as an insurer.

15. (1) Where the Board is satisfied that any companymaking an application for registration under section 14 hascomplied with the provision of section 13 of this Act, andwhere an investigation is conducted under subsection (3) ofsection 14, the Board is satisfied regarding the suitability ofthe applicant to be registered, the Board shall register suchcompany as an insurer and shall issue to the insurer a licencein which shall be specified the class, and where necessary thesub-class of insurance business, which such insurer isauthorized to carry on.

(2) The licence issued to an insurer under subsection (1)shall be kept at all times at the principal office or place ofbusiness of the insurer, and be made available for inspectionby any member of the Board, its Director-General or anyperson authorized by the Board for that purpose.

Registration andissue of licence.

10Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

16. (1) Every insurer shall pay to the Board as an annualfee, such sum of money as may be prescribed.

(2)The Board may prescribe different amounts as annualfee in respect of different classes of insurance business.

17.Whenever, after the registration of a company undersection 15, any alteration or change occurs or is made so as toaffect any of the document or particulars submitted with theapplication for registration under subsection (1) of section14, or were required to accompany the application forregistration, the insurer shall forthwith furnish to the Board afull authenticated statement of such alteration or change.

18. (1) The Board may cancel or suspend the registrationof an insurer, either wholly or in respect of a particular classor sub-class of insurance business, for any one or more of thefollowing reasons or grounds, namely, that the insurer:

(a)has not commenced business within twelve monthsafter being registered ;

(b)has ceased to carry on insurance business in respectof any class of business ;

(c)proposes to make or has made any composition orarrangement with its creditors or has gone intoliquidation or has been wound up or otherwisedissolved ;

(d)is carrying on its business in a manner likely to bedetrimental to the interests of its policy holders orto the development of the insurance industry or thenational interest ;

(e)is unable to meet its obligations ;

(f)has failed to maintain the solvency margin of suchamount as is determined by the Board undersection 26 ;

Alteration ofparticularssubmitted.

Cancellation orsuspension of alicence issued toan insurer.

Annual fee.

11Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(g)has contravened any provision of this Act or anyregulation or rule made thereunder or any conditionimposed or any direction given by the Board underthis Act ;

(h)has furnished false, misleading or inaccurateinformation, or has concealed or failed to disclosematerial facts, in its application for registration ;

(i)has ceased to be of good financial standing ;

(j)has since the grant of the licence, been disqualifiedfor the grant of licence ; or

(k)is found guilty of any malpractice or irregularity inthe management of his affairs.

(2) The Board may, for any one or more reasons or groundsspecified in subsection (1), and by notice sent in that behalf,suspend the registration granted to an insurer for a period notexceeding three weeks, without prejudice to such insurersresponsibility to meet its obligations under policies alreadyissued, and the insurer shall thereafter be prohibited fromissuing new insurance policies until the suspension isremoved.

(3) The notice referred to in subsection (2), shall specifythe period of suspension and the date before which the insureris required to show cause to the Board why such suspensionshould be removed.

(4) On receipt of an insurers response to the notice sentunder subsection (2), the Board may

(a)where an insurer shows sufficient cause why thesuspension should be removed, immediately removethe suspension ; or

(b)where the Board is not satisfied with the responseof the insurer, either extend the period of suspensionalready imposed, or cancel the registration, as thecase may be.

12Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(5) Where the Board decides under subsection (4) to cancelor suspend for a further period the registration of an insurer,it shall be its duty to forthwith inform the insurer of thecancellation or suspension as the case may be, and in the eventof an extension of a suspension for a further period, the Boardshall further inform the insurer

(a)of the period for which the suspension is beingextended ;

(b)of the action that needs to be taken to rectify orremove the reason or ground which caused theimposition of the suspension ; and

(c)the time within which the corrective measuresreferred to in paragraph (b) should be taken.

(6) Where a registration is cancelled or suspended undersubsection (4), it shall be the duty of the licence holder whoselicence is being cancelled or suspended as the case may be,to forthwith surrender the licence to the Board, and the Boardshall thereupon

(a)in the case of a cancellation of a registration, cancelthe licence ; or

(b)in the case of a suspension of a registration for aspecified period, make an endorsement to that effecton the face of the licence, and return the licence tothe holder thereof.

(7) Notwithstanding the provisions contained insubsections (1) and (2) of this section, the Board may in lieuof a cancellation or suspension on any one or more groundsreferred to in subsection (1), of a licence issued to an insurerunder this Act, and where the nature of the act or omissionreferred to therein and which is committed by such insurer isnot of such nature as to warrant a cancellation or suspensionof the licence, direct the insurer to take such measures as maybe determined by the Board, to

(a)prevent the continuance of such act or omission ;and

13Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

Appeals.

Appointment ofan administrator.

deposit to be paidto the Treasury.

(b)rectify and set a right any consequences resultingfrom such act or omission.

19.(1) An insurer who is aggrieved by a decision madeby the Board under section 18 may, within fourteen days ofbeing informed of such decision, appeal therefrom to the Courtof Appeal.

(2) The Court of Appeal may on appeal made under thissection, confirm, revise, modify or set aside the decisionagainst wich the appeal is made and may make such order asthe interests of justice may require.

20. (1) Where a licence issued to an insurer under thisAct is cancelled or suspended under subsection (4) of section18, and the Board is of the view that national and publicinterest requires that administration and management of theinsurance business of such insurer should be taken over byan administrator, the Board may inform the Minister of thatfact and the Minister may, by notice published in the Gazette,appoint an administrator to manage and administer suchbusiness under the direction and control of the Board, forsuch period as shall be specified in the notice. The period sospecified may, where necessary be extended in like mannerfrom time to time.

(2) The Board shall cause a copy of the notice to be servedon the Registrar of Companies, who shall be required to makean entry in the record maintained by such Registrar, relatingto such insurance company.

21. (1) Every company applying for registration as aninsurer under this Act, shall keep deposited with the DeputySecretary to the Treasury, for and on behalf of the Governmentof Sri Lanka, such sum of money as is determined by theBoard under paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section 13 ofthis Act.

14Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(2) A deposit made under subsection (1) may consist ofcash or of Government securities or of Governmentguaranteed securities, and the value of any securities sodeposited shall be taken to be their market value at the dateof deposit.

(3) A deposit made in cash shall be held by the DeputySecretary to the Treasury to the credit of the insurer, and shallbe returnable to the insurer in cash in the circumstances andin the manner in which under the provisions of this Act sucha deposit may be returned, and any interest accruing due onsecurities deposited under this section by any insurer shall,when it is collected, be paid by the Deputy Secretary to theTreasury to the insurer.

(4) An insurer may at any time substitute for the securitiesdeposited with the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury underthis section, other Government securities or Governmentguaranteed securities of equal value assessed at the marketrate prevailing at the time of substitution, and the DeputySecretary to the Treasury shall, on the written application ofany insurer who has made a deposit, invest in Governmentsecurities or Government guaranteed securities the whole orany part of the cash received by the Deputy Secretary to theTreasury on the redemption of any securities deposited bythe insurer under this Act.

(5) The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury shall, if sorequested by the insurer, sell any securities deposited withhim and either hold the cash realized by such sale as depositor invest in such Government securities or governmentguaranteed securities as may be specified by the insurer, thewhole or any part of the cash received by him and hold thesecurities in which the investment is so made as deposit.

22.The deposit made by an insurer shall be deemed tobe part of the assets of the insurer, but shall not

(a)be capable of being transferred or assigned or ofbeing encumbered with any mortgage or other chargeby the insurer or be liable to seizure in execution ofany decree ; or

Reservation ofdeposits.

15Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(b)be available for the discharge of any liability of theinsurer, except for the discharge in the event of thewinding up of the insurer, of liabilities arising out ofpolicies of insurance business issued by the insurerand remaining undischarged.

23.Where the Board is satisfied that an insurer has ceasedto carry on any class of insurance business and its liabilitiesin respect of that class have been satisfied or otherwiseprovided for, the deposit in respect of that class of insurancebusiness shall be refunded on expiry of two years from thedate of issue of the last policy of insurance of that class, issuedby the insurer.

24.Every insurer who carries on general insurancebusiness, whether solely or in addition to long term insurancebusiness, shall establish and maintain adequate technicalreserves :

Provided that where the Board is of the view that thetechnical reserve being maintained by the insurer is inadequateto meet its liabilities the Board shall have the power to requiresuch insurer to increase or enhance its technical reserve.

25. (1) Not less than twenty per centum of the assets ofthe technical reserve being maintained for a general insurancebusiness under section 24 and not less than thirty per centumof the assets for the Long Term Insurance Fund beingmaintained under subsection (1) of section 38, shall be in theform of Government Securities. The balance assets shall bein the form of such other investments as shall be determinedby the Board.

(2) The Board shall have the power, where it considersany investment of any assets in any reserve or Fund referredto in subsection (1) of this section is unsuitable, to issuedirections for the disposal of such investment within suchtime as may be specified in such directions.

Generalprovisions relatingto Reserve andFund beingmaintained by aninsurer.

Maintaining atechnical reserve.

Return ofdeposits.

16Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(3) Assets of a reserve or Fund being maintained by aninsurer under this Act, and all other assets of such insurershall be kept in Sri Lanka, unless otherwise permitted by theBoard on application being made in that behalf by an insurer.Guidelines for the granting of permission by the Board shallbe as prescribed.

26. (1) Every insurer shall maintain in respect of eachclass of insurance business, a solvency margin of such amountas may be determined by the Board in respect of that class ofinsurance business, by rules made in that behalf.

(2) Rules may be made by the Board to provide for thedetermination of the value of the assets and their admissibilityand the amount of the liabilities for the purpose of determiningthe solvency margin to be maintained in respect of the classof insurance business being carried on by any such insurer.

(3) For purpose of ensuring the avoidance of mismatchingof assets as against liabilities by insurers, the Board may, fromtime to time by rules made in that behalf, lay down criteria tobe made applicable in determining the minimum limits oftheir assets as against their liabilities.

PART III

GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO INSURERS

27.Where an insurer carries on business of one or moreclasses of insurance business, such insurer shall keep separateaccounts of all receipts and payments in respect of each classof insurance business and also maintain separate accounts inrespect of each sub-class of general insurance business it iscarrying on.

28.Every insurer shall, in respect of all insurancebusiness transacted by such insurer, keep and maintain

(a)a register or record of policies, in which shall be

Register ofpolicies andregister of claims.

Separation ofaccounts andassets.

Solvency margin.

17Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

entered in respect of every policy issued by theinsurer, the name and address of the policy holder,the date when the policy was effected, and particularsof any transfer, assignment or nomination of whichthe insurer has notice ; and

(b)a register or record of claims in which shall beentered every claim presented to the insurer, togetherwith the date of the claim and the name and addressof the claimant, the date of settlement of the claim,and where a claim is repudiated the date ofrepudiation and the grounds therefor.

29. (1) No insurer shall grant to any person who holdsthe position of a director of such insurer, or to any companyin which such a person holds any such position, any loan,other than a loan on a mortgage of a policy of life assuranceissued by that insurer, except with the prior approval of theBoard which shall grant such approval only if it is satisfiedthat sufficient security is being given for the repayment ofthe loan.

(2) Where a loan has been granted by the insurer to adirector of such insurer or to any company in which suchperson is a director, on the mortgage of a policy of lifeassurance and such loan is outstanding on the appointed date,the Board shall have the power, notwithstanding anything tothe contrary in any agreement or contract, to examine theadequacy of the security given by such person for therepayment of the loan and, if the Board considers it necessaryto do so, to require that the loan be repaid or that additionalsecurity be given, on or before a specified date. If such personfails to repay the loan, or to give additional security, on orbefore the specified date, he shall, on the expiry of a periodof one year from that date, cease to hold office as a directorof such insurer.

30.None of the assets of any insurer shall be keptotherwise than in the name of the insurer.

Assets of insurerto be kept in thename of theinsurer.

Prohibition ofloans.

18Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

Reinsurance.31. (1) An insurer may, subject to such terms andconditions that may be specified by the Board in order toensure that the interests of policy holders and the insurers areadequately safeguarded, reinsure with any other insurer in oroutside Sri Lanka, any liability arising out of any contract orpolicy of insurance, effected or issued by the first-mentionedinsurer.

(2) The Board may by a notice in writing, require anyinsurer carrying on reinsurance to furnish such informationas it may deem necessary to ascertain whether such insurerhas the necessary funds to satisfy any claim that may be madeon such insurer to comply with the requirements of suchnotice.

(3) The Board may from time to time, by Notificationpublished in the Gazette, prohibit all insurers, from reinsuringwith any specified reinsurer in or outside Sri Lanka, risksupon policies or contracts of insurance issued or effected inrespect of insurance business transacted in Sri Lanka, whereany such arrangement with that reinsurer is detrimental tothe national interest :

Provided however, that before issuing any Notificationunder this subsection, the Board shall inform the insurer orinsurers who is or are carrying on reinsurance business withsuch specified reinsurer in or outside Sri Lanka, of its intentionto issue such Notification, and shall consider anyrepresentations made by such insurer or insurers, withreference to its proposed decision.

32. (1) Every insurer carrying on insurance business shallemploy as a specified officer, at least one person possessingthe qualification of Associate of the Chartered InsuranceInstitute, or an equivalent qualification acceptable to theBoard, and having at least five years post qualificationexperience, at managerial level.

Staff of insurercarrying oninsurancebusiness.

19Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(2) A person employed as a specified officer may alsofunction as the principal officer of the insurer, provided suchofficer possesses the qualifications of a principal officer asdetermined by the Board under section 94.

33.No

(a)insurer or the holding or associate or subsidiarycompany of an insurer; or

(b)director, principal officer or specified officer of aninsurer or the director or chief executive officer of aholding or associate or subsidiary company of aninsurer ;

shall be a shareholder, director or employee of a companyregistered as a broker under this Act:

Provided that where an insurer or any such person as isreferred to in this section is a shareholder, director or employeeof any company registered as a broker under this Act as on thedate of registration, such insurer or person shall be required todispose of such shares, or to relinquish such directorships oremployment, as the case may be, within such period as may bedetermined by the Board.

34.No insurer shall accept any insurance business exceptfrom

(a)any person who has an insurable interest in thesubject matter of insurance ;

(b)another insurer in respect of reinsurance ;

(c)an insurance agent ; or

(d)an insurance broker registered under this Act.

Prohibition onholding shares&c. in a brokeringcompany by aninsurer.

Persons fromwhom insurer mayaccept insurancebusiness.

20Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

35.An insurer shall not be liable to pay any amount dueunder any contract or policy of insurance effected or issuedby such insurer in respect of insurance business other thanlife assurance business, unless

(a)the full premia due under such contract or policy onthe date on which such amount becomes payable,has been paid ; or

(b)a bank guarantee for the payment of such premiahas been furnished by the insured or broker on thedate on which such amount became payable and theinsured or broker pays such premia within suchperiod of time as may be determined by the Board.

36. (1) The Board may from time to time, where it is ofthe view that policy holders are being adversely affected byany tariff limits set by insurers, fix the minimum tariff formotor, fire and employers liability, to be charged by suchinsurers in respect of policies of insurance to be issued bythem, and also may fix the maximum tariff for motor insurancebusiness.

(2) No insurer shall accept as under a contract or policyof insurance effected or issued by it in respect of such sub-class of insurance as is referred to in subsection (1), an amountwhich is

(a)less than the minimum rate that may be fixed inrespect of motor, fire and employers liability undersubsection (1) ; or

(b)higher than the maximum rate that may be fixed inrespect of motor insurance under subsection (1).

37. (1) The Board may by notice in writing, require anyinsurer to furnish to it copies of policy forms issued by suchinsurer, for purpose of examining whether the interests ofpolicy holders are being adequately safeguarded, and it shallbe the duty of such insurer to comply with such notice.

Liability ofinsurer underpolicies of generalinsurance.

power of Board tofix rates of tariffsin respect ofcertain sub-classof insurance.

Policy forms.

21Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(2) The Board may having regard to the need to ensurethat the terms of the contract of insurance covered by suchpolicy form are fair and equitable, direct amendments to anypolicy form furnished to the Board under subsection (1), andit shall be the duty of the insurer furnishing such forms togive effect to such amendments.

(3) No information acquired under this section by anymember of the Board or any officer or servant thereof, shallbe disclosed or used by such person, except when required todo so by a court of law, or for the purpose of exercising,performing and discharging the powers, duties and functionsof the Board.

PART IV

LONG TERM INSURANCE BUSINESS

38. (1) Every insurer who carries on long term insurancebusiness, whether solely or in addition to general insurancebusiness, shall

(a)maintain a separate fund to be called the Long TermInsurance Fund and shall credit all money receivedin respect of the long term insurance business carriedon by such insurer, to that Fund ; and

(b)keep the assets in respect of the long term insurancebusiness separate from the assets in respect of anyother class of insurance business.

(2) The Long Term Insurance Fund maintained by aninsurer under subsection (1), shall not be liable for anycontracts of the insurer for which it would not have been liablehad the business of the insurer been only that of long terminsurance business, and shall not be applied directly orindirectly for any purposes other than those of the long terminsurance business carried on by that insurer.

Duty of insurercarrying on longterm insurancebusiness tomaintain aseparate fund andkeep assetsrelating to suchbusiness separatefrom assetsrelating to anyother business.

22Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(3) For the purpose of verifying whether an insurercomplies with the provisions of subsection (1), the Boardmay

(a)call upon such insurer to furnish from time to time areturn in such form as may be prescribed ;

(b)authorize an officer in writing to enter at allreasonable hours the place at which such insurer iscarrying on long term insurance business andexamine any books, registers or documents of suchinsurer relating to such business, and such insurershall furnish such return or permit such officer toenter such place and make such examination.

(4) Where, following an actuarial investigation into thefinancial affairs of an insurer transacting long term insurancebusiness under subsection (1) of section 48, there is anestablished surplus in respect of participating policies whichthe actuary has recommended as being available fordistribution, the insurer shall not transfer or otherwise applyassets representing any part of that surplus, unless the insurerhas allocated for the payment of bonuses to holders ofparticipating policies at least ninety per centum of that surplus.

39. (1) A transfer or an assignment of a policy of longterm insurance business, whether with or withoutconsideration, may be made only by an endorsement uponthe policy itself or by a separate instrument signed in eithercase by the transferor or by the assignor or his duly authorizedagent, and attested by at least one witness, and specificallysetting forth the fact of transfer or assignment.

(2) No transfer or assignment of a policy of long terminsurance business shall be of any effect as against the insurer,unless it is made in accordance with subsection (1), and untila notice in writing of the transfer or assignment, together withthe instrument or endorsement or a copy thereof which iscertified by or on behalf of the parties to the transfer orassignment to be correct, is served on the insurer at its principalplace of business in Sri Lanka.

Assignment ortransfer of longterm insurancebusiness policies.

23Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(3) The date on which the notice referred to in subsection(2) is served on the insurer, shall regulate the priority of allclaims under a transfer or an assignment of a policy of longterm insurance business as between persons interested in thepolicy, and where there is more than one instrument of transferor assignment, the priority of the claims under suchinstruments shall be governed by the order in which the noticesreferred to in subsection (2) are served.

(4) Upon the receipt of the notice referred to in subsection(2), the insurer shall record the fact of such transfer orassignment together with the date thereof and the name ofthe transferee or the assignee, and shall on the request of theperson by whom the notice was given, or of the transferee orassignee, grant a written acknowledgment of the receipt ofsuch notice, and any such acknowledgment shall be conclusiveevidence against the insurer that such insurer has duly receivedthe notice to which such acknowledgment relates.

(5) Subject to the terms and conditions of the transfer orassignment, the insurer shall, from the date of the receipt ofthe notice referred to in subsection (2), recognize the transfereeor assignee named in the notice as the only person entitled tobenefit under the policy, and such person shall be subject toall liabilities and equities to which the transferor or assignorwas subject at the date of the transfer or assignment, and mayinstitute any proceedings in relation to the policy withoutobtaining the consent of the transferor or assignor or makinghim a party to such proceedings.

(6) Any rights and remedies of an assignee or transfereeof a policy of long term insurance business under anassignment or transfer effected prior to the appointed date,shall not be affected by the provisions of this section.

(7) Notwithstanding any law or custom having the forceof law to the contrary, an assignment in favour of a personmade with the condition that the interest shall pass to someother person on the happening of a specified event during thelifetime of the person whose life is insured, and an assignmentin favour of survivor or survivors of a number of persons,shall be valid.

24Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

40. (1) Where, in terms of a policy of long term insurancebusiness, the policy is to mature upon survival to a fixed dateor on the death of such person, and the policy is subject topayment of premia at an uniform rate for a fixed term or wherethe death occurs before the expiry of such fixed term, untilthe date of such death, and all premia have been paid for threeconsecutive years, the policy shall be deemed to acquire asurrender value, and, notwithstanding any contract to thecontrary, shall not lapse by reason of non-payment of furtherpremium, but shall, notwithstanding such non-payment, bekept in force to the extent of its paid-up value.

For the purpose of this subsection, the method to be usedto calculate surrender values and paid-up values, shall becertified by an actuary.

(2) Where a debt owing to an insurer is secured by a policyof long term insurance business issued by the insurer and,under subsection (1), the policy is kept alive to the extent ofits paid-up value, the insurer

(a)may treat the debt as a debt secured by the policy sokept alive, and thereupon the policy so kept aliveshall be a security for the debt ; or

(b)may reduce the amount of such paid-up value by anamount the present value of which is equal to theamount of the debt, and thereupon the debt shallcease to be owing to the insurer.

(3) This section shall not apply in any case where

(a)the sum assured is payable only on the happening ofa contingency which may not arise ;

(b)the paid-up value of the policy is less than suchamount as is determined by the Board from time totime ;

(c)after default has occurred in the payment of thepremium, the parties agree in writing to some otherarrangement ; or

Acquisition ofsurrender value bypolicy.

25Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(d)the surrender value of the policy is automaticallyapplied under the terms of the contract formaintaining the policy in force notwithstanding thenon-payment of premia.

41.No policy of long term insurance business shall afterthe expiry of two years from the date of the issue of the policy,be called in question by any insurer on the ground that astatement made in the proposal or other document on the faithof which the policy was issued or reinstated, or in any reportof a medical officer or referee, was inaccurate or false, unlessthe insurer shows that such a statement was made on a materialmatter or suppressed facts which it was material to disclose,and that it was fraudulently made by the policy holder andthat the policy holder knew at the time of making it that thestatement was false or that it suppressed facts it was materialto disclose :

Provided that, nothing in this section shall prevent theinsurer from calling for proof of age at any time, if it is entitledto do so under the policy conditions, and no policy shall bedeemed to have been called in question merely because theterms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that theage of the life insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal.

42. (1) Where any premium in respect of a policy of longterm insurance business is not paid on the date on which it ispayable, notice of the options available to the policy holdershall be given to him by the insurer before the expiry of aperiod of three months from the said date, unless such optionsare set out in the policy, and no further notice of the optionsavailable shall be given thereafter to the policy holder.

(2) Every notice under subsection (1) shall be deemed tohave been duly given to the policy holder if it is sent to himto such address as may be specified in the policy or, wherethe address is not so specified, to the address to which arenewal premium notice or receipt was last sent by the insurerto the policy holder.

Policy not to becalled in questionon the ground ofmisstatement aftertwo years.

Supply of noticeof options &c.

26Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(3) Upon application made to an insurer in that behalf,the insurer shall supply to the policy holder or to his legalrepresentative or to an assignee of the policy, a certified copyof the proposal for the policy and of the personal statementmade to the medical officer by the proposer, unless copiesthereof are attached to the policy.

43. (1) The holder of a policy of long term insurancebusiness may, when effecting the policy or at any time beforethe policy matures for payment, nominate the person orpersons to whom the money secured by the policy shall bepaid in the event of his death :

Provided that, where any nominee is a minor, it shall belawful for the policy holder to appoint in the prescribedmanner any person on behalf of the minor, who may receivethe money secured by the policy, in the event of his deathduring the minority of the nominee.

(2) A nomination under subsection (1) shall, unless it isincorporated in the text of the policy itself, be made by anendorsement on the policy and such endorsement shall bynotice in writing be communicated to the insurer who shallregister such endorsement in the record or register relating tothat policy. Any such nomination may at any time before thepolicy matures for payment be cancelled or changed byanother endorsement or by a will of the policy holder, as thecase may be, and unless notice in writing of any suchcancellation or change has been given by the policy holder tothe insurer, the insurer shall not be liable for any paymentunder the policy made bona fide by him to a nomineementioned in the text of the policy, or registered in records ofthe insurer.

(3) The insurer shall furnish to the policy holder a writtenacknowledgment of having registered a nomination or of anycancellation or change thereof.

Power of policyholder tonominate personor persons towhom the moneysecured by thepolicy shall bepaid.

27Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(4) A transfer or assignment of a policy made in accordancewith section 39 shall have the effect of canceling a nomination :

Provided that, the assignment of a policy to an insurer whobears the risk on the policy at the time of the assignment, inconsideration of a loan granted by that insurer on the securityof the policy within its surrender value, or its reassignment onrepayment of the loan, shall not effect a cancellation of anomination, but shall affect the rights of the nominee only tothe extent of the insurers interest in the policy.

(5) Where the policy matures for payment during thelifetime of the person whose life is assured or where thenominee, or if there are more nominees than one, all thenominees, die before the policy matures for payment, theamount secured by the policy shall be payable to the policyholder or his heirs or legal representatives, as the case may be.

(6) Where the nominee, or if there are more nominees thanone, one or more of such nominees survive the person whoselife is assured, the amount secured by the policy shall be payableto such survivor or survivors.

44.No insurer who carries on long term insurance businessshall, for the purpose of declaring or paying any dividend toshareholders or any bonus to its policy holders, or of makingany payment in service of any debentures, loans or advanceson account, utilize directly or indirectly any portion of the LongTerm Insurance Fund or of the funds of such other class ofinsurance business, except a surplus shown in the valuationbalance sheet submitted to the Board as part of the abstractreferred to in section 48 as a result of an actuarial valuation ofthe assets and liabilities of the insurer ; and such surplus shallnot be increased by contributions out of any reserve fund orotherwise, unless such contributions have been brought in asrevenue through the revenue account applicable to long termbusiness on or before the date of the valuation aforesaid, exceptwhen the reserve fund is made up solely of transfers fromsimilar surpluses disclosed by valuation in respect of whichreturns have been submitted to the Board under section 49 ofthis Act.

Restrictions ondividends andbonuses.

28Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

45.Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act tothe contrary, an insurer shall be at liberty to declare on therecommendation of an actuary made at the last precedingvaluation, an interim bonus or bonuses to long term insurancebusiness policy holders, whose policies mature for paymentby reason of death or otherwise, during the inter-valuation ofperiod.

46.Every insurer carrying on long term insurancebusiness shall employ or retain on a permanent basis, anactuary.

PART V

ACCOUNTS, INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION

47. (1) An insurer shall prepare and maintain its accountsin such form and manner as may be determined by the Boardby rules made in that behalf.

(2) Every insurer shall have its annual accounts auditedby an auditor selected from and out of a list of approvedauditors that shall be issued by the Board, and shall submit acopy of such audited accounts to the Board within such periodafter the close of the financial year as the Board maydetermine. The auditor shall state in his report whether theaccounting records of the insurer have been maintained inthe manner required by the rules made by the Board in thatbehalf, so as to clearly indicate the true and fair view of thefinancial position of the insurer.

(3) The Board may on receipt of the auditors report callupon the auditor to submit

(a)information regarding the format and contents of theaudited accounts ; and

(b)any other additional information relating to the auditas the Board may consider necessary.

Insurer carryingon long terminsurance businessto appoint anactuary.

Declaration ofinterim bonus.

Audit of accountsof an insurer.

29Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

48. (1) Every insurer shall, in respect of all long terminsurance business transacted by the insurer, cause aninvestigation to be made by an actuary at the end of eachfinancial year into the financial condition of such long terminsurance business, including a valuation of its assets andliabilities in respect of that business, and shall cause an abstractto be made in accordance with rules made in that behalf bythe Board within such period after the close of the financialyear as the Board may determine. The actuary shall certifywhether the reserves of the insurer are adequate to meet allliabilities current and contingent of its policy holders anddetermine the surplus, and shall recommend the quantum ofbonus that may be paid to policy holders. The actuary shallalso recommend the surplus that is available for transfer tothe shareholders of the insurer.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) regarding the makingof an abstract shall apply whenever at any other time, aninvestigation into the financial condition of the insurer is madewith a view to the distribution of surplus, or an investigationis made the results of which are made public.

(3) A copy of an abstract made under subsection (1) shallbe submitted to the Board, and the Board shall have power tocall for any additional information and documents relating tothe actuarial valuation.

(4) there shall be appended to every abstract required bysubsection (1) or subsection (2), a certificate signed by thedirector or principal officer of the insurer, that full and accurateparticulars of every policy under which there is a liabilityeither actual or contingent, have been furnished to the actuaryfor the purposes of the investigation.

(5) There shall be appended to every abstract required bysubsection (1) or subsection (2) a statement of the long terminsurance business subsisting at the date to which the accountsof the insurer are made up, for the purposes of such abstract.

Actuarial reportand abstract.

30Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(6) Where an investigation into the financial condition ofan insurer is made at a date other than the last date of the yearof account, the accounts for the period elapsing after the endof the preceding year of account, and the balance sheet as atthe date at which investigation is made, shall be prepared andaudited in the manner provided for in this Act.

49. Every insurer shall furnish to the Board

(a)a certified copy of the report relating to the businessof the insurer submitted to the shareholders of thecompany, or the policy holders of the insurer,immediately after it is so submitted ; and

(b)a quarterly return containing such information asmay be determined by the Board by rules made inthat behalf.

50. (1) Every insurer shall from time to time furnish theBoard with certified copies of its reinsurance treaties(including treaties which are revised), contracts andarrangements relating to any class of insurance businesstransacted by such insurer in Sri Lanka :

Provided that certified copies of such reinsurance treaties,contracts and arrangements as are in force on the appointeddate, shall be furnished not later than three months after theappointed date.

(2) The Board shall have the power to review allreinsurance treaties, contracts and arrangements furnished toit under subsection (1), for the purpose of determining whethersuch treaty, contract or arrangement is in any way detrimental,to the interest of the insurer, the insured or to the developmentof the insurance industry or to the national interest. Wherethe Board is of the view that the interests of the insurers andthe public are not adequately safeguarded, the Board shallhave the power to recommend any amendments that itconsiders necessary for the development of the insuranceindustry.

Furnishing copiesof reinsurancetreaties.

Furnishing ofreports.

31Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(3) Where any recommendations are made foramendments, it shall be the duty of the insurer to make thenecessary amendments to such treaty, contract or arrangementas the case may be, when such treaty, contract or arrangementcomes up for renewal.

51. (1) If it appears to the Board that any return furnishedto it under the provisions of this Act is inaccurate or defectivein any respect, it may

(a)require from the insurer such further information,certified if the Board so directs by such auditor oractuary as it may consider necessary, to correct orsupplement such return ;

(b)call upon the insurer to submit for its examinationat the registered office or the principal place ofbusiness of the insurer, any book of account, register,or other document or to supply any statement whichit may specify in a notice served on the insurer forthe purpose ;

(c)examine any officer of the insurer on oath oraffirmation in relation to the return ; or

(d)decline to accept such return unless such furtherinformation as may be required by the Board isfurnished before the expiry of one month from thedate on which the requisition asking for such furtherinformation was delivered to the insurer, or of suchfurther time as the Board may specify in therequisition.

(2) A District Court may, on the application of an insurerand after hearing the Board, direct the acceptance of any returnwhich the Board has declined to accept, if the insurer satisfiesthe Court that the action of the Board was in the circumstancesunreasonable :

Provided that, no application under this subsection shallbe entertained by the District Court, unless it is made beforethe expiration of two months after the date on which the Boardmade the order or declined to accept the return.

Powers of Boardregarding returns.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200032

(3) The decision of the District Court in any applicationunder this section shall be final and shall not be subject toany appeal.

(4) An application to the District Court under this sectionshall be made by petition in the way of summary procedure,and the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code relating tosuch procedure shall apply to and in regard to the same.

52. (1) If it appears to the Board that an investigation orvaluation made under section 48 does not properly indicatethe condition of the affairs of the insurer by reason of whatappears to it to be a faulty basis adopted in the valuation, theBoard may after giving the insurer reasonable notice and anopportunity of being heard, cause an investigation andvaluation as at such date as it may specify, to be made at theexpense of the insurer, by an actuary appointed by the insurerfor that purpose and approved by the Board, and the insurershall place at the disposal of such actuary, all the materialrequired by such actuary for the purposes of the investigationand valuation within such period, not being less than threemonths, as the Board may specify.

(2) The provisions of subsections (1) and (4) of section48 relating to the making of abstracts shall apply in relationto any investigation and valuation to be made under thissection :

Provided that, the abstract prepared as the result of suchinvestigation and valuation shall be furnished on or beforesuch date as the Board may specify.

53.Where upon examination of the returns andreinsurance treaties, contracts and arrangements furnished byany insurer, it appears to the Board that the deposit made bythe insurer under section 21 or that the amount of the assetsin respect of insurance business of the insurer is inordinatelylow in relation to the volume of insurance business transactedby the insurer, the Board may, after giving the insurer anopportunity of being heard, order the insurer to make an

Power of theBoard to increasedeposit.

Power of theBoard to orderre-valuation.

33Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

additional deposit under the provisions of subsections (2),(3), (4) and (5) of section 21 and the provisions of section 22and section 23 shall apply to such additional deposit :

Provided however, where the insurer establishes to thesatisfaction of the Board that the assets of such insurer in SriLanka are adequate to meet the outstanding claims andunexpired risks in respect of the insurance business transactedin Sri Lanka by such insurer, the amount of such additionaldeposit, together with any deposit made under section 21,shall not exceed the solvency margin as determined by theBoard under section 26.

54. (1) Where the Board has reason to believe

(a)that the interests of the policy holders of an insurerare in danger ; or

(b)that any insurer is unable to meet its obligations orhas made default in complying with any of theprovisions of this Act,

the Board may, after giving the insurer reasonable noticeand an opportunity of being heard, order an investigationof the affairs of the insurer to be made on behalf of theBoard by an auditor or an actuary or by both an auditorand an actuary appointed simultaneously or first an auditoronly or an actuary only and afterwards by an actuary orauditor, or may itself make such investigation :

Provided that, an auditor or actuary appointed for thepurpose by the Board shall not be an auditor or actuary in theemployment of the insurer.

(2) The cost and expenses of any investigation undersubsection (1) shall be paid for by the insurer.

(3) In carrying out an investigation under this section, theBoard may, by notice in writing require

(a)the insurer, or any person having the custody ofbooks of accounts, records or other documents onbehalf of the insurer ;

Power to orderinvestigation.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200034

(b)any person who is or has at any time been or actedas a director, actuary, auditor, an officer or servantor agent of the insurer ; or

(c)any past or present member or policy holder of theinsurer,

to produce for its inspection and allow it to copy, the wholeor any part of any books, accounts, records or otherdocuments of the insurer, including documents evidencingthe insurers title to assets held for the purposes of suchbusiness :

Provided that, a requirement under this subsection shallextend only to documents relating to business carried on bythe insurer evidencing the insurers title to assets held for thepurposes of any such business.

(4) In making an investigation under this section, theBoard may require any such individual as is specified insubsection (3), to attend before it and be examined on oathwith respect to the insurers business, and for the purpose ofthis section, it may administer oaths.

(5) Any person who refuses or fails when required to doso under subsection (3) or (4) to produce any document in hisor her custody or to attend for or submit for examination bythe Board or any person appointed by it, or to answer anyquestion put to him or her on such examination, shall be guiltyof an offence and shall on conviction after summary trialbefore a Magistrate be liable to a fine not less than fiftythousand rupees.

(6) The results of any investigation made under this sectionshall be recorded in writing by the auditor or actuaryappointed, as the case may be, and copies of the record shallbe supplied to the Board and to the insurer.

55.When any investigation in respect of an insurer ismade under section 54, the provision of section 162 of theCompanies Act, No. 1 of 1982, shall apply for the purposesof such investigation, as they apply to an investigation made

Powers ofInvestigator.

35Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

in pursuance of that section of that Act, and all expenses ofand incidental to such investigation shall be defrayed by theinsurer and shall have priority over other debts due from theinsurer.

56.Every insurer shall furnish to the Board such furtherreturns or abstracts or amended or substituted returns orabstracts as may be determined by the Board by rules madein that behalf.

57. (1) Where the Board is satisfied that the affairs ofany insurer are being conducted in a manner likely to bedetrimental to the public or national interest or the interest ofthe policy holders or prejudicial to the interests of the insurer,the Board may issue such directions to the insurer as it mayconsider necessary, and in particular may require theinsurer

(a)to take such action or recruit such managementpersonnel as may be necessary to enable it to conductits business in accordance with sound insuranceprinciples ;

(b)to remove any of its directors or any person whomthe Board considers unfit to be associated with it ;

(c)to take action as to the disposition or recovery ofany of its assets ;

(d)to take steps for the recovery by the insurer of sumsappearing to the Board to have been illegally orimproperly paid ; and

(e)to make such arrangements with respect toreinsurance as the Board considers necessary.

(2) The Board may, upon representations being made toit, or on its own motion, modify or cancel any directions issuedunder subsection (1) and in so doing, may impose suchconditions as it thinks fit.

Further returnsand abstracts.

Power of Board toissue directions.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200036

Evidence ofdocuments.

Summary ofreturns to bepublished.

(3) Any insurer who fails to comply with any directionissued to it under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act, and shall be liable on conviction after summarytrial before a Magistrate to a fine not less than fifty thousandrupees.

(4) Where upon a conviction under subsection (3) aninsurer continues to fail to comply with a direction issued,the Board shall have the power to suspend the registrationgranted for a period to be specified by the Board, and theprovisions of subsection (2) of section 18 shall apply in respectof such insurer, during that period of suspension.

PART VI

PUBLICITY

58. (1) Every return furnished to the Board under this Actor a certified copy thereof shall be kept at the office of theBoard, and shall be open for inspection by any person withthe approval of the Board at such hours as it may specify,except such information which in the opinion of the Board isconfidential, which shall not be open for inspection by anyperson.

(2) A person may obtain a copy of any return or any partthereof, (other than confidential information) on payment ofsuch fee as is determined by the Board by rules made in thatbehalf.

59.Every document purporting to be certified by theBoard to be a copy of a return furnished to it, shall be deemedto be a copy of that return and shall be received in evidenceas if it were the original return, unless some variation betweenit and the original return is proved.

60. The Board shall publish in each year, in such manneras the Minister may direct, a summary of the accounts, balancesheets, statements, abstracts and other returns furnished orpurporting to be furnished under this Act, to the Board by

Custody andinspection ofdocuments.

37Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

Returns to besubmitted in aprescribed form.

Whenadministrator maybe appointed.

insurers and brokers, and may append to such summary anynote made by the Board thereon and any correspondence inrelation thereto :

Provided, however, that no reference shall be made in anysuch note to any matter affecting any particular insurer, unlessthe insurer has been afforded an opportunity to makerepresentations against the inclusion of such reference in thenote.

61.Every return submitted by an insurer shall be in theprescribed form, and may be published in that same form :

Provided that, nothing contained in this section shallprevent an insurer from publishing a true and accurate abstractfrom such returns, for the purpose of publicity.

PART VII

MANAGEMENT BY ADMINISTRATION AND WINDING UP

62. (1) If at any time the Board has from informationavailable to it from any source whatsoever, reason to believethat an insurer who is carrying on long term insurance businessor general insurance business or long term insurance businessand general insurence business, has acted in a mannerprejudicial to the interests of holders of insurance policies oris acting in a manner likely to be prejudicial to the interestsof holders of insurance policies, it may, after giving suchopportunity to the insurer of being heard as it thinks fit, makea report thereon to the Minister.

(2) The Minister, if he is of opinion after considering thereport that it is necessary and proper to do so, may appoint anadministrator to manage the business of the insurer under thedirection and control of the Board.

(3) An administrator appointed under subsection (2) shallreceive such remuneration as the Minister may direct, andsuch remuneration shall be payable out of the funds of thebusiness which is managed by the administrator.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200038

Powers and dutiesof administrator.

(4) The management of the business of an insurer shall,on and after the date of appointment of an administrator undersubsection (2), vest in such administrator and the insurershall cease to exercise any power in relation to such businessduring the period of the administration :

Provided however that, except with the approval of theBoard, an administrator shall not issue any new policies ofinsurance.

(5) The Minister may at any time revoke the appointmentof any person as administrator and appoint some other personas administrator, and thereupon the first-mentioned personshall be divested of the management of the affairs of theinsurer.

(6) The Board may issue such directions to theadministrator as to his or her powers and duties as the Boardmay deem desirable in the circumstances of the case, and theadministrator may apply to the Board at any time forinstructions as to the management of the business of the insureror in relation to any matter arising in the course of suchmanagement.

63. (1) The administrator shall conduct the managementof the business of the insurer with the greatest economycompatible with efficiency, and shall as soon as may bepossible, file with the Board a report stating which of thefollowing courses is, in the circumstances most advantageousto the general interests of the holders of life assurance policies,namely

(a)the transfer of the business to such an institution asthe Board may, with the approval of the Minister,determine ;

(b)the winding up of the insurer ; or

(c)such other course as he or she may deem advisable.

39Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(2) On the filing of the report with the Board, the Boardmay take such action as it thinks fit for protecting andpromoting the interests of the holders of insurance policies ingeneral.

(3) Any act done by the Board in pursuance of the powersvested in it by subsection (2), shall have effect notwithstandinganything in the memorandum of or articles association of theinsurer.

64.An administrator may, at any time during thecontinuance of his or her management of the affairs of aninsurer, cancel or vary (either unconditionally or subject tosuch conditions as he or she thinks fit to impose) any contractor agreement, other than a policy between the insurer andany other person, which the administrator is satisfied has beenor is prejudicial to the interests of holders of insurance policies.Before canceling or varying any contract or agreement, theadministrator shall give to all persons, who will be affectedby such cancellation or variation, an opportunity of beingheard.

65.If at any time, on a report made by the Board in thatbehalf, it appears to the Minister that the purpose of theappointment of an administrator has been fulfilled or that forany reason it is undesirable that such appointment shouldcontinue, the Minister may revoke the appointment andthereupon the administrator shall be divested of themanagement of the business of the insurer which shall, unlessotherwise directed by the Minister, again vest in the personin whom it was vested immediately prior to the date ofappointment of the administrator.

66.Any decision of the Minister made in pursuance ofsection 62 or section 65 shall be final.

67.If any director of an insurer fails to deliver to theadministrator any book of account, register or any otherdocument in his or her custody relating to the business of theinsurer, the management of which has vested in the

Cancellation ofcontracts andagreements.

Termination ofappointment ofadministrator.

Finality ofdecisionappointingadministrator.

Penalty forwithholdingdocuments orproperty fromadministrators.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200040

administrator, or retains any property of such insurer, he orshe shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonmentof either description for a period not exceeding one year, orto a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to both suchimprisonment and fine.

68.Notwithstanding anything in any other law, thebusiness of an insurer shall not be wound up voluntarily exceptwith the prior approval of the Board.

69. (1) The District Court may order the winding up ofan insurer in accordance with the Companies Act, No. 17 of1982, and the provisions of that Act shall, subject to theprovisions of this Part of this Act, apply accordingly.

(2) The District Court may order the winding up of aninsurer

(a)if a petition in that behalf is presented by holders ofnot less than one per centum of long term insurancepolicies issued by that insurer and which have beenin force for not less than three years and which willon maturity be of the total value of not less than fivehundred thousand rupees ; or

(b)if the Board, which is hereby authorized to do so,applies in that behalf to the District Court on any ofthe following grounds, namely

(i)that the insurer has failed to comply with theprovisions of section 21 or 26 or any directionsissued under section 57 ;

(ii)that the insurer having failed to comply withany requirement of this Act has continued suchfailure, or having contravened any provisionsof this Act, has continued such contravention,for a period of three months after notice of suchfailure or contravention has been brought tothe notice of the insurer by the Board ;

Voluntary windingup.

Circumstancesunder which theDistrict Court mayorder the windingup of an insurer.

41Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

(iii)that it appears from the returns furnished underthe provisions of this Act or from the results ofany investigation made thereunder, that theinsurer is insolvent ; or

(iv)that the continuance of the insurer is prejudicialto the interests of the policy holders.

(3) Where any petition under paragraph (a) of subsection(2) is found to have been made frivolously or vexatiously, theDistrict Court may make order for the payment by thepetitioners of the costs and expenses actually and reasonablyincurred by the insurer in consequence of the petition and inthe proceedings thereon.

70. (1) In the winding up of an insurer, the value of theassets and liabilities of the insurer shall be ascertained in suchmanner and upon such basis as the liquidator thinks fit, subject,as far as practicable in accordance with rules made by theBoard in that behalf, and any directions which may be givenby the District Court.

(2) For the purposes of any reduction by the District Courtof the amounts of the contracts of an insurer, the value of theassets and liabilities of the insurer and all claims in respect ofpolicies issued by the insurer shall be ascertained in suchmanner and upon such basis as the Court thinks proper, havingregard to any rules that may be made in that behalf by theBoard.

71. (1) In the winding up of an insurer, the value of theassets and the liabilities of the insurer in respect of long terminsurance business shall be ascertained by an independentactuary appointed by the Board, separately from the value ofany other assets and liabilities of the insurer, and the first-mentioned assets shall not be applied for the discharge of anyliabilities other than those in respect of long term insurancebusiness, in so far as the first-mentioned assets exceed theliabilities in respect of long term insurance business.

Valuation of assetsand liabilities.

Application ofsurplus of assetsfund inliquidation.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200042

(2) Where in the winding up of any insurer carrying onlong term insurance business, it is found that when the assetsand liabilities of the insurer are ascertained there is a surplusof assets over liabilities (hereinafter referred to as a primafacie surplus) and that any part of the surplus had, at anytime during the ten years preceding the commencement ofthe winding up, been allocated to long term insurance policyholders, the following provisions shall have effects :

(a)there shall be added to the liabilities of the insurerin respect of the long term insurance business, anamount which bears to the prima facie surplus thesame proportion, as the aggregate amount of surplusso allocated to policy holders with profit policiesduring the aforesaid ten years bears, to the totalsurplus arising from the long term insurance businessin those ten years ; and

(b)the assets of the insurer shall be deemed to exceedits liabilities only in so far as they are in excess aftersuch addition is made :

Provided that

(i)if in any case there has been no such allocationor if it appears to the District Court that byreason of special circumstances, it would beinequitable that the amount to be added to theliabilities of the insurer in respect of the longterm insurance business should be an amountequal to such proportion as aforesaid, theamount to be so added shall be such amount asthe District Court may direct ; and

(ii)for the purpose of the application of thissubsection to any case, where before thecommencement of the winding up a proportionof such surplus as aforesaid of a category onlyof the long term insurance business in questionhas been allocated to long term insurance policyholders, the value of the assets and liabilities

43Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 2000

of the insurer in respect of that category shallbe separately ascertained in like manner as thevalue of the assets and liabilities of such insurerin respect of the long term insurance businesswas ascertained, and any surplus so found ofassets over liabilities shall, for the purpose ofascertaining the amount to be added to theliabilities of the insurer in respect of the longterm insurance business, be deemed to be primafacie surplus.

72.In the winding up of an insurer otherwise than in acase to which section 73 applies, the liquidator shall apply tothe District Court for an order for a return of the deposit madeby the insurer under section 21 or section 53 and the Courtshall on such application order a return of the deposit subjectto such terms and conditions as it shall direct.

73. (1) If at any time it appears to be expedient that theaffairs of an insurer in respect of any class of insurancebusiness comprised in the undertaking of the insurer shouldbe wound up, but that any other class of insurance businesscomprised in the undertaking should continue to be carriedon by the insurer, or be transferred to such an institution asmay be declared by the Minister by notification published inthe Gazette, a scheme for such purpose may be prepared andsubmitted for confirmation of the District Court in accordancewith the provisions of this Act.

(2) Any scheme prepared under this section shall providefor the allocation and distribution of the assets and liabilitiesof the insurer between any classes of insurance businesseffected (including the allocation of any surplus assets whichmay arise on the proposed winding up), for any future rightsof every class of policy holders in respect of their policiesand for the manner of winding up of any of the affairs of theinsurer which are proposed to be wound up, and may containprovisions for altering the memorandum of the insurer withrespect to its objects and such further provisions as may beexpedient for giving effect to the scheme.

Return of depositon the applicationof a liquidator.

Scheme of partialwinding up.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200044

Notice ofpolicy values.

(3) The provisions of this Act relating to the valuation ofliabilities of insurers in liquidation and to the applications ofsurplus assets of the Long Term Insurance Fund in liquidation,shall apply to the winding up of any part of the affairs of aninsurer, in accordance with the scheme under this section inlike manner as they apply in the winding up of an insurer,and any scheme under this section in relation to a companymay apply with the necessary modifications to any of theprovisions of the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 relating tothe winding up of companies.

(4) An order of the District Court confirming a schemeunder this section whereby, the memorandum of that companyis altered with respect to its objects, shall as respects thealteration, have effect as if it were an order confirmed undersection 7 of the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, and theprovisions of that section shall apply accordingly.

(5) When making an order confirming a scheme underthis section, the District Court may make such orders as itconsiders necessary for the disposal of so much of the depositmade by the insurer under section 21 or section 53, as doesnot relate to the classes of insurance business, if any, whichthe insurer continues to carry on.

74.In the winding up of an insurer for the purpose of acash distribution of assets, the liquidator shall ascertain thevalue of the liability to each person appearing by the booksof the insurer to be entitled to or interested in the policiesgranted by the insurer, and shall give notice of such value toeach such person in such manner as the District Court maydirect ; and any person to whom notice is so given shall bebound by the value so ascertained, unless he gives notice ofhis intention to dispute such value in such manner and withinsuch time as may be specified by the District Court.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200045

Power of DistrictCourt to reducecontracts ofinsurance.

75. (1) Where an insurer is in liquidation, the DistrictCourt may make an order reducing the amounts payable inrespect of the insurance contracts of the insurer upon suchterms and subject to such conditions as the District Courtthinks just.

(2) Where an insurer carrying on long term insurancebusiness has been proved to be insolvent, the District Courtmay, if it thinks fit, in lieu of making a winding-up order,reduce the amounts payable in respect of the insurancecontracts of the insurer upon such terms and subject to suchconditions as the district Court thinks just.

(3) Application for an order under this section may bemade either by the liquidator or by or on behalf of the insurer,or by a policy holder or by the Board ; and the Board and anyperson whom the District Court thinks likely to be affected,shall be entitled to be heard on any such application.

76.Where on or after an insurer carrying on long terminsurance business has wound up, or takes steps to wind upsuch business, and where the assets relating to such businesshave not been or are not sufficient to meet the liabilitiessubsisting under policies of long term insurance businessissued by such insurer, then every holder of such a policyshall be entitled by action instituted in a court of competentjurisdiction to proceed against the private assets of eachdirector of such insurer on or after that date, and recover anysum out-standing under such policy of insurance, where ithas been proved that the winding up of the long term insurancebusiness was due to the wilful negligence, fraud or dishonestyof each of those directors of the insurer.

77.Where a District Court orders the winding up of aninsurer under section 69, notwithstanding the provisions ofthe Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 or any written law to thecontrary, the policy holders of the insurer shall have a priorclaim in the distribution of the assets of such insurer.

Rights of certainholders of longterm insurancepolicies to haverecourse incertaincircumstances toother assets ofpersons who haveissued suchpolicies and whohave wound up,or are taking stepsto wind up thelong terminsurancebusiness.

Policy holders tohave a prior claim.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200046

PART VIII

REGISTRATION OF BROKERS AND INSURANCE AGENTS

78. (1) An insurer or broker is permitted to appoint anindividual as an insurance agent, who shall be registered withsuch insurer or broker as an insurance agent. Every insurer orbroker shall maintain in such manner as specified by the Boardby rules made in that behalf, a register of all individuals whoare registered with them as insurance agents.

(2) Every insurer or broker is required to send a copy ofthe register being maintained under subsection (1) annuallyto the Board, and shall keep the Board informed of anyadditions or deletions made in the list.

(3) The Board shall have the right to require an insurer orbroker as the case may be, to delete the name of any insuranceagent appearing in the register submitted to the Board by suchinsurer or broker, when it considers the person concerned tobe unsuitable to function as an insurance agent, having regardto the interests of the policy holders.

(4) The Board may by rules made in that behalf, determinethe qualifications required of any person for purposes of beingappointed as an insurance agent.

(5) No insurer or broker shall appoint as an insurance agentany individual who is already registered as an insurance agentwith any other insurer or broker.

79.No person shall act or hold itself out as an insurancebroker unless such person is a holder of a certificate ofregistration as a broker granted by the Board and is a memberof an Association of Insurance Brokers approved by the Board.

Appointment ofinsurance agents.

Prohibition oncarrying on thebusiness of aninsurance brokerwithout beingregistered.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200047

Qualifications forregistration as abroker.

80. (1) No person shall be registered as an insurancebroker under this Act, unless such person

(a)is a company registered under the Companies Act,No. 17 of 1982, having a paid up share capital notless than such amount as shall be determined by theBoard, by rules made in that behalf ;

(b)has in its employment or on its directorate, personswith such qualifications and experience in insurancebusiness as shall be acceptable to the Board ;

(c)takes out a policy or policies of insurance forprofessional indemnity with two or more insurers ;

(d)fulfils such other requirements as may be laid downby the Board by rules made in that behalf, for thepurpose ensuring the protection of the interests ofthe insured public.

(2)No company shall be entitled to be registered as aninsurance broker, where

(a)such company is a shareholder of any insurer; or

(b) (i) a director or specified officer of such company;or

(ii) a director or the chief executive officer of anassociated or subsidiary company of suchcompany,

is a director or shareholder or employee of any insurer.

81.Every application for registration as a broker shallbe made to the Board in such form as may be provided forthat purpose by the Board, and be accompanied by

(a)a certified copy of the Memorandum and Articles ofAssociation of the company ;

Application forregistration.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200048

(b)a certified copy of the certificate of incorporation ofthe company ;

(c)statements setting out particulars relating to

(i)the shareholders of the company ;

(ii)the directors and senior managers of thecompany ;

(iii)the fulfilment of the requirements, if any thatare laid down by the Board under paragraph(d) of section 80 ;

(d)a copy of Form 48 issued by the Registrar ofCompanies duly perfected and certified ;

(e)a statement setting out the class or classes ofinsurance business proposed to be transacted by thecompany ;

(f)a statement setting out the amount of the paid upshare capital of the company ;

(g)a fee as determined by the Board by rules made inthat behalf, each for long term insurance businessand general insurance business ;

(h)a certified copy of the professional indemnityinsurance policy or policies issued by two or moreinsurers in such form and for such amount as maybe determined by the Board ; and

(i)such other documents and information as may berequired to be submitted by the Board.

82. (1) Where the Board is satisfied that

(a)the volume of business which is likely to be availableto and the earning prospects of an applicant areadequate ;

Registration as abroker.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200049

(b)the business in respect of which the application ismade will be conducted in accordance with acceptedprofessional standards ;

(c)the financial standing of the applicant is sound ;

(d)the knowledge, skill and experience in insurancebroking business of those in the applicantsemployment are adequate ; and

(e)the company is registered under the Companies Act,No. 17 of 1982 for the sole purpose of carrying oninsurance broking business,

the Board shall register such applicant as an insurancebroker for such class or classes of insurance business inrespect of which the application was made.

(2) Upon the registration of an insurance broker undersubsection (1), a certificate of registration shall be issued bythe Board to the applicant, subject to such conditions as shallbe specified therein, and which shall be valid for a period ofone year. Separate certificates of registration shall be issuedin respect of long term insurance business and generalinsurance business.

(3) The certificate of registration issued by the Board shallauthorise the holder to carry on such business as specifiedtherein.

(4) A certificate of registration issued to a broker underthis section shall not be

(a)transferred to any other person, and any such transfershall be null and void ; and

(b)used for the benefit of any other person.

(5) The Board may at any time add to, vary or revoke anyexisting conditions of registration of an insurance broker orimpose new conditions.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200050

83.The certificate of registration issued to a broker maybe renewed annually on an application being made in thatbehalf to the Board and such application shall be accompaniedby

(a)a professional indemnity policy of insurance for theensuing period in such form and for such amount asmay be determined by the Board ;

(b)a statement of business transacted in the precedingfinancial year ;

(c)a renewal fee as determined by the Board in respectof such renewal ; and

(d)such other documents as may be required by theBoard.

84. (1) The Board may suspend or cancel a registrationor refuse to renew a certificate issued to a broker, where

(a)the broker has under the law in force, been found ordeclared to be an undischarged bankrupt orinsolvent ;

(b)the broker persists in disobeying any instructionsissued by the Board ;

(c)(i)a director or a specified officer of the broker ;or

(ii)a director or the chief executive officer of anassociated or subsidiary company of suchbroker,is a director or shareholder or employee of aninsurer ;

(d)the broker has been found guilty of any offence underthis Act or warned or cautioned in writing by theBoard on at least three separate occasions ; or

Renewal of aregistrationgranted to abroker.

Cancellation orsuspension of aregistration.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200051

(e)any statement in any application, account, writteninformation or document submitted to the Board bythe broker was found to be false or misleading.

(2) A broker who is aggrieved by the decision of the Boardunder subsection (1) may appeal therefrom to the Court ofAppeal and the provisions of section 19 of this Act shall applyin relation to such appeal.

85. (1) Every broker shall take out and maintain policiesof insurance with two or more registered insurers approvedby the Board, against losses arising from claims in respect ofany description of civil liability incurred by them or by theirpresent or former employees in connection with the businessof such broker.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoingprovisions of this section, such policy shall indemnify theinsured against losses arising from claims made against theinsured for breach of duty in connection with the business,by reason of any negligent act, error, or omission :

Provided that, the policy shall not be required to affordindemnity to any person committing, making or condoningany dishonest or fraudulent act or omission.

(3) The policy obtained under subsection (1) shall, at thedate of renewal of a certificate of registration provide aminimum limit of indemnity in either

(a)a total sum of rupees one million five hundredthousand ; or

(b)a sum equal to three time the brokerage of thebusiness for the last accounting period ending priorto the inception or renewal of the policy, subject to amaximum limit of liability as determined by theBoard.

Registered brokerto take andmaintain policiesof insurance.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200052

(4) No policy shall, without the written approval of theBoard, have an excess or a deductible in an amount whichexceeds 2.5 per centum of the minimum limit of indemnity.

86. (1) Every broker shall maintain accounts in suchmanner and in such form as may be determined by the Boardby rules made in that behalf.

(2) Every broker shall submit to the Board within sixmonths of the expiry of the accounting period, auditedaccounts which shall comprise of a balance sheet, a profitand loss account and a note to such accounts, certified by aqualified auditor.

(3) Every broker shall submit a return to the Board, statingthe names of all the insurers with whom it has placed businessand the percentage of the business it has so placed. A certificateto the effect that the percentage of business so placed doesnot exceed such limit as determined by the Board, shall besubmitted to the Board annually, duly signed by two directorsof such broker.

(4) Every broker shall pay into an account to be calledthe Insurance Broking Account and maintained by it with alicenced commercial bank, all moneys received by such brokerin connection with a contract of insurance.

(5) If it appears to the Board that any account, statementor return furnished by a broker is inaccurate or incomplete inany respect, it may

(a)require further information, which shall be certifiedif the Board so directs, by an auditor or other personit may consider necessary ; or

(b)require any further document for its examination.

87.No application for registration as a broker or for arenewal of a certificate of registration already issued, shallbe rejected by the Board, without giving notice in writing to

Notice to showcause.

Maintaining ofaccounts andsubmission ofreturns.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200053

the applicant to show cause within such period as specifiedin the notice, as to why such application should not be rejected,and the application will be rejected where the applicant

(a)fails to show cause within the time specified ; or

(b)fails to show sufficient cause acceptable to the Board.

88.The Board shall determine the maximum rate of thecommission which may be paid by an insurer to a broker orinsurance agent, in respect of each class of insurance businesscarried on by them.

89.It shall be the duty of a broker or an insurance agent,to remit premia collected by them on behalf of an insurer,within two weeks of such collection.

PART IX

OFFENCES

90.Any company which

(a)carries on insurance business, or commences anyinsurance business, without being duly registeredunder this Act ; or

(b)carries on any type of insurance business which it isnot authorized to carry on under a licence issuedunder section 15 of this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine notless than fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not less than one year or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

Rate ofcommission paidto intermediaries.

Collection ofpremia by agentsand brokers.

Offence ofcarrying on orcommencing anyinsurance businesswithoutregistration or ofcarrying on anyclass of insurancebusiness notauthorized.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200054

91.Any person who carries on business as an insuranceagent without being duly registered as an insurance agent withan insurer or broker, shall be guilty of an offence and shall onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liableto a fine not less than fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonmentof either description for a term not less than one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment.

92.Any person who carries on business as a brokerwithout being duly registered under section 82 of this Act,shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not lessthan fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term notless than one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

93.Without prejudice to the provisions of sections 54,57, 67, 90, 91 or 92 by which a special penalty is specifiedfor an offence, any person who contravenes or fails to complywith any provision of this Act or any direction sent by theBoard under this Act or any rule made under this Act, shall beguilty of an offence and shall, on conviction after summarytrial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less than fiftythousand rupees, and in the case of a continuing offence to afurther fine not less than two thousand rupees for each day onwhich the offence is so continued after the conviction.

PART X

GENERAL

94. (1) Every insurer and broker shall maintain a principaloffice, and appoint as its principal officer a person havingsuch qualifications as shall be determined by the Board byrules made in that behalf, who shall be responsible for thegeneral control, direction and supervision of its businessactivities.

(2) The Board shall, taking into consideration theobligations an insurer or broker owes to the insured publicand the need to ensure that persons qualified or having

Offence ofcarrying onbusiness as aninsurance agent incontravention ofthis Act.

Contravention ofprovisions ofsection 82, to bean offence.

Other offencesunder this Act.

Appointment ofprincipal officers.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200055

experience in the field of insurance are employed as principalofficers, have the power to object to the appointment of aprincipal officer where it considers such person to be unfitand unsuitable to hold such position.

(3) Where the Board objects to an appointment of aprincipal officer under subsection (2), the insurer or brokeras the case may be, who employed him or her, shall revokehis or her appointment and appoint another in his or her place.

95.Every insurer, and broker shall maintain a registerof policies in such form as may be determined by the Boardby rules made in that behalf, which shall contain

(a)details of every policy issued, giving the name andaddress of the policy holder ;

(b)the date on which the policy was issued and thepolicy number ;

(c)the amount of premium received and commissionpaid to insurance agents and brokers ;

(d)the sum insured and the date of commencement ofthe policy ;

(e)particulars of claims made and dates on which suchclaims were paid and the amounts paid ; and

(f)in the event of a claim being repudiated, reasons forsuch repudiation and in the event of partialsettlement, the reasons therefor.

96.No person, other than an insurer, a broker registeredunder this Act or an insurance agent of such an insurer orbroker, shall, without the written approval of the Board, useas part of its name, title or description, the word insuranceor any of its derivatives or any other similar word in anylanguage, to indicate that such person carries on insurancebusiness in Sri Lanka in that name, title or description, ormake any representations to such effect in any bill head, letterhead, notice or advertisement :

Register ofPolicies.

Use of the wordInsurance.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200056

Provided that nothing in this section shall prohibit anassociation of insurers or brokers from using the wordinsurance or any of its derivatives or similar word in anylanguage as part of its name, title or as description of itsactivities.

97.Any notice or other document required or authorizedby or under this Act to be served on any insurer, shall beserved on any director or manager or officer thereof inaccordance with the provisions in that behalf contained inthe Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, and, if so served, shallbe deemed for the purposes of this Act to have been dulyserved.

98.Where a dispute relating to the settlement of a claimon a policy of long term insurance business by which the sumassured does not exceed such sum as may be determined bythe Board, (exclusive of any profit or bonus not being aguaranteed profit or bonus) and which was issued by an insurerin respect of insurance business transacted by the insurer,arises between a claimant under the policy and the insurerwho issued the policy or has otherwise assumed liability inrespect thereof, the dispute may, at the option of the claimant,be referred to the Board for its decision, and the Board may,after giving an opportunity to the parties of being heard andafter making such further inquiries as it may think fit, makeits order in the dispute.

99. (1) Advertisements issued by insurers, insuranceagents, and brokers shall not contain any information ormaterial which is false, incorrect or is likely to mislead thepublic.

(2) The Board shall have the power to issue directions toany person or body of persons referred to in subsection (1) inrespect of any advertisement containing information ormaterial which is false, incorrect or misleading, and it shallbe the duty of such person or body or persons to amend suchadvertisement in accordance with directions issued.

Advertisements.

Power of theBoard to settleclaims arisingunder long terminsuarancebusiness policiesin which the sumassured does notexceed a certainsum.

Service ofNotices.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200057

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), itshall be the duty of every insurer, insurance agent and broker,to indicate after its name in every advertisement, letter head,name board, brochure and other publications issued by them,whether it is an insurer, insurance agent or broker as the casemay be.

(4) For the purpose of this section, advertisement meansa document inviting persons to enter into or to offer to enterinto contracts of insurance and includes any document whichcontains information calculated to lead directly or indirectlyto persons entering into or offering to enter into such contracts.

100.No insurer or a broker, shall, without the priorwritten approval of the Board, carry on any insurance businessother than the insurance business in respect of which it hasobtained a registration from the Board under this Act.

101. (1) No person in Sri Lanka, shall without the priorwritten approval of the Board, directly or indirectly place anyinsurance business with an insurer not registered under thisAct, except in relation to reinsurance business.

(2) The Board may grant written approval for purpose ofsubsection (1), only upon taking into consideration the policyof the Government in respect of the insurance industry andthe national interest.

102. (1) All transactions relating to any transfer andamalgamation of insurance business shall be approved by aDistrict Court, and when applying for such approval, a copyof the Boards observations on such transfer and amalgamationshould also be submitted to Court for its perusal.

(2) The Board may in making its observations as referredto in subsection (1), take into consideration the effect of thetransfer and amalgamation as indicated by an independentactuary, and shall also where necessary, call for any furtherinformation and documents relating to the proposed transferand amalgamation for the purpose of making suchobservations.

Generalprovisions relatingto transfer andamalgamation ofinsurancebusiness.

Overseasinsurance.

Other businessinterest of insurersor brokers.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200058

(3) The observations of the Board shall be made inaccordance with guidelines issued and regulations made underthe Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act,No. 36 of 1987, relating to take-overs and mergers.

103. (1) The Board shall establish a fund to be known asthe Policy Holders Protection Fund (in this section referredto as the Fund) to which shall be credited money realisedfrom the cess levied and charged under section 7 of this Act.

(2) The monies lying to the credit of the Fund shall beutilized for the general protection of policy holders and forany other specific purpose as may be determined by the Board,by rules made in that behalf.

(3) Any money which is not immediately required for anyof the purposes referred to in subsection (2), shall be investedby the Board in such prudent manner as would yield a goodreturn and safeguard the investment.

104.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of person, every Director, Manager or Secretary of thatbody corporate, shall be guilty of that offence :

Provided that the Director, Manager or Secretary of suchbody corporate shall not be deemed to be guilty of suchoffence, if he or she proves that such offence was committedwithout his or her knowledge or that he or she exercised alldue diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

105. (1) Board shall have the power to make rules inrespect of matters required by this Act to be specified by rules,or in respect of which rules are authorized to be made.

(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette, and shall come into operation onthe date of its publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

Policy holdersprotection Fund.

Offences bybodies of persons.

Rules.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200059

106.The Board shall at the end of each financial year,submit to the Minister for the Ministers approval, a report ofits activities during the year. On being approved by theMinister, such report shall be laid before Parliament.

107. (1) Any insurer who is registered under theprovisions of this Act to carry on motor vehicle insurancebusiness, shall be deemed to be an authorized insurer forthe purposes of Part VI of the Motor Traffic Act.

(2) Any insurer who is registered under the provisions ofthis Act to carry on employers liability insurance business,shall be deemed to have been granted a licence undersubsection (1) of section 45 of the Workmens CompensationOrdinance, to undertake insurance against liabilities toworkmen which may be incurred by employers under thatOrdinance.

108. (1) No suit or prosecution shall be instituted againstany member of the Board or any officer or servant of theBoard, for any act which is in good faith done or purported tobe done by such member, officer or servant as the case maybe under the provisions of this Act or any rule or regulationmade thereunder, or on the direction of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Board in any suit orprosecution brought by or against the Board, and any costspaid to or received by the Board in any such suit orprosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of the Board.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referredto in subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought againsthim or her before a court in respect of any act which is doneor purported to be done by him or her under this Act, or onthe directions of the Board, shall, if the Court hold that suchact was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of theBoard, unless such expense is recovered by him or her insuch suit or prosecution.

Annual Report.

Certain insurersdeemed to beauthorizedinsurers for thepurposes of theMotor Traffic Act,and deemed to begranted licencesunder section 45(1) of theWorkmensCompensationOrdinance.

Protection ofmembers of theBoard

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200060

109.No writ against person or property shall be issuedagainst any member of the Board in any action brought againstthe Board.

110.The Board shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act, shall be construed accordingly.

111.All officers and servants of the Board shall bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning and for thepurposes of the Penal Code.

112. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribedor in respect of which regulations are required or authorizedto be made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of publication, or on such later date as may be specifiedtherein.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be placedbefore Parliament for approval. Every regulation which is notso approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

113. (1) The Control of Insurance Act, No. 25 of 1962 ishereby repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act :

(a)every company registered to carry on insurancebusiness of any class under the repealed Act shallbe deemed to be a company registered under theprovisions of this Act to carry on insurance businessof that class ;

No. writ to issueagainst person orproperty.

Repeal andSavings.

Board to be aScheduledInstitution.

Officers andservants of theBoard deemed tobe public servants.

Regulations.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200061

(b)every person registered to carry on business as aninsurance broker under the repealed Act, shall bedeemed to be a person registered under the provisionsof this Act as an insurance broker ;

(c)every regulation or rule made or directive issuedunder the repealed Act, as is in force on the appointeddate, in so far as such regulation, rule or directive isnot inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shallbe deemed to be a regulation or rule made underthis Act and may be amended or rescinded byregulations or rules made or directive issued underthis Act ;

(d)every action, prosecution or proceeding institutedby or against the Controller of Insurance under therepealed Act and pending in any Court, whetheroriginal or appellate, on the appointed date, shall bedeemed to be an action, prosecution or proceedinginstituted by or against the Board and every suchaction, prosecution or proceeding may be proceededwith to completion and be enforced accordingly ;and

(e)any decree, order or award entered or made in favourof or against the Controller of Insurance by any Courtor tribunal or other body in any action, matter orproceeding or thing and remaining unsatisfied onthe appointed date shall with effect from theappointed date, be deemed to be a decree, order oraward entered or made in favour or against the Boardand may be enforced accordingly.

(3) Where any insurer who is deemed to be an insurerunder subsection (2) had been registered under the repealedAct to do life assurance business and has not as on theappointed date completed three years of such business fromthe date of such registration, he or she shall, cause aninvestigation to be made by an actuary at least once a year tillit completes the three years, into the financial condition of

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200062

Interpretation.

such business, including a valuation of its assets and liabilitiesin respect of that business and shall cause an abstract to bemade in accordance with rules made in that behalf by theBoard. The actuary shall certify whether the reserves areadequate to meet the current and contingent liabilities of itspolicy holders.

114. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwiserequires

actuary means

(a)a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries in England orof the Faculty of Actuaries in Scotland or a Fellowof any other professional Actuarial Institute,approved by the Board ; or

(b)an Associate of any of the professional ActuarialInstitutes referred to in paragraph (a), with not lessthan ten years post qualification experience inrelevant actuarial matters ;

broker means an insurance broker registered under theprovisions of this Act and who functions as anintermediary for the placing of insurance businessfor or on behalf of an insurer, a policy holder or aproposer for insurance or reinsurance, with an insureror reinsurer, in expectation of a payment by way ofbrokerage or a commission ;

certified in relation to any statement, account or return,or to any copy or translation of a document requiredto be furnished by or on behalf of an insurer, meansthat a certificate to the effect that such statement,account or return is true and correct or that the copyis a true copy or that the translation is correcttranslation, has been endorsed thereon or attachedthereto by the insurer or the principal officer of theinsurer authorized in that behalf, as the case maybe ;

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200063

claims incurred but not reported (IBNR)means claimswhich have occurred under any policy or policies ofinsurance issued by an insurer, during a financialyear, but which have not been advised ;

claims outstanding means all claims advised by theassured and for which the insurer will be liable undera policy or policies of insurance, but which have notbeen settled ;

classes of insurance business means general insurancebusiness and long term insurance business ;

Government guaranteed securities includes any securityin respect of a loan, the repayment of which togetherwith interest thereon, is guaranteed by theGovernment of Sri Lanka ;

Government securities means promissory notes(including treasury bills), stock, bearer bonds, andany other security issued by or on behalf of theGovernment of Sri Lanka in respect of any loanraised either before or after the appointed date, butdoes not include currency notes ;

gross premium means the premium after deduction ofdiscounts, refunds and rebates, but before thededuction therefrom of any premium paid or payableby an insurer for reinsurance ceded ;

insurance agent means an individual registered as aninsurance agent with an insurer or broker under theprovisions of this Act, and who in consideration of acommission solicits or procures insurance businessfor such insurer or broker as the case may be ;

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200064

insurance business means

(a)long term insurance business, that is to say, thebusiness of entering into or maintaining contractsof assurance on human lives, such contractsincluding contracts whereby the payment of moneyis assured on death or on the happening of anycontingency dependent on human life, and contractswhich are subject to payment of premia for a termdependent on human life and such contracts beingdeemed to comprise and include the following sub-classes :

(i)life insurancecontracts of insurancedependent on human life ;

(ii)linked long termwhere benefits are whollyor partially determined by reference to an indexor to the value of or to the income from assetsof any description ;

(iii)annuitiescontracts for the grant of annuitiesdependent on human life ;

(iv)contracts for the granting of disability andmultiple indemnity, accident and sicknessbenefits if so specified in such contracts, butexcluding insurance business which isprincipally or wholly of any kind included insub paragraph (i), (ii), (iii), (v) and (vi) ;

(v)permanent healthcontracts of insuranceproviding specified benefits on incapacity fromaccident or sickness which are both in effectfor a period of more than five years and cannotbe cancelled by the insurer ;

(vi)capital redemption contracts ; and

(vii)pension policiesinsurance contracts toprovide pre and post retirement benefits forindividuals ;

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200065

(b)General Insurance Business which means allinsurance business which do not fall within thedefinition of long term business being deemed tocomprise and include the following sub classes :

(i)Marine, aviation or transit insurance policymeans a policy of insurance

(A)upon vessels of machinery, tackle orfurniture or equipment of vessels oraircraft, or

(B)upon goods, merchandise or property ofany description whatever on boardvessels ;

(C)upon the freight or any other interest inor relating to vessels ;

(D)against damage arising out of or inconnection with the use of vesselsincluding third party risks ;

(E)against transit risks (whether the transitis by sea, inland water, land, air or partlyone and partly another) including risksincidental to the transit insured from thecommencement of the transit to theultimate destination covered by theinsurance but, not including risks theinsurance of which is motor vehicleinsurance business ; or

(F)against any of the risks the insurance ofwhich is customarily undertaken inconjunction with or incidental to anysuch business as is referred to in theforegoing paragraphs of this definition ;

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200066

(ii)fire insurance business, that is to say, thebusiness of effecting, otherwise thanincidentally to some other class of insurancebusiness, contracts of insurance against loss by,or incidental to, fire or other occurrencecustomarily included among the risks insuredagainst in fire insurance policies ;

(iii)motor vehicle insurance business, that is to say,the business of effecting contracts of insuranceagainst loss of motor vehicles or damage arisingout of or in connection with the use of motorvehicles, including third-party risks ;

(iv)employers liability insurance business, that isto say, the issue of, or the undertaking ofliability under policies insuring employersagainst liability to pay compensation ordamages to workmen in their employment ;

(v)miscellaneous insurance business, includingpersonal accident insurance, fidelity guaranteeinsurance, burglary insurance, cash in transitinsurance, cash in safe insurance, contractorsall-risk insurance, erection all-risk insurance,electronic/computer insurance, boiler insuranceand machinery breakdown insurance butexcluding insurance business which isprincipally or wholly of any kind or kindsincluded in sub-paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv)and those classes which would fall within thedefinition of long term business involvingcontracts of a long-term nature ;

insurer means a company registered to carry oninsurance business in Sri Lanka under the provisionsof this Act, and includes a company deemed to beregistered under subsection (2) of section 113;

licensed commercial bank means a licensed commercialbank within the meaning of the Banking Act, No.30 of 1988 ;

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200067

local authority security means any security that may beissued, in accordance with the law in force for thetime being by any local authority in Sri Lanka ;

net claims outstanding means all claims advised by theassured and for which the insurer will be liable undera policy or policies of insurance, but which have notbeen settled, less reinsurance recoveries ;

net premium means the balance of the gross premiumafter deduction therefrom of any premium paid orpayable by the insurer for reinsurance ceded.

net unearned premium means the amount set aside asat end of a financial year of an insurer, out ofpremiums in respect of risks to be borne by suchinsurer after the end of such financed year, under acontract of insurance entered into, prior to the endof that financial year ;

participating policies means those policies issued byan insurer which are continually entitled to a sharein the surplus arising from such polices.

policy

(a)in relation to long term insurance business, includesan instrument evidencing a contract to pay an annuityupon human life ;

(b)in relation to bond investment business includes abond, certificate, receipt or other instrumentevidencing the contract with the insurer ; and

(c)in relation to other classes of insurance business,includes an instrument under which there is for thetime being an existing liability already accrued orunder which any liability may accrue ;

policy holder means the person who for the time beingis the legal holder of the policy for securing thecontract with the insurer ;

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200068

Registrar of Companies means the person, by name orby office appointed to act as the Registrar ofCompanies under section 423 of the Companies Act,No. 17 of 1982 and include any Deputy Registrar orAssistant Registrar appointed under that section ;

reinsurance means the transfer of an insurers liabilityincurred under any contract or policy of insurance,to a reinsurer ;

Securities Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka meansthe Securities Exchange Commission of Sri Lankaestablished by the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987 ;

technical reserve include net unearned premium,provision made for unexpired risks, net claimsoutstanding, reserve for claims incurred but notreported (IBNR) and any contingency reserves, lessany deferred acquisition expenses ; and

unexpired risks means the amount set aside at the endof a financial year of an insurer, (in addition to netunearned premiums) in respect of risks to be borneby such insurer after the end of such financial yearunder a contract of insurance entered into prior tothe end of that financial year.

(2) For the purposes of this Act, a person shall be deemedto carry on or transact insurance business of any class in SriLanka, if such person

(a)issues, or undertakes liability under, any policy orcontract of insurance of that class to or with a personfor the time being in Sri Lanka ; or

(b)offers whether orally or in writing, to issue orundertake liability under any policy or contractwhether such offer is made directly to any suchperson or generally to any such person by thepublication, transmission, or circulation of anyadvertisement, book, pamphlet, or any documentwhatsoever ; or

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200069

(c)employs, engages or in any other manner causes orencourages, any person to make any such offer asaforesaid whether or not any remuneration is paidor payable to such other person.

115.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

SCHEDULE(Section 4 (3)

PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE APPOINTED MEMBERS OF

THE BOARD

1. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing asan appointed member of the Board

(a)if he is, or becomes a member of Parliament a Provincial Councilor any local authority ;

(b)if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

(c)if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country,found or declared to be of unsound mind ; or

(d)if he is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonment imposedby any court in Sri Lanka or any other country.

2. Every appointed member of the Board shall, unless he vacates officeearlier by death, resignation or removal, hold officer for a term of three yearsfrom the date of his appointment and unless he has been removed from office,be eligible for reappointment ;

Provided that a member appointed in place of a member who had vacatedoffice, by death, resignation or removal, shall hold office for the unexpiredterm of office of the member whom he succeeds.

3. The Minister shall, by Order published in the Gazette, remove anappointed member of the Board from office, for misconduct in theperformance of his duties or where such member has been found guilty of anoffence involving fraud or dishonesty. An appointed member who is removedshall cease to hold office from and after the date of publication of such Orderin the Gazette.

4. An appointed member of the Board may at any time resign from hisoffice by letter to that effect addressed to the Minister and such resignationshall take effect upon it being accepted by Minister in writing.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200070

5. In the event of the vacation of office by death, resignation or removalof an appointed member of the Board, the Minister may having regard to theprovisions of paragraph (d) of subsection (1) of section 4 appoint any otherperson to succeed such member. Any person so appointed in place of suchmember, shall hold office during the unexpired part of the term of office ofthe member whom be succeeds.

6. Where an appointed member of the Board by reason of illness, infirmityor absence from Sri Lanka for a period not less than three months, istemporarily unable to perform his duties, it shall be the duty of such memberto inform the Minister in writing of such inability. Thereupon, the Ministermay having regard to the provisions of paragraph (d) of subsection (1) ofsection 4, appoint some other person to act in his place during such period.

7. The members of the Board may be paid such remuneration out of theFund of the Board as the Minister may, determine.

8. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall, if present, preside at everymeeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman from any such meeting,the members present shall elect one of the members present, to preside atsuch meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be five members.

(3) The person presiding at any meeting of the Board shall, addition tohis own vote, have a casting vote.

(4) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, the Board may regulatethe procedure in regard to the meetings of the Board and the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings.

9. No Act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed to beinvalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy in the Board or anydefect in the appointment of any member thereof.

10. (1) The seal of the Board may be determined and devised by theBoard, and may be altered in such manner as may be determined by theBoard.

(2) The seal of the Board shall be in the custody of such person as theBoard may decide from time to time.

(3) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument except with the sanction of the Board and in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign the instrument or document in token oftheir presence.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instruments and documentsto which the seal of the Board has been affixed.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200071

11. (1) If the Chairman is, by reason of illness or absence from Sri Lankatemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, the Minister mayappoint another member of the Board to act in his place.

(2) The Minister may, without assigning any reason therefor, terminatethe appointment of the Chairman.

(3) The Chairman may at any time resign from the office of Chairman bya letter addressed to the Minister. Such resignation shall take effect upon itbeing accepted by the Minister in writing.

(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (2) and (3) the term ofoffice of the Chairman shall be his period of membership of the Board.

Regulation of Insurance IndustryAct, No. 43 of 200072

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNM ENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.