PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS OF ELDERS(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 5 OF 2011

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 23rd February, 2011]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 25, 2011

1Protection of the Rights of Elders(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011

[Certified on 23rd of February, 2011]

L.D.O. 23/2007.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS OF ELDERSACT, NO. 9 OF 2000

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Protection of the Rightsof Elders (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011 .

2.The Protection of the Rights of Elders Act, No. 9 of2000 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) ishereby amended by the insertion of the following Preambleimmediately after the Long Title to such enactment:

WHEREAS the Directive Principles of the State Policyenshrined in the Constitution recognize the duty ofthe State to assist in the full realization of thefundamental rights and freedoms of all people; topromote the welfare of the people by securing a socialorder governed by justice; to recognize and assist inthe realization of adequate standards of living for thepeople and to raise the moral and cultural standards ofthe people and to thereby ensure the full developmentof the human personality:

AND WHEREAS the state has recognized elders as agroup of persons who need to be cared for andprotected by the State, by treating them with dignityand respect:

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka has adopted and ratifiedthe United Nations Resolution No. 46/91 of December16, 1991, which appreciates the contribution made byelders to society and is mindful that the State mustprovide the necessary infrastructure to assist elders

Short title.

Insertion ofPreamble to theProtection of theRights of EldersAct, No. 9 of2000.

Protection of the Rights of Elders(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 20112

who are advancing in years to live a life which issocially, economically, physically and spirituallyfulfilling :.

3.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) ofthat section and the substitution therefor of thefollowing paragraph:

(c)The Director, Department of Social Services;

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section bythe substitution for the words be appointed as aVice Chairman of the Council. of the words beappointed as a full time Vice Chairman of theCouncil ;

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) ofthat section of the following new subsection:

(3) The Director, National Secretariat for Eldersshall be the Secretary to the Council..

4.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyamended

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (g) ofthat section of the following paragraphs:

(h)to issue an Elders Identity Card to every elderin order to facilitate the receipt by elders ofthe benefits and concessions available toelders in both public and private sectorservices;

(i)to establish an Elders Committees in everyGrama Niladhari Division, Divisional

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.

3Protection of the Rights of Elders(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011

Secretarials Divisions, AdministrativeDistrict and Provincial Council area;

(j)to appoint Conciliation Officers conversantwith the problems of elders to assist them insettling such problems;

(k)to disseminate knowledge of gerontology andgeriatric medicine among persons involvedin providing care for elders; and

(2)by the re-lettering of paragraph (h) as paragraph (l).

5.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following:

(3) (a) No person shall on account of age, subjectany elder, to any liability, restriction or condition withregard to access to or use of, any building or place orinstitution whether such access is on the basis ofpayment of any fee or otherwise and where no suchliability, restriction or condition is placed on anyother person.

(b) No person shall on account of age, deny anyelder, the use or enjoyment of any facility, benefit,advantage or service, the provisions of which is on thebasis of payment of any fee or otherwise and wheresuch facility, benefit, advantage or service is used orenjoyed by or extended to other persons..

6.Section 16 of the principal enactment ishereby repealed and the following section substitutedtherefor:

16. (1) Every person or organizationwhether voluntary or otherwise, engaged in theestablishment and maintenance of anyinstitution intended for providing residential

Amendment ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

Registrationwith theCouncil.

Protection of the Rights of Elders(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 20114

care for elders, shall if such institution has morethan five elders residing therein, register suchinstitution in accordance with the provisionsof this Act.

(2) Any person or organization who fails tocomply with the provisions of subsection (1)shall be guilty of an offence under this Act..

7.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)thereof of the following new subsection:

(2A) The Council may require any person ororganization referred to in section 16 to furnish to theCouncil any document or report which the Councilmay determine as necessary..

8.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution forthe words There shall be appointed for the purpose of thisAct of the words The Judicial Service Commission shallappoint persons of eminence and integrity who haveknowledge and experience in the field of law, management,human rights, social service, medicine or counseling to bemembers of.

9.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 24 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 24A of that enactment:

24A. (1) A Conciliation Officer appointedby the Council shall mediate any maintenanceclaim referred to him by the Board.

(2) Where a settlement cannot be reached inrespect of any claim referred to the ConciliationOfficer, he shall refer such matter to the Board.

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 24A ofthe principalenactment.

ConciliationOfficers.

5Protection of the Rights of Elders(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011

(3) The Council shall determine thequalifications and the criteria to be followedin the selection of a Conciliation Officer..

10.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof and thesubstitution of the following subsections:

(2) The Board may in awarding maintenance,order the respondent to

(a) deposit with such bank as may bespecified such minimum sum as theBoard may determine; or

(b) purchase an annuity with an insurer ofthe value of such minimum sum.

(3) Where the respondent fails to comply withthe provisions of subsection (2), the Board mayrequest the employer of the respondent to deductfrom the salary, the sum due to be paid by therespondent to the applicant and remit such sum tothe credit of the applicant..

(2)by the re-numbering of subsection (3) assubsection (4).

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof Inconsistency.

Protection of the Rights of Elders(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 20116

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.