PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 18, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 17th of November, 2022]

KANDYAN MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 37 OF 2022

Kandyan Marriage and Divorce (Amendment)Act, No. 37 of 20221

L.D.O. 73/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE KANDYAN MARRIAGE AND DIVORCEACT (CHAPTER 113)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Kandyan Marriage andDivorce (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2022.

2.Part II (sections 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15) of theKandyan Marriage and Divorce Act (Chapter 113)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyrepealed.

3.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph (6)thereof; and

(2) in paragraph (7) thereof

(a) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (a)thereof, for the word correct;, of the wordscorrect; and;

(b) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (b)thereof, for the word marriage;, of the wordmarriage.; and

(c) by the repeal of sub-paragraphs (c) and (d)thereof.

4.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the repeal of paragraph (5) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following paragraph:-

(5) (a) Any party to the marriage who desires to obtaina marriage notice certificate from a District

Short title

Amendment ofsection 16 ofthe principalenactment

Repeal of Part IIof Chapter 113

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment

[Certified on 17th of November, 2022]

2Kandyan Marriage and Divorce (Amendment)Act, No. 37 of 2022

Registrar before the expiry of the period referredto in paragraph (3) (a) (i) or paragraph (4) (a) (i) orparagraph (4) (c) (ii) of this section shall appear inperson before that Registrar and make and subscribea declaration to the effect that there is no lawfulimpediment or other lawful hindrance to themarriage.

(b)The declaration shall be accompanied by a receiptissued by the District Registrar in proof of paymentof the prescribed fee which shall be made by theparty making the declaration..

5.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) thereof as follows:-

(1)by the substitution, in paragraph (a) thereof, for theword marriage;, of the words marriage; and ;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof; and

(3)by the re-lettering of paragraph (c) as paragraph (b)thereof.

6.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following subsection:

(1) Any person, being a person who isinterested in a Kandyan marriage may object inwriting, to the issue of a marriage notice certificatein respect thereof.; and

(2)by the repeal of sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (c)of subsection (2) thereof and the substitutiontherefor, of the following sub-paragraph:

(ii) whether the objector makes the objection inhis capacity as a person who is interested inthe marriage; and.

Amendment ofsection 19 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment

Kandyan Marriage and Divorce (Amendment)Act, No. 37 of 20223

7.Section 29 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (1) thereof

(a) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (a)thereof, for the words so specified;, of thewords so specified; and;

(b) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (b) thereof; and

(c) by the re-lettering of sub-paragraph (c) as sub-paragraph (b) thereof; and

(2) in paragraph (2) thereof

(a) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (a)thereof, for the words so specified;, of thewords so specified; and;

(b) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (b) thereof; and

(c) by the re-lettering of sub-paragraph (c) as sub-paragraph (b) thereof.

8.Section 60 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

60. Any person who, for the purpose ofprocuring the solemnization or registration ofa Kandyan marriage knowingly or wilfullymakes and subscribes any false declaration orsigns any false notice, under this Act shall beguilty of an offence under this Act..

9.Section 66 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the definition of the expressionminor.

Falsedeclarations,&c.

Amendment ofsection 66 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 29 of theprincipalenactment

Replacement ofsection 60 of theprincipalenactment

4Kandyan Marriage and Divorce (Amendment)Act, No. 37 of 2022

10.For avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declaredthat-

(a)the provisions of this Act shall not apply to anyKandyan marriage contracted prior to the date ofcommencement of this Act; and

(b)the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of section4 of the principal enactment shall not apply to anyKandyan marriage contracted on or after the date ofcommencement of this Act, save as provided forin section 112 of the Evidence Ordinance(Chapter 14).

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Avoidance ofdoubt

Kandyan Marriage and Divorce (Amendment)Act, No. 37 of 20225

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.