PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INLAND REVENUE (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 12 OF 2004

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th November, 2004]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 52.50Postage : Rs. 25.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 19, 2004

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 20041

[Certified on 18th November, 2004]

L. D. O. 16/2004.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INLAND REVENUE ACT, NO. 38 OF 2000

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2004.

2.Section 3 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) asamended by Act, No. 10 of 2002, is hereby further amendedas follows :

(1)in paragraph (h) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words March 31, 2002, of the words March31, 2002; and; and

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (h) ofthat section, of the following new paragraph :

(hh)winnings from a lottery, betting or gambling;and.

3.Section 8 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)in paragraph (a) of that section :

(a)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (LXXIV),for the words Investment Bank;, of the wordsInvestment Bank; ; and

(b)by the insertion immediately after sub-paragraph (LXXIV), of the following new sub-paragraphs :

2H 022754 10,150 (08/2004)

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 3 of ActNo. 38 of 2000.

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 20042

(LXXV) The Nordic Development Fundestablished pursuant to a treatyentered between the Governments ofDenmark, Finland, Iceland, Norwayand Sweden on November 2, 1988 ;

(LXXVI) Management Corporationestablished under ApartmentOwnership Law No. 11 of 1973 aslast amended by Act, No. 39 of2003;;

(LXXVII) the Sri Lanka Institute of Taxationincorporated by the Sri LankaInstitute of Taxation (Incorporation)Act, No. 21 of 2000;

(c)in the proviso to that paragraph by thesubstitution for the word and figure and(LXXIV), of the words and figures (LXXIV)and (LXXV),.

(2)in paragraph (c) of that section, by the substitutionin sub-paragraph (iii) for the words of the unit., ofthe words of the unit for any year of assessmentcommencing on or before April 1, 2003..

4.Section 10 of the principal enactment, as last amendedby Act, No. 19 of 2003, is hereby further amended by therepeal of paragraph (eeee) of that section.

5.Section 11 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section ;

(2)in paragraphs (g) of the renumbered subsection (1)by the substitution for the words any dividend paidto a shareholder of a company, out of any such

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 20043

dividend received by that company as is referred toin paragraph (a) or (f), if the first mentioned, of thewords any dividend paid to a shareholder of acompany, out of any such dividend received by thatcompany during the period for which dividends asis referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or(f) respectively, are exempt from income tax, if thefirst mentioned, ;

(3)in paragraph (h) of the re-numbered subsection (1)for the words paragraph (a) or (f) wherever thosewords appear in that paragraph, of the wordsparagraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) respectively ;an

(4)by the addition immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1), of the following new subsection :

(2)(a)The provisions of paragraph (b), (c), (d),or (e) of subsection (1) shall not apply toany dividend paid on or after April 1,2004, in relation to any agreementreferred to therein, which has beenentered into on or after November 6,2002. ; or

(b)The provisions of paragraph (f) ofsubsection (1), shall not apply to anydividend paid on or after April 1, 2004,by any company referred to in thatparagraph, which qualified for anexemption on to after November 6,2002..

6.Section 15 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)in paragraph (g) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words any prize received, of the wordsand figures any prize received on or before March31, 2004,;

Amendment ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 20044

(2)in paragraph (h) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words an agreement has been entered into,of the words and figures an agreement has beenentered into before April 1, 2004;

(3)in paragraph (j) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words arising in Sri Lanka,, of the wordsand figures arising in Sri Lanka before April 1,2004,;

(4)in paragraph (m) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words income arising to, of the words andfigures income arising before April 1, 2004, to;

(5)by the repeal of paragraph (t) of that section ;

(6)in paragraph (v) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words any person,, of the words and figuresany person, for any year of assessmentcommencing on or before April 1, 2003,;

(7)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (v) ofthat section, of the following new paragraph :

(vv)for any year of assessment commencing onor after April 1, 2004, any profit derived by oraccruing to any person other than a unit trustor mutual fund from the sale of any share,including a right to any share or a bonus shareor a warrant where such disposal has takenplace after two years from the date ofacquisition :

Provided that the two year period has noapplication to any unit trust or mutual fund;;and

(8)by the addition at the end of that section, thefollowing :

For the purposes of this paragraph, profitincludes gains..

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 20045

7. Section 18A of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2002, is hereby further amended insubsection (2) of that section, by the substitution for thewords by Order published in the Gazette, of the words andfigures by Order published in the Gazette on or before June30, 2004.

8. Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and income arisingfrom, of the words and income arising on or after March 31,2005 from.

9.Section 21A of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby repealed and thefollowing section substituted therefor :

21A. (1) The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (otherthan any profits and income from the sale ofcapital assets) of any company from anyspecified undertaking referred to in subsection(2) and carried on by such company on or afterApril 1, 2002, shall be exempt from incometax for a period of five years reckoned fromthe year of assessment in which the undertakingcommences to make profits or any year ofassessment not later than two years reckonedfrom the date on which the undertakingcommences to carry on commercial operations,whichever is earlier.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)specified undertaking in relation to acompany means

(a)an undertaking carried on by acompany

Amendmentof section 18Aof theprincipalenactment.

Replacementof section 21Aof theprincipalenactment.

Exemptionfrom incometax of theprofits andincome of anycompany fromany specifiedundertaking.

Amendmentof section 21of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 20046

(i)incorporated before April 1, 2002and which commenced operationson or after April 1, 2002 but beforeApril 1, 2004, with a minimuminvestment of rupees two and a halfmillion, invested in suchundertaking ;

(ii)incorporated before April 1, 2002and which commenced operationson or after April 1, 2004, with aminimum investment of rupeesfifty million, invested in suchundertaking ;

(iii)incorporated and commenced tocarry on the undertaking on or afterApril 1, 2002 but before April 1,2004 ; or

(iv)incorporated on or after April 1,2004 with a minimum investmentof rupees ten million, invested insuch undertaking,

and which is engaged in agriculture, agroprocessing, industrial and machine toolmanufacturing, machinery manufacturing,electronics, export of non-traditional products,or information technology and allied services.

Any company incorporated prior to April 1,2002 shall be deemed to be carrying on anyspecified undertaking, if such company has onor after April 1, 2002 commenced an activitywhich produce goods or commodities that aredistinct from the goods or commodities thatwere being made by such company with regardto the production methods and output andwhere the profits and income from such activitycan be separately ascertained.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 20047

(b) (i)any designated project carried onby a company, which qualify underthe same investment criteria asreferred to in sub paragraph (ii) ofparagraph (a) of subsection (2)or ;

(ii)an undertaking carried on by acompany on or after April 1, 2002but before April 1,2004, with aninvestment in excess of rupees twohundred and fifty million,

and which conforms to the prescribedguidelines ; and

(c)an undertaking of a pioneering nature asdetermined by the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette carried on by acompany on or after April 1, 2004, with aninvestment in excess of rupees two hundredand fifty million.

(3) (a) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1), for any company havingan investment not less than rupees onethousand million in any pioneeringundertaking as determined by theMinister, the period of exemption shallbe the corresponding period referred toin Column II below, provided thecorresponding minimum investment asgiven in Column I has been made

Column IColumn II(Rs. Million)(Years)

1000 to 2499082500 and above10

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 20048

(b)The amount of investment referred toin subparagraph (i) of paragraph (b) ofsubsection (2) shall not be applicableto any Export Production VillageCompany.

(c)In case of a company receivingincome from any other trade orbusiness in addition to the incomefrom any specified undertaking ordesignated project or pioneeringundertaking as referred to above, theexemption provided under this sectionshall be applicable only in respect ofthe profits and income from therelevant specific undertaking,designated project or pioneeringundertaking, as the case may be.

(4) For the purposes of this section

(i)agriculture means the cultivationof land with plants of anydescription, rearing of fish or animalhusbandry including poultry farms,veterinary and artificialinsemination services and othersupport services ;

(ii)agro processing means theprocessing of any agriculturalproduct or fishing product includingdeep sea fishing, but excludes theprocessing of black tea in bulk andthe manufacture of liquor ;

(iii)non-transitional products meansany goods (other than black tea inbulk, crepe rubber, sheet rubber,

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 20049

scrap rubber, latex and freshcoconuts,) including deemed exportof such goods, where not less thaneighty per centum of the totalturnover of such undertaking is fromexport or deemed export of suchnon-traditional goods for any yearof assessment ;

(iv)deemed export means theproduction or manufacture andsupply by any person or partnershipof any commodities (other thanblack tea in bulk, crepe rubber, sheetrubber, scrap rubber, latex and freshcoconuts) to any exporter of suchgoods without further production ormanufacture by such exporter, or theproduction or manufacture andsupply of any goods to any exporterfor the production, manufacture orpackaging for export of anycommmodity which is a non-traditional product..

10.Section 21D of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words any companywhich commences a new undertaking which is engaged in,of the words any new undertaking of a company which isengaged solely in.

11.Section 21E of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

Amendment ofsection 21D of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 21E of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200410

(2)The period of three years referred to insubsection (1) shall be reckoned from :

(a)the year of assessment in which thebusiness that is acquired commences tomake profits ; or

(b)any year of assessment not later than twoyears reckoned from the date on whichthe business that is acquired commencedcommercial operations,whichever is earlier..

(2)by the substitution for the definition of the termacquires, of the following definition :

acquires means

(i)acquiring the ownership of the enterpriseas an owner ;

(ii)acquiring not less than fifty one percentum of the ownership of the enterprisewith management rights or as partner ora joint venture partner ; or

(iii)acquiring the business (including theassets, liabilities and employees) otherthan by way of acquiring the shares ofsuch enterprise, by way of a Deed..

12.Section 21F of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words not less than rupees ten million but notexceeding rupees one hundred million,, of the words notless than rupees ten million,.

13.Section 21H of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

Amendment ofsection 21F of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 21H of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200411

(1)in paragraph (b) of the proviso to subsection (1) ofthat section, by the substitution for the words anassociate company within the meaning of theCompanies Act, No. 17 of 1982., of the words anassociate company.;

(2)in the proviso to subsection (2) of that section, bythe substitution for the words the companycommences to carry on commercial operations theexemption afforded, of the words the companycommences to carry on commercial operations ormore than twenty per centum of the total specificinvestment made in any year has been made in oneor more associate companies of such venture capitalcompany, the exemption afforded; and

(3)by the addition at the end of that section of thefollowing new subsection :

(7) For the purposes of this section associatecompany means any company within a group ofcompanies which includes a parent company andall its subsidiaries where the parent company hasone or more subsidiaries and such subsidiaries arecontrolled by the parent company either byappointing a majority of the Board of Directors ofsuch subsidiary or by holding more than one halfin nominal value of the equity share capital of suchsubsidiary..

14.Section 23 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 19 of 2003, is hereby further amended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (a) of thatsubsection, for the words by such person;,of the words and figures by such person, forany year of assessment commencing on orbefore April 1, 2003;;

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200412

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of thatsubsection, for the words an allowance fordepreciation, of the words and figures for anyyear of assessment commencing on or beforeApril 1, 2003, an allowance for depreciation;

(c)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(b) of that subsection, of the following newparagraph :

(bb) an allowance for depreciation by wearand tear of the following assets acquired,constructed or assembled and arising out oftheir use on or after April 1, 2004, by suchperson in any trade, business, profession orvocation carried on by him

(i)information technology equipments andcalculating equipment includingaccessories acquired or assembled bysuch person and software, acquired bysuch person, at the rate of twenty fiveper centum per annum on the cost ofacquisition or assembling of suchequipments, as the case may be ;

(ii)any motor vehicle or furniture acquiredby such person, at the rate of twenty percentum per annum, on the cost ofacquisition ;

(iii)any other machinery or equipment notreferred to in sub paragraphs (i) and (ii)above and any plant acquired orassembled by such person, at the rate oftwelve and one half per centum perannum, on the cost of acquisition orassembly ;

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200413

(iv)any intangible assets (other than good-will) acquired by such person, at the rateof ten per centum per annum, on the costof acquisition ;

(v)any bridge, railway, reservoir, electricityor water distribution line and toll roadsconstructed by such person or acquiredfrom a person who has constructed suchassets during the period of suchownership, at the rate of six and two thirdper centum per annum, on the cost ofconstruction or cost of acquisition as thecase may be ;

(vi)any qualified building or any unit of acondominium property acquired whichis approved by the Urban DevelopmentAuthority established by the UrbanDevelopment Authority Law, No. 41 of1978, and constructed to be used as acommercial unit or hotel building(including a hotel building complex) orindustrial building or industrial buildingcomplex acquired from a person who hasused such buildings in any trade orbusiness, at the rate of six and two thirdper centum per annum, on the cost ofconstruction or cost of acquisition as thecase may be :

Provided that no deduction under thepreceding provisions of this paragraphshall be allowed to a person in respect ofany capital asset referred to in sub-paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or thisparagraph in respect of which the totalof the allowances granted fordepreciation in the preceding years of

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200414

assessment is equal to the cost ofacquisition or cost of construction orassembling, as the case may be, of suchcapital asset by such person ;;

(d)by the substitution in paragraph (cc) of thatsubsection, for the words and figures on orafter April 1, 2002, of the words and figureson or after April 1, 2002 but on or beforeMarch 31, 2004;

(e)by the substitution in paragraph (d) of thatsubsection, for the words acquisition of suchcomputer software:, of the words and figuresacquisition of such computer software on orbefore March 31, 2004:;

(f)by the insertion immediately after the provisoto paragraph (f) of that subsection, thefollowing new proviso :

Provided further that for any year ofassessment commencing on or after April 1,2004, the provisions of sub-paragraph (ii)above, shall be applicable to the business ofletting any premises ;;

(g)by the substitution :

(i)in paragraph (g) of that subsection, forthe words sum equal to the bad debts,of the words sum equal to the bad debtsrepresenting the supply of goods orservices by such person on credit; and

(ii)in the proviso to paragraph (g) of thatsubsection, by the substitution for thewords vocation or employment ;, of thewords vocation or employment and for

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200415

the purpose of this proviso, sumsrecovered shall be deemed to include anyreduction as at the last date of such periodin any estimated amount of a doubtfuldebt previously allowed as a deduction;;

(h)by the substitution for sub-paragraph (i) of theproviso to paragraph (m) of that subsection,of the following sub-paragraphs :

(ia)in respect of expenses incurred in relationto a vehicle used partly for the purposesof his trade, business, profession orvocation and partly for the domestic orprivate purposes of an executive officerbeing employed by him or a non-executive director of such organization,unless the value of the benefit as specifiedunder the proviso to paragraph (b) ofsubsection (2) of section 4 of this Acthas been included in the remunerationof such officer, for the purposes ofdeduction of income tax under ChapterXIV of this Act;

(ib)in respect of expenses incurred in relationto a vehicle, where more than one vehicleis provided to any employee of suchperson or to any non-executive directoror to any other individual who is not anemployee but rendering services in thetrade, business profession or vocationcarried on by such person, if such vehicleis not the first vehicle provided to suchemployee, or non-executive director orsuch other individual, as the case maybe;

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200416

(ic)in respect of expenses incurred in relationto a vehicle where such vehicle isprovided to any other person who is notan employee of such person and whodoes not render any services to the trade,business, profession or vocation carriedon by such person;

(id)in respect of expenses incurred in relationto the reimbursement of any expenditureon a vehicle belonging to an employeeof such person who has been allowed bythe employer to claim such expenses,unless the value of benefit of using suchvehicle for non-business purposes bysuch employee as determined by theCommissioner General has been includedin the remuneration of such employee forthe purposes of deduction of income taxunder Chapter XIV, or in the opinion ofthe Commissioner General such amountthat is reimbursed represents onlyexpense on allowable traveling expensesin relation to the trade business,profession or vocation carried on by suchemployer;

For the purposes of sub-paragraphs(ia), (ib) and (ic) the expenses incurredshall not include any lease rental or otherrental payment in respect of such vehicleor the cost of acquisition or the cost offinancing of the acquisition of suchvehicle;

(i)by the substitution in paragraph (r) of thatsubsection for the words of the lump sumpayment, of the words of the lump sumpayment, which not being an advancepayment, ; and

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200417

(j)by the substitution in paragraph (s) of thatsubsection for the words sum paid, by a, ofthe words sum paid on or before March 31,2004, by a.

(2)in subsection (3) of that section by the substitutionfor the words Where any person and of the wordscarried on or exercised by him, of the wordsSubject to the provisions of subsection (3A), whereany person, and of the words carried on orexercised by him, whether such profits and incomeare fully or partly exempt from income tax,respectively.

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)of that section, of the following new subsection :

(3a) Where a disposal takes place under theprovisions of subsection (3) on or after April 01,2004, the total proceeds of the disposal shall betaken into account in calculating such receipt orexpenditure, as the case may be, from such trade,business, profession or vocation.;

(4)in subsection (5) of that section by the substitutionfor the words paragraph (a) or paragraph (b), ofthe words paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) orparagraph (bb),;

(5)in subsection (7) of that section

(a)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) ofparagraph (a) of that subsection, for the wordsparagraph (a), paragraph (b), of the wordsparagraph (a), paragraph (b), paragraph (bb);

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of thatsubsection, for the words utensils, articles orequipment, of the words utensils, articlesor equipment or any bridge, railway, reservoirelectricity or water distribution lines, tollroads;

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200418

(c)by the substitution in sup-paragraph (iii) ofparagraph (f) for the words to a companyreferred to in paragraph (xv) of subsection (1)of section 14,, of the words to a companywhich is incorporated mainly for theacquisition of the assets of that business,; and

(d)by the insertion immediately after sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph (f), of thefollowing new sub-paragraph :

(v)where any asset used in the business ofleasing as part of the leasing stock isdisposed of subsequently, either bytransferring such asset out of the leasingstock or by fransferring such stock to thelessee, the market value as at the time ofsuch transfer of such asset shall bedeemed to be a receipt from such tradeor business of the lessor, unless suchlessor proves to the satisfaction of theassessor that all receipts under such leaseagreement, including total rentalsreceivable or received, as the case maybe, advance payments received, earlysettlement fees and all other similarreceipts have been considered as taxablereceipts in computing profits or incomefrom such business ;

(vi)where any person has obtained an assetunder a lease agreement and the relevantlease rentals have been allowed to suchperson as expenditure incurred in anytrade, business, profession or vocationeither fully or partly, the receipts fromdisposal of such asset, less any cost ofacquisition other than lease rentals paidon such asset by such person afteracquiring it directly or through anominee, shall be treated as a receiptfrom such trade, business, profession orvocation of such lessee ;

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200419

(vii)where any lessee has acquired any assetused by him in any trade, business,profession or vocation under a leaseagreement, such acquisition shall not beconsidered as an acquisition whichqualifies for any depreciation allowanceunder this section, and such asset shallbe treated as an asset on whichdepreciation has been granted to suchlessee to the extent of the repayment ofthe capital value of such asset under suchlease agreement by such lessee..

15.Section 24 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 19 of 2003, is hereby further amended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (j) of thatsubsection for the words is not treated asincome, of the words is not treated as areceipt from such trade, business, professionor vocation;

(b)by the substitution for paragraph (o) of thatsubsection, of the following paragraph :

(o) (i)one half of the excess of anyexpenditure in relation to anyemployee including an executiveofficer but excluding any directoror senior executive officer; and

(ii)three fourths of the excess of anyexpenditure in relation to anyemployee who is a director orsenior executive officer (being anofficer receiving a salary of not lessthan rupees fifty thousand permonth),

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200420

incurred by such person in providing anyplace of residence to any employee of suchperson or to the spouse, child or parent ofsuch employee over the rental value of suchplace of residence which is included in theprofits from employment of such employeewithin the meaning of section 4.

For the purposes of this paragraphexpenditure shall include rent, lease rent,rates, repairs and maintenance or otherexpenses directly and specifically related tosuch place of residence whether incurreddirectly or indirectly by the employer;;

(c)by the substitution in paragraph (p) of thatsubsection for the words in any year ofassessment, of the words in any year ofassessment commencing on or before April01, 2003; and

(d)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(p) of that subsection, of the following newparagraph :

(pp)such part of the rental paid by him underany finance leasing agreement enteredin to by him in any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2004,in respect of

(i)any motor vehicle, furniture,plant, machinery or equipmentother than informationtechnology equipment andcalculating equipment includingaccessories and computersoftware and other computing orcalculating machine referred to in

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200421

paragraph (bb) of subsection (1)of section 23, as in excess of one-fifth of the total rental payableunder such agreement; and

(ii)any information technologyequipment and calculatingequipment including accessoriesand computer software asreferred to in paragraph (bb) ofsubsection (1) of section 23, as inexcess of one-fourth of the totalrental payable under suchagreement;;

(e)by the substitution in paragraph (r) of thatsubsection for the words from the sale ofcapital assets, of the words from the sale ofcapital assets;; and

(f)by the addition immediately after paragraph(r) of that subsection, the following newparagraphs :

(s)any expenditure or outgoing in relationto any asset provided by such person toany employee to be used in theresidence of such employee;

(t)any expenditure or outgoing in relationto any movable or immovable propertygiven by such person to any employeeat a price less than market value at thetime of giving such property;

(u)any expenditure or outgoing in relationto any loan, other advance or creditgranted to any employee which issubsequently written off as a bad debtby such person..

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200422

(2) in subsection (2) by the substitution for the wordsunder paragraph (b) of, of the words underparagraph (b) or paragraph (bb) of .

16.Section 29 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amended as follows:

(1)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1B)of that section of the following :

For the purposes of subsection (1A) and (1B), aprimary market transaction means the purchaseof any Security or Treasury Bond issued under theRegistered Stocks and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420) or Treasury Bill issued under theLocal Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417) orCentral Bank Security issued under the MonetaryLaw Act, (Chapter 422) at the time of the originalissue of such Security, Bill or Bond, by any primarydealer subject to any discount or payment of interestby the issuer.;

(2) by the repeal of subsection (1C) of that section, andthe substitution therefore of the followingsubsection :

(1C)The assessable income of any person shall notinclude

(a)(i)any reward received by such personas an informer under any schemefor the payment of such rewards; or

(ii)a share of fine received by suchperson under any scheme for thedistribution of such share of fine,

form any Government Institution, on orafter April 1, 2003, from which incometax has been deducted in accordancewith Chapter XVIB;

Amendment ofsection 29 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200423

(b)the receipt of any lottery prize orwinnings from gambling or betting fromwhich tax has been deducted undersection 132A ; and

(c)interest received on the compensationpayable in respect of any immovable ormovable property vested in theGovernment or in the Land ReformCommission or in a Public Corporationfrom which the income tax has beendeducted under section 33.;

(3)in subsection (2) of that section

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (aa) of thatsubsection, for the words on or after April 1,2002, of the words on or after April 1, 2002but prior to April 1, 2004;

(b)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(aa) of that subsection, of the following newparagraph :

(aaa) sums paid by such person for any yearof assessment commencing on or afterApril 1, 2004 by way of annuity,ground rent, royalty or interest notdeductible under section 23, whichamount has not previously beenallowed as a deduction under thissection on the basis of amountpayable or paid :

Provided that

(i)no deduction shall be allowedin respect of any such sum paidunless the assessor is satisfiedthat the recipient of suchpayment has issued a valid

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200424

receipt for such payment,containing name, address andthe income tax file number (ifany) of such person in Sri Lankaor that the tax has been deductedunder this Act before or at thetime such payment is made;

(ii)where for any year ofassessment any such sum paidand deductible under thissubsection exceeds the totalstatutory income for that year,the excess shall be treated forthe purposes of this section, inthe same manner as a lossincurred in a trade during thatyear;

(iii)where any sum is paid by suchperson by way of an annuity, nodeduction shall be allowed inrespect of such annuity, unlesssuch annuity is paid

(a)under an order of courtby way of payment ofalimony or maintenance;

(b)to his spouse under aduly executed deed ofseparation; or

(c)in return for fullconsideration in moneyor moneys worth.

(iv)where any sum is paid by suchperson by way of interest, nodeduction shall be allowed in

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200425

respect of such interest unlesssuch interest is paid under anylegal or contractualobligation

(a)to any bank licensedunder the Banking Act,No. 30 of 1988 or anyfinance companyregistered under theFinance Company Act,No. 78 of 1988; or

(b)to any other personrecognized by theCommissioner-Generalfor the purposes of thisparagraph :

Provided however, where theCommissioner-General issatisfied that such recipient ofinterest has declared suchinterest as income under thisAct, such person may bedeemed to be a recognizedperson.

For the purposes of thisparagraph the term interestmeans any interest paid on aloan the proceeds of which areutilized

(i)for the construction orpurchase of any housefor residential purposesor for the purchase ofany site for the

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200426

construction of any suchhouse for residentialpurposes;

(ii)in any trade, business,profession or vocationcarried on or exercisedby him.;

(c)by the omission of all the words from whichif it had been a profit to as the case maybe;, appearing immediately after paragraph(c) of that subsection;

(d)by the substitution in paragraph (d) of thatsection, for the words income of a previousyear of assessment;, of the words

income of a previous year of assessment,which if it had been a profit would have beenassessable and which had not been allowedagainst his total statutory income for any yearof assessment within such period of six yearsor eleven years, as the case may be:;

(e)the proviso to paragraph (d), and the provisoto subsection (2) as inserted by Act No. 37 of2003, are hereby repealed ;

(f)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(e) of that subsection, the following newparagraph :

(f)The amount of a loss (other than anycapital loss) incurred by such personin any year of assessment commencingon or after April 1, 2004, in any trade,business, profession or vocationwhich if it had been a profit would

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200427

have been assessable under this Act,including any such loss broughtforward from a previous year whichhas not been deducted under thissection previously, and any deemedloss under paragraph (ii) of provisoto paragraph (aaa) of subsection (2),and where such amount of the loss hasbeen ascertained in the mannerprovided in this Act for ascertainmentof profits from a trade, business,profession or vocation and claimed inthe return of income furnished by suchperson and supported by a statementof account certified by an approvedaccountant, up to a maximum limitof thirty five per centum of the totalstatutory income for that year, and anyloss which cannot be deducted maybe carried forward to the next year ofassessment, and so on :

Provided however

(i)no loss incurred on the disposalof shares, rights or warrants ina company as referred to insection 38D of this Act, shall bea loss deductible under thisparagraph ;

(ii)no loss can be carried forwardbeyond the year of assessmentin which the death of suchperson occurred in the case ofan individual, or liquidation ofsuch person occurred in thecase of a company or otherbody of persons.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200428

(iii)where any person has beendeclared or adjudged insolventby a competent court, no lossincurred prior to the date ofbankruptcy or insolvency, asthe case may be, shall bededucted from income arising ;

(iv)no loss can be deducted whichis incurred by a company inwhich there had been a changeof ownership otherwise than byway of testate or intestatesuccession, except against thestatutory income of such tradeor business of the company asthat in which the loss wasincurred.

For the purpose of this paragraph, achange of ownership of a company isdeemed to have occurred where morethan one-third of the issued sharecapital of the company is held, at anytime in the year of assessment for whichthe claim for deduction, is made eitherdirectly or through nominees, bypersons who did not hold such sharecapital, at any time in the year ofassessment in which the loss wasincurred.;

(4)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)of that section, the following new subsection :

(2A) The provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d)and (e) of subsection (2), shall have no applicationwith effect from April 1, 2004.; and

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200429

(5)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of subsection(3) of that section, for the words and figuresprovided in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of subsection(2)., of the words and figures provided inparagraphs (b), (c), (d) or (f) of subsection (2)..

17.Section 30 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2002, is hereby further amended insubsection (1) thereof, by the repeal of paragraph (a) of thatsubsection, and the substitution therefor of the followingparagraph :

(a)an allowance of

(i)one hundred and forty four thousand rupees,in respect of every year of assessmentcommencing prior to April 1, 2002; or

(ii)two hundred and forty thousand rupees, inrespect of every year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2002 butprior to April 1, 2004; or

(iii)three hundred thousand rupees, in respect ofevery year of assessment commencing on orafter April 1, 2004; and.

18.Section 31 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 37 of 2003 is hereby further amended as follows:

(1)in subsection (2) of that section

(a)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (viii) ofparagraph (b) of that subsection, for the wordsapproved by the Minister., of the words andfigures approved by the Minister :

Amendmentof section 30of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 31 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200430

Provided that such part, if any, of anydonation otherwise than in money, made onor after April 1, 2004 as is in excess of twomillion rupees shall be deemed not to comprisea qualifying payment.;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (e) of thatsubsection, for the words paragraph (b) ofsection 9;, of the words and figuresparagraph (b) of section 9 :

Provided that where such contribution madeon or after April 1, 2004 exceeds 12per centum of such emoluments, such excessshall be deemed not to comprise a qualifyingpayments ;

(2)in subsection (4) of that section

(a)by the substitution for sub-paragraph (i) ofparagraph (a) of that subsection, of thefollowing sub-paragraph :

(i)in respect of all qualifying paymentsother than those referred to in

(A)paragraphs (b), (c), (g) and (h) ofsubsection (2) made by him ordeemed to have been made by himin any year of assessment ending onor before March 31, 2004 ; and

(B)paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (e), (g), (h),(i), (j) and (k) of subsection (2) madeby him or deemed to have been madeby him in any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1,2004, shall not exceed one third ofsuch assessable income or twentyfive thousand rupees, whichever isless ;; and

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200431

(b)by the substitution for sub-paragraph (v) ofparagraph (a) of that subsection, of thefollowing sub-paragraph :

(v)in respect of the aggregate of allqualifying payments made

(A)on or before March 31, 2004 andreferred to in paragraphs (a), (c), (d),(e), (f), (i), (j) and (k) of subsection(2) shall not exceed twenty fivethousand rupees ; and

(B)on or after April 1, 2004 and referredto in paragraphs (a), (e), and (g) ofsubsection (2) shall not exceedseventy five thousand rupees or onethird of such assessable income,whichever is less. ; and

(3)in subsection (6A) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words any qualifying payment referred toin paragraph (i) of subsection (2), of the words anyqualifying payment referred to in paragraph (i) or (j)of subsection (2).

19.Section 38 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amended by thesubstitution for the words Sixth Schedule to this Act,, ofthe words and figures Sixth Schedule to this Act, for anyyear of assessment commencing on or before April 1, 2002and on such profit and income for the period up to andincluding June 30, 2003 in the year of assessmentcommencing on April 1, 2003..

20.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 38 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 38A, section 38B, section 38Cand section 38D of that enactment:

Amendment ofsection 38 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsections 38A,38B, 38C and 38Din the principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200432

38A. The profits and income of any foreigncurrency banking unit arising from any off-shore foreign currency transaction shall, for anyyear of assessment commencing on or afterApril 1, 2004, be liable to income tax at theappropriate rate given in the Sixth Schedule tothis Act.

For the purposes of this section, any foreigncurrency transaction which any foreigncurrency banking unit enters into with any otherforeign currency banking unit, shall be deemedto be an off-shore transaction.

38B. The profits and income arising in SriLanka to a consignor or consignee, from theexport of -

(a)any precious stones or metals not minedin Sri Lanka ;

(b)any petroleum, gas or petroleumproducts ; or

(c)such other products as may be approvedby the Minister for the purposes of thisparagraph, having regard to the foreignexchange benefits that are likely toaccrue to the country from the export ofsuch products,

being goods brought to Sri Lanka on aconsignment basis, and re-export withoutsubjecting such goods to any process ofmanufacture, shall for any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2004 be liableto income tax at the appropriate rate given inthe Sixth Schedule to this Act.

Rate ofincome tax onprofits andincome of anyforeigncurrencybanking unitarising fromany off-shoreforeigncurrencytransaction.

Rate ofincome tax onprofits andincome arisingin Sri Lanka tothe consignoror consigneefrom certainexports.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200433

38C. The profits and income arising to anyperson from an undertaking approved by theMinister for the operation and maintenance offacilities for the storage of goods orcommodities brought into Sri Lanka for re-export, shall for any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2004, be liableto income tax at the appropriate rate given inthe Sixth Schedule to this Act.

38D. The profits from the sale of any shareof a person, other than a unit trust or a mutualfund, including a right to any share or a bonusshare or a warrant for any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2004, wheresuch profits derived by or accruing to suchperson from such sale has taken place withintwo years from the date of acquisition, be liableto tax at the appropriate rate given in the SixthSchedule to this Act.

For the purposes of this section profits,includes gains and shall be computed, afterdeducting any expenditure allowable undersection 23 dierctly related to the disposal ofsuch shares and the cost of acquisition of suchshares, from the sale preceeds, and shall be thenet profit or gain for that year, after deductinglosses incurred in the same year from thedisposal of shares, rights or warrants, calculatedin the same manner as mentioned above, hadsuch loss been a profit or gain would have beenliable to tax under this paragraph, have beenheld for a period not exceeding twenty fourmonths by such person, and in the event thatthe sale comprises shares of the same company,acquired on different dates, the cost of suchshares or the period of ownership shall bedetermined on a first in first out basis of such

Rate ofincome tax onprofits andincome arisingfrom certainundertakingsapproved byMinister.

Rate ofincome tax onsale of anyshare or awarrant.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200434

shares. Any excess of such deductible loss overthe profits or gain for any year may be carriedforward to the succeeding year and so on, anddeducted in computing the net profits or gainsunder this paragraph..

21.Section 48A of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby repealed and the followingsection substituted therefor :

48A. Where the taxable income of anyperson (other than a company) for any year ofassessment includes a dividend, other than anydividend exempt from income tax as referredto in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g)and (h) of section 11, declared on or after April1, 2002-

(i)not in the form of money or an order topay money ;

(ii)in the form of money or an order to paymoney out of income exempt from tax ornot chargeable with tax ; or

(iii)out of dividends received from anothercompany where such dividend is notexempt from income tax under section 11,without a deduction of tax undersubsection (1A) of section 61, irrespectiveof whether such company is entitled todeduct such tax or not,

the income tax on such dividend shall becharged at the appropriate rate as specified inthe Sixth Schedule to this Act..

22.Section 52A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-

Replacement ofsecrion 48A of theprincipalenactment.

Rate ofincome tax oncertaindividends.

Amendment ofsection 52A of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200435

(1) by the repeal of subsection (6) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(6) For the puropse of this section specialemployment tax credit means the sum which bearsto the income tax payable by that individual forthat year of assessment, the same proportion as theproportion which the employment income exemptunder paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1) of section9, (other than a benefit referred to in paragraph (c) ofsubsection (1) of section 4, of this Act), bears to thetotal statutory income of that individual for thatyear of assessment.; and

(2)by the substitution in subsection (7) of that sectionfor the words calculated in accordance withsubsection (6), of the words as defined insubsection (6).

23.Section 53 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution for paragraph (b) andparagraph (bb) of that subsection, of thefollowing paragraphs :

(b)equal to fifteen per centum of theaggregate amount of the gross dividenddistributed by such company, not beinga quoted public company, in that yearof assessment being a year ofassessment commencing prior to April1, 2002, out of the profits on which thetaxable income of such compay iscomputed for any year of assessmentother than any such dividend distributedto a person referred to in paragraph (a)and paragraph (b) of section 8;

Amendment ofsection 53 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200436

(bb)equal to ten per centum of the aggregateamount of the gross dividenddistributed by such company, not beingunit trust or mutual fund approved bythe Seurities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka, in that yearof assessment, being a year ofassessment commencing on or afterApril 1, 2002 out of the profits on whichthe taxable income of such company iscomputed for any year of assessment,other than any such dividendsdistributed to

(i) any company or other body ofpersons who or which is exemptfrom income tax under paragraph(a) or paragraph (b) of section 8 ;or

(ii) any unit trust or mutual fundapproved by the Securities andExchange Commission of SriLanka :

Provided however, income taxequal to ten per centum shall bepayable on any dividenddeclared, not being a dividenddeclared to any person referredto in sub-paragraphs (i) or (ii) onthe amount of gross dividenddeclared by such company on orafter April 1, 2004, out of profitsand income of such company,whether such profits and incomeare chargeable with income taxor not chargeable with incometax, excluding any dividendreceived from another companyafter deduction of income tax

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200437

under this subsection on anydividend which is exempt undersection 11 to the recipient of suchdividend;;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (e) of thatsubsection for the words under paragraph(1), of the words under paragraph (a) ofsubsetion (1); and

(2)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection

(3) The amount of gross dividend in relation toany dividend received from anothercompany, shall be such amount of the dividendreceived..

24.Section 60 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2002, is hereby further amended by thesubstitution for the words and figures commencing prior toMarch 31, 2002, of the words and figures commencing onor after April 1, 2004..

25.Section 61 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amendedby the repeal of subsection (1A) of that section, and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:

(1A)Every resident company, (other than a unit trust ormutual fund approved by the Securities andExchange Commission of Sri Lanka shall deductfrom the amount of gross dividend payable to anyshare holder other than

(a)any company or other body of personswho or which is exempt from income taxunder paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) ofsection 8;

Amendment ofsection 60 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 61 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200438

(b)any unit trust or mutual fund approved by theSecurities and Exchange Commission of SriLanka,

on or after April 1, 2002, in the form of money oran order to pay money out of profits on which thetaxable income to that company is computed forany year of assessment, income tax equal to tenper centum:

Provided however, income tax under thissubsection, subject to dividends payable to anyperson referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), shall bededucted from the amount of any gross dividendpayable on or after April 1, 2004, out of the profitsand income of such company, whether such profitsand income are chargeable with income tax or not,excluding any dividend received from anothercompany after deduction of income tax undersubsection (1) or under this subsection, and anydividend which is exempt under section 11 to therecipient of such dividend or any dividend declaredby a quoted public company prior to April 1, 2002.

The amount of gross dividend in relation toany dividend received from another company shallbe such amount of the dividend received..

26.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 72 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 72A of that enactment :

72A. (1) Notwithstanding the provisionscontained in section 72, every partnership shallbe charged with income tax on the aggregatedamount of the devisible profits as referred toin section 71 and other income, at theappropriate rate given in the Sixth Schedule tothis Act for each year of assessment

Insertion of newsection 72A in theprincipalenactment.

Taxchargeable onpartnerships.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200439

commencing on or after April 1, 2004,andsuch tax shall be paid by the partnership inquarterly instalments as provided for in ChapterXIII, subject to the provisions of this section.

(2) Where there is a divisible loss for anyyear of assessment, the tax shall be charged onthe total amount of other income, without anyset off of such divisible loss from such otherincome.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other provisions of this Act, the share ofthe tax paid (other than any tax in defaultrecovered) under subsection (1), less anyamount set off against the Economic ServiceCharge paid by the partnership for that yearthat is attributable to each partner using theprofit sharing ratio of the partnership for thatyerar of assessment, may be set-off against theincome tax liability of such partner of suchpartnership for the same year of assessment onsuch share of profit and other income from suchpartnership, without any right to a refund orcarry forward of any excess of such share oftax attributable to such partner.

(4) Any quarterly instalment of tax payableas provided for in Chapter XIII of this Actsubject to the provisions of this section andnot paid on or before the due date, shall be atax in default for the purposes of this Act andrecovery action under Chapter XXII of this Actmay be instituted by the Commissioner -Generalunder that Chapter against any or all of thepartners of such partnership for the recoveryof such tax in default.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200440

For the purposes of this section anyquarterly instalment of tax payable shallinclude an estimated amount of tax on the basisof the preceding years divisible profit andother income, where the divisible profit andother income for that year cannot be ascertaineddue to the non-availability of details of suchprofits and income of the partnership..

27.Section 80 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words does not exceed one hundred and forty fourthousand rupees such income shall not be taxable,; of thewords does not exceed -

(a)one hundred and forty four thousand rupees inrespect of any year of assessment commencing priorto April 1, 2003 ; or

(b)three hundred thousand rupees, in respect of anyyear of assessment commencing on or after April 1,2004,

such income shall not be taxable..

28. Section 91 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words equal to fifteen per centum of the amount ofsuch payment., of the words at the rate specified in theSixth Schedule to this Act..

29.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 97 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 97A of that enactment :-

97A. Where an Assessor is of opinion thatany transaction between the members of agroup of companies which has no economicsubstance, has resulted in a tax benefit to anymember of the group or a loss from any tradeor business to one or more of such members,which can be claimed as a deduction under

Amendment ofsection 80 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 91 of theprincipalenactment.

Assessorspower todisregardcertaintransactionsbetween themembers of agroup ofcompanies.

Insertion of newsection 97A inthe principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200441

section 29, such transaction shall bedesregarded and the relevant persons shall beassessed accordingly.

For the purposes of this section group ofcompanies means a parent company and allits subsidiaries where the parent company hasone or more subsidiaries and such subsidiariesare controlled by the parent company eitherby controlling the composition of the Board ofDirectors of such subsidiary or by holding morethan half in nominal value of the equity sharecapital of such subsidiary..

30.The following new sub-chapter is hereby inserted atthe end of section 97A of the principal enactment :-

L - PETROLEUM EXPLORATION ANDEXPLOITATION

97B. (1) Any person or partnership which hasentered into an agreement as a contractor or sub-contractor under the Petroleum Resources Act,No. 26 of 2003, shall, notwithstanding theprovision of section 73 of this Act, be deemedto be resident in Sri Lanka during the tenure ofsuch contract or sub contract as the case may be,for the purposes of this Act.

(2) The turnover from exports and localsales of petroleum exploited under anyPetroleum Resources Agreement referred to insubsection (1), shall be determined on the basisof accepted commercial practices and besubject to any specific provisions in thePetroleum Resources Agreements, entered intounder the Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of2003.

Insertion of newsub-chapter in theprincipalenactment.

Ascertainmentof profits andincome frombusiness ofpetroleumexploitationunder aPetroleumResourcesAgreement.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200442

(3) The profits and income from the businessof petroleum exploitation under any PetroleumResources Agreement referred to in subsection(1), shall be ascertained after allowing thefollowing deductions in addition to otherallowable expenses under the provisions of thisAct, provided that the same item of expenditureshall not be deducted more than once

(a)payments made to service sub-contractors for conducting petroleumoperations ;

(b)one hundred per centum of the cost ofacquisition of any plant, machinery orequipment used for the recovery ofpetroleum resources in lieu of theallowance for depreciation or cost ofrenewal under setion 23. Any proceedsrealized on the sale of such assets shallbe considered as a receipt from suchbusiness ;

(c)interest expenses ;

(d)royalty paid on petroleum resourcesrecovered under any PetroleumResources Agreement. However, thisamount shall not be allowed as adeduction under section 29 ;

(e)all expenses on the development andproduction of petroleum, includingcapital expenses where a deductionunder paragraph (b) above has not beengranted;

(f)in the year of first commercialproduction, all costs incurred by anycontractor in the exploration forunsuccessful wells in explorationblocks under any Petroleum ResourcesAgreement, up to and including suchyear of first commercial production;

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200443

(g)any costs incurred by any contractor inthe exploration for unsucesful wells inexploration blocs under any PetroleimResources Agreement in any year ofassessment, after the first commercialproduction..

31.Section 98 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amended by theinsertion immediately after subsection (1) of that section, ofthe following new subsections :-

(1A)Any person who is carrying on or carries out anytrade, business, profession or vocation, includingany person incorporated under the Companies Act,No. 17 of 1982 and any company which has enteredinto any agreement with the Board of Investmentof Sri Lanka established under the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978, shallobtain a registration number within one year of suchregistration or incorporation or commencement ofthe activity, as the case may be, from theCommissioner-General, and furnish a retun on orbefore the November, 30, following the end of eachyear of assessment commencing on or after April1, 2003, containing such particulars and documentsas may be specified by the Commissioner-General,notwithstanding that no tax is chargeable under thisAct on such person.

(1B)(a)The Commissioner-General shall issue acertificate of registration containing the name,address, registration number and any otherparticulars as determined by him, to all suchpersons registered under subsection (1A);

(b)It shall be the duty of the Registrar ofCompanies, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary contained in any provisions of the

Amendment ofsection 98 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200444

Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, to obtain thecertificate issued by the CommissionerGeneral under subsection (1A), as an integralpart of the annual return filed under suchCompanies Act -

(i)in relation to any company registeredbefore such date as may be determinedby the Commissioner-General, by anotice published in that behalf, alongwith any annual return due in respect ofany financial year commencing on orafter January 1, 2004 ;

(ii)in relation to any company registered onor after the date determined by theCommissioner-General under sub-paragraph (i), along with the first annualreturn due to be submitted by suchcompany;.

(c)The date as determined by the Commissioner-General under sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph(b), shall immediately upon suchdetermination, be forthwith communicated tothe Registrar of Companies, by theCommissioner-General.

(1C)(a)Every company deemed to be a resident inSri Lanka under section 73 of this Act, shallsubmit a return to the Commissioner-Generalfor each year commencing on or after April1, 2004, on a half yearly basis on or beforeOctober, 31 and April 30, of dividendsdeclared, containing such particulars asspecified by him including the details ofdividends declared during the period April toSeptember and October to March respectively.Where no dividends have been declaredduring any such period, a NIL return shallbe submitted.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200445

(b)Every company not deemed to be a residentin Sri Lanka shall submit a return to theCommissioner-General on a half yearly basison or before October, 31 and April, 30, ofremittances made by such company asreferred to in paragraph (c) of subsection (1)of section 57 containing such particulars asspecified by him, including the details ofremittances made during the period April toSpetember and October to March respectively,in each year. Where there were no remittancesdeclared during such period covered by suchreturn, a NIL return shall be submitted..

32.Section 105 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words any person is liable to pay, and ofthe words shall be paid by such person, and of thewords on him, of the words any person orpartnership is liable to pay, and of the words shallbe paid by such person or partnership and of thewords on him or it respectively ;;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, andthe substitution therefore of the followingsubsection :

(2)The quarterly instalment of a tax payable byany person or partnership for any year ofassessment shall be one-quarter of the taxpayable by him or it for that year ofassessment.;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section, andthe substitution therefore of the followingsubsection :

(3)Notwithstanding anything contained insubsection (1) and subsection (2) of thissection, the entirety of the tax payable

Amendment ofsection 105 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200446

(a)by any company resident in Sri Lankaunder paragraph (b) and paragraph (bb)of subsection (1) of section 53 or undersection 60, in respect of dividendsdistributed by such company; or

(b)by any company not resident inSri Lanka under paragraph (c) ofsubsection (1) of section 57, in respectof remittances made by suchcompany,

shall be paid on or before the thirtieth daysucceeding the date of distribution of suchdividends or making of such remittances, as thecase may be..

33.Section 106 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amended by theaddition at the end of that section, of the followingparagraph :

For the purpose of this section, any person whoreceives a remuneration in cash or kind from anemployer, is deemed to be an employee of suchemployer..

34.Section 107 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) ofthat subsection, the following new paragraph :

(aa)any individual who after April 1, 2004

(i)receives remuneration in excess oftwenty five thousand rupees per monthor three hundred thousand rupees peryear,

Amendment ofsection 106 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 107 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200447

(ii)is a director or non-executive directorto whom any payment is made or is dueby or from such employer or whoreceives any other benefit as anemployee or in any other capacity;

(iii)falls within paragraph (b) of section 9and who is in receipt of anyremuneration not paid out of theConsolidated Fund directly or throughthe funds received from theConsolidated Fund; or; and

(2)by the substitution for the words and figures notlater than July 1, 2000,, of the words and figuresnot later than July 1, 2000 and in respect ofparagraph (aa) above, not later than December 1,2004,.

35.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 108 of the principalenactment, and shall have effect as section 108A of thatenactment :

108A. (1) Where an employer pays anyremuneration or provides any benefit to anydirector, whether executive or non-executive,or to any Chairperson of the Board of Directorsof any company or provides a benefit in cashor in kind to any other person who is notconsidered to be an employee and where suchamounts are not taken into account in theapplication of the tax tables referred to insection 108, such employer shall deduct tax atthe rate of ten per centum on such amounts orthe value of such benefits in terms of theprovisions of this Chapter. No direction shallbe issued or entertained under section 109 inrelation to such amounts or value of benefits.

Deduction oftax at specialrates.

Insertion of newsection 108A inthe principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200448

(2) No refund shall be made under this Act inrelation to the income tax deducted in terms ofsubsection (1), notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in this Act, but such income tax maybe set off against the income tax liability ofsuch person in respect of the same year ofassessment, if such amounts or the value ofbenefit has been included in his total statutoryincome for that year.

(3) Where any employer who is required todeduct tax on any remuneration using tax tablesas referred to in section 108 omits to do so,and deducts tax at the rate of ten per centumon such remuneration, such employer shall beliable to pay such tax in default calculated onthe basis of the difference between tax payableunder the tax tables as provided for in section108 and tax deducted by the employer underthis section, and be liable to a penalty notexceeding ten per centum of such tax in default,calculated as follows :

(a)where the tax payable on a returnsubmitted under subsection (1) ofsection 98 has not been paid fully orpartly on or before the due date, at therate of five per centum for the first monthof such default and a further one percentum for each month or part of amonth thereafter, on such amount of taxin default;

(b)where an assessment has been issued inthe absence of a return due from suchperson and the relevant tax is in default,at the rate of ten per centum on suchamount of tax in default;

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200449

(c)where an assessment was under appealand the tax became payable on thesettlement of such appeal, at the rate often per centum on such amount of taxthat became payable,

and the Commissioner-General may recoversuch tax from such employer as tax in defaultunder this Act.

(4) Any employer who fails to deduct tax asprovided for in subsection (1) from any benefits,in cach or kind, provided during the periodApril 1, 2004 up to such date as may bedetermined by the Commissioner-General bya notice published in that behalf, shall not bein default, if such employer has provided thefull details of such payment from which taxhas not been deducted, to the Commissioner-General within thirty days of such date..

36.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 118 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 118A of the at enactment :

118A. Notwithstanding the provisions ofsection 118, where any income tax payable byany employer under the provisions of thisChapter is in default in respect of a pay periodcommencing on or after April 1, 2004, suchemployer shall pay in addition to such tax apenalty, not exceeding ten per centum of suchtax in default calculated as follows :

(a)where the tax payable on a returnsubmitted under subsection (1) ofsection 98 has not been paid fully orpartly on or before the due date, at therate of five per centum for the first month

Penalty ondefault.

Insertion of newsection 118A inthe principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200450

of such default and a further one percentum for each month or part of amonth thereafter, on such amount of taxin default ;

(b)where an assessment has been issued inthe absence of a return due from suchperson and the relevant tax is in default,at the rate of ten per centum on suchamount of tax in default ;

(c)where an assessment was under appealand the tax became payable on thesettlement of such appeal, at the rate often per centum on such amount of taxthat became payable..

37.Section 119 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words to have beendeducted., of the words to have been deducted :

Provided however, for any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2004, such employee shallbe entitled to set off the tax deducted under this Chapter onthe basis of a tax deduction certificate, if the income fromwhich such income tax has been deducted forms part of histotal statutory income for that year of assessment..

38.Section 122A of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :

(1)by the insertion immediately after sub-paragraph(ii) of paragraph (a) of that subsection, the followingnew sub-paragraph :

(iii)where the interest paid or credited to anyindividual on or after January 1, 2004 by suchbank or financial institution on all deposits

Amendment ofsection 119 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 122A ofthe principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200451

maintained by such individual with that bankor financial institution is not less than ninethousand rupees in any month or not less thanone hundred and eight thousand rupees in anyperiod of twelve months,;

(2)in paragraph (a) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words on the total amount ofinterest paid or credited on such deposits:, withthe following words and figures

on the total amount of interest paid or creditedon such deposit during the period up to December31, 2003, and on the total amount of interest paid orcredited on all deposits maintained by such individualwith such bank or financial institutions, for any periodcommencing on or after January 1, 2004.

For the purposes of this paragraph, where thedeposit is maintained by one or more individualsas a joint deposit, interest on such deposits shall beaggregated for the purposes of deduction of incometax to the interest earned on other deposits held bysuch individuals to the extent of his entitlement onsuch joint deposit. Any interest on a joint depositonce aggregated to any individual on this basis, shallnot be aggregated to any other individual again forthe purposes of deduction of income tax. Anyinterest on a deposit maintained by any receiver,trustee, executor, administrator, curator or guardianor any other person in similar capacity on behalf ofan individual or jointly for a group of individuals,shall be treated in the manner provided in thisparagraph:.

39.section 122B of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that subsection, by thesubstitution in paragraph (b) of that subsection, for the wordssimilar facility or financial instrument, of the wordssimilar facility.

Amendment ofsection 122B ofthe principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200452

40.Section 123 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 19 of 2003, is hereby further amended by theaddition immediately after the proviso to paragraph (b) ofthat section, of following new proviso :

Provided further, that where such deduction is inrespect of any corporate debt security issued with adiscount without any right to receive any interest orother benefit subsequent to the original issue, suchperson shall not be entitled to any refund under section169 in respect of the amount of any such deductionwhich may not be set off due to the provisions of thefirst proviso to this paragraph..

41.Section 123A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words if such interestincome forms part of the assessable income of such person,of the words if such income interest forms part of thestatutory income of such person being a company or theassessable income of such person being a person other thana company,.

42.Section 123B of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substitutedtherefor :

123B.(1) Where any person has proved tothe satisfaction of the Commissioner-Generalthat such person has already paid income taxon any interest subject to income tax at ten percentum under section 122A or 122B of this Act,and any claim is made in writing within twelvemonths from the date of payment of such tax,such person shall be entitled to a refund ofsuch income tax paid by him on such interestincome, other than any tax deducted under 122Aor 122B on such interest income.

Amendment ofsection 123 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 123A ofthe principalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 123B ofthe principalenactment.

Refund ofincome taxpaid oninterest liableto withholdingtax.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200453

(2) Where any person being a companywhich has included any interest income referredto in section 122A or 122B of this Act in itstotal statutory income, has by virtue of thenotional credit referred to in section 123A, paidany income tax in excess of its income taxliability for that year of assessment, then suchexcess may be carried forward to be set offagainst the income tax liability in any futureyear of assessment, but such company shall notbe entitled to a refund of such excess or anypart thereof.

(3) Any interest accrued to any person notbeing a company or any other person orpartnership receiving such interest as businessincome for any year of assessment, shall notbe included in the total statutory income forsuch year of assessment, if such person provesto the satisfaction of the Assessor that the totalamount of such interest will be liable to thededuction of income tax under section 122A or122B, as the case may be..

43.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 124A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 124B of that enactment :

124B. (1) Any person other than anindividual from whose interest income tax isdeductible by a bank, financial institution, ora company which issues any corporate debtsecurity in accordance with the provisions ofparagraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 122Aor subsection (1) of section 122B, as the casemay be, where such interest income will formpart of the assessable income of such personfor any year of assessment, may, if the amountof income tax payable by such person for suchyear of assessment is less than the income tax

Insertion of newsection 124B inthe principalenactment.

Issue ofdirectionswheredeductions aremade frominterestincome undersection 122Aor 122B.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200454

deductible during that year of assessment undersection 122A and 122B, make an application tothe Commissioner-General in such form andcontaining such particulars as may be specifiedby the Commissioner-General, requesting thata direction be issued to the bank or financialinstitution or any company which issuescorporate debt security subject to the deductionof income tax, to make necessary adjustmentsin the deduction of income tax during that yearof assessment :

Provided however if such person hasobtained a direction under any other section ofthis Act, such direction shall also be taken intoconsideration in making a direction under thissubsection.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1) of section 124A or of this section,any individual from whose interest incomeincome tax is deductible by a bank or financialinstitution in accordance with the provisionsof paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section122A, during any period commencing on orafter January 1, 2004, and where

(a)such interest income is the sole incomeor the major source of income of suchindividual, where more than ninety percentum of his income consists of suchinterest income for that year ofassessment ;

(b)the amount of the interest incomereceivable on all deposits maintained bysuch individual either singly or jointly inall banks and financial institutions, doesnot exceed rupees twenty five thousand ina month or rupees three hundred thousandin any twelve months period; and

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200455

(c)the total income of such person for thatyear of assessment including any incomeexempt from income tax does not exceedrupees three hundred thousand for thatyear of assessment,

may make an application to the relevant bankor financial institution where such deposit isheld, requesting that no income tax be deductedfrom the interest payable on the depositsmaintained by him as provided in paragraph(a) of subsection (1) of section 122A, pendingverification of facts mentioned in suchapplication by the relevant authority. Theapplication shall contain the followingparticulars

(i)full name and address of the depositsholder and the National Identity Cardnumber or Passport number with the dateand place issue;

(ii)name of the bank or financial institutionwith which deposits are held;

(iii)reference number of all deposits held insuch bank or financial institutions, andthe interest payable on each deposit anddate payable;

(iv)any relevant facts in relation to thequantum of total interest receivable ondeposits, and whether such income is thesole income or major source of incomeof such individual as referred to inparagraph (a) above, and that the totalincome for such year of assessment doesnot exceed rupees three hundredthousand, including any income exemptfrom tax; and

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200456

(v)a declaration certifying the correctnessof the above details.

Where the status with regard to the income ofsuch individual has been changed subsequently,a fresh application shall be made.

(3) (a) On receipt of an applicationcontaining all particulars as mentioned insubsection (2) and being satisfied with theidentity of such applicant, the Chief ExecutiveOfficer or any other designated officer not belowthe rank of a manager, shall make necessaryendorsements on that application and issue therelevant instructions to refrain from deductionof tax from the interest paid or credited to suchindividual, unless such officer or the institutionreceives a direction to the contrary from therelevant authority or any other officerauthorized by him.

(b) The Chief Executive Officer or any otherdesignated officer not below the rank of amanager of such bank or financial institution,shall submit the originals of all suchapplications received and accepted with thenecessary endorsement, to the relevantauthority or any other officer authorized by therelevant authority, retaining a copy of suchapplication with such bank or financialinstitution.

(c) Any individual who has furnishedincorrect information to a bank or financialinstitution and has obtained the relief of nonpayment of income tax under this section, shallbe liable to pay such tax due on interest incomeas provided in section 122A, with hundred percentum penalty thereon, and such tax and

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200457

penalty shall be a tax in default under this Act,and shall be recovered by the Commissioner-General as provided for in Chapter XXII of thisAct.

For the purposes of this section, the relevantauthority means the Commissioner-Generalof Inland Revenue.

44.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 129 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 129A of that enactment :

129A. Where any income tax payable by abank or a financial institution under theprovisions of this Chapter is in default for anyyear of assessment commencing on or afterApril 1, 2004, such bank or financial institutionshall pay in addition to such tax a penalty andinterest in the manner provided in subsection(3A) of section 144, notwithstanding theprovisions of section 129..

45.The following new section is inserted immediatelyafter section 130B of the principal enactment, and shall haveeffect as section 130C of that enactment :

130C. (1) Any bank or financial institutionwhich is liable to deduct income tax frominterest paid by such bank or financialinstitution under this Chapter on or afterJanuary 1, 2004, shall apply for and obtain aregistration number from the Commissioner-General thirty days prior to the commencementof such deduction of tax, and shall furnish areturn to the Commissioner-General on amonthly basis containing such particulars asmay be specified by the Commissioner-Generalin relation to such deductions :

Insertion of newsection 129A inthe principalenactment.

Penalty andinterest ondefault.

Insertion of newsection 130c inthe principalenactment.

Registrationof banks andfinancialinstitutions.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200458

Provided that in respect of payments madeduring the period January 1, 2004 to September30, 2004, such registration shall be obtainedon or before September 30, 2004.

(2) Any bank or financial institution whichdoes not so register or does not furnish anyreturn shall be liable to a penalty not exceedingrupees fifty thousand which may be imposedby the Commissioner-General..

46.The following new sections are hereby inserted inChapter XVI of the principal enactment immediately beforesection 131 and shall have effects as sections 130D and 130Eof that enactment :

130D. (1) Any person or partnership who orwhich is liable to deduct income tax fromspecified fees under this Chapter on or afterApril 1, 2004, shall apply for and obtain aregistration number from the Commissioner-General thirty days prior to the commencementof such deduction of tax, and shall furnish areturn on a monthly basis containing suchparticulars as may be specified by theCommissioner-General in relation to any suchdeductions:

Provided that in respect of payments madeduring the period April 1, 2004 to September30, 2004, such registration number shall beobtained on or before September 30, 2004.

(2) Any person or partnership who or whichdoes not so register or does not furnish anyreturn, shall be liable to a penalty not exceedingrupees fifty thousand which may be imposedby the Commissioner- General.

Insertion of newsections 130Dand 130E in theprincipalenactment.

Registrationof specifiedpersons.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200459

130E. (1) Any person or partnership who orwhich is liable to deduct income tax from rent,lease rent or other payments made by suchperson or partnership under this Chapter on orafter April 1, 2004, shall apply for and obtaina registration number form the CommissionerGeneral thirty days prior to the commencementof such deduction of tax, and shall furnish areturn on a monthly basis containing suchparticulars as may be specified by theCommissioner-General in relation to any suchdeductions :

Provided that in respect of payments madeduring the period April 1, 2004 to September30, 2004, such registration number shall beobtained on or before September 30, 2004.

(2) Any person or partnership who or whichdoes not so register or does not furnish anyreturn, shall be liable to a penalty not exceedingrupees fifty thousand which may be imposedby the Commissioner-General..

47.Section 132A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the substitution for the words and figures,Where, on or after April 1, 2003 , of the wordsand figures Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other law, where on or after April 1,2003; and

(2)by the substitution for the words share of fine ,,of the words share of fine, other than any suchshare of fine not paid out of the Consolidated Fundor which will fall under the profits form employmentin terms of section 4 of this Act, in relation to anyindividual who holds any paid office under theRepublic of Sri Lanka,.

Registration ofpersons liableto deduct taxfrom rent,lease rent orother similarpayments.

Amendment ofsection 132A ofthe principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200460

48.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 132B of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as section 132C of that enactment :

132C. (1) any person or partnership who orwhich is conducting any lottery or betting orgambling activity within the meaning of thisChapter on or after April 1, 2004, shall applyfor and obtain a registration number from theCommissioner-General, thirty days prior to thecommencement of such activity, if the prizesawarded or payments made are liable to thededuction of income tax under this Chapter,and shall furnish a return on a monthly basiscontaining such particulars as may be specifiedby the Commissioner-General in relation to suchactivity :

Provided that in respect of paymentsmade during the period April 1, 2004 toSeptember 30, 2004, such registration numbershall be obtained on or before September 30,2004.

(2) Any person or partnership who orwhich does not so register or does not furnishany return, shall be liable to a penalty notexceeding rupees fifty thousand whichmaybe imposed by the CommissionerGeneral..

49.The following new Chapter is hereby insertedimmediately after Chapter XVIB of the principalenactment, and shall have effect as Chapter XVIC of thatenactment :

Insertion of newsection 132C ofthe principalenactment.

Registrationof personsconductinglotteries orbetting orgamblingactivities.

Insertionof newChapterXVIC in theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200461

CHAPTER XVIC

DEDUCTION OF INCOME TAX FROM ANY ANNUITY OR ROYALTY PAID

OR ANY MANAGEMENT FEE PAID OR SIMILAR PAYMENT MADE BY ANY

PERSON OR PARTNERSHIP

132D. Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other law, where on or afterApril 1, 2004 any person or partnership pays

(a)an annuity or royalty other than any suchannuity or royalty referred to in section90 ; or

(b)any management fee or other similarpayment,

such person or partnership, as the case maybe, shall deduct at the time of such payment ofannuity, royalty, management fee or such othersimilar payment, income tax at the rate of

(i)ten per centum of the gross annuity orroyalty paid; and

(ii)five per centum of any management feepaid or any other similar paymentmade:

Provided however, that incase of any paymentreferred to in paragraph (a), the tax shall bededucted only where each such payment ofannuity or royalty to any person or partnershipis in excess of rupees fifty thousand in any month,or rupees five hundred thousand in any year.

132E. (1) The provisions of Chapter XVrelating to the deduction of income tax frominterest paid by banks or financial institutions,credit for income tax so deducted, issue of

Personspayingannuity,royalty,managementfee or similarpayment todeduct incometax.

Application ofthe provisionsof Chapter XVto thisChapter.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200462

directions, duties of banks and financialinstitutions, default in the deduction of incometax, issue of assessments on banks and financialinstitutions and appeals and penalty for default,shall, mutatis mutandis apply to the deductionof income tax from such payments of anyannuity, royalty, management fee or such othersimilar payment as is mentioned in section132D, duties of persons or partnership makingsuch payments of any annuity, royalty,management fee or similar payments, credit forincome tax so deducted, issue of directions,default in the deduction of income tax, issue ofassessments on such persons and appeals andpenalty for default under this Chapter, as if therewere substituted in Chapter XV for the wordsbanks and financial institutions of the wordspersons or partnerships liable to pay suchannuity, royalty management fee or such similarpayment and for the word interest of thewords annuity, royalty management fee or suchsimilar payment wherever they appear in thatChapter.

(2) Any person or partnership who or whichis liable to deduct income tax under thisChapter on or after April 1, 2004, shall applyfor and obtain a registration number from theCommissioner-General thirty days prior to thecommencement of such deduction of tax andshall furnish a return on a monthly basiscontaining such particulars as specified by theCommissioner-General :

Provided that in respect of payments madeduring the period April 1, 2004 to September30, 2004 such registration number shall beobtained on or before September 30, 2004.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200463

(3) Any person or partnership who or whichdoes not so register or does not furnish anyreturn, shall be liable to a penalty not exceedingrupees fifty thousand which may be imposedby the Commissioner-General.

(4) Any person or partnership who or whichis liable to deduct income tax under thisChapter but has not deducted during the periodApril 1, 2004 up to such date as may bedetermined by the Commissioner-General bynotice published in that behalf, shall not be indefault, if such person or partnership informsthe Commissioner-General within thirty daysof such date, full details of such payments madewithout tax deduction..

50.Section 134 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures required under subsection(1) of section 105., of the words and figures

required under subsection (1) of section 105:

Provided further that any assessment in relationto the tax payable by a company under paragraph(bb) of subsection (1) of section 53 or paragraph(c) of subsection (1) of section 57, shall be madeafter the expiry of thirty days from the due date forpayment of such tax.; and

(2)in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words assessment so annulled., of thewords

assessment so annulled :

Amendment ofsection 134 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200464

Provided that such further assessment shallbe limited to only one assessment in place ofthe assessment so annulled, and no furtherassessment or additional assessments shall bemade..

51.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after the section 144 of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as section 144A and section 144B ofthat enactment

144A. Any tax in default under this Chaptershall not be recoverable as provided in ChapterXXII after expiry or a period of sixty monthsfrom the end of the month in which such taxwent into default, notwithstanding anythingcontained in this Act or any other written law,but subject to the provisions of section 162A.

144B. Where any person, including a directoror a principal officer of a company or a partnerof a partnership or a member or an office-bearerof an un-incorporated body, in respect ofincome tax payable by such person, includinga company, partnership or other un-incorporated body respectively, has defaultedin the payment of such tax due and where suchdefault commences on or after April 1, 2004,and continues for a period exceeding thirty sixmonths, the Commissioner-General shall submitto the Magistrate a certificate containingrelevant particulars, including the amount oftax in default, the period of default and accruedpenalty and interest. Such person, including adirector, principal officer, partner, a member oran office bearer, as the case may be, shall beliable, on conviction after summary trial beforea Magistrate, to a period of imprisonment ofeither description not exceeding three months :

Insertion of newsections 144A and144B in theprincipalenactment.

Time limitsfor recoveryof income tax.

Punishmentfor tax default.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200465

Provided that in the case of a director or aprincipal officer of a company, the Magistratemay allow such person to show cause that heis not responsible for such default or that hehas taken all necessary steps within his powerto avoid the non-payment of such tax :

Provided further that any written agreementbetween the Commissioner-General or any otherofficer appointed under this Act who isauthorized by the Commissioner General toexercise any powers under Chapter XXII for therecovery of tax, and the defaulter, to pay the taxin default in installments within the period oftime stipulated in section 144A for the recoveryof tax in default, shall be taken into considerationbefore acting under this section, if such defaulterhas honoured such agreement..

52. Section 158 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words any person and for the words wealth tax orgift tax assessed upon him,, of the words any person whois a defaulter and of the words wealth tax or gift tax whichhave become default as assessed upon him or otherwise,,respectively.

53.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 162 of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as section 162A of that enactment :

162A. (1) Where any tax in default is to berecovered under this Chapter in instalments,the period during which such instalmentpayments are to be made shall not extendbeyond the period referred to in section 144Ain relation to the recovery of any tax in default.

Amendment ofsection 158 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 162A inthe principalenactment.

Where taxdefault is tobe recoveredin instalments,period duringwhich theinstalmentsare to be paidnot to extendbeyond theperiodreferred to insection 144A.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200466

Any such instalment payments allowed butnot paid within the period referred to in section144A may be recovered by the Commissioner-General under this Chapter, notwithstanding theprovisions of such section.

(2) Where

(a)the seizure of any property undersection 148;

(b)the imposition of a sentence by aMagistrate under section 149;

(c)the issue of any valid notice by theCommissioner-General undersection 150;

(d)the issue of any valid notice to theemployer of the defaulter by theCommissioner-General underSection 152; or

(e)the issue of a certificate by theCommissioner-General to theMagistrate under section 158 and theprevention of the defaulter fromleaving the island,

has taken place within the period referred to insection 144A, any subsequent action directlyrelated to the relevant action for recovery asmentioned above, shall not be affected by theprovisions of such section.

54.Section 169 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition at the end of that section, thefollowing new subsection

(8)Nothing in the above provisions of this section shalloperate in relation to the following deductions

Amendment ofsection 169 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200467

(a)income tax paid by a primary dealer on anyinterest under section 122A or 122B, onprimary market transactions;

(b)income tax paid by any person on any interestunder section 122A or 122B (not being anyinterest referred to in paragraph (a) paid byany primary dealer) where such interest isnot included in his assessable income, or onany dividends under subsection (1A) of section61;

(c)income tax paid by any person as providedfor under section 33 or on any rewards or shareof fines received, a lottery prize or winningsfrom betting or gaming taxable under section132A..

55.Section 173 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words compound any proceedings thereunder., ofthe words compound any proceedings thereunder, subjectto the recovery of an amount that is not less than one thirdof the fine that may be imposed under sub-paragraphs (i) and(ii) of subsection (1), Such fine recovered shall be credited tothe Consolidated Fund..

56.Section 186 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act No. 19 of 2003, is hereby further amendedby the substitution for the definition of the term business,of the following definition :

business includes an agricultural undertaking, the racingof horses, the letting or leasing of any premisesincluding any land by a company and the forestry;.

57.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows :Amendment ofFirst Schedule tothe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 173 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 186 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200468

(1)in Part 1B of that Schedule, by the substitution forthe words any year of assessment, of the wordsthe year of assessment;

(2)by the insertion immediately after Part 1B of thatSchedule, of the following new Part :

PART 1C

For any year of assessment commencing on or after April1, 2004

On the first Rs. 240,000 of the taxableincome10 per centum

On the next Rs. 240,000 of the taxableincome20 per centum

On the balance taxable income30 per centum.

(3)in Part IIIA of that Schedule, by the substitutionfor the words and figures for any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2002-, of the wordsand figures for the year of assessment commencingon April 1, 2002 and for the immediately succeedingyear of assessment-.; and

(4)by the addition immediately after Part IIIA of thatSchedule, of the following new Part :

PART IIIB

For any year of assessment commencing on or after April1, 2004

On the first Rs. 2,000,000NilOn the next Rs. 500,0005 per centumOn the next Rs.500,00010 per centumOn the balance15 per centum.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200469

58.The Third Schedule to the principal enactment asamended by Act, No. 37 of 2003, is hereby further amendedas follows :

(1)by the substitution for item 5 thereof, of thefollowing item :

5 Partnerships (on anyassessment made)30 per centum;

(2)by the substitution in item 6 thereof, for thewords and figures Law No. 5 of 1972, of the wordsand figures Law No. 5 of 1972 or clubs orassociations referred to in section 96, for any yearof assessment commencing on or after April 1,2003; and

(3)by the substitution for item 10 thereof, of thefollowing item :

10. Business Undertakings vested in theGovernment under the Business Undertaking(Acquisition) Act, No. 35 of 1971,

(i)on the taxable income30 per centum

(ii)on the balance of the profitsafter deduction therefrom, ofthe tax payable underparagraph (i)25 per centum

59.The Sixth Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows :

(1)by the substitution in item 5 of that Schedule, forthe words and figures arising from any on-shoreforeign currency banking transactions (section 38),of the words and figures arising from any on-shoreforeign currency banking transactions for any yearof assessment commencing on or before April 1,2002 and on profit and income for the period up toand including June 30, 2003 (section 38);

Amendment ofthe ThirdSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofthe Sixth Scheduleto the principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200470

(2)by the insertion immediately after item 5 of thatSchedule, the following new items :

(5a)The rate of income tax on profitsand income from off-shore foreigncurrency transactions of anyforeign currency baking unit(section 38A)

(5b)The rate of income tax on profitsand income arising to anyconsignor or consignee fromentrepot trade involving preciousstones, metals not mined in SriLanka or any petroleum, gas orpetroleum products or suchother approved products (Section38B)

(5c)The rate of income tax on profitsand income arising to any personfrom any approved undertakingfor the operation andmaintenance of facilities for thestorage of goods or commoditiesinvolving entrepot trade-(section38C)

(5d)The rate of income tax applicableto any profits or gains on thedisposal of company shares, rightsor warrants (section 38D)15 per centumunless suchperson is liableat 10 percentum only.

10 per centum

10 per centum

20 per centum

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200471

(3)by the addition immediately after item 20 of thatSchedule, the following new items :

21.The rate of income tax applicableto any partnership on the divisibleprofits and other income, otherthan on any assessment made(section 72A)

22.The rate of income tax applicableto any person who is not a citizenof Sri Lanka carrying on theprofession or vocation ofentertainer or artist (section 91)

23.The rate of income tax applicableto any profits and income frompetroleum exploration of anyperson or in the case of a partnerof a partnership, as referred to insection 97B (section 97B).

60.Section 31A of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of1979 as amended by Act No. 24 of 1997 is hereby furtheramended in subsection (5) thereof, by the substitution forthe words allowance is deducted., of the words allowanceis deducted :

Provided that any balance of investment tax allowanceas at March 31, 2005 shall not be carried forward orrefunded.

61.(1) The amendments made to section 10, paragraph(t) of section 15 and sections 48A, 61, 123A and 123B of theprincipal enactment by sections 4, 6(5), 20, 24, 41 and 42 ofthis Act, shall for all purposes be deemed to have come intoforce on April 1, 2002.

(2) The amendment made to section 21F of the principalenactment by section 11 of this Act, shall for all purposes bedeemed to have come into force on October 1, 2002.

15 per centum

15 per centum

10 per centum

Retrospectiveeffect.

Amendment ofsection 31A ofthat InlandRevenue Act No.28 of 1979.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200472

(3) The amendment made to section 123 of the principalenactment by section 40 of this Act, shall for all purposes bedeemed to have come into force on November 1, 2002.

(4) The amendments made to section 8 by the inclusion ofnew paragraphs (LXXV) and to paragraph (a) and the provisoto paragraph (a) by section 3 of this Act, shall for all purposesbe deemed to have come into force on February 14, 2003.

(5) (a) The amendments made to sections 21D, 21E, 21H,38 and 52A of the principal enactment by sections 9, 10, 12,18 and 21 of this Act; and,

(b) The new paragraph (hh) of section 3 and section 97Ainserted in to the principal enactment by section 2(2) and 28of this Act,

shall for all purposes be deemed to have come into forceon April 1, 2003.

(6) (a) The amendments made to section 8 by the inclusionof new paragraph (LXXVI) and (LXXVII) and to section11, 15, (other than paragraph (t)), 29 (1C) and (2), 31, 53,60, 107, 119, 122A, 122B, 169, 186 and the First, Third andSixth Schedules of the principal enactment by sections 3, 5,6, 15(2) and (3), 17, 21, 22, 23, 34(1), 37, 38, 39, 54, 56, 57,58 and 59 of this Act; and

(b) Sections 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 72A, 97A, 98A, 108A, 118A,124B, 129A, 131A, 131B, 132C, 144A, 144B, 162A and ChapterXVIC inserted in to the principal enactment by section 19,25, 28, 31, 35, 36, 43, 44, 46, 48, 51, 53 and 49 of this Act,

shall for all purposes be deemed to have come into forceon April 1, 2004.

62.The amount of tax charged or collected from anyperson by or on behalf of the Commissioner-General priorto the date of commencement of this Act, by virtue of theapplication of any provision of this Act, shall be deemed to

Validation andIndemnity.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200473

have been validly charged and levied by the Commissioner-General or by such person who charged and levied such taxon behalf of the Commissioner-General, and theCommissioner-General and such other person is herebyindemnified from any action, civil or criminal, in respect ofthe charging or collection of such tax

63.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 12 of 200474

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.