PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 4.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of November 14, 2003

[Certified on 14th November, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PLANTATIONMANAGEMENT (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 38 OF 2003

National Institute of Plantation Management(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 20031

Short Title.

Amendment ofsection 4 of Act,No. 45 of 1979.

2 H 019157 5,650 (07/2003)

[Certified on14th November, 2003]

L. D. O. 17/99

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PLANTATIONMANAGEMENT ACT, NO. 45 OF 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the National Institute ofPlantation Management (Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003.

2.Section 4 of the National Institute of PlantationManagement Act, No. 45 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to asthe principal enactment ) as amended by Act No. 5 of 1987is further amended as follows :

(i)by the deletion in paragraph (h), of the word and;and

(ii)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (k) ofthe following new paragraphs :

(l)promote investment in plantationmanagement ;

(m)undertake the collection anddissemination of data relating toplantations and plantation management,and to conduct research to ascertain thedevelopment potential of plantations ;and

(n)advise the Minister on appropriatepolicies relating to plantationmanagement and to co-ordinate withother relevant agencies..

2National Institute of Plantation Management(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003

3. Section 6 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 76 of 1981 and Act, No. 5 of 1987 is hereby furtheramended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following newsubsection :

(1)the Institute shall have a Board of Governors(hereinafter referred to as the Board)consisting of

(a) the following ex-officio members,namely

(i) the person holding office for the timebeing as the Director of the NationalInstitute of Plantation Managementappointed under section 16 of this Act ;

(ii) the person holding office for the timebeing as the Director of the TeaResearch Institute established by ActNo 52 of 1993 ;

(iii) the person holding office for the timebeing as the Director of the RubberResearch Institute; and

(iv) the person holding office for the timebeing as the Director of the CoconutResearch Institute ;

(b) the following nominated membersappointed by the Minister, namely :

(i) a representative of the Tea SmallHoldings Development Authorityestablished by the Tea Small HoldingsDevelopment Authority Law, No. 35of 1975, nominated by suchAuthority ;

Amendmentof section 6 ofthe principalenactment.

National Institute of Plantation Management(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 20033

(ii) a representative of the PlantersAssociation of Ceylon established bythe Planters Association of CeylonOrdinance (Capter 291), nominated bysuch Association in consultation withthe Tea Association of Sri Lanka(TASL) ;

(iii) two representatives of the Ministry ofthe Minister in charge of the subjectof Plantation Industries, nominated bythat Minister ;

(iv) two members representing TradeUnions, which shall be selected onsuch criteria as may be determined bythe Minister in charge of the subjectof Plantation Industries ;

For the purposes of this sub-paragraphTrade Union shall have the samemeaning as in the Trade UnionsOrdinance (Chapter 138);

(v) a representative of the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofFiance, nominated by the Minister ;

(vi) one member, nominated by theFederation of Tea Small HoldingsDevelopment Societies in consultationwith the Tea Association of Sri Lanka(TASL);

(vii) one member nominated by the PrivateTea Factory Owners Association, inconsultation with the Tea Associationof Sri Lanka (TASL) ;

4National Institute of Plantation Management(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003

(viii) a representative of the ThursaviyaSocieties, registered under theThurusaviya Fund Act, No. 23 of 2000,nominated by such societies ;

(ix) a representative of the CoconutGrowers Association nominated bysuch Association.;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(2)(a) The Minister shall appoint a Chairmanfrom amongst the appointed members of the Board.

(b) The Chairman may resign from the office ofChairman by letter in that behalf addressed to theMinister.

(c) The Minister may, for reasons assigned,remove the Chairman from the office of Chairman.

(d) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)and (c), the term of office of the Chairman shall behis period of membership of the Board..

(3)in paragraph (a) of subsection (4) of that section, bythe substitution for the words and figure underparagraph (c) of subsection (1), of the words andfigure under paragraph (b) of subsection (1); and

(4)in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figure under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1), of the words and figure underparagraph (a) of subsection (1).

4.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures paragraph (c) of subsection (1) ofsection 6, of the words and figures paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 6.

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

National Institute of Plantation Management(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 20035

5.Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection :

(1) The Minister may, if he considers it expedient todo so remove by Order published in the Gazette, anymember of the Board appointed under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 6, for reasons assigned :

Provided however a member appointed under sub-paragraph(iv) of paragraph (b), may be removed only with the concurrenceof the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance..

6.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 30 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 30A of that enactment :

30A.(1) The Minister may makeregulations for the purpose of carrying out orgiving effect to the principles and provisionsof the Act.

(2)Every regulation made by the Ministerunder subsection (1) shall be publsihed in theGazette and shall come into operation on thedate of such publication or on such later date asmay be spcified in such regulation.

(3)Every regulation made by the Ministerunder subsection (1), shall as soon as convenientafter its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any suchregulation which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date ofdisapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder. Notification of thedate on which any regulation is deemed to beso rescinded shall be published in the Gazette..

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 30A ofthe principalenactment.

Regulations.

6National Institute of Plantation Management(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003

7.The members of the Board of Governors holding officeon the day immediately preceeding the date of commencementof this Act shall continue to hold office until such time theBoard of Governors is reconstituted under section 6 of theprincipal enactment as amended by this Act.

8.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

TransitionalProvisions.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

National Institute of Plantation Management(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 20037

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.