PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 45.00Postage : Rs. 35.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 08, 2021

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th of October, 2021]

PETROLEUM RESOURCES ACT, No. 21 OF 2021

1Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

[Certified on 08th of October, 2021]

L.D. O. 02/2008 (II)

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR, THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PETROLEUMDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA; THE FORMULATION OF ANATIONAL POLICY ON UPSTREAM PETROLEUM INDUSTRY ANDREGULATION AND MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE CAPTURING THE

MAXIMUM ECONOMIC VALUE OF DOMESTIC PETROLEUM RESOURCES

THROUGH MODERN EXPLORATION, DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTION ANDMANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN SRI LANKA; TO REPEAL THE PETROLEUMRESOURCES ACT, NO. 26 OF 2003; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Petroleum ResourcesAct, No. 21 of 2021.

(2) All the provisions of this Act, other than the provisionsof Part V, shall come into operation on the date on which thecertificate of the speaker is endorsed in respect of this Act interms of Article 79 of the Constitution.

(3) The provisions of Part V of this Act shall come intooperation on such date as the Minister may, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, appoint for such purpose.

2.The objects of the Act shall be -

(a) to establish a Policy Advisory Committee toadvise on formulation of a National Policy forthe upstream petroleum industry covering theexploration, development, production, andmanagement of all petroleum resources in SriLanka;

(b) to provide the legal framework to regulate allprocesses of the exploration, development,

Short title anddate ofoperation

Objects of theAct

2Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

production and management of all petroleumresources in Sri Lanka including the provisionof operational guidelines;

(c) to establish an independent, efficient, andtransparent regulatory framework in relation tothe exploration, development, production andmanagement of petroleum resources in SriLanka;

(d) to manage the available petroleum resources inan equitable, safe, and environmentallysustainable manner; and

(e) to design, implement, monitor and revise fiscalregimes that meet evolving economic needs ofthe country, while providing fiscal stability tocontractors.

PART I

PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA

3.(1) There shall be established an Authority to be calledand known as the Petroleum Development Authority ofSri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the "Authority").

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued inits corporate name.

(3) The Authority shall be responsible for

(a) making recommendations in respect of theNational Policy on Upstream PetroleumIndustry to the Policy Advisory Committee;

(b) implementing the provisions of the Act; and

Establishment ofthe PetroleumDevelopmentAuthority ofSri Lanka

3Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(c) performing all regulatory functions connectedto the upstream petroleum industry in SriLanka, in the manner provided for in the Act.

4.The powers, duties and functions of the Authorityshall be:

(a) to prepare a map dividing the offshore and onshoreareas into graticular sections to demarcate anddesignate exploration blocks and developmentblocks and to define and demarcate areas to bedesignated for joint studies;

(b) to promote and market acreage available forinvestment in the blocks as demarcated anddesignated in terms of section 16;

(c) to negotiate with contractors the terms andconditions to be incorporated into each PetroleumResources Agreement, where necessary, inconsultation with the Negotiating Committeeappointed by the Cabinet of Ministers;

(d) to issue all licences and certificates as may berequired to be issued in terms of this Act and tocancel, suspend, vary or amend the same;

(e) to determine and charge the licence fee for licencesissued in terms of this Act;

(f) to issue such directions and guidelines as may berequired to regulate petroleum operations;

(g) to enter into all agreements relating to the upstreampetroleum industry, such as agreements pertainingto data acquisition, licensing and management ofdata;

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Authority

4Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(h) to make recommendations to the Minister on mattersrelating to the assignment or transfer of acontractors participating interest in a PetroleumResources Agreement, on such terms andconditions in keeping with the objects of this Act;

(i) to provide all infrastructural and otheradministrative support as may be required in theprocess of calling for, evaluation of and awardingof bids;

(j) to employ such staff as may be required for theAuthority to achieve the objects of this Act;

(k) to perform competent and responsible regulationof an internationally competitive upstreampetroleum industry;

(l) to acquire and hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, anymovable or immovable property;

(m) to accept grants, gifts or donations from persons orbodies of persons within or outside Sri Lanka:

Provided that, notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other provisions of this Act, theAuthority shall obtain prior written approval of theDepartment of External Resources in respect of allforeign grants, gifts or donations in cash;

(n) to open and maintain accounts, including in foreigncurrencies, in any bank or financial institution asapproved by the Board, and to administer thePetroleum Resources Development Fund in termsof this Act;

(o) to issue such guidelines and directions as may berequired for efficient and effective management ofpetroleum operations and, for management ofpetroleum operations in the event of a disaster;

5Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(p) to monitor and control activities which arenecessary for or conducive or incidental to, achievethe objects of this Act; and

(q) to do all such other acts and things which may beconducive or incidental to, the attainment of theobjects of this Act.

PART II

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE AUTHORITY

5.(1) The administration, management and control ofthe affairs of the Authority shall be vested in a Board ofDirectors (in this Act referred to as the "Board").

(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of administering theaffairs of the Authority, exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, duties and functions conferred on, assigned to orimposed on, the Authority by this Act.

(3) The Board shall consist of -

(a) the ex-officio members namely

(i) the Director-General of the Authority;

(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance or hisrepresentative;

(iii) the Director -General of the Public UtilitiesCommission of Sri Lanka or his nominee;

(iv) the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject of PetroleumResources or his representative not belowthe rank of Additional Secretary of thatMinistry; and

Constitution ofthe Board ofDirectors

6Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(v) the Chairman of the Marine EnvironmentProtection Authority established undersection 2 of the Marine PollutionPrevention Act, No. 35 of 2008 or hisnominee; and

(b)four members appointed by the Minister (hereinafterreferred to as the appointed members) from amongpersons who have achieved eminence in the fieldsof law, finance, geology, petroleum industry,management or economics, whose qualificationsshall be prescribed.

(4) The members appointed under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (3) of this section shall be approved by the Cabinetof Ministers.

6.(1) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointedmembers to be the Chairperson of the Board.

(2) The Chairperson may resign from his office by letteraddressed to the Minister and such resignation shall beeffective from the date on which it is accepted by theMinister.

(3) The Minister may, for reasons assigned thereforremove the Chairperson from the office of the Chairperson.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period ofhis membership of the Board.

(5) Where the Chairperson is temporarily unable toexercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions of his office due to ill health, other infirmity,absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister mayappoint any other appointed member to act as the Chairpersonin addition to his normal duties as an appointed member.

Chairperson ofthe Board

7Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

7.A person shall be disqualified from being appointedas a member of the Board, if he -

(a) is or becomes a member, of the Parliament, anyProvincial Council or any local authority;

(b) is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c) is a person who, having been declared an insolventor a bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or in anyother country, is an undischarged insolvent orbankrupt;

(d) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any othercountry found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(e) is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitudeand punishable with imprisonment for a term notless than six months;

(f) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by a court of Sri Lanka or any other country;

(g) holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by, or on behalf of the Authority; or

(h) has any financial or other interest as is likely toaffect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Board.

8.Every appointed member of the Board shall, unlesshe vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal,hold office for a period of three years from the date of hisappointment and unless removed from office shall be eligiblefor re-appointment for not more than one further term,whether consecutive or otherwise.

Disqualificationsfor beingappointed as amember of theBoard

Terms of officeof the appointedmembers of theBoard

8Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

9.(1) Any appointed member of the Board may at anytime, resign his office by letter in that behalf addressed tothe Minister, and such resignation shall take effect from thedate on which the resignation is accepted in writing by theMinister.

(2) The Minister may, for reasons assigned thereforremove any appointed member from office. An appointedmember who has been removed from office shall not beeligible for re-appointment as a member of the Board or toserve the Board in any other capacity.

(3) In the event of the vacation of office by death,resignation or removal of any appointed member, theMinister shall subject to the provisions of section 5(3)(b)appoint another person to fill such vacancy and such personshall hold office for the un-expired period of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

(4) Where any appointed member of the Board istemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office onaccount of ill health or any other cause or if he is absent fromSri Lanka for a period of not less than three months, theMinister shall, subject to the provisions of section 5(3)(b)appoint any other person to act in place of such memberduring his absence.

(5) Where any appointed member of the Board fails toattend three consecutive meetings of the Board withoutnotifying his absence in advance to the Chairperson, suchmember shall be deemed to have vacated his office and theMinister shall appoint another person to fill such vacancysubject to the provisions of section 5(3)(b).

10.(1) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shallbe five members including the Chairperson and two ex-officio members.

(2) The Director- General shall summon all meetings ofthe Board.

Removal,resignation etc.of appointedmembers

Quorum and theMeetings of theBoard

9Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(3) A meeting of the Board may be held either -

(a) by the number of members who constitute aquorum being assembled at the place, date andtime appointed for the meeting; or

(b) by means of audio- visual communication bywhich all members participating andconstituting a quorum can simultaneously seeand hear each participating member for theduration of the meeting.

(4) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Boardshall be decided by the vote of the majority of memberspresent and voting at such meeting. In the case of an equalityof votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition to his vote, havea casting vote.

(5) The Chairperson shall preside at every meeting of theBoard. In the absence of the Chairperson from any meetingof the Board, any member elected by the members presentshall preside at such meeting of the Board.

(6) The meetings of the Authority shall be conducted inconformity with the rules made and procedure established,by it from time to time.

11.The Board may act, notwithstanding any vacancyamong its members, and any act or proceeding of the Boardshall not be, or deemed to be, invalid by reason only of theexistence of any vacancy among its members or any defectin the appointment of a member thereof.

12.(1) The seal of the Authority

(a) shall be in the custody of such person as theBoard may decide from time to time;

Acts orproceedings ofthe Boarddeemed not tobe invalid byreason of anyvacancy

Seal of theAuthority

10Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(b) may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Board;

(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument except with the sanction of theBoard and in the presence of two members ofthe Board who shall sign the instrument ordocument in token of their presence.

(2) The Board shall maintain a register of the instrumentsand documents to which the seal of the Authority has beenaffixed.

PART III

OWNERSHIP OF PETROLEUM RESOURCES AND PETROLEUM DATA AND

FORMULATION OF NATIONAL POLICY ON UPSTREAM PETROLEUM INDUSTRY

13.(1) The absolute ownership of all petroleum resourcesoccurring naturally

(a) within the subsurface of the land area ofSri Lanka; or

(b) on or below the seabed, the sub soil of thesubmarine areas of Sri Lankas internal waters,historic waters, territorial sea, contiguous zone,exclusive economic zone, and continental shelfestablished in terms of the United NationsConvention on the Law of the Sea, including theStatement of Understanding contained in Annex IIto the Final Act of the said Convention,

shall vest in the State, notwithstanding any right, ownershipor otherwise which any person has to the soil below whichsuch petroleum resources are found.

(2) The ownership of all petroleum data obtained orprepared in pursuant to any petroleum operation in Sri Lankashall be vested in the State and the management and controlof such petroleum data shall be vested with the Authority.

Ownership ofpetroleumresources andpetroleum data

11Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(3) The Authority may issue a licence permitting accessto the petroleum data for the commercial, educational orscientific use by any person subject to the procedure and thefees as may be prescribed.

14.(1) The Minister shall appoint a Policy AdvisoryCommittee, in consultation with the Authority comprisingexperts in the fields of industry, commerce, law and anyother subject to advise on formulating National Policy onUpstream Petroleum Industry.

(2) Upon the advice of the Policy Advisory Committee,the Minister may call for further information as necessaryand he shall provide instructions to formulate the NationalPolicy on Upstream Petroleum Industry embodying interalia the guiding principles, actions and plans set out therein,and the cumulative process to be followed in relation toregulating the exploration, development, production andmanagement of indigenous petroleum resources.

(3) The Minister shall thereafter submit the NationalPolicy on Upstream Petroleum Industry to the Cabinet ofMinisters for its approval.

(4) The National Policy on Upstream Petroleum Industrywhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of such disapproval.

(5) Upon the approval granted by the Cabinet of Ministersunder subsection (3), such National Policy shall be theNational Policy on Upstream Petroleum Industry.

(6) (a) The National Policy on Upstream PetroleumIndustry may be reviewed by the Policy Advisory Committeewhenever it requires to do so.

(b) Such National Policy on Upstream Petroleum Industrymay, on the advice of the Policy Advisory Committee, beamended or varied by the Minister to incorporate any new

Policy AdvisoryCommittee

12Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

developments in petroleum resource management practicesor processes including the technological and commercialdevelopments, whether local or global pertaining to theupstream petroleum industry.

(c) Every such amendment or variation shall be carriedout in accordance with the procedure specified in thissection.

(7) The members of the Policy Advisory Committee shallbe remunerated on such terms and at such rates as shall bedetermined by the Minister in consultation with the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance.

(8) It shall be the duty of every stakeholder to complywith the National Policy on Upstream Petroleum Industry.

PART IV

DEMARCATION AND DESIGNATION OF BLOCKS OR AREAS, ENTERING INTOPETROLEUM RESOURCES AGREEMENT OR JOINT STUDY AGREEMENT AND GRANT OF EXPLORATION LICENCES ETC.

15.A person shall not conduct any petroleum operationin Sri Lanka, unless such person has entered into anagreement in the form of a Petroleum Resources Agreementor a Joint Study Agreement in terms of this Act.

16.(1) The Minister may for the purposes of this Act,within both offshore and onshore areas identified as havingpetroleum potential and which are to be offered to conductpetroleum operations or study or research projects to anycontractor, authorize the Authority to demarcate anddesignate blocks which shall be called exploration blocksor development blocks as the case may be.

PetroleumResourcesAgreement orJoint StudyAgreement

Demarcationand designationof explorationblocks ordevelopmentblocks

13Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(2) The designation of exploration blocks or developmentblocks shall be based on the maps prepared by the Authorityunder section 4(a) of this Act and be identified as follows:-

(a) if situated offshore, be identified with reference tothe area having petroleum potential; or

(b) if situated onshore, be identified with reference tothe Administrative District within which it issituated.

(3) Each graticular section called an exploration blockshall be given a unique reference number which shall becalled as the "block identifier". Such exploration blocksmay be grouped together into larger blocks, designateduniquely, if so desired.

(4) Upon an exploration block being designated undersubsection (1), the Authority shall obtain the approval ofthe Minister to publish the same in a manner prescribed byregulation.

17.The Authority shall, from time to time, call forinvestment proposals locally or internationally, for exploringor developing identified offshore or onshore blocks inconformity with the procedure approved by the Cabinet ofMinisters and prescribed by regulation.

18.(1) A contractor shall enter into a PetroleumResources Agreement in conformity with the provisions ofthis Act and such any as may be other manner prescribed byregulation.

(2) Where the circumstances of an exploration blockrequires any concern related to security, environment, social,cultural and archaeological matter, such matters may beincluded in the Petroleum Resources Agreement. The

Calling ofproposals for theconduct ofpetroleumoperations inrespect ofdefinedexplorationblocks

PetroleumResourcesAgreement

14Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

negotiated terms and conditions of the Petroleum ResourcesAgreement may differ subject to such concerns along witheconomic and technical considerations pertinent to eachexploration block.

(3) The contractor shall, upon entering into a PetroleumResources Agreement, apply for and obtain an ExplorationLicence prior to commencing petroleum operations.

(4) The contractor upon the receipt of the ExplorationLicence shall have the exclusive rights to carry out petroleumoperations in the manner set out in the relevant PetroleumResources Agreement.

19.(1) The Authority may define and demarcate areasto be designated for joint studies, and may entertainproposals thereto from any person that the Board deemssuitable based on his experience, reputation and financialcapability.

(2) The Authority shall submit the proposed Joint StudyAgreement for the consideration of the Minister, and theMinister shall, upon being satisfied with the terms andconditions of the Joint Study Agreement, enter into JointStudy Agreement in conformity with the procedures as maybe prescribed and submit the same for the information of theCabinet of Ministers.

20.(1) Where a contractor discovers petroleum resourcesin commercially viable quantities in the course of conductingpetroleum operations within an exploration block, suchcontractor shall -

(a) forthwith inform the Authority of such discoveryand conduct or cause to be conducted the requiredtests for the purpose of determining whether suchdiscovery merits appraisal; and

Joint StudyAgreements

DevelopmentLicence

15Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(b) submit a programme of work designed to appraisethe petroleum potential of the designated area forapproval of the Authority.

(2) In the event that the appraisal discloses the existenceof a commercially viable quantity of petroleum resources,the Authority may proceed to declare the discovery ascommercially viable in a manner as may be prescribed byregulation.

(3) The contractor shall, having considered thecircumstances and the extent of the commercial discoverydeclared in terms of subsection (2), submit to the Authoritya Development and Investment Plan which shall comprise

(a) such matters as may be prescribed; and

(b) the proposal of the contractor for the developmentand production of the commercial discovery withinthe exploration block,

within such period as may be determined by the Board.

(4) Where the quantity of petroleum resources declaredto be a commercial discovery in terms of subsection (2) islocated within the exploration block or within more thanone exploration blocks, the Authority may

(a) on the basis of the Development and InvestmentPlan submitted by the contractor; and

(b) if located within more than one exploration blockand if no agreement has been entered into withother contractors in respect of such otherexploration blocks,

issue a Development Licence substantially in the format asmay be prescribed to a contractor in respect of the areacomprising the full extent of the discovery, subject to theterms and conditions set out in the Development Licenceand to the requirements set out in the Petroleum ResourcesAgreement.

16Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(5) When obtaining the Development Licence, acontractor shall pay a surface rental in such amount as shallbe determined by the Authority taking into considerationthe specific extent assigned for development under therelevant Development Licence.

21.(1) The contractor may apply for transfer orassignment of a participating interest in a PetroleumResources Agreement, Exploration Licence or DevelopmentLicence as the case may be, to the Authority and the Authoritymay submit the same with its recommendation to theMinister, who shall submit such application and therecommendation of the Authority for the approval of theCabinet of Ministers.

(2) The contractor shall, subject to such terms andconditions as may be imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers,have the right to transfer or assign any or all of hisparticipating interest.

(3) Upon the receipt of the decision of the Cabinet ofMinisters on an application made under subsection (1), itshall be the duty of the Authority, to communicate suchdecision to the contractor making the application.

(4) The transfer or assignment of participating interest ina Petroleum Resources Agreement, Exploration Licence orDevelopment Licence shall be as prescribed by regulation.

22.Any person having a participating interest in thedesignated area to which the Petroleum Resources Agreementapplies, shall be responsible

(a) for ensuring that the provisions of this Act, anyregulations made thereunder, the terms andconditions of the relevant Petroleum ResourcesAgreement, the Exploration Licence, theDevelopment Licence or the Unit DevelopmentLicence, and the directions and guidelines arecomplied with; and

Transfer orassignment of aparticipatinginterest

Responsibility ofpersons with aparticipatinginterest

17Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(b) for liabilities to any injury or damage caused to athird person.

23.A person shall not carry on the business of a providerof goods or services to a contractor with respect to upstreampetroleum operations of a relevant Petroleum ResourcesAgreement or for, or on behalf of a contractor (hereinafterreferred to as the "service provider") except under authorityof a licence issued by the Authority. The procedure and feefor the issue of licence shall be prescribed.

24.(1) Where a petroleum reservoir which is capable ofbeing commercially developed

(a) straddles two or more exploration blocks; or

(b) covers an area which is regulated by two or moreDevelopment Licences,

the Authority shall, for securing more efficient commercialdevelopment of the petroleum reservoir situated therein,require the contractors having an interest in the entirereservoir or such portion of such blocks as the case may be,to jointly submit to the Authority a Unit Development Planwhich shall comprise such matters as shall be specified bythe Authority and such other matters which may in thecircumstances be required for the more efficient commercialdevelopment thereof.

(2) The Authority shall, upon a consideration of the UnitDevelopment Plan submitted to it under subsection (1),recommend such Unit Development Plan with amendmentsrequired if necessary, to the Minister for approval.

(3) After obtaining an approval of the Minister undersubsection (2), the Authority shall notify the contractorswho submitted the Unit Development Plan, that theDevelopment Licence issued to such contractors shall ceaseto be effective from the date of such notification and be

Licensing ofserviceproviders

UnitDevelopmentPlan

18Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

converted to an Unit Development Licence authorising theconduct of joint petroleum operations within the area towhich the Unit Development Plan relates, under the termsand conditions as may be prescribed.

PART V

NATIONAL PETROLEUM OPERATOR

25.(1) There shall be incorporated under the CompaniesAct, No.7 of 2007, a separate corporate entity for the purposeof managing interests of the State in respect of all aspects ofpetroleum resources development (in this Act referred to asthe "National Petroleum Operator") and the Minister shallby Order published in the Gazette, designate it as the NationalPetroleum Operator.

(2) The National Petroleum Operator shall -

(a) hold the participating interest of the State in anyjoint venture and manage the share of the State ofthe petroleum produced;

(b) be jointly and severally liable with all other holdersof participating interest to comply with therequirements of the Petroleum ResourcesAgreement and the terms and conditions set out inany Exploration Licence or Development Licenceor Unit Development Licence issued by theAuthority to the joint venture; and

(c) be liable severally not jointly, for the debts of otherholders of participating interest.

26.The State may, through the National PetroleumOperator, hold a participating interest as specified in therelevant Petroleum Resources Agreement.

Minister todesignate a bodyof persons to bethe NationalPetroleumOperator

Extent of Statesparticipatinginterest

19Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

PART VI

FISCAL PROVISIONS

27.Every Petroleum Resources Agreement shall beapproved by the Cabinet of Ministers including the fiscalprovisions and the production sharing mechanism betweenthe contractor and the State, as shall be negotiated by theAuthority.

28.A mechanism of fiscal stability for any PetroleumResources Agreement aimed at mutually preserving theoriginal project economic commitments, shall be providedwithin such Petroleum Resources Agreement.

29. The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of2017 shall be applicable to the revenue of the contractorfrom any upstream operations unless otherwise specified inthe Petroleum Resources Agreement.

PART VII

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

30.(1) There shall be a Director-General of the Authorityappointed by the Minister and approved by the Cabinet ofMinisters who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of theAuthority.

(2) The Director- General shall, subject to the generaldirections and control of the Board, be responsible for theconduct of all affairs of the Authority, including theadministrative control of the staff of the Authority.

(3) The Director-General of the Authority shall possesssuch qualifications and experience as may be prescribed byregulation.

Terms as toproductionsharing

Fiscal stability

Determinationof profits andincome

Appointment ofa Director-General of theAuthority

20Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(4) The Director-General shall be charged with theresponsibility of ensuring that the powers, duties andfunctions assigned to the Director-General be exercised,performed and discharged in accordance with the provisionsof this Act and any regulations made thereunder.

(5) The Director-General shall be responsible andanswerable to the Board in the exercise, performance anddischarge of his powers, duties and functions assigned undersubsection (4).

31.The powers, duties and functions of the Director-General shall be

(a) to maintain all related registers, maps and otherrecords in respect of each block or area in respect ofwhich a Petroleum Resources Agreement, anExploration Licence, a Joint Study Agreement, aDevelopment Licence or Unit DevelopmentLicence has been issued under this Act;

(b) to prepare draft Petroleum Resources Agreementson a case by case basis, in accordance with suchdirections as may be issued from time to time bythe Authority in that regard;

(c) to collect, compile, analyze and publish or cause tobe collected, compiled, analyzed and published,geological, geophysical, engineering and economicdata pertaining to the available petroleum resourcesof Sri Lanka and to ensure the recognition ofintellectual property rights;

(d) to formulate guidelines for technical evaluation ofgeological samples;

(e) to monitor petroleum operations conducted bycontractors in Sri Lanka and to examine and inspectall books, records, reports, accounts, samples anddata maintained (whether in electronic format orotherwise) by such contractors;

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Director-General

21Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(f) to require a contractor to whom a ExplorationLicence, a Development Licence or a UnitDevelopment Licence as the case may be has beenissued, by notice in writing, to furnish such returnor information as the Authority considers necessaryfor the due discharge of its functions;

(g) to measure quantities of petroleum resourcesrecovered in Sri Lanka and to take samples thereof;

(h) to approve the annual work programmes andbudgets submitted by contractors in terms of aPetroleum Resources Agreement;

(i) to discharge all regulatory functions relating to anyPetroleum Resources Agreement;

(j) to charge fees or any other payments for any servicesprovided by the Authority;

(k) to retain consultants and expert advisors, whennecessary, subject to the approval of the Board,and implement such capacity building measures asare necessary; and

(l) to conduct activities which are necessary for, orconducive or incidental to, the carrying out of thefunctions of the Authority.

32.(1) The Authority shall employ such staff as isrequired for the efficient exercise, perform and discharge ofthe powers, duties and functions assigned to the Authority,including technical and skilled personnel, administrativeand managerial personnel and such other persons as it mayrequire.

(2) The Director-General and staff of the Authority shallbe remunerated in such manner and at such rates, and shallbe subject to such conditions of service, as may be prescribedby the Minister in consultation with the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance.

Staff of theAuthority andremuneration

22Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

33.(1) At the request of the Authority any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and thePublic Service Commission, be temporarily appointed tothe staff of the Authority for such period as may bedetermined by the Authority or with like consent bepermanently appointed to the staff of the Authority.

(2) Where any officer is temporarily appointed to the staffof the Authority, the provisions of subsection (2) of section14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to,him.

(3) Where any officer is permanently appointed to thestaff of the Authority, the provisions of subsection (3) ofsection 14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No.37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis apply to, and in relationto him.

(4) Where the Authority employs any person, who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which hehas agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,any period of service with the Authority by that person shallbe regarded as service to the Government, for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

34.(1) At the request of the Board, any officer or otheremployee of any higher educational institution establishedunder the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 may, with theconsent of that officer or the employee and the principalexecutive officer of that higher educational institution, betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority. Suchappointment shall be for a period as may be determined bythe Board or with like consent be permanently appointed tosuch staff, on such terms and conditions, including thoserelating to pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreedupon by the Board and such principal executive officer.

Appointment ofpublic officersto the staff ofthe Authority

Appointment ofofficers fromhighereducationalinstitutions tothe Authority

23Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(2) Where any person is temporarily appointed to thestaff of the Authority under subsection (1) such person shallbe subject to the same disciplinary control as any othermember of the staff of the Authority.

PART VIII

PETROLEUM RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT FUND

35.(1) There shall be established a Fund to be calledand known as the Petroleum Resources Development Fund(hereinafter referred to as the "Fund") administered by theAuthority, into which shall be paid

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted byParliament;

(b) the fees charged by the Authority under this Act;

(c) all grants, donations, contributions, or any otherincome;

(d) all monies collected in terms of PetroleumResources Agreements; and

(e) the amount of fines recovered under this Act.

(2) The Authority shall utilize the monies in the Fund

(a) towards meeting costs relating to theadministration and development of theAuthority and providing remuneration andincentives to the staff;

(b) to improve the facilities of the Authority;

(c) to conduct such researches or operations as arenecessary to preserve and protect theenvironment from any adverse impacts ofpetroleum operations;

Establishment ofthe PetroleumResourcesDevelopmentFund

24Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(d) to acquire and enhance such data as may berequired to further understand the existence ofpotential petroleum resources of Sri Lanka;

(e) to invest in knowledge transfer training andcapacity building of staff and other employeesof the Authority carrying out functionsconnected with the upstream petroleumindustry for enhancing the management of theupstream petroleum sector; and

(f) to pay all other such expenses as may berequired to be incurred by the Board to achievethe objects of the Act.

(3) The Authority shall at the end of every financial yearcredit to the Consolidated Fund, a sum amounting toten per centum of the monies lying to the credit of the Fund.

36.(1) The financial year of the Fund shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the auditing of accounts shall apply in relation tothe audit of accounts of the Fund.

PART IX

GENERAL PROVISIONS

37.(1) Where any land or any servitude in a land isrequired by the contractor for petroleum operationsconducted or proposed to be conducted by him under aPetroleum Resources Agreement, a Joint Study Agreement,an Exploration Licence, a Development Licence or a UnitDevelopment Licence as the case may be, he shall notify theAuthority of such requirement.

Financial yearand the audit ofaccounts

Acquisition ofproperty forcontractors

25Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(2) Where such land or servitude therein is required bythe Authority for the purpose of the Authority, such land orservitude therein may be acquired under the LandAcquisition Act (Chapter 460) by the Government orAuthority and the provisions of that Act shall mutatismutandis apply for the purpose of acquisition of that land orservitude therein. Such land or servitude therein shall, forthe purposes of the Land Acquisition Act, be deemed to berequired for a public purpose.

(3) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any such landor servitude therein under the Land Acquisition Act, shallbe paid by the contractor.

(4) Where any State land is required for the purpose of theAuthority, such purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose forwhich a special grant or lease of such property may bemade under section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordinance(Chapter 454) and, accordingly, the provisions of thatOrdinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of thatproperty to the Authority.

38.The Minister may from time to time issue suchgeneral or special directions in writing to the Authorityrelating to the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions and it shall be the duty of theAuthority to give effect to such directions.

39.(1) The Board may, subject to such conditions asmay be specified in writing, delegate to the Director-Generalor any officer of the Authority, any of its powers, duties andfunctions under this Act, other than the powers, duties andfunctions specified in paragraphs (g), (h), (j) and (m) ofsection 4 and the Director-General or such officer shallexercise, discharge and perform such powers, duties orfunctions subject to any special or general directions issuedby the Board.

(2) Notwithstanding any delegation made undersubsection (1), the Board may exercise, discharge andperform any such powers, duties or functions so delegated.

Directions of theMinister

Delegation ofpowers, dutiesand functions ofthe Board

26Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

40.(1) The Director-General may delegate any of hispowers, duties and functions under this Act, to any officer ofthe Authority.

(2) An officer to whom any power, duty or function isdelegated under subsection (1), shall exercise, discharge andperform, such powers, duties and functions subject to suchdirections as may be given by the Director-General.

(3) The Director-General shall, notwithstanding anydelegation made under subsection (1), have the right toexercise, discharge and perform any powers, duties orfunctions so delegated.

41.Any officer authorized in writing by the Authoritymay, at any time enter into, and inspect any site wherepetroleum operations are being conducted and carry outinvestigations or surveys thereon as may be necessary toascertain whether the terms and conditions of the PetroleumResources Agreement or Joint Study Agreement or any otherAgreement or the terms and conditions imposed by anExploration Licence, a Development Licence or a UnitDevelopment Licence, any provision of this Act or regulationmade thereunder are being complied with.

42.(1) The Authority shall within six months of theend of each calendar year transmit an annual report includingfinancial report giving full accounts of the activities of theAuthority during that year to the Minister.

(2) The Minister shall cause copies of the annual reportto be placed in Parliament.

43.All members of the Authority, officers, employeesand agents of the Authority shall be deemed to be publicservants within the meaning and for the purpose of the PenalCode (Chapter 19).

Delegation ofpowers, dutiesand functions bythe Director-General

Powers of entry

Annual report

All members ofthe Authorityetc. deemed tobe publicServants

27Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

44.The Authority shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act(Chapter 26) and the provisions of that Act shall beconstrued accordingly.

45.(1) All expenses incurred by the Authority in anysuit or prosecution brought by or against it before any court,shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority and only costspaid to or recovered by the Authority in any such suit orprosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

(2) Any expense incurred by a member of the Board,Director-General, or any officer or other employee of theAuthority, in any suit or prosecution brought by or againstsuch person before any court in respect of any act which isdone or purported to be done by such person under this Act,shall if the court holds that the act was done in good faith, bepaid out of the Fund of the Authority, unless such expensesare recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

46.(1) Any person who

(a) contravenes the provisions of this Act orregulations made thereunder;

(b) resists or obstructs a person authorized undersection 41 in the exercise by such person ofany powers conferred on him by or under thisAct;

(c) fails without reasonable cause, to comply withthe requirements of a notice issued under thisAct;

(d) knowingly makes any false statement in anyreturn or information furnished by him underthis Act or in any application to enter into aPetroleum Resources Agreement or JointStudy Agreement in respect of an explorationblock or a development block;

Authoritydeemed to be aScheduledInstitution

Expenses to bepaid out of theFund of theAuthority

Offences

28Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(e) willfully omits any material fact from anyreturn or information furnished by him underthis Act or in any application to enter into aPetroleum Resources Agreement and JointStudy Agreement, to Exploration Licence,Development Licence, or Unit DevelopmentLicence or, in any Development Plan or UnitDevelopment Plan in respect of an explorationblock or a development block;

(f) willfully damages or sabotages any petroleumoperations; or

(g) fraudulently or negligently deprives the Stateof its share of petroleum resources orpetroleum resources royalty,

commits an offence under this Act and shall be liable onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a fineof not less than four million rupees and not exceeding onehundred million rupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding ten years or to both such fine and imprisonment,and if the offence of which he is convicted is continued afterthe conviction, he commits a further offence and shall beliable in respect hereof to a fine not exceeding fifty thousandrupees for each day on which the offence is so continued.

(2) Where a person is convicted of an offence underparagraph (g) of subsection (1), the Magistrate may orderthe offender to pay the State, compensation in such sum as isequivalent to the value of the petroleum resources or thepetroleum resources royalty, as the case may be, which theState has been deprived of, as a result of the act constitutingthe offence.

47.Where an offence in terms of this Act is committedby a body of persons, then if that body of persons

(a) is a body corporate, every director, manager, orsecretary of that body corporate;

Offences by abody of persons

29Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(b) is a firm, every partner of the firm; or

(c) is an unincorporated body other than a firm, everymember of such body,

shall be deemed to have committed that offence:

Provided that, any person referred to in paragraphs (a),(b) and (c) above shall not be deemed to have committedsuch offence if he proves that such offence was committedwithout his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligenceto prevent the commission of such offence.

48.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofany other matter which is required by this Act to beprescribed or in respect of which regulations are authorizedor required to be made.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1), regulations may be made inrespect of any or all of the following matters:-

(a) the procedure to be followed in relation to datalicensing;

(b) the form of application for an Exploration Licence,a Development Licence and a Unit DevelopmentLicence and the format of such Licences to be issuedunder the Act;

(c) the procedure for calling of proposals and selectingof contractors for the conduct of petroleumoperations in respect of defined exploration blocks;

(d) the procedure to be followed when entering intoPetroleum Resources Agreements and Joint StudyAgreements and to specify the criteria to be includedin the Petroleum Resources Agreement and the JointStudy Agreement;

Regulations

30Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(e) the summary of estimated fiscal projections at theoutset of the project for the information of theMinister and the Authority and for monitoring overthe lifetime of the development;

(f) the specifications for the scope of

(i) geophysical operations and surveys;

(ii) drilling operations; and

(iii) diving activities,

required to be carried out prior to the issue of therespective licences under the Act;

(g) the specifications for the matters

(i) to be included in the programme of work andthe Unit Development Plan;

(ii) relating to the qualifications of non-officialsof the Authority, Board members and theDirector-General, of the Authority;

(iii) relating to environmental protection andoccupational health and safety as areapplicable in relation to the conduct ofpetroleum operations; and

(iv) to be included in relation to local content.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, withinthree months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought

31Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

before Parliament for approval. Any such regulation that isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of disapproval, but without prejudice to anything dulydone thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which a regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

49.(1) The Authority may make rules in respect of

(a) the appointment, employment and dismissalof various officers and their powers, dutiesand functions;

(b) the procedure to be observed at thesummoning and holding of meetings, annualgeneral meeting and extraordinary meetingsof the Board;

(c) the administration and management of theaffairs of the Authority;

(d) all matters in respect of which, rules arerequired or authorized to be made under thisAct.

(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall beapproved by the Minister.

(3) Every rule so approved shall be published in theGazette and shall come into operation upon such publication.

50. (1) The Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003 ishereby repealed.

(2) The Director-General who, and the Authority which,is identified and were functioning as such in terms ofsubsection (5) of section 5 and section 20 of the PetroleumResources Act, No. 26 of 2003, prior to the date of

Rules

Repeals, savingsand transitionalprovisions

32Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

commencement of this Act shall from and after the date ofcommencement of this Act, be deemed to continue to bethe

(a) Director-General appointed in terms of section 30of this Act; and

(b) the Authority established in terms of section 3 ofthis Act.

(3) Notwithstanding the repeal, of the aforesaid Act

(a) all movable and immovable property vested inthe Authority in terms of the PetroleumResources Act, No. 26 of 2003, on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Actshall with effect from the date of commencementof this Act, vest in the Authority established bysection 3 of this Act;

(b) all contracts, Memorandums of Understandingand Agreement entered into by or with theAuthority in terms of the Petroleum ResourcesAct, No. 26 of 2003, subsisting on the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall, with effect fromthe date of commencement of this Act, be deemedto be contracts, Memorandums of Understandingand agreements entered into by or with theAuthority established by section 3 of this Act;

(c) all actions and proceedings instituted by oragainst the Authority in terms of the PetroleumResources Act, No. 26 of 2003, and pending onthe date of commencement of this Act, shall,with effect from the date of commencement ofthis Act, be deemed to be actions andproceedings as the case may be, instituted by oragainst the Authority established by section 3of this Act and may accordingly be continuedand completed;

33Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(d) all persons who were members, officers andemployees of the Authority in terms of thePetroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003, andholding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act, shall,with effect from the date of commencement ofthis Act, be deemed to continue to be members,officers and employees of the Authority underthis Act;

(e) all judgments and orders made in favour of oragainst the Authority in terms of the PetroleumResources Act, No. 26 of 2003, and remainingunsatisfied on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act, shall,with effect from the date of commencement ofthis Act, be deemed to be judgments and ordersmade in favour of or against the Authorityestablished by section 3 of this Act and beenforced accordingly;

(f) all service providers providing goods andservices to any contractor under the terms of alicence issued by the Authority in terms of thePetroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003, andwho are on the day immediately preceding thedate of commencement of this Act, continuingto provide such goods and services, shall, witheffect from the date of commencement of thisAct, be deemed to be service providers for thepurposes of section 23 of this Act; and

(g) all interests, rights, assets, obligations, debts andliabilities of the Authority in terms of thePetroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003, onthe day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed witheffect from the date of commencement of thisAct, to be interests, rights, assets, obligations,debts and liabilities of the Authority.

34Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

(4) All licences issued, regulations made in terms of thePetroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003, and in force onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act and all data sales concluded, surveys conducted,petroleum operations and connected matters and alloperational arrangements carried out, relating to each licenceor agreement as the case may be, shall, with effect from thedate of commencement of this Act -

(a) be deemed to continue to be valid and effectual,unless expressly repealed or if they becomeinconsistent with any new licences issued,agreements entered into, or regulations made underthis Act. In the case of an inconsistency, the newlicences, agreements, or regulations as the case maybe, shall prevail;

(b) be deemed to continue to be valid and effective asif they were concluded, conducted, or carried outunder this Act, unless express provision is made tothe contrary.

51.In this Act unless the context otherwiserequires -

contiguous zone means, the zone declared to be theContiguous Zone of Sri Lanka by Proclamation madeunder section 4 of the Maritime Zones Law, No. 22of 1976;

contractor means, any person or body corporate, localor foreign, authorised to conduct petroleumoperations under a Petroleum Resources Agreementwhich shall include joint study operations;

exclusive economic zone means, the Zone declared tobe the Exclusive Economic Zone by Proclamationmade under section 5 of the Maritime Zones Law,No. 22 of 1976;

Interpretation

35Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

fiscal stability means, maintaining for both contractorand the State the same overall project economics asagreed mutually at the time of entering into aPetroleum Resources Agreement by allowing theadjustment of any of the fiscal parameters in case ofchange of a government fiscal policy;

historic waters mean, the limits of the historic watersdeclared by Proclamation made under section 9 ofthe Maritime Zones Law, No. 22 of 1976;

Joint Study Agreement means, an Agreement enteredinto between the State and one or more contractorsin terms of section 19 of the Act, to study and evaluatethe hydrocarbon potential of a defined area;

Minister means, the Minister assigned the subject andfunctions relating to this Act under Article 44 and 45of the Constitution;

National Policy for the Upstream Petroleum Industrymeans, a policy which outlines the general principles,management, development and all other relatedaspects of the upstream petroleum sector byrecognizing the challenges and providing therecommendations in order to monitor and guide theupstream industry by ensuring the right balancebetween the national interest of the State and theinterests of the contractors or operators;

non-material terms and conditions mean, items that willnot directly impact the evaluation results of theproposals;

participating interest means, the share of ownership orequity of a participant in any entity or a joint venture;

petroleum data means, geological, geophysical,geochemical, petrophysical, engineering, well logs,

36Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

maps, magnetic tapes, cores, cuttings and productiondata as well as all interpretative and derivative dataincluding reports, analyses, interpretations andevaluation prepared in respect of petroleumoperations, economic data and geological samplesincluding all information interpretation reports;

petroleum operations mean, activities in exploration,development and recovery of petroleum resources,including but not limited to geological surveys,interpretation of seismic data, well drilling,production testing, separation, processing, storage,recovery, transportation and marketing;

petroleum reservoir mean, a naturally occurring discreteaccumulation of petroleum resources;

petroleum resources mean, crude oil, natural gas andhydrocarbons whether in natural liquid, gaseous,solid or semisolid state, hydrates of oil and gas,sulphur and other similar substances associated withhydrocarbons that are in site or recovered bypetroleum operations;

Petroleum Resources Agreement means, a contract forproduction sharing entered into in terms of section18 of this Act, between the State and one or morecontractors;

petroleum resources royalty means, the royalty that ispayable by a contractor on the market value of allpetroleum resources that are recovered by him fromthe area covered by a Development Licence;

territorial sea means, the limits of the sea declared to bethe territorial sea of Sri Lanka by proclamation madeunder section 2 of the Maritime Zones Law, No. 22of 1976 and includes the internal waters of Sri Lanka;

37Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

unit development means, the development of a commonreservoir that is situated within the boundaries oftwo or more exploration blocks or the area coveredby two or more development licences;

United Nations Convention on the Law of the Seameans, the United Nations Convention on the Lawof the Sea adopted in 1992 in Montego Bay, Jamaica,entered into force on November 16, 1994 and ratifiedby Sri Lanka on July 19, 1994; and

upstream means, the operational stages in the oil andgas industry that involve exploration anddevelopment and deal with a contractor initiallytaking steps to locate, drill, test and produce oil andgas.

52.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

38Petroleum Resources Act, No. 21 of 2021

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.