PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATS:
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

FIREARMS (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 22 OF 1996. .

[Certified on 21st August, 1996]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Secialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 23, 1994 hs

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKa

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO t

Price: Re12@ - Postage: Bs. 1%


Firearms (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1996

OTOL X (Cerifieg! on 21st- August, pea he
BO. sis pers fybltae Soh Sy siecle:
sree OAS ACT TO'AMEND THR FIRBARMS!’’
OBDINANCE

Ke

“BE it'enacted by the Parliament’ of thie’ Demoeratio "Socialist
hai ine of' Sri Lanka as follows
ity fe eye ;
1 * ‘This Act may be ted as the Firearms (Amendment)
stAct,, Noz-of 1996, and -shall come: into, operation:on-such date
as the Minister may appoint by Order published-in the: Gazette.

2, Section 2 of the Firearms Ordinance (Chapter 182)
*u (hereinafter teferred' to: as ‘* the principal’ enactment”) is hereby
Ligmiended : 1: as followsi—) fevte Oy Set TRa Re tly

(1) by the insertion ‘immédiately after’ the “definition of the
ir expression, /! agricultural purpose ’ iain the following
new definition :-—

GP Sse Elllages TN

2, Rutomatic gua” means a gun which repeatedly
< ejects an’ empty cartrigdé’ shell, ‘and introduces e

K  & pew cartridge on-the firing of the gua ;°;

ISNT

” Ae “eee “ie!

2) by the repeal of the definition of the expressica

_ ‘Government Agent™ je. jeer og 6

@: ‘in the: definition ‘of the .expression:.“ ” by the
> substitution) for . paragraph. (d):: thereof, of the
ering parserap es ean eae

eae,
Sia et

sweotiy  &
dat does not a an air goai”i

1. by th the substitution for: the definition of the expression
“ licensing authority”. of the following definition :-—

eee icensing: auchority’ is means the Secretary;"; :

® by the substitution for the definition of the expression
| _ peace officer” of! the following definition —
ee ‘peace officer” ‘includes any ‘police officer and
i any * Grama’ ~ Niladhari™ ; appointed

3 jy writing to: ‘perform police ‘duties ;’;
46} by the ‘additién’ immediately after’ the definition of
, the. expression Peace officer’? of the following aew

Cae pete Lees bbs Pogs is (6) “ant ait: oo ey

hed Secretary ** means the Secretary to the Ministy

, Of the Minister in charge of the . subject of —

Defence. ’.


2

 Armendemost
of sectics
6 of the
ptind pal

Ameadment
of section 16 of
the prindpal
snactment.

Replacement of
Section 18 of
the principe!
saamment,

Firearms (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1996
3. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amendeé-

by the substitution for the words ** Government Agent” wher-
ever such words occur in that section, of the word ‘* Secretary”.

4. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amended

’ by the substitution for the words ** stamp duty of one rupee.”,
. of the words “* stamp duty of ten rupees”.

5. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutiom
for paragraphs (a) and (d) thereof, of the following
> paragraphs respectively :—
“(a) through any approved port of entry iz
Sri Lanka ; or

(5) by passengers arriving at any approved port
Sri Lanka | as part of
” ; and

of entry in
their personal baggage.

(2) in subsection (2) of that section ,by the substitution
for all the words from ** one thousand rupees ”’ to the
end of that subsection, of the words * ten thousand
rupees, or to imprisonment of either description for
& period .not exceeding five years, or to both. ™.

6. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “ police authorities ”,of the word
*“* Secretary ” ; and

(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for all the words from “* made a declaration ” to the
end of that subsection, of the words *“* made a decla-

- Fation to the customs authorities substantially im
Form B 2 in Schedule A, and obtained a permit fromt

os

the Secretary substantially in such Form. ” .

¥. Section 11 of the Principal enactment is hereby
fepealed andthe following section substituted therefor:—


Z

Firearms (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1996

aporaten 11. Any passenger importing a gun as
y art of his personal baggage, shall not remove
parents p pe &8ag

he shall have made a declaration and ob-
tained from the Secretary, a permit substan
tially in Form'C in Schedule A, and any
person who shall remove such gun from the
customs premises without such permit, of
. Otherwise than in accordance with the provi-
sions of this section shall be guilty of an
olience against this Ordinance. ” .

3. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
38 follows :—

‘(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and the
Substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—

“(1) No person shall expose or keep for sale any. gun
without a licence from the Secretary. ” ; and

(2) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution

for the words ** stamp of sixty rupees, ’’, of the words
** stamp of five hundred rupees. ” .

9. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
4n subsection (3) of that section by the substitution for all the
words from “the nearest Superintendent of Police ” to the end

of that subsection of the words “ the licensing authority within
‘three days of the sale .’”’,

10. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
-in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution for the
words ‘“* Every such permit”, of the words “ Every such permit
shall be issued on payment of a fee of rupees fifty and,” .

11. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby amended

+48 follows :— .

(1) in subsection (1) of that section. by the substitution
for the words ‘* Government Agent ’’ , of the words
** licensing authority ” ;

(2) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words“ stamp of sixty rupees. ’’, of the words
“stamp of five hundred rupees.”

12. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
* .as follows :—

- (1) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution for

the words “ stamp of ten rurees.”, of the words “ stamp
of Gve hundred rupees. "; and

Such gun from the customs premises until’

Amendment £%
of section 14 ef
the principal
enactment.

Amendmen}

of section 15 ef
the principai
enactment.

Amendment

of section 17 of
the principal
enactment,


4 Firearms (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1996

PROM ORE og ita Ph: MORI SISTERS SAE ae
(2) {fo subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution for
on the words: “:local- ‘peeueing authority"; OL the words
mae. as Hicensing authority. :

PRS Wee L , : ae fat

Armenian " “p. Section: n of the principal enactment is hereby amended
sf section 72 ceo WEE BOA dn as
the principal

me) in subsection (2) af that section -—
aC) by the substitution for paragraph (A) of that
subsection, of the following paragraph :—

cuisines,

Vee

+(h) to the possession of any antique, obsolete or

" .. .. unserviceable. gun kept as a curiosity or

Ornament, and certitied as such by the
licensing authority. :"?; and: '.°" °

(b).in paragraph (i) of that subsection by the
you fs i.e. > substitution for the words * the Inspector-Generak
of Police", of. the words ** the Secretary;’’;

(2) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and the
substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—

c+ “ (3)<Any person contravening'the provisions of this
J section. shall!) be. guilty ‘ofan’ offence against this
Ordinance and ‘shall.on. conviction be ‘punishable—

(a) for the first offence, with. a fine not exceeding tem

‘on ‘both such fine. ‘and impagonent “inh i
(5) for the second or any subsequent fiend with.
rigorous imprisonment for a period | of not less
tbat ten years and not: excceding twenty years : :

vb

‘. fy] Vi Beds die

‘Provided: that’ Wherd the offeiice consists’ ‘of having the
| Betty ‘or possession “of. or'of usitfg, an ‘ditéinatic | gun or
repeater shotgun, | the offender. shall .be punished with im-

“DSrisonment for life 2 i
a 7 veri) oe

anbepovidgd furibeg Ether the offence. CONSISTS) of having
‘Shoteun of the les landing, variety the: SHEnCe, shall be
punishable as Paice’ at in secuon al ‘ aa

Flac AP oe Fate be: Q a aT
(3) iby. the addition’ crenredianrel after substetion (3) of that:
section, of the following: new Subsection! :—*

Saeed

table: upon ‘conviction as “if ee oilence were’ ‘included
in the Schedule of fingerprintable offences under the

"PreVentida Sf Crithe’s’ Ofdinance (Chapter 22).


Firearea (Amendumds Act, Ne. 22 of 1996

Re. Section 23 of ‘the principal anactiient Ie hereby amended
BY egbsection (2) of that sectiog by the substitution for the words
“3 soay thereupon ", of the words “ may thereupon being salle
tas that the apa bas the se ak to use such gun”

15. Section 2 of the: otindipat enactment is hereby amended
‘iv the substitution for all the words-and figures from “‘ annual
haty payable” * to the end of that section; of the following words

ape be ahi

¢ .
{

ee stisail panty payable scvording to the e following scales i

fer agricaltural Sar parpose athe thse
iguigore ene purport
' Bs, Cte. Re Co,

4a) gvety taowels loading gaz ww 80 0B A O08
48} avery bresch-loading gun | _ 100 00 nl : | ' , 200" a
{2} gveore rie on 7 ~ $00 r af i . 1,000 oO
_4) every pistol.cr revolver. ..«. 1,008. 08 2. .,. 2,000,

¢) for pelsswe ofa genlicence 10280 Syed 340 B ita

"ysls

=“ is. “Section 25 of the principal enacinieat is hereby repealed

aad the following section substituted therefor :— im

* Appeals, 25.(1) An appeal ties. from a decision of the
licensing authority refusing the issue or rene
i wal ofa:permit.or:a licence under this:‘Ordinance,
to a Board of Review appointed-for:the purpose
by the. Minister, consisting of three persons of
‘whom “one shall be ‘a. retiréd judge’ who har
* been a judge ofa court at the level of a Dis-
trict Court or above, one shall bea retired police
“ Officer: who has held a post. not. below, the rank
“of Sénior. Superintendent: of. Police and one
shall be: a- retired officer.of the Sri: Lanka Ad-
ministrative Service. The Chairman of the
\' Board shall be the retired judges:
i iPad ash)

2) Any officer of 8 ‘rank not below that of a

"Deputy ‘Inspector- General of Polis é, ma y dppeat
to the Board of Review frow a ‘Gecsion n of the
_ licensing authority allowing the issue of &
“Jicence to a person under this. Ordingace w

possess a gun.: Pe DEVS GREYS SE Oe ATES

<4

::1°:(3) The: decision ef. the Board ‘of Review on
any appeal usdes) ts section: shall bé final,

fee ty she at ebro oes

§

Riek they

Q wel gene &S
. Gt PIE, EE

the ptecee”

eA Sets:

A sertsdzirteg:

af estier, 2
tec prune:
REIT IRAE S ,

Sees sere
af awsee 2
Se wesc,
SMA EE

i eaki


Acnendrased

of zaction 29
of the principal}
anactanent,

Firearms (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1996

(4) The Minister may make regulationt
with respect to the hearing of appeals undeg
this section and such regulations may provide
for the time and the manner of prefering such
appeals and the fees payable for such appeals
and the procedure to be observed in the hearing
of such appeals. ” ,

17. section 26 of the principal enactment ts hereby amended
by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section, and the sub-
stitution therefor, of the following subsection :—

*“(1) Where the Board of Review reverses the decision of
the licensing authority by allowing the issue ofa licence on am
appeal made to it under section 25(2), it shall by a writtes
communication inform the person to whom such licence was
issued of the decision and require such person to transmit the
licence to the licensing authority within the period specified
in such communication ”’,

18. Section 27 of the principal enactment is hereby repeales
and the following section substituted therefor :—

27. The licensing authority shall maintain a
register of all gun licences in a book to be kept for
that . purpose, substantialy in Form N is
Schedule A.”

“Register of

19. Section 29 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :— ,
(1) in subsection (2) of that section by the subsititution
for the words “such gun shall be forfeited to Her
Majesty.” of the following :—

, “such gun shall be forfeited to the State. Upon such
forfeiture, the person who was the owner of such gun
shall be entitled to compensation of an amount equal
to the value of such gun as assessed by a competent
‘ person appointed for-the purpose by the licensing

authority. ”; and

(2) by the substitution for the words. “Government Agent”
wherever such words occur in that section, of the words
“licensing authority ”

20. Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby amended

therefor, of the fallowing subsection :—

*(1) Every licence holder shall report the destruction. oF
loss of a gun in respect of which a gun licence has been
issued to the licensing authority, within seven days of the
destruction or loss of such gun. *”


Firearms (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1996 7

a. Section 34 of the principal enatement is hereby amended
83 follows :—

4s) by the sibsttutionfor the words “Government Agent ”
wherever such words occur in that section, of the words
“licensing authority ”; and

#5) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution for
the words ** Every such’ permit shall be in the form O in
Schedule A” of the words ‘Every such permit shall
be issued on payment of afee of rupees ten and such
permit shall be substantially in form O inSchedule A.”.

22. Section 37-of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution-for the
words “Government Agent" wherever such words occur
im that subsection of the words ‘District Secretary of
the District to which such Order relates ”

{2) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution for
the words ‘“‘Inspector-General of Police”, of the words
** Secretary "’; and

{3) in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution for
the words “Government Agent of the Administrative
District’ of the words “Secretary.”’.

23. Section 38 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
Sy the substitution for the words “the Government Agent”
of the words ‘Superintendent of Police ”

24.° Section 39 of the principal enatement is hereby amended

by the substitution for the words “Government Agent or any

- officer authorized in that behalf in writting by a Government

Agent” and all the words from “nearest police station,”

to the end of that subsection repectively, of the words *“Superin-

tendent of Police or any officer authorized in writing by him. #
and “nearest police station. ”’, ”, Tespectively.

25. Section 44 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
‘by the substitution for all the woras from ‘“‘not exceeding one
to the end of that section, of
the words, ‘not exceeding five thousand rupees, or in the case

undred rupees, or in the case of ”

-of a second or subsequent conviction, by imprisonment of either
description for a period not exceeding ten years, or to a fine not
“exceeding, ten thousand supees,' or by both.’ si

Amendmend
of section
37 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendmeiss

. of sectica

38 of the
principal


8 Firearms (Amendment) Act, Ne. of 22 1996

ae By) ¢ ay tranny

- 86. The following new sections’ are neneby inserted ‘immediately Fave stter:

efier.section 44 of.the principal cnactmegt and shal! have, effect . me el

3s sections 44a and 44n of that enactment respectively :— ~ aaa aa .
Penalties - ., 44a. Notwithstanding anything in this Ordj. | 44» is He
for offences - nance or. aily., other law, any, person, who uses & * princlpht

specified iz" gun in the commission of an offence specified i in °

Sehevnle’e: Scheduie c of this Ordinance, shall be puni-
~- shed on-conviction for such offence, with death.

- or imprisonment for life,. and shall also be.,

. liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand _

s EMPoets . So 8 5 We ae fe, 2 of4pye Bs
Ponaltics for 44n. Notwithstanding adithing in this Ord
x offences, < mance or any other law,-any person who uses & |
Hee gun in the commission of an offence specified
> in Schedule D of this Ordinance shall be puni-
: yond : ished on-conviction' for such. offence with impri- »

:-gonment for a period of not:less than fifteen
“ yéars,-or a--fine not heneeoding! twenty! ‘thousand :

et ye ~

. Yupees, or both.2?,2:7 0 t20.. cer foe ode.

27. Section 47 of the ‘principal enactment is ‘hereby amended | “ Anasndines
4a subsection (1) of that section, ‘by the substitutions for the words | of center

“Inspector-General of Police,”, of the words * ‘Secretary, ” a
: 20 COIR Ten ond ow oomimos feton O cteoor emestandat,
28. Section ‘5]’of the principal enactent ts s hereby’ repaied and’ = Replecesnttt-
the following section substituted therefore 3B Sd | ale: oe
©
ait Power of 5 :.- D1. The;-Jicensing -authority. may, delegate; to.,. principal
licencing =, the District. Secretary, i .in.charge of ,an, adminis- __ Swackueed
races Soo ‘rative district the power of granting and signing eeers) “Wh .
ee any licence or permit on his behalf? -The'power ©7"" ee 8
fenctions. so delegated shall be exercised by the District
Secretary in consultation with the Superia-
sxvcanes, 12 i tenddnt of Politeof the division.
CLIVE 1 >
Ort yVE

29. The following 1 new y section at are ‘bereby inserted imimediat- ” *Fnseriivs & if
aly’ after Section. 5I of the, principal enactment ‘and shall have e new wactloat
effect as sections. SIA and SIR of that ehaciment 3 i, - '  siaaad'sr

btu. ithepriciches:
“State to be 51a. The provisions‘of: this Ordinance shall 2: suactiment:
bound, bind the State or any Agency of the State,
Bese stions ot §¥p-(): The Mirister may make. regulations. i:
ee -, for the: purpose of: giving, effect Lo.the principles...
ASEUHO: gy - and provisions OF the. ardinapce or in respect of .

_ any matter which is required to be prescribed,
2. $r in'respect of Which regulations’ are authorised °

<*-to‘be made by- this Ordifiamgées2 So iiee ond.


_ Bivearms ae Act aa 22 of 1996 v9
Setarmogas Sa oy,
(2) tect an a aa by the 2 Minister ; :
Suwes Bader...subsection {l).shall_ be... published in the ,
eat Barette and shall come into operation upon such | —s
Jqeranans publication ‘or on” such later daté”' as’ may per ee OE
4 ay specified in- the régulation: a se olin 7. Soehiotoel e& sath

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister
vader subsection (1) shall as soon as convenient
after its “publication in the Gazette,’ be brought
vefore Parliament for approval. Any
regulation which is not so approved shall be
fleemed to be rescinded from the date of such ~“ © e >»
disapproval, but without prejudice to anything eT
previously done thereunder. ”. : ae

vs ee ears’ ove ee oe 4.

#5. Sehedule A to the Poaeipal enactment is hereby amended _ Amendment
23 follows — of

fs; ja Form Bl shereat ™ the substitution for the words’ principal *!

¥Superintendent of Police Colombo ame of the words: is

ee st ater a) pen f 3

. “Secretary, Ministry of Defence”; ¥ Rea

$:) ig Form B2 thereof, by the astattrnisn for: ‘the words

“Collector of Customs”, “of ‘the’ words '* “Secretary, nee

Pe eS % tu sgmaege aS st shee ge geod ‘ Rim» HH
Ministry of Defences" 0 a Q

‘ap In Form C thereof, by the sbustitution for the words
“Collector of Customs”, of the words “'Secretary,,Miak ,. ...
try of Defence "Li... :<t

easily
OS. aso! ie) an VT a os ak | aust

Soa) ae Ds

£43 ta Form D thereof, by the substitution’ for the words
“Government Agent” wherever such words occur im
that Form, of'the:words “Sccretary, Mifiistry of Defence ”;

& a Form H thereof, byvthe-substitution for the words* -®° ¥) esse
“Government Agent’? wherever..such words ocgur .iMy, ic: ts gu
éhet Form, of the words “Secretary, SUD of Defence ”’; Se scRE A

° tens ies Cl Sa” aus

4f} im Form J thereof. . ‘by the substituted (oe the wards eye
“Government Agent ” wherever such words ‘occur in. that 9)! st FI
Form, of-the words “Secretary; Ministry ‘of “Defence 7j""°*"" bees -

#3) in Form.M: thereof, by. the substitution: for the words Geen)

“Goveramént Agent’ of tht words"Licensing Authority,”

G5 in Ferm O thercof,-byctha. substitution:for’ the words 3°" ncaa
teddy. pa cet

“Government Agent” wherever such words ocepr, im, ; ie
that Form, of the words “Secretary, Mimistry of Defence Ayo rece

sry senate
eG se reed aah


10 Firearms (Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 1996
31. The following new Schedules are hereby added immediat- asin
sly after Schedule B of the principal enactment and shall have sehedaia:

affect as Schedules C and D respectively, of that enactment +— es rie
enpiressa,
~ ' : 30H EDULE 0 {Section 44a
Soorton of the Penal Code Nature of offence

b44—123 (inclusive) .. Offences against the State.
$28—133 (inclusive) ., Olfonoes relating to the Army, Navy and Ax

Fores.
396, 297, 300 and 301... ~=Culpable homicide, &c.
315—324 (inclusive); .. Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons.
344, 345 and 347 .. Criminal Foros.

373—378 (inclusive) .. Bxtortion.
380-—385 (inclusive) .. Robbery.

354—360A .. Kidnapping and abductloa,

364 ; ,e Rape.

IGA .» Carnal intercourse with young girls.

101—45@ . .- Abetting or attempting to commit any offense

against the above sections of the Penal Code
enumerated in this Schedule.

Offences under Polsons,..All drug related offences committed under
@plum aod Dangerous Poisons, Opium and, Dangerous Drugs

Beugs Ordinance Ordinance,:
SCHEDULE D [Section 44B}
Section of the Penal Code Nature of Offence
140, 141, 142, 144and 145 Unlawful assembly and rioting.
(inclusive)
219, 2194, 220 and 2204" Rasistance to lawful apprehension,
inclusive)
41 1—426 (inclusive) ; Mischief.
433—451 (inclusive) .. Lurking house trespass house, breaking &e,
486 -. Cri niaal intimidation.
~ 101—490 ae Abetring or attempting to commit any offence

azainst the sections of the Penal Code enu-
merated in this Schedule.

Offences under section 2 Oifences against specified persons. ™.
(1) (a) and (5) of the Pre

vention of Terrorism

(Temoorary Provisions) Act,

No. 48 of 1979,


Firearms (Amendment) Act. No. 22 of 1996 ry

$t, Sm the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala —
° e
esf Femi] texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. pérvail in casi
F e of inconde
tency.
