PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INLAND REVENUE (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 9 OF 2008

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 29th February, 2008]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 29, 2008

1Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

2PL 0028006,900 (02/2008)

Short title.

[Certified on 29th February, 2008]

L.D.O. 1/ 2008

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INLAND REVENUE ACT, NO. 10 OF 2006

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2008.

2.Section 7 of the Inland Revenue Act, No.10 of 2006,(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in sub-paragraph (xvii) of paragraph (b) of thatsection, by the substitution for the words beingprofits and income of that society, of the wordsand figures being profits and income of that societyfor any year of assessment ending on or beforeMarch 31, 2008 or for any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2013,;

(2)in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (g) of that section,by the substitution for the words and figuresPresidents Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978., of the wordsand figures Presidents Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978;;

(3)by the addition immediately after paragraph (g) ofthat section, of the following new paragraphs:

(h)the profits and income for every year ofassessment within a period of five years,commencing on April 1, 2008, of anyregistered society within the meaning of theCo-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972;

(i)the profits and income of the Api WenuwenApi Fund established by the Api WenuwenApi Fund Act, No.6 of 2008..

Amendment ofsection 7 of Act,No. 10 of 2006.

2Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

3.Section 8 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section :

(a)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of thatsubsection, for the words one half of theofficial emoluments paid to-, of the wordsand figuresone half of the officialemoluments for any year of assessment endingon or before March 31, 2008, paid to-;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (d) of thatsubsection, for the words the emolumentsarising in Sri Lanka and any income, of thewords and figuresthe emoluments arising inSri Lanka prior to April 1, 2008, and anyincome;

(c)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(d) of that subsection, of the following newparagraph :

(dd)the emoluments arising in Sri Lanka andany income not arising in Sri Lanka ofany individual who is an expert and whois not a citizen of Sri Lanka and isemployed in Sri Lanka by anyundertaking which has entered into anagreement with the Government of SriLanka, being an agreement whichprovides for the exemption from incometax of such emoluments or by anyStrategic Development ProjectGazetted by the Board of Investment ofSri Lanka under subsection (4) ofsection 3 of the Strategic DevelopmentProjects Act, No. 14 of 2008;

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

3Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

For the purpose of this paragraph,expert means an individual whohas expertise in such field asmay be determined by theCommissioner-General, as being afield in which sufficient expertise isnot available among the citizens ofSri Lanka;;

(d)in paragraph (h) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words granted to thewife, of the wordsgranted to the spouse;and

(e)in paragraph (p) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words from which in theopinion of the Commissioner-General tothe words allotment of grant, as the case maybe; and, of the words which in the opinionof the Commissioner-General isreasonable;and

(2)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words whichever is earlier., of the wordswhichever is earlier, but not later than April 1,2008.. be exempt from income tax.

4.Section 9 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended as follows:

(1)by the substitution in paragraph (h) of that section,for the words and figures or any bankestablished under the Regional Development BanksAct, No. 6 of 1997, of the words and figures or anybank established under the Regional DevelopmentBanks Act, No. 6 of 1997 or any registered societywithin the meaning of the Co-operative SocietiesLaw, No. 5 of 1972;;

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

4Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(2)in paragraph (k) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words External Rupee Account., of thewords External Rupee Account;; and

(3)by the addition immediately after paragraph (k) ofthat section, of the following new paragraphs:

(l)the interest or discount arising or accruing toany non-resident citizen of Sri Lanka, fromthe purchase of any Motherland DevelopmentBond denominated in foreing currency andissued by or on behalf of the Government ofSri Lanka;

(m)the interest accruing or arising on or afterApril 1, 2008, from any investment madeoutside Sri Lanka to any person resident inSri Lanka, where such interest is remitted toSri Lanka through a bank..

5.Section 10 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended in subsection(1) of that section, by the addition immediately afterparagraph (i) of that subsection of the following newparagraph:

(j)any dividend paid on or after April 1, 2008, by acompany not resident in Sri Lanka to anyshareholder resident in Sri Lanka, where the amountof such dividend is remitted to Sri Lanka through abank..

6.Section 11 of the principal to enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) of thatsection, and the substitution therefor of thefollowing subsection:

(2) There shall be exempt from income tax

(a)income accruing to the owner of any housefrom such house, the construction of whichis completed prior to April 1, 2008, being

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

5Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

income for that year of assessment in whichsuch construction was completed and forthe four years of assessment immediatelysucceeding that year of assessment, if suchhouse is used solely for residentialpurposes:

Provided that where the floor area of thehouse is one thousand and five hundred squarefeet or less, the income accruing to the ownershall be exempt from income tax for the yearof assessment in which the construction ofthat house is completed and for the six yearsof assessment immediately succeeding thatyear of assessment; and

(b)income accruing to the owner of any housefrom such house, the floor area of which isfive hundred square feet or less and theconstruction of which is completed on or afterApril 1, 2008, being income for that year ofassessment in which the construction wascompleted and for the four years of assessmentimmediately succeeding that year ofassessment, if such house is used solely forresidential purposes..

7.Section 13 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended as follows:

(1)by the substitution in paragraph (a) of that section,for the words earned in any year of assessment inforeign currency, of the words and figuresearnedin any year of assessment prior to April 1, 2008, inforeign currency;

(2)by the substitution in paragraph (c) of that section,for the words the profits and income earned inforeign currency, of the words and figures,theprofits and income earned in foreign currency inany year of assessment ending on or before March31, 2008,;

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

6Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(3)by the substitution in paragraph (d) of that section,for the words the profits and income earned inforeign currency, of the words and figurestheprofits and income earned in foreign currency inany year of assessment ending on or before March31, 2008,;

(4)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (dd) ofthat section, of the following new paragraph:

(ddd)the profits and income earned in foreigncurrency by any resident company, anyresident individual or any partnership inSri Lanka, from services rendered in or outsideSri Lanka to any person or partnership outsideSri Lanka, being services rendered inthe course of carrying on of any professionor vocation as is specified by theCommissioner- General by Notice publishedin the Gazette, as being in the interest of thenational economy of Sri Lanka, if such profitsand income (less such amount, if any,expended outside Sri Lanka as is consideredby the Commissioner-General to be reasonableexpenses) are remitted to Sri Lanka through abank;;

(5)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (i) ofthat section, of the following new paragraph:

(ii)the profits and income within the meaning ofparagraph (a) of section 3, arising from thecutting and polishing of gems which arebrought to Sri Lanka and exported after suchcutting and polishing;;

(6)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (x) ofthat section, of the following new paragraph:

(xx)an amount equal to the interest payable toany bank in Sri Lanka in respect of any loangranted, where the full amount of such loan isinvested in any new undertaking referred toin section 24C;;

7Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(7)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (y) ofthat section, of the following new paragraph:

(yy).any profits and income arising or accruing toany company, partnership or body of personsoutside Sri Lanka, from any payment made inrespect of the use on or after April 1, 2008, ofany plant, machinery or equipment suppliedby such company, partnership or body ofpersons to the Government of Sri Lanka, anypublic corporation, any GovernmentInstitution or to any other undertaking, forthe use in any project approved by theMinister as being essential for the economicdevelopment of Sri Lanka;; and

(8)by the addition immediately after paragraph (z) ofthat section, of the following new paragraphs:

(zz)the profits and income of any individual whois not a citizen of Sri Lanka and who isemployed in Sri Lanka in any undertaking,being profits and income arising or derivedfrom outside Sri Lanka during the periodcommencing from April 1, 2008, and endingon the date of cessation of such employment;

(zzz)the profits and income within the meaning ofparagraph (a) of section 3, of any undertakingfor the construction and sale of houses for lowincome families under a scheme approved bythe Urban Development Authority or theNational Housing Authority, being houses thefloor area of which does not exceed fivehundred square feet, if the sale of any suchhouse takes place before April 1, 2013..

8.Section 17 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended in subsection(1) of that section, by the substitution for the words from in

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

8Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

which the undertaking commences to made profits to theend of that subsection, of the following words and figures:

in which the undertaking commences to make profitsfrom transactions entered into in that year of assessmentor from the commencement of the year of assessmentimmediately succeeding the year of assessment inwhich the undertaking completes a period of two yearsreckoned from the date on which the undertakingcommences to carry on commercial operations,whichever occurs earlier:

Provided that where the period for which the profitsand income are exempt from income tax commencesafter March 31, 2008, the period for which such profitsand income are exempt, shall be three years..

9.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words not more than twelve years as may bedetermined, of the words not more than twelve yearscommencing from not later than March 31, 2009, as may bedetermined.

10.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section,by the substitutionfor the words from in which the undertaking commences tomake profits to the end of that subsection, of the followingwords and figures:

in which the undertaking commences to makeprofits from transactions entered into in that year ofassessment or from the commencement of the year ofaccessment immediately succeeding the year ofassessment in which the undertaking completes a periodof two years reckoned from the date on which theundertaking commences to carry on commercialoperations, whichever occurs earlier:

Provided that where the period for which theprofits and income are exempt from income taxcommences after April 1, 2008, the period forwhich such profits and income are exempt, shall bethree years..

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

9Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

11.Section 20 of the principal enactment ishereby amended in subsection (2) of that section asfollows :

(1)by the substitution in paragraph (c) of thatsubsecton, for the words and figures April 1,2008-, of the words and figures April 1,2009-; and

(2)by the substitution in paragraph (e) of thatsubsection, for the words and figures prior to April1, 2008, of the words and figures prior to April 1,2009.

12.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section,by the substitution for the words and figures not later thanMarch 31, 2008, of the words and figures not later thanMarch 31, 2009..

13.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 21 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 21A of that enactment :

21A. (1) The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (otherthan any profits and income from the sale ofany capital asset) of any company, from anyrelocated undertaking referred to in subsection(2), shall be exempt from income tax for eachyear of assessment within a period of five years,commencing on April 1, 2009.

( 2) For the purpose of subsection (1), arelocated undertaking in relation to anycompany and to any year of assessmentreferred to in subsection (1), means anundertaking

(a)which prior to November 1, 2007,was being carried on by thatcompany in any location within the

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 21A inthe principalenactment.

Exemptionof profits andincome ofundertakingsrelocatedfrom certaindistricts.

10Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

administrative district of Colombo orGampaha, with not less than onehundred individuals employedtherein ;

(b)which is relocated in any locationoutside the administrative districtof Colombo and Gampaha andcommencing from a date notlater than March 31, 2009, continuesto

(i)carry on commercial operations;and

(ii)employ such number ofindividuals as is not less thanthe number employed as atNovember 1, 2007,

throughout that year of assessment ;

(c)in respect of which the expenditureincurred in the relocation is not lessthan one hundred million rupees ;and

(d)of which the profits and incomewithin the meaning of paragraph (a)of section 3 (other than any profitsand income from the sale of anycapital asset) are exempt fromincome tax under any otherprovision of this Act or under anyagreement entered into with theBoard of Investment of Sri Lankaunder section 17 of the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4of 1978, for a period extendingbeyond April 1, 2009..

11Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

14.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words from in which the undertaking commences tomake profits, to the end of that subsection, of the followingwords and figures :

in which the undertaking commences to make profitsfrom transactions entered into in that year of assessmentor from the commencement of the year of assessmentimmediately succeeding the year of assessment in whichthe undertaking completes a period of two years reckonedfrom the date on which the undertaking commences tocarry on commercial operations, whichever occursearlier:

Provided that where the period for which the profitsand income are exempt from income tax commences afterApril 1, 2008, the period for which such profits andincome are exempt, shall be three years..

15.Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section:

(a)by the substitution for the words of anyventure capital company shall be exempt,of the words of any venture capitalcompany, derived from any specifiedinvestment in any project referred to inparagraph (a), (b) or (c) hereafter, shall beexempt ; and

(b)by the addition immediately after the provisoto that subsection, of the following furtherproviso :

Provided further that, where the venturecapital company commences commercial

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment.

12Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

operations on or after April 1, 2008, the periodfor which the profits and income are exemptfrom income tax, be three years.; and

(2)in subsection (6) of that section,by the repeal of the definitions of theexpressions non-performing and underperforming.

16.Section 24 of the principal enactmentis herebyas follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words from shall beexempt from income tax to the end of thatsubsection, of the words shall be exemptfrom income tax for a period of three yearscommencing from the year of assessment inwhich such business commences to makeprofits from transactions entered into in thatyear of assessment or from the commencementof the year of assessment immediatelysucceeding the year of assessment in whichsuch business completes a period of two yearsreckoned from the date on which the businesscommences to carry on commercialoperations, whichever earlier.; and

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that sectionand the substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:

(2)The provisions of subsection (1)shall apply in respect of any business ofproviding accommodation to tourists inManor Houses or Thematic Bungalows,carried on by a person registered on or afterApril 1, 2003 with the Ceylon Tourist Boardand for a period of ten years from the date ofsuch registration..

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

13Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

17.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 24B of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 24C and section 24D of thatenactment :

24c. (1) The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (otherthan any profits and income from the disposalof any capital asset) from the operation of anynew undertaking referred to in subsection (2),shall be exempt from income tax for a periodof five years commencing from the year ofassessment in which such undertakingcommences to make profits from transactionsentered into in that year of assessment or fromthe commencement of the year of assessmentimmediately succeeding the year of assessmentin which such undertaking complets two yearsreckoned from the date on which theundertaking commences to carry on commercialoperations, whichever occurs earlier.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1),new undertaking means an undertakingwhich

(a)is not formed by the splitting up,reconstruction or the acquisition of anundertaking which was in existencebefore November 7, 2007 ;

(b)commences commercial operations onor after November 7, 2007 ; and

(c)is located within the Eastern Province,

and the sum invested in the undertaking beforeApril 1, 2010 (other than in land), is not lessthan thirty million rupees.

Insertion of newsections 24C and24D in theprincipalenactment.

Exemptionfrom incometax of theprofits andincome ofany newundertakingslocatedwithin theEasternProvince.

14Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

24D. (1) The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (otherthan any profits and income from the sale ofany capital asset) of any new undertaking(other than any specified undertaking) locatedin any lagging region and referred to insubsection (2), shall be exempt from incometax for a period of five years commencing fromthe year of assessment in which suchundertaking commences to make profits fromtransactions entered into in that year ofassessment or from the commencement of theyear of assessment immediately succeeding theyear of assessment in which the undertakingcompletes two years reckoned from the dateon which the undertaking commences to carryon commercial operations, whichever occursearlier.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) :

lagging region in relation to any year ofassessment means any DivisionalSecretarys Division determined by theMinister in consultation with anyappropriate authority and specified byOrder published in the Gazette as beingin a state of economic backwardness inthe year of assessment immediatelypreceding that year of assessment ;

new undertaking means an undertaking

(a)which commences commercialoperations on or after April 1,2008 ; and

(b)in which the sum invested inthe acquisition of capitalassets (other than land), afterNovember 7, 2007 but before

Exemptionof the profitsand incomeof any newundertakinglocated inany laggingregion.

15Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

March 31, 2010, is not less thanthirty million rupees ; and

specified undertaking means anundertaking engaged in the sale of anyarticle not produced or manufacturedby such undertaking..

18.Section 25 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby farther amended asfollows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section:

(a)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) ofparagraph (b) of the proviso to paragraph (a)of that subsection, for the words being a shipwhich is owned or chartered by a company,of the words being a ship which is owned bya company ; and

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (v) of theproviso to paragraph (k) of that subsection,for all the words from his place ofemployment or vice versa., to the end ofthat proviso, of the words his place ofemployment or vice versa. ;

(2)in subsecton (2) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words and figure ofsubsection (1), of the words and figure ofsubsection (1) ;

(3)in subsection (3) of that section, by thesubstitution in paragraph (ii) of the furtherproviso to paragraph (b) of that subsection,for the words for the replacement of suchcapital asset, of the words for thereplacement of such capital asset ; and

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment.

16Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(4)in subsection (7) of that section, by thesubstitution in sub-paragraph (vi) ofparagraph (f) of that subsection, for the wordsthe proceeds of disposal of such asset, lessany cost of acquisition other than lease rentalpaid on such assets by such person acquiringit, of the words the proceeds of disposal ofsuch assets, less any cost of acquisition otherthan lease rental paid on such assets by suchperson acquiring it.

19.Section 26 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2007 is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the additionimmediately after paragraph (u) of that subsection,of the following paragraph :

For the purposes of paragraphs (s), (t) and (u), ofthis subsection, the term employee shall havethe same meaning as given to such term in section131 of this Act; and

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures under paragraph (a) orparagraph (d) of subsection (1) of section 25 :-, ofthe words and figures under paragraph (a) orparagraph (c) of subsection (1) of section 25 :.

20. Section 32 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2007 is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the words for any yearof assessment shall be his total statutoryincome for the year, other than the-, of thewords for any year of assessment shall be histotal statutory income for the year other thanthe-; and

Amendment ofsection 32 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

17Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(b)in paragraph (c) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words and figuresdeducted under section 134 or section 135,as the case may be;, of the words and figurededucted under section 134;;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionin the definition of the expression interest income,for the words and figure sub-paragraph (b) ofsubsection (3) of this section,, of the words andfigure sub-paragraph (b) of this subsection,;

(3)in subsection (3) of that section, by the additionimmediately after paragraph (d) of that subsectionof the following new paragraphs :

(e)the profits and income of such person fromthe sale of any Rupee Denominated TreasuryBond, purchased out of funds drawn fromany Treasury Bond Investment ExternalRupee Account ;

(f)where such person is the Credit GuaranteeFund of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka,the interest accruing to such Fund fromany Treasury Bond issued under theRegistered Stocks and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420) or from any Treasury Billissued under the Local Treasury BillsOrdinance (Chapter 417) ;

(g)interest on which income tax has beendeducted under section 95 and accruing toany person or partnership out side Sri Lanka,on any corporate debt security within themeaning of section 135, issued by or on behalfof any company in Sri Lanka and purchasedby such person or partnership out of foreigncurrency brought into Sri Lanka andconverted into Sri Lanka currency for suchpurchase ; and

18Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(h)the profits and income from the sale of anygem on which tax has been deducted by theNational Gem and Jewellery Authorityestablished by the National Gem andJewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of 1993,under subsection (1) of section 161A of thisAct.;

(4)in subsection (5) of that section

(a)in paragraph (a) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words such person forany year of assessment by way of , of thewords such person for any year of assessmentby way of ;

(b)in paragraph (b) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words referred to inparagraph (c),, of the words referred to inparagraph (c) or paragraph (d),;

(c)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(c) of that subsection, of the following newparagraph :

(d)any loss incurred on or after April 1,2008, in any business of finance leasingto the extent of any profits from suchbusiness included in such totalstatutory income and the balance, ifany, of such loss after such deduction,shall be deemed to be a loss for the yearof assessment immediately succeedingthat year of assessment.;

(5)in paragraph (a) of subsection (6) of that section,by the substitution for the words and figuressection 23 or section 24 of this Act,, of the wordsand figures section 23, section 24, section 24A,section 24B, section 24C or section 24D of thisAct,; and

19Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(6)in subsection (7) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words shall be ascertained in the mannerprovided in this Act, of the words shall beascertained in the manner provided for in thisAct.

21. Section 34 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2007 is hereby further amended asfollows :

(1)in subsection (2) of that section :

(a)by the addition at the end of sub-paragraph(viii) of paragraph (b) of that subsection, ofthe following new sub-paragraph :

(ix)the Api Wenuwen Api Fundestablished by Api Wenuwen Api FundAct, No. 6 of 2008;;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (h) of thatsection, for the words (h) expenditureincurred to the words of any film:, of thefollowing :-

(h)(i) expenditure incurred by anyperson in the production at acost of not less than five millionrupees, of any film the productionof which was completed prior toApril 1, 2007 ; or

(ii) expenditure incurred by anyperson in the production at a costof not less than five million rupees,of any film the production ofwhich was completed afterApril 1, 2007:;

Amendment ofsection 34 of theprincipalenactment.

20Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(c)by the addition immediately after paragraph(m) of that subsection, of the following newparagraphs :

(n)expenditure not exceeding twentyfive million rupees incurred in theconstruction and equipping of acinema, being a cinema

(i)in which the exhibitionof cinematographic filmscommences on or after April 1,2008 ; and

(ii)which is certified by the NationalFilm Corporation of Sri Lankaestablished by the National FilmCorporation of Sri Lanka Act, No.47 of 1971 as being equippedwith digital technology, DigitalTheatre System and Dolby SoundSystems;

(o)expenditure not exceeding ten millionrupees incurred in the upgrading of acinema, being a cinema

(i)in which the exhibition ofcinematographic films hadcommenced prior to April 1,2008;

(ii)which was not equipped withdigital technology, DigitalTheatre Systems and DolbySound Systems, prior to April 1,2008; and

(iii)which is certified by the NationalFilm Corporation of Sri Lanka,established by the NationalFilm Corporation of Sri Lanka

21Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

Act, No. 47 of 1971 as beingequipped on or after April 1,2008, with digital technology,Digital Theatre Systems andDolby Systems;

(p)expenditure incurred by any companyin the relocation of any relocatedundertaking referred to in subsection(2) of section 21A; and

(q)any sum invested by any person in anundertaking referred to in paragraph(zzz) of section 13.;

(2)in subsection (4) of that section :

(a)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) ofparagraph (a) of that subsection, for the wordsand figure (i), (j) and (k) of subsection (2),of the words and figure (i), (j), (k), (n), (o) and(q) of subsection (2);

(b) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (iii) (B)of paragraph (a) of that subsection, for thewords twenty five million rupees ,, of thewords thirty five million rupees,;

(c)by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph (vi) of paragraph (a) of thatsubsection, of the following newparagraphs:

(vii)in respect of all qualifying paymentsreferred to in paragrahp (n) ofsubsection (2) made by him in thatyear of assessment, shall not exceedtwenty five million rupees;

(viii)in respect of all qualifying paymentsreferred to in paragraph (o) ofsubsection (2) made by him in thatyear of assessment, shall not exceedten million rupees;;

22Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(d)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) ofparagraph (b) of that subsection, for the wordsand figures (k),(l) and (m) of subsection (2),,of the words and figures (k), (l), (m), (n), (o)and (q) of subsection (2),;

(e)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) (B)of paragraph (b) of that subsection for thewords twenty five million rupees,, of thewords thirty five million rupees,;

(f)by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph (b) of thatsubsection of the following new sub-paragraph:

(v)in respect of all qualifying paymentsreferred to paragraph (a) of subsection(2) by made by that company, shallnot exceed one fifth of the assessableincome or five hundred thousandrupees, whichever is less ;

(vi)in respect of all qualifying paymentsreferred to in paragraph (n) ofsubsection (2) made by that companyin that year of assessment, shall notexceed twenty five million rupees;

(vii)in respect of all qualifying paymentsreferred to in paragraph (o) ofsubsection (2) made by that companyin that year of assessment, shall notexceed ten million rupees.;

(3)in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words paragraph (c), paragraph (l) orparagraph (m) of subsection (2), of the wordsparagraph (c), paragraph (h) (ii), paragraph (l),paragraph (m), paragraph (n), paragraph (o) orparagraph (q) of subsection (2),; and

(4)in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words referred to in paragraph (h) of

23Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

subsection (2), of the words referred to inparagraph (h) (i) of subsection (2).

22.Section 35 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the proviso to subsection (2) of that section, bythe substitution for the words and figure rate specified inPart 1 of the First Schedule, of the words and figure ratespecified in Part V of the First Schedule.

23.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 40 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 40A of that enactment:

40A.Such part of the taxable incomeof any citizen of Sri Lanka for any yearof assessment commencing on or afterApril 1, 2008, as consists of his profits fromemployment as a pilot of any airline licensedunder the Air Navigation Act (Chapter 365),shall, notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other provision of this Act, be chargedwith income tax at the appropriate ratesspecified in Part I of the First Schedule to thisAct, provided that the rate of at which incometax is so charged, shall not in any case exceed20 per centum..

24.Section 46 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words in any other provisions of this Chapter, orChapter X, be chargeable with income tax, of the words inother provisions, but subject to the provisions of section 16of this Act, be chargeable with income tax.

25.Section 48 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

48.(1) Such part of the taxable income ofany person for any year of assessment referredto in subsection (2), which consists of theprofits and income from:

(a)any specified undertaking referred toin sections 17, 18 or 19;

Amendment ofsection 35 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 40A inthe principalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 48 of theprincipalenactment.Rates ofincome taxfor periodsafter theexpiry of thetaxexemptionperiod.

Amendment ofsection 46 of theprincipalenactment.

Rates ofincome taxon the profitsfromemploymentof any pilotof any airlinelicensedunder the AirNavigationAct.

24Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(b)any new undertaking referred to insections 20, 22, 24C and 24D;

(c)any relocated undertaking referred toin sections 21 and 21A;

(d)any venture capital company referredto in section 23;

(e)any business referred to in section 24;

(f)any new cinema or upgraded cinemareferred to in section 24A; or

(g)any re-opened abandoned factoryreferred to in section 24B,

shall, notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other provision of this Act, be taxable atthe rate specified in that subsection, as beingapplicable to that year of assessment.

(2) The rate of tax applicable to the year ofassessment immediately succeeding

(a)the end of the period for which theprofits and income are exempt fromincome tax, being any year ofassessment commencing on or afterApril 1, 2008, (hereinafter referred toas the first post-exemption year) shallbe five per centum;

(b)the end of the first post-exemption year(hereinafter referred to as the secondpost-exemption year) shall be ten percentum; and

(c)the end of the second post- exemptionyear shall be fifteen per centum..

25Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

26.Section 53 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words shall be fifteen per centum., of the wordsshall for any year of assessment commencing fromApril 1, 2008, be ten per centum..

27.Section 54 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figuresreferred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section10:, of the words and figures referred to in subsection(1) of section 10:.

28.Section 61 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended inparagraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section as follows:

(1) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) of thatparagraph, for the words gross dividendsdistributed by such company in such precedingyear, where such company has in the precedingyear distributed, of the words gross dividendsdistributed by such company out of suchdistributable profits, within a period ofeighteen months immediately succeeding thecommencement of such preceding year, where suchcompany has within such period distributed; and

(2)in the definition in that paragraph of the expressionrelevant part:

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (b) of thatdefinition, and the substitution therefor ofthe following paragraph:

(b)to any registered society referred to inparagraph (h) of section 7, during theperiod referred to in that paragraph;;

(b)by the addition immediately after paragraph(d) of that definition, of the following newparagraphs:

Amendment ofsection 54 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 61 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 53 of theprincipalenactment.

26Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(e)to any unit trust or to any mutual fund;

(f)to Api Wenuwen Api Fund establishedby the Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act,No. 6 of 2008;.

29.Section 62 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) ofthat section, and the substitution therefor of the followingparagraph :

(a)sums remitted or retained abroad out of the profitsand income chargeable with income tax of thecompany and any sum received outside Sri Lankaby or on behalf of such company in relation to anytrade, business, profession or vocation carried onin Sri Lanka by such company, the profits of whichare chargeable with income tax in Sri Lanka, suchsums not including any dividend paid by a residentcompany to such non-resident company;.

30.Section 65 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2007 is hereby further amended asfollows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the insertionimmediately after paragraph (b) of that subsection,of the following new paragraphs:

(c)the Api Wenuwen Api Fund established bythe Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of2008;

(d)any registered society referred to in paragraph(h) of section 7, during the period referred toin that paragraph;

(e)any person who is exempt from income taxunder section 10 in respect of any dividendreceived by such person as referred to in thatsection,;

Amendment ofsection 65 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 62 of theprincipalenactment.

27Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(2)by the addition immediately after subsection (3) ofthat section, of the following new subsection:

(4) The excess of the aggregate of the deductionsmade by any resident company under subsection(1), over the tax payable by such company undersub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (b) of subsection (1)of section 61, shall be remitted to the Commissioner-General within a period of thirty days from the dateon which the gross dividend referred to in thatsubsection, is paid..

31.Section 79 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (7) of that section as follows:

(1)in the proviso to that subsection, by the substitutionfor the words employment in Sri Lanka., of thewords employment in Sri Lanka:; and

(2)by the addition at the end of the proviso to thatsubsection, of the following further proviso:

Provided further that no individual shall bedeemed to be a non-resident under the provisionsof this subsection, on or after April 1, 2008..

32.Section 95 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section, asfollows:

(1)in paragraph (a) of that proviso, by the substitutionfor the words and chargeable as aforesaid; and, ofthe words and chargeable as aforesaid;; and

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) ofthat proviso of the following new paragraph:

(aa)the deduction of tax under this section frominterest on any corporate debt securityreferred to in paragraph (g) of subsection

Amendment ofsection 79 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 95 of theprincipalenactment.

28Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(3) of section 32 and paid or credited on orafter April 1, 2008, shall, notwithstandinganything to the contrary in any otherprovision of this Act, be at the rate of tenper centum; and.

33.Section 102 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words the Commissioner-General may reduce orremit the tax, of words the Commissioner-General mayreduce or remove the tax.

34.Section 104 of the principal enactment is here byamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figure addressed to the person referred toin subsection (1),, of the words and figure addressed to theperson who carries on either the one or the other or both ofthe two associated undertakings, referred to insubsection (1),.

35.Section 107 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section , bythe repeal of paragraph (a) of that proviso and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraph:

(a)where such trade, business, profession orvocation is being carried on or exercised byany quoted public company or any othercompany having a turnover of not less thantwo hundred and fifty million rupees or netprofit of not less than one hundred millionrupees for the year, then, notwithstanding thata notice under this section has not been givento such quoted public company or othercompany , furnish for that year of assessmentor for that other period, in respect of whichthe statutory income for that year ofassessment is computed, such statement andsuch schedules as may be specified by theCommissioner-General, by notice publishedin the Gazette;;

Amendment ofsection 107 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 104 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 102 ofthe principalenactment.

29Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(2)by the repeal of the proviso to subsection (2) of thatsection, and the substitution therefor of thefollowing proviso:

Provided that a statement of accounts insupport of a return of income for any year ofassessment or for any other period on the profits ofwhich the statutory income for that year ofassessment is computed

(a)furnished by any quoted public company, inrespect of any trade, business, profession orvocation carried on or exercised by suchquoted public company;

(b)furnished by any other company in respect ofany trade, business, profession or vocationcarried on or exercised by such company,where the turnover from such trade, business,profession or vocation, for that year ofassessment or for that other period, is not lessthan two hundred and fifty million rupees orthe statutory income from that trade, business,profession or vocation for that year ofassessment or for that other period, is not lessthan one hundred million rupees; or

(c)furnished by any partner of any partnershipor by any person other than a company,in respect of any trade, business, professionor vocation carried on or exercised bysuch partnership or by such person, wherethe turnover from such trade, business,profession or vocation, for that year ofassessment or for that other period, is not lessthan fifty million rupees or the divisible andprotits of that partnership or the statutoryincome of such person, from that trade,business, profession or vocation for that year

30Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

of assessment or for that other period, as thecase may be, is not less than twenty fivemillion rupees,

shall be prepared on the basis of an audit by anapproved accountant..

36.Section 113 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended insub- paragraph (b) of subsection (3) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words shall be paid on or before thefifteenth day of May of the year of assessment immediatelysucceeding the year of assessment, of the words shall bepaid on or before the thirtieth day of September of that yearof assessment.

37.Section 131 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the definition of the term employer, by thesubstitution for the words body of persons of anyorganization -, of the words body of persons or anyorganization, other than any Government Institution referredto in Chapter XV:.

38.The heading of Chapter XV of the principalenactment is hereby repealed and the following headingsubstituted therefor :

PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE PAYMENT OF INCOME TAX BY AGOVERNMENT INSTITUTION AND DEDUCTION FROM TAX ON OFFICIAL

EMOULMENTS OF ANY EMPLOYEE OF ANY GOVERNMENTINSTITUTION..

39.Section 132 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the words for any yearof assessment, shall be paid, of the wordsand figures for any year of assessmentending on or before March 31, 2008, shall bepaid; and

Amendment ofsection 132 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 113 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 131 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofthe Heading toChapter XV ofthe principalenactment.

31Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(b)by the repeal of the proviso to that subsectionand the substitution therefor of the followingproviso:

Provided that such income tax so paidshall neither be refunded to such employeeeither in whole or in part or deducted fromincome tax otherwise payable by suchemployee, for that year of assessment.;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words the income tax in respect of, of thewords the income tax referred to in subsection (1),in respect of ; and

(3)in subsection (4) of that section, by the repeal ofthe definition of the expression GovernmentInstitution.

40.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 132 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 132A of that enactment:

132A.(1) There shall be deducted from theincome tax payable for any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2008, by anyemployee of any Government Institution,whose assessable income for that year ofassessment includes any official emoluments,such amount as referred to in subsection (2).

(2) The deduction shall be an amount whichbear to the income tax charged on suchemployee as referred to in subsection (1) forsuch year of assessment, the same proportionwhich the official emoluments (other than anypension, bonus, incentive payments, reward,

Deductionfrom incometax on theofficialemolumentsof anyemployee ofanyGovernmentInstitution.

Insertion ofsection 132A inthe principalenactment.

32Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

share of fines or other similar payment) of suchemployee for that year of assessment, bear tothe total statutory income of that employee forthat year of assessment.

For the purpose of subsections (1) and (2) ofthis section, official emoluments meansprofits from employment as specified inparagraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 4,received for services rendered.

(3) For the purpose of this Chapter,Government Institution means anyinstitution or person which employsindividuals holding any office referred to inparagraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 8..

41.Section 133 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (3) of that section:

(a)in paragraph (a) of that subsection

(i)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii)of that paragraph, for the words of SriLanka; or, of the words of Sri Lanka;;

(ii)by the addition immediately aftersub-paragraph (iii) of that paragraph,of the following new sub-paragraphs:

(iv)any registered society referred toin paragraph (h) of section 7,being interest paid to suchsociety during the periodreferred to in that paragraph; or

(v)the Api Wenuwen Api Fundestablished by the Api WenuwenApi Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008;;

Amendment ofsection 133 ofthe principalenactment.

33Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (c) of thatsubsection, for the words and figure orsection 96., of the words and figure orsection 95.;

(2)in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words under this section, of the words andfigure under subsection (1) of this section;

(3)in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words where any interest payable to anyperson, of the words and figures where anyinterest referred to in subsection (1) or any excessreferred to in subsection (2) payable to any person;

(4)in subsection (7) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the words and figurededucts income tax in accordance with theprovisions of subsection (1) from any interestpaid by it, of the words and figures deductsincome tax from the interest paid inaccordance with subsection (1) or on theexcess in accordance with subsection (2);

(b)by the substitution for the word interestappearing in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of thatsubsection, of the words interest or excess;and

(5)in subsection (8) of that section, by the substitutionin paragraph (d) of that subsection for the wordinterest, wherever it appears in that paragraph ofthe words interest or excess.

42.Section 152 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

Repeal ofsection 152 ofthe principalenactment.

34Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

43.Section 153 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended asfollows:

(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the additionimmediately after the proviso to that subsection, ofthe following further proviso:

Provided further that where it is proved to thesatisfaction of the Commissioner-General that anyperson or partnership is registered with theDepartment of Inland Revenue as a person orpartnership chargeable with the Economic ServiceCharge under the Economic Service Charge Act,No. 13 of 2006, the Commissioner-General shalldirect that the provisions of this section relating tothe deduction of income tax shall not apply, inrelation to any specified fee payable on or afterApril 1, 2008 to such person or partnership.;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionin the definition of the expression specified feefor the words or occupation of any, of the wordsor occupation, otherwise than as a place ofresidence, of any.

44.Section 155 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words such rent, leaserent or other payment., of the following words and figures:

such rent, lease rent or other payment:

Provided that where it is proved to thesatisfaction of the Commissioner-General that anyperson or partnership is registered with theDepartment of Inland Revenue as a person orpartnership, chargeable with the EconomicService Charge under the Economic Service ChargeAct, No. 13 of 2006, the Commissioner-General shalldirect that the provisions of this section relating to

Amendment ofsection 155 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 153 ofthe principalenactment.

35Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

the deduction of income tax shall not apply, inrelation to such rent, lease rent or other paymentpayable on or after April 1, 2008, to such person orpartnership..

45.Section 156 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words credit for income tax so deducted,duties of banks and financial institutions,, of thewords credit for income tax so deducted, issue ofdirections, duties of banks and financialinstitutions,; and

(2)by the addition immediately after subsection (2) ofthat section, of the following new subsections:

(3)Any person or partnership who or whichis liable to deduct income tax from any rent, leaserent or other payments made by such person orpartnership under this Chapter, shall apply for andobtain a registration number from theCommissioner-General thirty days prior to thecommencement of such deduction of tax and shallfurnish a return on a monthly basis, containing suchparticulars as may be specificed by theCommissioner-General in relation to suchdeductions.

(4)Any person or partnership who or whichdoes not register or does not furnish any return asrequired under the subsection (3), shall be liable toa penalty not exceeding fifty thousand rupeeswhich may be imposed by the Commissioner-General..

46.Section 160 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after the proviso tothat section, of the following further proviso:

Provided further that where it is proved to thesatisfaction of the Commissioner-General that any

Amendment ofsection 156 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 160 ofthe principalenactment.

36Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

person or partnership is registered with theDepartment of Inland Revenue as a person orpartnership chargeable with the Economic ServiceCharge under the Economic Service Charge Act, No.13 of 2006, the Commissioner-General shall directthat the provisions of this section relating to thededuction of income tax shall not apply, in relationto any annuity, royalty or management fee payableon or after April 1, 2008, to such person orpartnership..

47.The following new Chapter is hereby insertedimmediately after Chapter XX of the principal enactment andshall have effect as Chapter XXA of that enactment:

CHAPTER XXA

DEDUCTION OF INCOME TAX FROM THE SALE PRICE OF ANY GEM

SOLD AT ANY AUCTION CONDUCTED BY THE NATIONAL GEM ANDJEWELLERY AUTHORITY.

161A.(1) The National Gem and JewelleryAuthority established by the National Gem andJewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of 1993, shalldeduct from the sale price of any gem sold atany auction conducted by it, income tax of anamount equal to 2.5 per centum of the sale priceof such gem from the sum payable to the sellerof such gem and at the time such sum is paid tothe seller.

(2) The provisions of Chapter XVI relatingto the deduction of income tax from interestpaid by banks and financial institutions, dutiesof banks and financial institutions, default inthe deduction of income tax, issue ofassessments on banks and financial institutions,appeals and penalty for default, shall, mutatismutandis apply to and in relation to thededuction of income tax from the sale price of

Insertion of anew ChapterXXA in theprincipalenactment.

NationalGem andJewelleryAuthority todeductincome taxfrom the saleprice of anygem sold atany auction.

37Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

any gem, duties of the National Gem andJewellery Authority making such sale, defaultin the deduction of income tax, issue ofassessments on the National Gem and JewelleryAuthority, appeals and penalty for default underthis Chapter, as if there were substituted inChapter XVI for the words banks and financialinstitutions, of the words National Gem andJewellery Authority, and for the wordinterest, of the words sale price of any gemsold, wherever they appear in that Chapter..

48.Section 162 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the substitution for the words an amount equalto fifteen per centum of those moneys,, of the wordsan amount equal to ten per centum of thosemoneys,; and

(2)by the substitution in the marginal note to thatsection, for the words fifteen per centum, of thewords ten per centum.

49.Section 163 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words after the fifteenth day of Novemberimmediately succeeding, wherever those wordsappear in that subsection, of the words after thefifteenth day of September immediatelysucceeding ; and

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (8) of that section, bythe substitution for the words sworn an affidavitthat no fraud, evasion or willful default as beencommitted, of the words sworn an affidavit thatno fraud, evasion or willful default has beencommitted.

Amendment ofsection 162 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 163 ofthe principalenactment.

38Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

50.Section 164 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words notice ofassessment to each person who has been assessed,, of thewords notice of assessment to each person and eachpartnership who or which has been assessed,.

51.Section 208 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended insubsection (4) of that section by the substitution for thewords from or an Assessor of Inland Revenue shall notexercise to the end of that subsection, of the following wordsand figures:

or an Assessor of Inland Revenue shall not

(a)act under section 163; or

(b)reach any agreement or make any adjustment to anyassessment made under subsection (7) of section165,

except with the written approval of the Commissioner -General or any Deputy Commissioner.

52.Section 217 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended in thedefinition of the phrase approved by the Commissioner-General, for the words when used in relation to a providentor pension fund means,, of the words when used in relationto a provident fund, gratuity fund or pension fund means,.

53.The Third Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended by the substitution for item 7 of thatSchedule, of the following item:

7. Any society registered or deemed tobe registered as a registered society under theCo-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972.

On the taxable income forany year of assessmentending on or before

Amendment ofsection 217 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofthe ThirdSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 208 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 164 ofthe principalenactment.

39Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

March 31, 2008 orcommencing on or afterApril 1, 2013

54.The Fifth Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in item 15 of that Schedule, by thesubstitution for the words and figures in accordance withsection 46, and any dividend received from outside Sri Lankaand other divdends, of thewords and figures in accordancewith section 46and any dividends received prior to April 1,2008, from outside Sri Lanka, and other dividends.

55.(1) The amendments made to paragraph (h) ofsubsection (1) of section 8, subsection (1) of section 23,section 26, section 62, section 107 and section 163 of theprincipal enactment, by section 3 (1) (d), section 15 (1) (a),section 19, section 29 and section 35 and section 49respectively of this Act, shall be deemed for all purposes tohave come into force on April 1, 2006

(2) The amendments made to subsection (3) of section 32of the principal enactment by the addition of a new paragraph(e) to that subsection, by section 20 (3) of this Act, shallbe deemed for all purposes to have come into force onApril 1, 2007.

(3) The amendments made to paragraph (b) of subsection(2) of section 34 of the principal enactment and the insertionof new Chapter XXA to the principal enactment, by section21 (1) (a) and section 47 respectively of this Act, shallbe deemed for all purposes to have come into force onJanuary 1, 2008.

(4) The amendments made to the principal enactmentby this Act, other than the amendments specifically referredto in subsections (1), (2) and (3) of this section, shall comeinto force on April 1, 2008..

56.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

5 per centum..

Amendment ofthe FifthSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Retrospectiveeffect.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof anyinconsistency.

40Inland Revenue (Amendment)Act, No. 9 of 2008

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.