PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIG
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OE °
SRI LANKA

STAMP DUTY (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 63 OF 1993

(Certified on 29th December, 1993]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 31, 1993 -

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price: 60 cents. "Postage: Re. 1:00


Stamp Duty (Amendment) Act, No. 63 of 1993
[Certified on 29th December, 1993]
L.D.—O 737/93
AN Act To AMEND THE Stamp Duty Act, No. 43 or 1982

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Fae
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1, This Act may be cited as the — Duty (Amend-
ment) Act, No. 63 of 1992, and shall come into operation on

January 1, 1994.

2. Section 5 oi the Stamp Duty Act, of No. 43 of 1982
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment” as
| last amended by Act No. 29 af 1993, is hereby further
' amended as follows :—

(1) in paragraph (20a) of that section by the substi-
tution for the words “share, in any quoted public
company or the Credit Information Bureau”, of
the words “share in the Credit Information
Bureau”; and

(2) in paragraph (20b) of that section, by the substitu-
tion for the words “share, in any quoted public
company or the Credit Information Bureau”, of
the words “share in the Credit Information
Bureau”,

3. Section 13 of the principal enactment as last amended
by Act No. 29 of 1993, is hereby further amended as
follows :--

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (ii) of subsection (2) of
that section, and the substitution therefor of the
following paragraph :—

“(ii) every bank, approved credit agency,
institution, company or licensed stock
‘broker shall collect the stamp duty payable

in respect of every bill of exchange (other

than a cheque), promissory note, trust
receipt, letter of trust or declaration of trust
taken by it, every pledge in respect of
corporeal movables made to it, every appliea-

tion made to it, for a letter of credit, every
certificate of deposit issued by it, any one of

the documents of payment presented to it in
respect of any corporeal movable (being any
corporeal movable in respect of which a

: letter of credit has not been opened with it),
share certificate issued by it, and the instru-

ment effecting a transfer of shares in a quoted
public Sompany effected by him or it ;”; and

Short title
and date of
operation.

Amendment
of section §
of Act No. 43
of 1982,

Amendment
of section 13
of the
principal
enactment


2 Siamp Duty (Amendment) Act, No- 63 of 1993

(2) by the repeal of subsection (4) of that sectioh, and

the substitution therefor of the folloiwng sub-
section :—

‘“ (4) Where the payment of the stamp duty with
% which every bill of exchange (other than a
~ 3 - + eheque), promissory note, trust-receipt, letter
of trust, declaration of trust, pledge in respect
of corporeal movables, application made for
a letter of credit or certificate of deposit,
any one of the documents of payment
presented to it in respect of any corporeal
movable (being any corporeal movable in
respect of which a letter of credit has not
been opened with it), share certificate or
instrument effecting a transfer of shares in
a quoted public company has been corn-
pounded or collected and remitted as the case
may be, in accordance with this section, the
bank, the approved credit agency, institution,
company or licened stock broker as the
case may be, shall certify on such bill of
exchange (other than a cheque), promissory
note, trust receipt, letter of trust, declaration
of trust, pledge in respect of corporeal
movables, application made for a letter of
' credit or certificate of deposit, document of
payment, share certificate or instrument
effecting transfer of shares in a quoted public
company, as the case may be, _ that
the stamp duty on it has been com-
pounded or collected and remitted as the
case may be. Such certificate shall be subs-
tantially in the following form :—

“It is hereby certified that the stamp
duty payable in respect of this instrument,
namely Rs. has been compounded
or collected and remitted in terms of section
13 of the Stamp Duty Act.”’.

Amendment 4. Section 27 of the principal enactment is hereby
of

section 2'/ amended as follcws:—

of the oo,
principal (1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
enactment,

for the words “ or approved credit agency ”, of the
words “approved credit agency, institution,
company or a licensed stock broker ” ;


Scamp Duty (Amendment) Act, No. 63 of 1993 3

(2) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “or approved credit agency”, of the
words “approved credit agency, institution,
company or a licensed stock broker”; and

(3) by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section, and
the substitution therefor of the following sub-
section :—

“(4} The Commissioner-General or any officer
authorized in writing by him may, after
giving due notice to any person in charge of
a public office, corporation, bank, an
approved credit agency, institution or com-
pany, examine any instrument in such office,
corporation, bank, agency, institution or
company in order to ascertain whether such
instrument is duly stamped and shall
compound such instrument if it is not so
stamped. ”.

5. Section 71 of the principal enactment, as last amended
by Act No. 29 of 1993, is hereby further amended by the
insertion immediately after the definition of the word
“instrument” of the following new definition—

‘“ticense stock broker” means a person who is
licensed as a licensed stock broker under the
provisions of the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of
1987 :’.

6. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment ~

cf

section 71
of the
principal
enactment.

Sinhala

text to
prevail in
case of
inconsistency,
