Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 6.75

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 7 OF 2003

[Certified on 27th February, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 28, 2003

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20031

L. D. O. 89/2002

[Certified on 27th February, 2003]

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax(Amendment) Act No. 7 of 2003.

2.Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended in subsection(3) of that section as follows :

(1)in the first proviso to that subsection

(a)in paragraph (b) of that proviso by thesubstitution for the words any fabric importedby any person, for the purpose of manufactureof garments for export, of the words anyfabric imported by any person for the purposeof manufacture of garments for export ;

(b)in paragraph (e) of that proviso by thesubstitution for the words any ship;, of thewords any ship imported on or beforeDecember 31, 2002 : ;

(2)in the second proviso to that subsection

(a)in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of thatproviso by the substitution for the word andfigure subsection (6), of the word and figuresubsection (7) ;

(b)by the substitution for the words from subjectto the furnishing of a bank guarantee, to theend of that proviso of the following :

(c)any ship imported on or after January1, 2003, for a period upto thirty six

2H 017469 6,650 (12/2002)

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 2 of ActNo. 14 of 2002.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20032

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.

months, from the date of such importand such deferred amount shall besettled in quarterly installments beforethe expiration of such period of thirtysix months.

The deferment of the payment of tax shall be subject to afurnishing of a bank guarantee or a corporate gurantee whichcovers the amount of tax due on the goods imported, receivedor purchased. In the case of such deferment under paragraph(b) no gurantee shall be required where such goods have beenimported by a Government institution to be re-exported withinone month from the date of importation..

3.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section, bythe substitution, for the words and figures registered undersubsection (2) of section 77, of the words and figuresregistered under subsection (2) of section 80.

4.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution,for the words and figures registered under subsection (2) ofsection 77, of the words and figures registered undersubsection (2) of section 80.

5.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures Any valid tax invoiceissued under the Goods and Services Tax Act, No.34 of 1996 prior to August 1, 2002, of the wordsand figures Any tax invoice not issued within theperiod specified in subsection (1) and which doesnot conform to the provisions of subsection (2) shallnot be a valid tax invoice. Any valid tax invoiceissued under the Goods and Services Tax Act, No.34 of 1996 prior to August 1, 2002 or thereafter;

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20033

(2)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words treated as a tax invoice., of the wordstreated as a tax invoice under this Act..;

(3)in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words purposes of this Act., of the words

purposes of this Act :

Provided however a tax invoice shall be issuedby such registered person who makes such taxablesupply to any Government institution, ProvincialCouncil, Local Government institution, or any publiccorporation, for any taxable supply made to suchinstitution, Council or such corporation, as the casemay be, whether or not such institution, Council orcorporation is registered under this Act..

6.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (12) of that section, by the substitutionfor the word and figure subsection (9), of the word andfigure subsection (10).

7.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section, bythe substitution for the words and figures Law No.4 of 1978, of the words and figures Law No. 4 of1978 or by any other garment manufacturer whomanufactures garments for export under thesupervision of the Department of Customs;

(2)by the insertion immediately after the proviso tosubsection (1) of that section of the following :

Provided further that no other tax or levy includingany duty under the Customs Ordinance shall becharged or collected on such sale of garments, wherethe amount specified in the preceding proviso hasbeen paid on such sale.;

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20034

(3)in subsection (5) of that section

(a)in paragraph (b) of the first proviso to thatsubsection, by the substitution for the wordand figure subsection (6), of the word andfigure subsection (7);

(b)in the second proviso to that subsection, bythe substitution for the words shall not berefunded., of the words and figuresshall notbe refunded but such input tax including anyexcess input tax as at July 31, 2002, under theGoods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996shall be carried forward.;

(4)in subsection (6) of that section

(a)by the repeal of paragraphs (iii) and (iv) ofthat subsection and the substitution thereforeof the following :

(iii)if the supply of goods or servicesreceived is not supported by

(a)a valid tax invoice ; or

(b)a customs goods declaration orother authenticated documentissued by the Director-General ofCustoms under this Act or underthe Goods and Services Tax Act,No. 34 of 1996,

and received within twelve months from theend of the relevant taxable period in respectof which such tax invoice was issued or fromthe date of importation of goods, as the casemay be;

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20035

(iv)if the input tax on such tax invoiceor customs goods declaration, asthe case may be, has not beendeducted from the output taxfor any taxable period endingbefore the lapse of six monthsfrom the last day of the taxableperiod in which such tax invoiceor customs goods declaration wasreceived :;

(b)by the insertion immediately after the firstproviso to subsection (6) of that section of thefollowing proviso :

Provided further, where input taxdisallowed in respect of any motor vehiclereferred to in paragraph (i) may be allowed upto a limit of fifty percent of such input tax forany taxable period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2003, subject to the provisions ofsubsection (3), where such vehicle is partly orwholly used in any taxable activity.;

(5)in subsection (7) of that section, by the substitutionfor the word and figure subsection (5), of the wordand figure subsection (6);

(6)in paragraph (b) of subsection (8) of that section, bythe substitution for the word and figuresubsection (6), of the words and figuressubsection (7) or subsection (6) of section 22 ofthe Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996..

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20036

8.The following new Chapter is hereby insertedimmediately after Chapter III and shall have effect as ChapterIIIA of the principal enactment :

CHAPTER IIIA

IMPOSITION OF VALUE ADDED TAX ON THE SUPPLY OF FINANCIAL

SERVICES BY SPECIFIED INSTITUTIONS

25A. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions ofChapter I, II, III and item (xi) of the FirstSchedule to this Act, a Value Added Tax(hereinafter in this Chapter referred to as thetax) shall be charged in accordance with theprovisions of this Chapter with effect fromJanuary 1, 2003, on the supply of financialservices in Sri Lanka, made by any specifiedinstitution which carries on a business ofsupplying such financial services.

(2) Every specified institution, carrying onthe business of supplying any financial servicein Sri Lanka, shall be required to be registeredwhere the value of such supply for a period ofthree months exceeds five hundred thousandrupees or for a period of twelve months onemillion eight hundred thousand rupees, as thecase may be.

(3) Every specified institution, required tobe registered under subsection (2), shall makean application for registration in the specifiedform to the Commissioner-General not later thanten days from the date of commencement of thisAct :

Provided however any institution registeredunder this Act and which is a specifiedinstitution within the meaning of this Chapter,shall be deemed for all purposes to be aregistered specified institution.

Insertion of newChapter IIIA in theprincipalenactment.

Charge ofvalue addedtax on thesupply offinancialservices byspecifiedinstitutions.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20037

(4) The Commissioner-General shall uponsuch registration issue, to such registeredspecified institution

(a)a tax registration number ; and

(b)a certificate of registration :

Provided however any institution deemed tobe registered under this Chapter, shall not beissued with a tax registration number and acertificate of registration, under this Chapter.

25B. The taxable period of every registeredspecified institution shall be one month and areturn in the form specified shall be furnishedfor each month before the end of the followingmonth.

25C. (1) Every registered specified institutionunder this Chapter shall be liable to tax for eachtaxable period on its total value addition of suchinstitution which includes the net profits or loss,as the case may be, before payament of incometax on such profit computed in accordance withaccepted accounting standards, subject to anadjustment for economic depreciation,determined by the Minister having regard to theinterest of economy by order published in theGazette, and the emoluments payable to all theemployees of such institution :

Provided however where the amount ofprofits for each taxable period cannot beaccurately ascertained, such amount may beestimated on the basis of available information.The estimated amounts shall be adjusted toreflect the actual amount on half yearly basis.

Emoluments paid to all the employees shallinclude

(a)in the case of specified employeesunder Chapter XIV of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 38 of 2000, the gross

Monthlytaxable period.

Calculation oftax.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20038

remuneration payable to such employeesand reflected in the pay sheet maintainedunder paragraph (a) of section 110 of theInland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000; and

(b)in the case of an employee other than aspecified employee the grossremuneration paid to such employeereflected in the pay sheet maintainedunder subsection (2).

(2) Every registered specified institutionshall maintain a pay sheet in respect everyemployee, other than a specified employee, inthe manner set out by the Commissioner-General under section 110 of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 38 of 2000.

(3) The amount of tax payable for each monthshall be ten percentum of the value additionsspecified in subsection (1).

25D. Where any registered specifiedinstitution has paid any tax under any otherprovision of this Act, other than this Chapter, atax credit shall be allowed on an amount equalto such tax paid against the tax payable underthis Chapter, where in the opinion of theCommissioner-General there is no materialdifference in the recognition of receipts of suchinstitution for the calculation of profits for thepurposes of this Chapter and for the purposesof the calculation of taxable supplies under anyother provisions of this Act :

Provided however, only fifty percentum ofany such tax paid under any other provision ofthis Act other than under this Chapter, in relationto tax calculated as provided in section 22 atthe standard rate shall be deducted against thetax payable under this Chapter.

Tax credit.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20039

25E. The provisions of Chapters IV to XVIshall, mutatis mutandis, be applicable in respectof the tax charged under this Chapter.

25F. For the purposes of this Chapter

supply of financial services means

(a)the operation of any current, deposit orsavings account;

(b)the exchange of currency ;

(c)the issue, payment, collection or transferof ownership of any note, order forpayment, cheque or letter of credit ;

(d)the issue, allotment, transfer of ownership,drawing, acceptance or endorsement ofany debt. security, being any interest inor right to be paid money owing by anyperson ;

(e)the issue, allotment, transfer of ownershipof any equity security or a participatorysecurity ;

(f)underwriting or sub-underwriting theissue of any equity security, debt securityor participatory security ;

(g)the provision of any loan, advance orcredit;

(h)the provision

(a)of the facility of instalment creditfinance in a hire purchaseconditional sale or credit saleagreement for which facility aseparate charge is made anddisclosed to the person to whom thesupply is made ;

Chapters IV toXVI to beapplicable toregisteredspecifiedinstitutionsunder thisChapter.

Interpretation.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200310

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment.

(b)goods under any hire purchaseagreement or conditional sale orhire purchase agreement while havebeen used in Sri Lanka for a periodnot less than twelve months as atthe date of such agreement ;

specified institution means

(a)a licenced commercial bank within themeaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of1988;

(b)a finance company registered under theFinance Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988 ;

(c)a licenced specialized bank within themeaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of1988. .

9.Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section. as follows :

(1)in paragraph (b) of that subsection by the substitutionfor the words the assessment has been made hasnot been charged of the words the assessment hasbeen made has not been charged;

(2)in the proviso to that subsection by the substitutionfor the words default of of the words defaultfrom.

10.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (2) ofthat section of the following subsection :

(3) Where any penalty payable under this section isoutstanding on November 6, 2002

(a)such penalty shall be waived in full where the taxpayable in default has been fully paid on or beforeNovember 6, 2002;

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200311

(b)where a portion of the tax in default has been paidon or before November 6, 2002, such penaltyreferable to the amount of the tax in default paidshall be waived.

11. Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words that taxable period, to the end of that sectionof the words that taxable period.

12. Section 33 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words at any time of the words within a period offive years from the end of the taxable period to which theassessment relates.

For the purposes of this Chapter any notice of assessmentmay refer to one or more taxable periods..

13.Section 34 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the second proviso to subsection (8) of thatsection, by the substitution for the words three years, of thewords two years.

14.Section 35 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)of that section ; and

(2)by the addition immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) of that section of the followingsubsection :

(2)Notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other law, an appeal to the Board of Reviewunder subsection (1) shall be determined by theBoard within a period of two years from the date ofcommencement of the hearing of such appeal by theBoard..

Amendment ofsection 35 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 34 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 33 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200312

15.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 48 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 48A of the enactment :

48A. No proceedings shall be instituted orany action pending for the recovery of tax orany other action taken, for the recovery of taxshall be proceeded with, under this Chapterwhere a period of five years has lapsed afterthree months from the date of default of suchtax..

16.Section 58 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words the taxable period, of the words a taxableperiod, within three years from the end of such taxable period.

17.Section 67 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after paragraph (a) ofthat section of the following paragraph :

(aa)fails to apply for registration as required undersection 25A; or.

18.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 75 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 75A of that enactment :

75A. The Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister may, from time to time, issue guidelines in respect of any matter, he considersappropriate for the proper implementation of theprovisions of this Act..

19.Section 80 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal ofsubparagraph (ii) of paragraph (c) of that subsection and thesubstitution therefore of the following :

(ii)under section 64 ; and.

Insertion of newsection 48A in theprincipalenactment.

Secretary toissue guidelines.

Amendment ofsection 80 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 75A in theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 67 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 58 of theprincipalenactment.

Time limitfor therecovery ofthe tax indefault.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200313

20.Section 83 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1) in the definition of the expression DeputyCommissioner by the substitution for the words DeputyCommissioner of Inland Revenue of the words DeputyCommissioner of Inland Revenue;

(2)by the substitution for the definition of the expressionof goods of the following :

goods means all kinds of movable or immovableproperty but does not include

(a)money;

(b)computer software made to customers specialrequirements either as unique programme oradaptation for standard programme, intercompany information data and accounts,enhancement and update of existing specificprogrammes, enhancement and update ofexisting normalized programmes suppliedunder contractual obligation to customers whohave bought the original programme or wherethe value of contents separately identifiablein a software such vale of contents ;;

(3)in the definition of the expression taxable periodby the repeal of subparagraph (iv) of paragraph (a)and the substitution therefor of the following :

(iv)where any person has commenced a businessor started a project and undertakes to complywith the requirements of subsection (7) ofsection 22 under this Act or subsection (6) ofsection 22 of the Goods and Services Tax Act,No. 34 of 1996;.

Amendment ofsection 83 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200314

21.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (h) of item (xi) of thatSchedule and the substitution therefore of thefollowing :

(h)the provision

(a)of the facility of instalment creditfinance in a hire purchase conditionalsale or credit sale agreement for whichfacility a separate charge is made anddisclosed to the person to whom thesupply is made ;

(b)of goods under any hire purchaseagreement or conditional saleagreement which have been used in SriLanka for a period not less than twelvemonths as at the date of suchagreement ;;

(2)in item (xiii) of that Schedule by the substitution forthe words The import and and supply of the wordsThe import and supply;

(3)in item (xiv) of that Schedule by the substitution forthe words The import and supply of unusedpostage of the words The import or supply ofunused postage;

(4)by the substitution for item (xvi) of that Schedule ofthe following :

(xvi)The import of goods by any organisationapproved by the Minister, where he issatisfied that such goods are gifts frompersons or organisaitons abroad or thesupply of goods directly funded by anyforeign organisaiton for the relief of suddendistress caused by natural or humandisasters ;

Amendment of thefirst Schedule tothe principalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200315

(5)by the repeal of item (xxvi) of that Schedule.

22.The Second Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows :

(1)in item (ix) of that Schedule by the substitution forthe words and lentils;, of the words and dhall;

(2)in item (xii) of that Schedule by the substitution forthe words supply or import of patrol, diesel, fuelliquefied petroleum gas of the words supply orimport of petrol, diesel and liquefied petroleumgas;;

(3)by the repeal of item (xviii) of that Schedule and thesubstitution therefore of the following :

(xviii)supply of finance leasing facilities by aperson registered under the Finance leasingAct, No. 56 of 2000, other than any receiptof an advance payment on account of theasset to be given on lease or in relation tosuch leasing transaction or any payment forthe early settlement of the amount payableunder the lease agreement which exceedsten percentum of the total agreement value;

(4)by the addition immediately after item (xxi) of thatSchedule of the following new items :

(xxii)the supply of services by professionalconference organizers, registered with theSri Lanka Convention Burau in organizingseminars or other events ;

(xxiii)the supply or import of textiles andhandloom products;

(xxiv)the supply or import of ships ;

Amendment of thesecond Scheduleto the principalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200316

(xxv)the supply or import of any jewellery ;

(xxvi)the supply or import of maize ;

(xxvii)the supply or import of machinery, medicaland surgical instruments, apparatus oraccessories including medical and dentalequipment, ambulances for the provisionof health services and surgical dressings..

(xxviii)the supply, lease or rent of residentialaccommodation other than suppliesspecified in the First Schedule ;

(xxix)the supply of all health care servicesprovided by medical institutions other thansupplies specified in the First Schedule ;

(xxx)the supply of land and improvements.

23.The

(1)amendment made to seciton 2, the insertion of a newChapter IIIA, amendments made to sections 33, 34,35 and the insertion of section 48A, the amendmentmade to section 58, the insertion of section 75A andthe amendment to the Second Schedule to theprincipal enactment by section 2, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15,16, 17, 22 (3) and 22 (4) of this Act, shall be deemedfor all purposes to have come into force on January1, 2003 ;

(2)amendments made to sections 11, 14, 20, 21, 22, 26,28, 80, 83 of the First Schedule and the SecondSchedule to the principal enactment by sections 3,4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 19, 19(1), 21, 22(1), and 22(2) ofthis Act shall be deemed for all purposes to havecome into force on August, 1, 2002 ;

Retrospectiveeffect.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200317

(3)amendment made to section 27 of the principalenactment by section 10 of this Act shall be deemedfor all purposes to have come into force onNovember 6, 2002.

24.Where any person who collects the tax as providedfor in this Act, during the period commencing on January 1,2003 upto the date of commencement of this Act, such personshall be deemed to have acted with due authority and suchcollection shall be deemed for all purposes to have been, andto be, validly made and is hereby indemnified against allactions, civil or criminal, in respect of such collection.

25.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil text of this Act the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Validation.

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200318

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.