SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

_ AGRARIAN SERVICES
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
ACT, No. 41 OF 1993

[Certified on 8th September, 1993]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 10, 1993

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT FUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 7
.Price: 45 cents. Postage: Re. 1.00


Agrarian Services (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 41 of 1993
[Certified on 8th September, 1993]
' L. D.—O. 50/88.
AN ACT TO AMEND THR REGULATIONS MADE “UNDER THE
AGRARIAN Services Act, No. 58 or 1979, AND TO VALIDATE

ACTS DONE TO RECOVER LOANS GRANTED BY CERTAIN BANKS, AND
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Agrarian Services Short title.
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 41 of 1993.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Amendment

of regula-
Act, the Agrarian Services Regulations, No. 1 of 1979, made tions made
under section 66 of the Agrarian Services Act, No. 58 of Reravian

1979 (hereinafter referred to as the “ principal enactment” ) ‘Act, No. 58

and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 66/14 of of 1979.
December 14, 1979, shall have effect as if for regulation 46
thereof, there were substituted the following regulation :—

‘46. For the purposes of Part II of the Act, “ prescribed’
bank” means any banking institution within the meaning
of section 127 of the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422).’.

3. (1) Every instrument executed, prior to the date of Validation.
commencement of this Act, creating a mortgage or charge
on any land or interest therein in respect of a loan granted
to any owner cultivator or occupier of an agricultural land
by a specified bank shall be deemed not to have been, or to
be, invalid or to be improperly stamped, by reason only of
the fact that such bank was not, at the time of the execu-
tion or stamping of such instrument, as the case may be,
a prescribed bank within the meaning of the principal
enactment and every such izstrument shall have the prio-
rity referred to in section $0 of the principal enactment.

(2) Every notification made to the Commissioner, under
subsection (1) of section 29 of the principal enactment by
a specified bank, prior to the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be deemed not to have been, or to be, invalid
by ‘reason only of the -fact- that such bank was not, on the
date of such notification, a prescribed bank within the
meaning of the princival enactment

Oo. Wrnanadca:s a ann fad itan


2 Agrarian Services (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 41 of 1993

(3) Every order made, prior to the date of commence--
ment of this Act, under subsection (4) of section 29 of the:
principal enactment, for the payment of any sum of money
to a specified bank shall be deemed not to have been, oF
to be, invalid by reason only of the fact that such bank
was not, on the date of such order, a prescribed bank.
within the meaning of the principal enactment.

(4) Every application made, prior to the date of com-
" mencement of this Act, by a specified bank to a Magistrate’s
Court, under subsection (5) of section 29 of the principal
enactment shall be deemed not to have been, or to be, in-
valid by reason only of the fact that such bank was not,
on the date of such application, a prescribed bank within
the meaning of the principal enactment.

. (5) Every order made prior to the date of commencement.
of this Act, by a Magistrate’s Court, under subsection (5)
of section 29 of the principal enactment, in pursuance of
an application made to it under that subsection, by a speci-
fied bank shall be deemed not to have been, or to be, invalid
by reason only of the fact that such bank was not, on the
date of such order, a prescribed bank within the meaning
of the principal enactment.

(6) Every certificate issued, prior to the date of com-
mencement of this Act, by or on behalf of a specified bank,
under subsection (6) of section 29 of the principal enact-
meni shall be deemed not to have been or to be, invalid
by reason only of the fact that such bank was not, on the
date of such certificate, a prescribed bank within the mean-
ing of the principal enactment. “

(7) In this section “ specified bank” means any banking
institution within the meaning of section 127 of the Mone-
tary Law Act.

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala téxt shall prevail.
