PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC *- ’

ee €
a 4

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

of

ADOPTION OF CHILDREN
(AMENDMENTS , AGT, No. 38 OF. 1979

\

[Certified on 8th June, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

on@
a° “

‘

Published as a Supplement to Part II ofthe Gazette of the Democratic
o? ye Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 15, 1979 »

PRINTED AT THE DEEARTMENT. OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

. TO BE PURCHASED, AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS..BUREAU, COLOMBO

Postage: 25 cents

Price; AS cents

~~ ete

\

—


. Adoption of Children (Amendment)
Act, No. 38 of 1979

[Certified on 8th June, 1979]
L.D.—O. 71/78. |

An ACT TO AMEND THE ADOPTION OF CHILDREN ORDINANCR. —

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic.

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as: follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Adoption of Children
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1979.

2. Section 3 of the Adoption of Children Ordinance
_ (hereafter in this Act referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the repeal of subsec-
tion (6) of that section (as amended by Law No. 6 of 1977)
and the substitution therefor, of the following subsection :--—

* (6) An adoption order shall not be made in favour

_ of any applicant who is not resident and domiciled in

Sri Lanka or in respect of any child who is not Xo)
resident :

' Provided that an adoption order may be made on a
joint application of two spouses who are not resident
and domiciled in Sri Lanka where, after calling for, and
considering, a report from the Commissioner of
Probation and Child Care Services on the social and
psychological aspects of the adoption to be authorized
and on the matters specified in section 4, the court is
Satisfied that there are special circumstances that

justify the making of an adoption order in favour of the,

joint applicants. The Commissioner ‘shall submit such
report to court within the period fixed by court for that
purpose, such period being not less than fourteen days
and not more than twenty-eight days from the date on
. Which the court calls for the report, and shall annex to
~ such report a home-study report in respect of the .appli-
cants from an institution recognized by the country of
the applicants and authenticated by the aecredited
. representative for the Republic of Sri Lanka in. gat
country.

In this subsection a “home-study report: ae means - a
report on the mental health of the applicants, ‘on. their
‘social, religious and financial background and on their
suitability to adopt a child.’

A 41908—13,200 (79/05) -

Shert title.

Amendment
of section

3 of
Chapter 61,


‘Application
of this Act.

2 ‘Adoption of Children (Amendment) “ei
' . Act, No.-38 of 1979 —

ro

3. The amendment made to the principal enactment

_ by this Act shall apply: to every application made under —

section 2 of the principal enactment and’ pending in any
court on the date of commencement of this Act, and to

every such application made after the date of. commen-

cement of this Act.
