PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
| SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

EMPLOYEES TRUST FUND
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
ACT, No. 19 OF 1993
Seckim O7A of Ba_wmiverebets act ne lb E1978
Peach ne pertee ;

a [Certified on 31st March, 1993] ; '

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 02, 1993

. PRINTED AY YHE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA ‘
' . e
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price: 60 cents. Postage: Re. 1.00 f


Employees Trust Fund (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 19 of 1993

[Certified on 31st March, 1993]
L.D—O, 39/91

AN ACT TO MAKE THE PROVISIONS OF THE EMPLOYEES TRUST
Funp Act, No. 46 or 1980 APPLICABLE TO EMPLOYEES OF, THE
University Grants ComMMIsSION AND OF, HicHER Epuca-
TIONAL INSTITUTIONS ; TO REPEAL SECTION 79A OF THE UNI-
VERSITIES Act, No. 16 or 1978 ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO. .

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist ° -

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Employees Trust Fund
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 19 of 1993.

2. Section 97a of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 is
hereby repealed.

3. (1) The provisions of the principal enactment shall be
deemed to apply to the University Grants Commission and
to every Higher Educational Institution with effect from
December 9, 1980, and the liability of the University Grants
Commission and every Higher Educational Institution to
make contributions to the Fund under section 16 of the prin-
cipal enactment shall be deemed to have commenced on
March 1, 1981.

(2) The University Grants Commission and a Higher
Educational Institution shall be deemed, for all purposes, to
have complied with the provisions of section 16 of the prin-
cipal enactment, requiring the payment of contributions by
the University Grants Commission or such Higher Educa-
tional Institution in respect of a person who is, or was, an
employee of the University Grants Commission or such
Higher Educational Institution, as the case may be, for any
' period prior to the date of commencement of this Act, if it
pays to the Fund, within six months of the date of com-
mencement of this Act—

(a) in any-case where such person was an employee of
the University Grants Commission or a Higher Edu-

} + eational Institution on March 1, 1981 and continues
_ to be an employee of the University Grants Coim-
mission or such Higher Educational Institution, as

the case may be, on the date of commencement of

’ |» this Act, an amount equal to three per centum of the

cational Insti-~
tutiong,


Employees Trust Fund (Special Provistons)
Act; No 19 of 1993 »

total earnings of such person for each month in the
period commencing on March 1, 1981 and ending
on the date of commencement of this Act, less the
amount of any contributions made to the Fund, in
_Tespect of such person by the University Grants

Commission or such Higher Educational Institution,
as the case may be, ‘during that period ;

“(b) in any case where such person became an employee
of the University Grants Commission or a Higher
Educational Institution on any date after March 1,
1981 and continues to be an employee of the Univer-
sity Grants Commission or such Higher Educational
Institution, as the case may be, on the date of com-
mencement of this Act, an amount equal to three
percentum of the total earnings of such person for
each month in the period commencing on the date
on which such person became an employee of the

- University Grants Commission or such Higher Edu-.
cational Institution, as. the case may be, and ending
on the date of commencement of this Act, less the .
amount of any contributions made to the Fund, in
respect of such person, by the University Grants
Commission or such Higher Educational Institution,

_ as the case may be during that period ;

() in any case where such person was.an employee of

., the University Grants Commission or a Higher Edu-

--.-.. ational Institution on March 1, 1981 and has ceasea

."', to be an employee of the University Grants Com-
mission or such Higher Educational Institution, as
the case may be, on a date prior to the date of com-
mencement of this Act, an amount equal to three

per centum of the total earnings of such person for
each month in the period commencing on March 1,

1981 and ending on the date on which such person
ceased to be an employee.of the University Grants
*- Conmission or such Higher Educational Institution,


. Employees Trust Fund (Special Provisions) . 3
Act, No. 19 of 1993.

as the case may be, less the amount of any contribu-
tions made to the Fund, in respect of such person
bv the University Grants Commission or such
Higher Educational Institution, as the case may be,
during that period :’

(d) in any case where such person became an employee
of the University Grants Commission or such Higher
Educational Institution on any date after March |,

1981 and has ceased to be an employee of the Uni- —

versity Grants Commnission or such Higher Educa-
tional Institution, as the case may be, on a date
prior to the date of commencement of this-Act, aa
_ ‘amount equal to three per centum of the total earn-
ings of such person for each month in the period
commencing on the date on which such person be-
came an employee of the University Grants Corn-
' mission or such Higher Educational Institution, as
the case may be, and ending on the date on which
he ceased to be an employee of the University
Grants Commission or such Higher Educational Ins-
! titution,, as the case may be, less the amount of any
: contributions made to the Fund in respect of such
person, by the University Grants Commission or
such Higher Educational Institution, as the case may
be, during that period.

(3) Any payments made under subsection (4) by the Uni-
versity Grants Commission or a Higher Educational Institu-
tion in respect of any person shall be credited by the Board
to the individual account of such person in the Fund.

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

5. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—-

“the Board” means the Employees Trust Fund Board
established by the principal enactment ;

Sinhala

‘text to pre-

vail in case
of
inconsistency.

Inter-
pretation.

onan


Employees Trust Fund (Special Provisions),
Act, No. 19 of 1993

“the Fund ” means the Employees Trust Fund established
by the principal enactment ;

“Higher Educational Institution” has the same meaning
as in the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978;

“principal enactment” means the Employees Trust Fund
Act, No. 46 of 1980;
“University Grants Commission” means the University

Grants Commission established by the Universities
Act, No. 16 of 1978.
