PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INLAND REVENUE (AMENDMENT)ACT, NO. 8 OF 2012

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 30th March, 2012]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 30, 2012

1Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

[Certified on 30th March, 2012]

L.D.O. 10 /2012.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INLAND REVENUE ACT, NO. 10 OF 2006

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012.

(2) The provisions of this Act, shall come into operationon April 1, 2012:

Provided however

(a)the amendments made to section 7 of the InlandRevenue Act, No.10 of 2006 (hereinafter referredto as the principal enactment) by section 2 (2)of this Act;

(b)the amendments made to section 16C of theprincipal enactment by section 6 of this Act;

(c)the amendments made to section 17A of theprincipal enactment by section 9 of this Act,

(d)the amendments made to

(i)subsection (2) of section 34 of the principalenactment by the addition of new subparagraph (s) to that subsection by section15 (1) of this Act; and

(ii) paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) respectivelyof subsection (4) of section 34 of the principalencatmant by the addition of new item (A) innew subparagraph (x) and new item (A) in

Short title andthe date ofoperation.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20122

new subparagraph (ix) to that subsectionrespectively, by section 15 (2) of this Act,

shall be deemed for all purposes to have come intooperation on April 1, 2011.

2.Section 7 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 22 of 2011 is hereby further amendedas follows :

(1)in paragraph (b) of that section

(a)by the substitution in sub paragraph (xxviii),for the words and figures part VIII of theCompanies Act, No. 17 of 1982, of the wordsand figures part XI of the Companies Act,No. 7 of 2007;

(b)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (lxi), forthe words and figures the profits and incomeof the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka,established by the Regulation of InsuranceIndustry Act, No. 43 of 2000,, of the wordsand figures the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka,established by the Regulation of InsuranceIndustry Act, No. 43 of 2000;;

(c)by the addition, immediately aftersub-paragraph (lxi), of the following newsub-paragraphs:

(lxii)the Institute of Certified ManagementAccountants of Sri Lanka establishedby the Institute of CertifiedManagement Accountants of Sri LankaAct, No. 23 of 2009; and

(lxiii)the Fund established by the NationalChild Protection Authority Act, No. 50of 1998.;

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

3Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

(2)in paragraph (e) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the words and figuresthe profits and income accruing prior toApril 1, 2011, of a charitable institution,, ofthe words the profits and income of acharitable institution,;

(b)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) ofthat paragraph, for the words the profits of abusiness, of the words and figures the profitsfor any year of assessment commencing priorto April 1, 2011, of a business.

3.Section 9 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 22 of 2011 is hereby further amended asfollows:

(1)in paragraph (a) of that section by the substitutionfor the words if such loan is approved by theMinister as being essential for the economic progressof Sri Lanka;, of the following words and figures,

if such loan is

(i)granted prior to April 1, 2012, and approvedby the Minister as being essential for theeconomic progress of Sri Lanka; or

(ii)granted on or after April 1, 2012;.

(2)in paragraph (b) of that section by the substitutionfor the words if such loan is approved by theMinister as being essential for the economic progressof Sri Lanka;, of the following words and figures,

if such loan is

(i)granted prior to April 1, 2012, and approvedby the Minister as being essential for theeconomic progress of Sri Lanka; or

(ii)granted on or after April 1, 2012;.

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20124

4.Section 10 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 9 of 2008, is hereby further amended insubsection (1) as follows :

(1)in paragraph (i) of that subsection, by the substitutionfor the words within one year thereafter., of thewords within one year thereafter;;

(2)in paragraph (j) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words through a bank., of thewords through a bank;;

(3)by the addition immediately after paragraph (j) ofthat subsection, of the following new paragraph:

(k)any dividend paid to a shareholder of acompany out of such profits and incomeof that company which are exempt fromincome tax under section 16C or section17A of this Act, if such dividend is paidduring the period for which such profitsand income are exempt from income tax:

Provided that where such company is aresident company engaged in anyconstruction project, then such exemptionshall be applicable to any dividend paidby such company during the period forwhich such profits and income are exemptfrom income tax or within one yearthereafter..

5.Section 13 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 22 of 2011 is hereby further amended asfollows:

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (t) ofthat section, of the following new paragraph:

(tt)the profits and income accruing to anyperson from the redemption of a unit of aUnit Trust or a Mutual Fund;;

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

5Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (v) ofthat section, of the following new paragraph :-

(vv)the profits and income of any individualwho is not a citizen of Sri Lanka and whois brought to Sri Lanka as a trainer of anysport, being profits and income derivedby such individual in the capacity of suchtrainer in Sri Lanka;;

(3)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) ofparagraph (xxxxxx) for the words and figuressection 17C;, of the words and figures section16C;;

(4)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (yyyyy)of that section, of the following new paragraph :-

(yyyyyy)any royalty received in foreign currencyby any person resident in Sri Lanka fromoutside Sri Lanka, if such royalty isremitted to Sri Lanka through a bank;;

(5)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (zzzzz)of that section, of the following new paragraph :-

(zzzzzz)the profits and income arising or accruingto any person from the administration ofany sports ground, stadium or sportscomplex..

6.Section 16C of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution in subsection (1) of that section,for the words shall be exempt from income tax fora period of three years reckoned from, of the wordsshall be exempt from income tax for the periodspecified in Column III as corresponding to theinvestment specified in Column II and the types ofactivities specified in Column I of the Schedulehereto reckoned from,;

Amendment ofsection 16C ofthe principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20126

(2)by the insertion, immediately after subsection (1)of that section, of the following Schedule :

SCHEDULE

(3) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following newsubsection:

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), newundertaking means an undertaking

(a)which is engaged in

(i)agriculture, animal husbandry orfishing;

(ii)the manufacture of any article(including the processing of sucharticle), other than any liquor or anytobacco product;

Column IColumn IIColumn III(Activities)(Amount of investment(Period of in Rupees)exemption)

Agriculture, animalhusbandry orfishing (includingprocessing), creativework including workof an artist,InformationTechnology

Not less than 25million, but less than50 million

4 years

Any activity referredto in paragraph (a) ofsubsection (2), butnot including servicesrelating to agriculture(products shall bewith a minimum of35% value addition,if more than 50% ofthe production is tobe sold in thedomestic market)

Not less than 50million, but less than100 million

4 years

5 years

6 years.

Not less than100 million but lessthan 200 million

Not less than 200million

7Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

(iii)the provision of services of InformationTechnology;

(iv)software development;

(v)business process outsourcing;

(vi)knowledge process outsourcing;

(vii)the provision of healthcare services;

(viii)the provision of educational services;

(ix)the provision of beautycare services;

(x)the provision of cold room and storagefacilities;

(xi)tourism;

(xii)fitness centre services or providingfacilities for sports;

(xiii)creative work including work of anartist;

(xiv)mini hydro power projects;

(b)in which the sum invested in the acquisitionof fixed assets after March 31, 2011 but priorto April 1, 2015 is not less than thecorresponding sum specified in Column IIof the Schedule to subsection (1); and

(c) which commences commercial operationson or after April 1, 2011.

For the purposes of this section the amount ofinvestment means the cost of any land, plant,machinery, equipment and other fixed assets..

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 20128

7.The following new section is herebyinserted immediately after section 16C of the principalenactment and shall have effect as section 16D of thatenactment :-

16D. The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3(other than any profits and income from thesale of any capital asset) of any newundertaking established on or after April 1,2012 and engaged in the manufacture ofany of the products referred to in Column I ofthe Schedule hereto with an amount notless than the corresponding minimuminvestment referred to in Column II thereof,shall be exempt from income tax for a periodof five years reckoned from the commencementof the year of assessment in whichsuch undertaking commences to makeprofits from transactions entered into in thatyear of assessment or from the commencementof the year of assessment immediatelysucceeding the year of assessment in whichsuch undertaking completes a period oftwo years from the date on which suchundertaking commences to carry on commercialoperations; which ever occurs earlier.

SCHEDULE

Insertion of newsection 16D inthe principalenactment.

Exemptionfor fiveyears,ofprofits andincome ofstrategicimportreplacementundertakingsengaged inthemanufactureof specifiedproducts.

Fabric

Pharmaceutical

Milk Powder

Cement

5

10

30

50.

Column I(Product)Column II(Minimum Investment inUSD Million)

9Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

8.Section 17 of the principal enactment, as lastamended by Act, No. 22 of 2011, is hereby further amendedin subsection (2) of that section as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (a) of that subsection, by thesubstitution in sub-paragraph (ii), for the wordsrupees ten million invested in such undertaking,,of the words and figures rupees ten million investednot later than March 31, 2012, in suchundertaking,;

(2)in paragraph (b) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words which qualify under thesame investment criteria, of the words and figureswhich qualify under the same investment criteriaand incorporated prior to April 1, 2002; and

(3)in paragraph (c) of that subsection, by thesubstitution for the words Order published in theGazette, of the words and figures Order publishedin the Gazette not later than March 31, 2012.

9.Section 17A of the principal enactment, is herebyamended as follows :-

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the words shall beexempted from income tax for a period offive years reckoned from, of the words shallbe exempt from income tax for the periodspecified in Column II of the Schedule heretoas corresponding to the investment specifiedin Column I of that Schedule, reckonedfrom; and

(b)by the repeal of the proviso to that subsectionand the substitution therefor, of the followingschedule:-

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 17A ofthe principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201210

SCHEDULE

(2)by the substitution for the subsection (2) of thatsection, of the following new subsection :-

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), newundertaking means any undertaking

(a)which is engaged in any of the activitiesspecified below:-

(i)manufacture of boats, pharmaceuticals,tyres and tubes, motor spare parts,furniture, ceramics, glass ware or othermineral based products, rubber basedproducts, cosmetic products, edibleproducts manufactured out of locallycultivated agricultural products,construction materials or electrical orelectronic goods;

(ii)manufacture, production or processingof non-traditional goods for export,including deemed exports which shallconstitute not less than ninety percentum of the total production and inthe case of apparels, seventy five percentum of the total production ;

Column I(Investment in Rupees Million)Column II(Exemptionperiod)More than 300 and not morethan 500

More than 500 and not morethan 700

More than 700 and not morethan 1,000

More than 1,000 and not morethan 1,500

More than 1,500 and not morethan 2,500

More than 2,500

6 years

7 years

8 years

9 years

10 years

12 years;

11Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

(iii)cultivation of food crops or industrialcrops;

(iv)horticulture;

(v)forestry;

(vi)animal husbandry in relation to dairy,poultry, swine, goat etc;

(vii)provision of services to a person orpartnership outside Sri Lanka, forpayment where the total amount of suchpayment shall not be less than seventyper centum in convertible foreigncurrency;

(viii)tourism or tourism related projects;

(ix)hotels, guest houses or similar services;

(x)infrastructure projects includingconstruction of commercial buildings;

(xi)development of any warehousing orstorage facility;

(xii)power generation using renewableresources;

(xiii)establishment of industrial estates,special economic zones or knowledgecities;

(xiv)urban housing or town centredevelopment;

(xv)provision of any sanitation facility orwaste management systems;

(xvi)development of water services;

(xvii)development of internal water ways, orrelated transport (goods or passengers);

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201212

(xviii)construction of hospitals and provisionof health care services;

(xix)repair of aircrafts or maritime vessels orship breaking;

(xx)sporting services (e.g. motor racing orgolf course);

(xxi)information technology;

(xxii)software development;

(xxiii)business or knowledge processoutsourcing;

(xxiv)any project in light or heavyengineering industry;

(xxv)artificial insemination for cattle (dairydevelopment);

(xxvi)provision of educational services;or

(xxvii)any other activity, as may be prescribedby the Minister taking intoconsideration the development ofnational economy ; and

(b)which commences commercial operationson or after April 1, 2011;

(3)in the marginal note to that section by thesubstitution for the words engaged in anyprescribed activities., of the words engaged inany specified activities..

10.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2), by the substitution for the wordsinvested within one year from the commencement of theundertaking, of the words and figures invested within oneyear from the commencement of the undertaking, but notlater than March 31, 2012.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

13Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

11.Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in sub section 6 of the definition of the expressionventure capital company by the substitution for the wordsand figures Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, of the wordsand figures Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007.

12.Section 25 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 22 of 2011 is hereby further amendedin subsection (1) of that section as follows :-

(1)in paragraph (c) of the proviso to paragraph (a) ofthat section by the substitution for the words andfigures acquired on or after April 1, 2007 and, ofthe words and figures acquired on or after April 1,2007 but prior to April 1, 2011;

(2)by the addition immediately after paragraph (c) ofthe proviso to paragraph (a) of that section, of thefollowing new paragraph :-

(d)where for energy efficiency purposes, anyhigh tech plant, machinery or equipment isacquired on or after April 1, 2012, the rateshall be fifty per centum of the cost ofacquisition;

(3)by the substitution in paragraph (i) of that sectionfor the words any trade or business carried on bysuch person;, of the following words and figures:

any trade or business carried on by such person:

Provided that for any year of assessmentcommencing on of after April 1, 2012, thededuction shall be an amount equal to threehundred per centum of such expediture incurredby such person, if such research is carried outthrough any Government institution;

For the purposes of this paragraph

(i)Government institution includes anycompany, where fifty per centum or more ofthe shares are held by the Government; and

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201214

(ii)scientific, industrial, agricultural or any otherresearch means any such research which iscarried out for product or produce innovation,or improving the quality or character of anyproduct, produce or service but does notinclude any market research or feasibilitystudies.

(4)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) to theproviso to paragraph (k) of that subsection for thewords and figure Chapter XIV of this Act of thewords and figures Chapter XIV of this Act, wheresuch benefit is not exempt under paragraph (s) ofsubsection (1) of section 8 of this Act,;

(5)in paragraph (s) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words that year if assessmentand in any previous year of assessment shall notexceed one per centum of the value of Initial PublicOffering of Such company., of the words that yearof assessment and in any previous year of assessmentshall not exceed one per centum of the value of theInitial Public Offering of such company;;

(6)by the addition immediately after paragraph (s) ofthat subsection of the following new paragraph :-

(t)any expenditure incurred by any person inthe maintenance or management of anysports ground, stadium or sports complex..

13.Section 26 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 22 of 2011 is hereby further amendedin subsection (1) of that section as follows :-

(1)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) ofparagraph (c) of that subsection, for all the wordscommencing from in foreign currency: tobusiness for that year of assessment; of thefollowing :-

in foreign currency; or

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

15Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

(iii)services relating to design development,product development or productinnovation by such person being acompany engaged exclusively in theprovision of such services:

Provided that for any year of assessmentcommencing on or after April 1, 2011

(A)such part of expenditure incurredin travelling outside Sri Lanka inthe production of profits orincome from any trade or businesscarried on or exercised in SriLanka by any person, afterdeducting therefrom

(i)such expenses incurred intravelling outside Sri Lankasolely in connection withthe promotion of exporttrade of any article or goodsor the provision of anyservice for payment inforeign currency; or

(ii)such expenditure incurred intravelling outside Sri Lankain carrying out an approvedprogramme as referred to inparagraph (d); or

(iii)for any year of assessmentcommencing on or afterApril 1, 2012, suchexpenditure incurred intravelling outside Sri Lanka,by any company engagedexclusively in the provisionof services relating to designdevelopment, productdevelopment or productinnovation;

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201216

(B)an amount equal to two percentum of the profits and incomeof such trade or business in theimmediately preceding year ofassessment,

whichever is lower, shall be deductible inascertaining the profits and income from such tradeor business for that year of assessment;;

(2)by the substitution in the proviso to paragraph (x),for the words and figures Companies Act, No. 17of 1982;, of the words and figures CompaniesAct, No. 7 of 2007;.

14.Section 32 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No.22 of 2011 is hereby further amendedin subsection (5) by the insertion immediately after paragraph(d) of that subsection of the following new paragraph :-

(e)where any person commenced to carry on anybusiness the annual turnover of which does notexceed rupees five hundred million, anycommencement expenses other than the capitalexpenses incurred by that person in the year ofassessment immediately preceding the year ofassessment in which the commercial operationof such business is commenced, shall bededucted from the total statutory income of thatperson for that year of assessment in whichcommercial operation commenced..

15.Section 34 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 22 of 2011 is hereby further amendedas follows :-

(1)in subsection (2) of that section

(a) by the substitution in paragraph (p) of thatsubsection for the words and figuressubsection (2) of section 21A; and of thewords and figures subsection (2) of section21A;;

Amendment ofsection 32 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 34 of theprincipalenactment.

17Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (q) of thatsubsection for the words and figuresparagraph (zzz) of section 13, of the wordsand figures paragraph (zzz) of section 13;;

(c)by the addition immediately after paragraph(q) of that subsection of the following newparagraphs :-

(r)expenditure incurred by any person inany community development projectcarried on in any economicallymarginalised village as identified andpublished in the Gazette by theCommissioner- General;

(s)investment of not less than fifty millionrupees in fixed assets made by anyperson on or after April 1, 2011 butbefore April 1, 2015 in the expansionof any undertaking which would havebeen qualified for exemption undersection 16C or section 17A had suchundertaking commenced to carry onbusiness on or after April 1, 2011; and

(t)investment of not less than any sumreferred to in Column II of the Scheduleto section 16D of this Act made in fixedassets in any undertaking engaged inthe manufacture of any product referredto in Column I of that Schedule, beingan investment which would havequalified such undertaking forexemption under section 16D, referredto above had such undertakingcommenced to carry on business on orafter April 1, 2012;;

(2)in subsection (4) of that section

(a)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) ofparagraph (a) of that subsection for the words

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201218

and figures (n), (o) and (q) of subsection (2)of the words and figures (n), (o), (q), (r), (s)and (t) of subsection (2);

(b)by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph (viii) of paragraph (a) of thatsubsection of the following new sub-paragraphs :-

(ix)in respect of all qualifying paymentsreferred to in paragraph (r) of subsection(2) made by him in that year ofassessment shall not exceed one millionrupees;

(x)in respect of all qualifying payments

(A)referred to in paragraph (s) ofsubsection (2) made by him inthat year of assessment shall notexceed twenty five per centum ofsuch qualifying payment:

Provided however, whereinvestments made in more thanone year of assessment areaggregated to reach the minimuminvestment to qualify fordeduction as qualifyingpayment, such investment madein any previous year ofassessment (being any year ofassessment commencing on orafter April 1, 2011) shall bedeemed to be an investment madein the year of assessment in whichthe fifty million rupees aggregateis reached;

(B)referred to in paragraph (t) ofsubsection (2) made by him inthat year of assessment shall notexceed twenty five per centum ofsuch qualifying payment:

19Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

Provided however, whereinvestments made in more thanone year of assessment areaggregated to reach the minimuminvestment to qualify fordeduction as qualifyingpayment, such investment madein any previous year ofassessment (being any year ofassessment commencing on orafter April 1, 2012) shall bedeemed to be an investment madein the year of assessment in whichthe respective minimuminvestment referred to in section59C is reached;

(c)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) ofparagraph (b) of that subsection for the wordsand figures (n), (o) and (q) of subsection (2),of the words figures (n), (o), (q), (r), (s) and (t)of subsection (2);

(d)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (vii) ofparagraph (b) of that subsection for the wordsten million rupees., of the words tenmillion rupees;;

(e)by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph (vii) of paragraph (b) of that subsection of the following new sub-paragraphs:-

(viii)in respect of all qualifying paymentsreferred to in paragraph (r) of subsection(2) made by that company in that yearof assessment shall not exceed tenmillion rupees;

(ix)in respect of all qualifying payments

(A) referred to in paragraph (s) ofsubsection (2) made by thatcompany in that year of

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201220

assessment shall not exceedtwenty five per centum of suchqualifying payment:

Provided however, whereinvestments made in more thanone year of assessment areaggregated to reach the minimuminvestment to qualify fordeduction as qualifyingpayment, such investment madein any previous year ofassessment (being any year ofassessment commencing on orafter April 1, 2011) shall bedeemed to be an investment madein the year of assessment in whichthe fifty million rupees aggregateis reached;

(B)referred to in paragraph (t) ofsubsection (2) made by him inthat year of assessment shall notexceed twenty five per centum ofsuch qualifying payment:

Provided however, whereinvestments made in more thanone year of assessment areaggregated to reach the minimuminvestment to qualify fordeduction as qualifyingpayment, such investment madein any previous year ofassessment (being any year ofassessment commencing on orafter April 1, 2012) shall bedeemed to be an investment madein the year of assessment inwhichthe respective minimuminvestment referred to in section59C is reached;

21Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (7) ofthat section, of the following new subsection:

(7A) The seventy five per centum of anyqualifying payment referred to in sub-paragraph(x) of paragraph (a) or sub- paragraph (ix) paragraph(b) of subsection 4, may be apportioned in equalamounts over a period of three years of assessmentimmediately succeeding that year of assessment andsuch apportioned amount shall be deuctible fromthe assessable income of that person in each suchyear of assessment..

16.Section 35 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of that section,by the substitution for the words and figures Part Iof the First Schedule of the words and figures PartI, Part IA or Part IB of the First Schedule;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures Part I of the FirstSchedule wherever appears in that subsection, ofthe words and figures Part I, Part IA or Part IB ofthe First Schedule.

17.Section 45 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 22 of 2011 is hereby further amendedin paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of that section as follows :-

(a)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii), for thewords roads or bridges; or of the words roads orbridges;;

(b)by the substitution in sub-paragraph (iii), for thewords drainage or sewerage system;, of the wordsdrainage or sewerage system; or;

(c)by the addition, immediately after sub-paragraph(iii), of the following sub-paragraph :-

(iv) harbour, airport or any infrastructure projectin telecommunication or electricity;.

Amendment ofsection 35 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 45 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201222

18.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 48A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 48B of that enactment:-

48B. Such part of the profits and income fromany strategic import replacement undertakingreferred to in section 16D, included in thetaxable income of any person for any year ofassessment commencing after the date of expiryof tax exemption under that section, shallnotwithstanding anything to the contrary inany other provisions of this Act, be taxable atthe appropriate rate specified in the FifthSchedule to this Act..

19.Section 59B of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words income of any person for any year ofassessment, of the words income of any person (not beingthe holding company, a subsidiary company, or an associatecompany of a group of companies) for any year ofassessment.

20.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 59B of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 59C of that enactment:-

59C. (1) The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3, (otherthan any profits and income from the saleof any capital asset), of any existingundertaking referred to in subsection (2), andcarried on by any person or partnership, shallnotwithstanding anything to the contrary inany other provisions of this Act, be taxable atthe appropriate rate specified in the FifthSchedule to this Act for a period of five yearsreckoned from the commencement of the yearof assessment in which such undertakingsatisfies the minimum investment as specifiedunder subsection (2).

Insertion of newsection 48B inthe principalenactment.

Rate ofincome taxapplicable tostrategicimportreplacementundertakingafter theexpiry of theperiod ofexemption.

Amendment ofsection 59B ofthe principalenactment.

Tax rateapplicable tostrategicimportreplacementundertakings.

Insertion of newsection 59C inthe principalenactment.

23Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1),existing undertaking means an undertakingwhich is engaged in the manufacture ofproducts specified in Column I below with aminimum investment as specified in ColumnII below made in fixed assets as an expansionon or after April 1, 2011

Column IColumn II(product)(Minimum investment inUSD or its equivalent)

Fabric5 millionPharmaceuticals10 millionMilk powder30 millionCement50 million.

21.Section 107 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 9 of 2008 is hereby further amended asfollows :-

(1)in paragraph (a) of the proviso to subsection (1) ofthat section by the substitution for all the wordscommencing from any quoted public company orany other company,, to such quoted publiccompany or other company,, of the words anyquoted public company, any other company whichis a member of a group of companies of which atleast one company is a quoted public company, orany other company having an annual turnover ofnot less than two hundred and fifty million rupeesor net profit of not less than one hundred millionrupees for that year, then, notwithstanding that anotice under this section has not been given to suchquoted public company, other member companyof the group, or other company,;

(2)in paragraph (a) of the proviso to subsection (2) ofthat section, by the substitution for the words anyquoted public company, in respect of, of the wordsany quoted public company, any other company

Amendment ofsection 107 ofthe principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201224

which is a member of a group of companies of whichat least one company is a quoted public company,in respect of.

22. Section 108 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2), by the substitution for the wordsand figures Companies Act, No.17 of 1982,, of the wordsand figures Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007,.

23. Section 113 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (4)of that section, of the following new subsection:-

(5) Any bank or financial institution shallinvest five per centum of its taxable income in suchinstalment as may be specified by theCommissioner-General on or before the same datesas specified for income tax purposes in subsection(1) of this section in the investment fundestablished in accordance with the guidelines issuedfor this purpose by the Central Bank of Sri Lankawith the concurrence of the Commissioner-Generalfor a period of three years commencing from April1, 2011 or where such bank or financial institutionis established after April 1, 2011, then, from thedate of such establishment..

24.Section 115 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1), by the substitution for theparagraph (a) of that subsection of the following newparagraph (a) :

(a) any resident individual who

(i)receives remuneration in excess of fiftythousand rupees per month or six hundredthousand rupees per year;

(ii)is a director or non executive director towhom any payment is made or is due by orfrom such employer or who receives anyother benefit as an employee or in any othercapacity; or.

Amendment ofsection 108 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 113 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 115 ofthe principalenactment.

25Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

25.Section 191 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figuresCompanies Act, No. 17 of 1982 wherever appears in thatsection, of the words and figures Companies Act, No. 7 of2007.

26.Section 217 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 22 of 2011 is hereby further amendedas follows :-

(1) in the definition of the expression dividends bythe substitution in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph(a) for the words any other company; and , of thewords any other company; or

(iv) scrip dividend or dividend in specie ; and ;

(2) in the definition of the expression publiccorporation, by the substitution for the words andfigures Companies Act, No.17 of 1982,, of thewords and figures Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007,.

27.The First Schedule to the principal enactment, aslast amended by Act, No. 22 of 2011, is hereby furtheramended in PART V of that Schedule by the substitutionfor the words and figures as per Part I, of the words andfigures as per Part I, Part IA or Part IB.

28.The Second Schedule of the principal enactment,as last amended by Act, No. 22 of 2011 is hereby furtheramended in paragraph (b) of item 3 of PART B, by thesubstitution for the words and figures commencing afterApril 1, 2011, of the words and figures commencing on orafter April 1, 2011.

29.The Third Schedule to the principal enactment, aslast amended by Act, No. 22 of 2011, is hereby furtheramended as follows:

(1)by the substitution for item 1 of that Schedule, ofthe following item:

Amendment ofthe SecondSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofthe ThirdSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 191 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 217 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201226

1. Hindu undivided families -

(a)for any year ofassessmentcommencing prior toApril 1, 2011;

(b)for any year ofassessmentcommencing on orafter April 1, 2011;

(2)by the substitution for item 3 of that Schedule, ofthe following item:

3. Executor (other than trustees under last wills) andreceivers (other than liquidators) -

(a)for any year ofassessmentcommencing prior toApril 1, 2011;

(b)for any year ofassessmentcommencing on orafter April 1, 2011;

(3)by the substitution for item 4 of that Schedule, ofthe following item:

4. Trustees (including trustees under last wills)

(a)for any year ofassessmentcommencing prior toApril 1, 2011;

(b)for any year ofassessmentcommencing on orafter April 1, 2011;

(4)by the substitution for item 5 of that Schedule, ofthe following item:

30 per centum

24 per centum ;

30 per centum

24 per centum;

24 per centum;

30 per centum

27Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

5. Partnerships

(a)for any year ofassessmentcommencing prior toApril 1, 2011;

(b)for any year ofassessmentcommencing on orafter April 1, 2011;

(5)by the substitution for item 6 of that Schedule, ofthe following item:

6. Partnerships (on any assessment made)

(a)for any year ofassessmentcommencing prior toApril 1, 2011;

(b)for any year ofassessmentcommencing on orafter April 1, 2011;

(6)by the substitution in paragraph (b) of item 8 ofthat Schedule, for the words and figurescommencing prior to April 1, 2011, of the wordsand figures commencing on or after April 1, 2011;

(7)by the substitution for item 11 of that Schedule, ofthe following item:

11. Governments (other than the Government of SriLanka and the Government of the United Kingdom)-

(a)for any year ofassessmentcommencing prior toApril 1, 2011;

(b)for any year ofassessmentcommencing on orafter April 1, 2011;

30 per centum

28 per centum;

30 per centum

24 per centum;

30 per centum

24 per centum ;

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201228

(8)by the substitution for item 12 of that Schedule, ofthe following item:

12. Business Undertakings vested in the Governmentunder the Business Undertakings (Acquisition) Act, No. 35of 1971-

(i)on the taxable income

(a)for any year ofassessmentcommencing prior toApril 1, 2011;

(b) for any year ofassessmentcommencing on orafter April 1, 2011;

(ii)on the balance of the profits after deductiontherefrom of the tax payable under paragraph(i);

(9)by the substitution for item 15 of that Schedule, ofthe following item:

15. Persons (other than those referred to above and inthe First or Second Schedule)-

(a)for any year ofassessmentcommencing prior toApril 1, 2011;

(b)for any year ofassessmentcommencing on orafter April 1, 2011;

30.The Fifth Schedule of the principal enactment, aslast amended by Act, No. 22 of 2011, is hereby furtheramended as follows :-

(1)by the substitution in item 14A of that schedule, forthe words commencing prior to April 1, 2011, ofthe words and figures commencing on or afterApril 1, 2011;

30 per centum

28 per centum;

30 per centum

28 per centum .

Amendment ofthe FifthSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

25 per centum;

29Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

(2)by the substitution for the item 33 of that Scheduleof the following:-

33.The rate of income taxapplicable to profits andincome of any person fromany undertaking referred toin section 59B.

(3)by the addition, immediately after item 33 of thatSchedule of the following new items :-

34.The rate of income tax inrespect of profits of anyperson from anyundertaking referred to insection 48B

35.Rate of income taxapplicable to profits andincome of any person fromany undertaking referred toin section 59C, for any yearof assessment falling withinthe five year period referredto therein.

36.The rate of income taxapplicable to profits of anybranch of a commercialbank, being a branchestablished after November21, 2011 and which is solelyengaged in developmentbanking.24 per centum.

As per the FirstSchedule butsubject to amaximum of 10per centum foran individualand 10 percentum for acompany.

As per the FirstSchedule butsubject to amaximum of 12per centum foran individualand 12 percentum for acompany.

As per the FirstSchedule butsubject to amaximum of 12per centum foran individualand 12 percentum for acompany..

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 201230

37.The rate of income taxapplicable to profits andincome of any person fromresearch activities defined inparagraph (i) of subsection(1) of section 25.

38.The rate of income taxapplicable to profits andincome of any person fromthe provision of health careservices.

39.The rate of income taxapplicable to any grower ormanufacturer of tea who hasestablished a joint venturewith a tea exporter forexporting pure Sri Lankantea, in value added form witha Sri Lankan brand name,on the manufacturingincome attributable to the teapurchased from a teaauction in Sri Lanka for thatpurpose by the joint venture.

40.The rate of income taxapplicable to profits andincome of any personengaged in themanufacture (locally) ofhandloom products.

31.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

12 per centum.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof aninconsistency.

As per the FirstSchedule, butsubject to amaximum of16 per centumfor an individualand 20per centum fora company.

As per the FirstSchedule butsubject to amaximum of 12per centum, foran individualand 12 percentum for acompany.

As per the FirstSchedule butsubject to amaximum of 12per centum foran individualand12 per centumfor a company.

31Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2012

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.