PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

TOBACCO TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 9 OF 2004

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th October, 2004]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 08, 2004

1Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004

2H 0227605,950 (08/2004)

Short title .

[Certified on 08th October, 2004]

L.D.O. 18/2004.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TOBACCO TAX ACT, NO. 8 OF 1999

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Tobacco Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004.

2.The Tobacco Tax Act, No. 8 of 1999 (hereinafterreferred to as the principal enactment) is hereby amendedin the principal enactment as follows :

(a)by the repeal of the expression cigarettesubstitute, wherever that expression occurs in suchenactment ; and

(b)by the substitution for the words tobacco leaf,wherever that words occur in such enactment of thewords tobacco leaf or beedi tobacco.

3.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 5, and shall have the effect assection 5A of the principal enactment:

5A. (1) No person, shall import beeditobacco, unless he is a holder of a licence issuedon that behalf, by the Commissioner Generalof Excise.

(2) Every application for a licence to importbeedi tobacco

(a)shall be made to the Commissioner-General of Excise in such form as maybe prescribed ;

(b)shall be accompanied by anapplication fee of the prescribedamount.

GeneralAmendmentto Act, No. 8of 1999.

Insertion of newsection 5A to theprincipalenactment.

Importationof beeditobacco.

2 Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004

(3) Every person holding a licence for theimportation of beedi tobacco shall wheneverso required by the Commissioner- General ofExcise, furnish a return containing particularsof the beedi tobacco imported by him in respectof any particular period or periods as the casemay be..

4.Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor :

7. (1) The Commissioner- General of Exciseor any officer of the Excise Department of arank not below that of Inspector or any officerof the Customs Department of a rank not belowthat of Superintendant or any police officer notbelow the rank of a Sub-Inspector of Police

(a)may on the authority of a warrant issuedby a Magistrate, upon informationobtained and after such inquiry as hethinks necessary having reason tobelieve that an offence under this Acthas been or is likely to be committed ;or

(b)may without a warrant, whenever anoffence under this Act is being or likelyto be, committed, in case where asearch warrant cannot be obtainedwithout affording the offender anopportunity of escape or of concealingevidence of the offence being or likelyto be committed, after recording thegrounds of his belief,

take such steps as may be necessary to

(i)stop and search any person suspectedof committing an offence under thisAct ;

Replacement ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.Powers ofinspectionwith orwithout awarrant.

3Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004

(ii)stop and search any boat, vessel,vehicle or container in which anytobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars, beedis,beedi tobacco or pipe tobacco or anycontraband under this Act is beingcarried or transported or suspected tobe carried or transported ;

(iii)open and examine any package, parcelor container found with such personor carried in such boat, vessel, vehicleor container ; or

(iv)enter and inspect any factory orpremises in which any tobacco leaf,cigarettes, cigars, beedis, beeditobacco or pipe tobacco is being keptor stored or suspected to be kept orstored,

for the purpose of ascertaining whether anoffence under this Act has been or is beingcommitted or for the purpose of ascertainingthe quantity of the tobacco leaf, cigarettes,cigars, beedis, beedi tobacco or pipe tobaccowhich are or is in such boat, vessel, vehicle,container factory or premises or of ascertainingwhether or not the tobacco tax, any duty payablein terms of the Excise (Special Provisions) Act,No. 8 of 1994, customs duty or any other taxhas been paid or is payable thereon or ofverifying the accuracy of any return or anydeclaration furnished to the Commissioner-General of Excise under this Act or of examiningany books or documents relating to suchtobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars, beedis, beeditobacco or pipe tobacco as the case may be.

4 Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004

(2) Any officer referred to in subsection (1)may, in the exercise of the powers conferred onhim by that subsection

(a)seize any contraband in possession ofsuch person, carried or transported inany such boat, vessel, vehicle orcontainer, or kept or stored in suchfactory or premises ;

(b)seize any document in the possessionof any such person, carried in any suchboat, vessel, vehicle or container orkept or stored in any factory orpremises, which may be produced asevidence of such offence ;

(c)arrest and detain any person forcommitting an offence under this Act,if such person is in possession ofcontraband or if he is in control of anyboat, vessel, vehicle or container usedin the commission of an offence underthis Act ;

(d)seize any boat, vessel, vehicle,container or any other article orequipment which appears to suchofficer to have been or being used inthe commission of the offence orwhich may be produced as evidenceof such offence.

(3) Every officer referred to in subsection(1), shall be deemed to be a Peace Officer, withinthe meaning and for the purposes of the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

5Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004

(4) Every person who resists or obstructs anofficer referred to in subsections (1) and (2), inthe exercise by such officer of the powersconferred on him by those subsections, shall beguilty of an offence under this Act.

For the purposes of this section contrabandmeans any tobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars,beedis, beedi tobacco or pipe tobacco on whichtobacco tax or any other duty has not beenlevied..

5.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words beedis, cigarettesubstitute or pipe tobacco of the words beedis, beeditobacco or pipe tobacco.

6.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words beedis, cigarettesubstitute or pipe tobacco of the words beedis, beeditobacco or pipe tobacco.

7.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(i)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words beedis, cigarette substitute or pipetobacco of the words beedis, beedi tobacco orpipe tobacco;

(ii)in subsection (6) of that section by the substitutionfor the words, for a sum of money equal to not lessthan one fifth of the maximum fine imposable forsuch offence. of the words for a sum of money notexceeding five hundred thousand rupees.;

(iii)in subsection (7) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the words beedis,cigarette substitute or pipe tobacco of thewords beedis, beedi tobacco or pipetobacco;

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment.

6 Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004

(b)by the substitution for the words and figuresshall cause the same to be sold by publicauction and the proceeds of such sales disposedof as provided for in section 17., of the words,shall cause the same to be destroyed..

8.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (b) of that section andsubstitution therefor of the following paragraph :

(b)the proceeds of sale of the articles and vehiclesforfeited under subsection (2) of section 15excluding the sale of any tobacco leaf, cigarettes,cigars, beedis, beedi tobacco or pipe tobacco..

9.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression beedi, of the following new definition :

beedi tobacco means tobacco used for manufacturingbeedi;.

10.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

7Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.