Price : Rs. 16.25Postage : Rs. 6.75

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PETROLEUM RESOURCESACT, No. 26 OF 2003

[Certified on 9th September, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 12, 2003

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 20031

[Certified on 9th September, 2003]

L. D. O. 1/2003.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXPLORATION AND RECOVERY OF

PETROLEUM RESOURCES IN SRI LANKA AND FOR THE REGULATION

OF THE SAME ; TO REPEAL CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE CEYLONPETROLEUM CORPORATION, ACT, NO. 28 OF 1961 ; AND TO PROVIDE

FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Petroleum ResourcesAct, No. 26 of 2003, and shall come into operation on suchdate as the Minister may by Order published in the Gazetteappoint (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

PART I

OWNERSHIP OF PETROLEUM RESOURCES

2.Absolute ownership of all petroleum resourcesoccurring naturally within

(a)the sub-surface of the land area ;

(b)the internal waters, historic waters, territorial sea,contiguous zone, continental margin and theexclusive economic zone,

of Sri Lanka shall vest in the State, notwithstanding any rightof ownership or otherwise which any person may have to thesoil under which such petroleum resources are found.

3.The State shall take all steps possible to ensure thatthe exploration and exploitation of petroleum resources arecarried out with investor participation adoptinginternationally recognized engineering practices and proventechnology.

2H 18535 5,650 (2003/06)

State to developpetroleumresources inaccordance withinternationalpractice.

Ownership ofpetroleumresources to vestin State.

Short title anddate of operation.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 20032

Agreementsrelating toexploration ofpetroleumresources.

Establishment ofthe PetroleumResourcesDevelopmentCommittee.

4.(1) The Cabinet of Ministers may delegate to theMinister the power to enter into agreements, for and on behalfof the Government of Sri Lanka, for promoting the survey,exploration and exploitation of petroleum resources with anyinvestor.

(2) Every such agreement shall be between theGovernment of Sri Lanka and a person or body of persons,for the implementation of the Petroleum Resources Agreemententered into with the Government of Sri Lanka, in terms ofsection 7.

PART II

PETROLEUM RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE

5.(1) There shall be established a Committee known asthe Petroleum Resources Development Committee(hereinafter referred to as the PRDC), which shall becharged with the responsibility for the effectiveimplementation of the provisions of this Act.

(2)The Committee shall be appointed by the Ministerand shall consist of :

(a)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Petroleum Resources Development,who shall be the Chairman ;

(b)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Power ;

(c)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Energy ;

(d)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance ;

(e)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Environment ;

(f)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Natural Resources ;

(g)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof subject of Fisheries ;

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 20033

Powers andfunctions of thePRDC.

(h)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Ocean Resources ;

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Defence;

(j)the Chairman, Board of Investment of Sri Lankaestablished under the Sri Lanka Board of InvestmentLaw, 4 of 1978 ;

(k)a nominee of the Ministry of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Policy Development andImplementation ; and

(l)a nominee of the Minister in charge of the subject ofPetroleum Resources Development who shall be aperson possessing the necessary qualifications andexperience in connection with petroleum resourcesdevelopment.

(3)Where two or more of the subjects specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (i) of subsection (2) are assigned to, orremain in the charge of, one Minister, then there shall be onlyone representative nominated by the Minister in respect ofsuch subjects.

(4)The persons appointed under paragraphs (k) and (l)of subsection (2), shall have no commercial interest in thedevelopment of petroleum resources in Sri Lanka.

(5)The PRDC shall be assisted by a Secretariat headedby the Director-General of Petroleum Resources (hereinafterreferred to as the Director-General).

6.The powers and functions of the PRDC shall be

(a)to formulate policies and prepare plans aimed atpromoting the development of Petroleum Resourcesin Sri Lanka;

(b)to call for bids and assist in the evaluation of anyapplications received in response to such bids,received from any investor who intends to enter intoPetroleum Resources Agreements in respect ofdefined Exploration Blocks and to determinewhether the applicants fulfill the prescribed financialand technical qualifications ;

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 20034

(c)to prepare model Petroleum Resource Agreements ;

(d)to assist in the negotiations being carried out, forand on behalf of the State, for agreement as to theterms to be incorporated in a Petroleum ResourcesAgreement and to submit the same for execution asprovided in section 4;

(e)to appoint a nominee who will assist in thenegotiations being carried out with a view tofinalizing a Petroleum Resources Agreement ;

(f)to maintain registers, maps and other records inrespect of all exploration blocks and areas coveredby Development Licences issued under this Act;

(g)to cause to be collected, compiled, analyzed, andpublished, geological, geophysical, engineering andeconomic data pertaining to the available petroleumresources of Sri Lanka ; and to ensure the applicationof the law relating to intellectual property to the dataso collected ;

(h)to cause to be collected and stored, geologicalsamples and to permit their removal from, and returnto, Sri Lanka for purposes of technical evaluation ;

(i)to issue licenses in terms of this Act and to cancel,suspend, vary or amend the same ;

(j)to suspend or cancel Development Licenses in termsof section 13 hereof ;

(k)to approve assignments or transfers of a ContractorsParticipating Interest in a Development Licenceissued in terms of the Act, on such conditions as arereasonable, having regard to the purposes of this Act;

(l)to monitor petroleum operations conducted bycontractors in Sri Lanka, to measure quantities and

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 20035

Restrictions onconduct ofpetroleumoperations.

Applications toenter intoagreements inrespect ofexplorationblocks.

take samples of petroleum resources recovered ; andto inspect any books records, reports, accounts,samples and data maintained by a contractor;

(m)to demand, receive and recover all fees, royaltiesand payments due to the State under this Act or underany regulations made thereunder or which is so duein terms of any Petroleum Resources Agreement andto credit the same to the Consolidated Fund of SriLanka ; and

(n)to require a contractor to whom a developmentlicense has been issued, by notice in writing, tofurnish any such return or information as the PRDCmay consider necessary for the proper exercise ofits powers or the discharge of its functions.

PART III

PETROLEUM RESOURCES AGREEMENT, EXPLORATION BLOCKS ANDDEVELOPMENT LICENCES

7.No person shall conduct petroleum operations in SriLanka unless such person has entered into a PetroleumResources Agreement or any other appropriate Agreementwith the State or is otherwise authorized by or under this Actto conduct petroleum operations.

8.(1) The PRDC may, by notice published in local orinternational media or by other means best calculated to givepublicity thereto, invite persons possessing such techinicaland financial qualifications as are prescribed, to apply to enterinto a Petroleum Resources Agreement with the State inrespect of the defined exploration blocks which are specifiedin the notice.

(2)Every application to enter into a Petroleum ResourcesAgreement with the State in respect of a defined explorationblock shall be made to the PRDC, in the prescribed form andshall contain the prescribed particulars.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 20036

PetroleumResourcesAgreements.

(3)Each Petroleum Resources Agreement shall be inrelation to only one exploration block.

9.(1) Where applications are received by the PRDCunder section 8 the PRDC shall forward such applications tothe Cabinet of Ministers, who shall after considering all theapplications, select from amongst the applicants, the personwhom the Cabinet of Ministers considers best qualified byexperience and technical capacity to conduct petroleumoperations and whose participation would, in its view, affordthe greatest economic benefit to Sri Lanka (in this sectionreferred to as the preferred applicant).

(2)The Cabinet of Ministers may authorise a negotiatingcommittee to be called the Cabinet Appointed NegotiatingCommittee (CANC) or the PRDC to negotiate and placebefore Cabinet for approval the matters they recommend forinclusion in the relevant Petroleum Resources Agreement.The Cabinet of Ministers shall thereupon enter into aPetroleum Resources Agreement in respect of the specificexploration block or part thereof as is agreed. Such agreementshall substantially conform to the model agreement preparedfor this purpose, and be concluded in accordance with theprovisions which the Cabinet of Ministers may from time totime determine the conditions to which a Petroleum ResourcesAgreement shall be subject to. Any amendment or variationof the conditions applicable shall also be done only with theapproval of the Cabinet of Ministers.

10.(1) Where a Contractor in the course of conductingexploration operations within an Exploration Block, discoverspetroleum resources in commercially viable quantities, heshall submit a project development and investment proposalfor approval by the PRDC. If such proposal is acceptable tothe PRDC and it approves such proposal, the PRDC shallissue to the contractor a Development Licence for the recoveryof petroleum resources of such commercial quantity as is setout in his proposal, within a designated area of the explorationblock to which his Petroleum Resources Agreement relates.

DevelopmentLicences forrecovery ofpetroleumresources.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 20037

(2)Where the commercially viable quantity of petroleumresources referred to in subsection (1) is located within morethan one exploration block, the PRDC may, if no PetroleumResources Agreements have been entered into with othercontractors in respect of such other explorations blocks, issuea Development License to the Contractor in respect of thearea comprising the full extent of the discovery.

11.(1) In order to ensure the efficient conduct ofpetroleum operations within the area covered by theDevelopment Licence issued under section 10 by the PRDC,the Cabinet of Ministers may from time to time determinethe conditions to which such license shall be subject. Anyamendment or variation of the conditions applicable shall alsobe done only with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers.

(2)The Cabinet of Ministers may, in consultation withthe Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofPetroleum Resources Development and the PRDC,determine

(a)the additional conditions to be attached to aDevelopment License, for the maintenance ofnavigation, protection of the environment, mitigatingadverse social impacts on communities and in theinterest of national security ; and

(b)the amount of reasonable compensation to be paidby the Contractor to any person who may beadversely affected by petroleum operationsconducted within the area for which the developmentlicense is issued.

(3)The PRDC shall issue a development license inrespect of a designated area of an exploration block for aperiod that will ensure the maximum efficient recovery ofpetroleum resources from that area, so however, that suchperiod does not exceed the period for which a PetroleumResources Agreement has been entered into, in respect of suchexploration block.

Conditions to beattached toDevelopmentLicences.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 20038

(4)The PRDC may require a contractor by notice inwriting, to furnish any such return or information as the PRDCmay consider necessary for the proper exercise of its powersor the discharge of its functions, and it shall be the duty of theContractor to comply with the requirements of such notice.No information or the contents of any return furnished incompliance with the requirements of a notice sent in terms ofthis subsection shall be published or communicated to anyperson except with the consent of the Contractor furnishingsuch return or information or by the PRDC in the dischargeof its functions.

12.Where the PRDC has reasonable cause to believethat the Contractor is contravening the conditions attached tothe Development License, the PRDC may cause a notice tobe served on the Contractor

(a)specifying the alleged contravention; and

(b)requiring the Contractor to rectify or to takereasonable steps to rectify or correct, the conditionresulting from the contravention, or to showreasonable cause for the contravention, or to showthat the contravention has not occurred within theperiod specified in the notice ; and

(c)stating that a failure to comply with the requirementsof the notice may result in the suspension orcancellation of the Development License.

13.(1) Where the PRDC is satisfied that a Contractorto whom a Development License has been issued

(a)has failed to comply with a notice issued undersection 12 or has not taken reasonable steps to rectifyor correct the condition resulting from thecontravention specified in such notice or has notshown reasonable cause for such contravention;

(b)has not complied with any direction given by thePRDC under this Act; or

The PRDC tonotify Contractorof contraventionof conditions ofDevelopmentLicense.

Suspension orcancellation ofDevelopmentLicense.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 20039

Transfer ofparticipatinginterest in aDevelopmentLicense.

Rights ofContractor underDevelopmentLicense.

(c)has ceased to conduct petroleum operationsaccording

(i)to the work programme which is part of thePetroleum Resources Agreement ; or

(ii)to the project development and investmentproposal submitted for the DevelopmentLicense; or

(d)has abandoned or constructively abandoned theDevelopment License by failure to diligently conductpetroleum operations in the area covered by theDevelopment License; or

(e)has surrendered the Development License; or

(f)has been convicted of an offence under this Act orof any regulation made under this Act,

the PRDC may suspend or cancel the development license.

(2)Contractor aggrieved by a decision of the PRDC tosuspend or cancel a Development License issued under section10 shall have recourse to the arbitration provisions if any,which forms part of the relevant Petroleum ResourcesAgreement, for resolution of the matter.

14.A Contractor to whom a Development Licence hasbeen issued, shall have the right to recover, store, transport,and sell the share of the petroleum resources to which theContractor is entitled under the terms of the relevant PetroleumResources Agreement, subject to the provisions of this Actand to repatriate the proceeds of the sale of such petroleumresources.

15. (1) A Contractor may, with the approval of the Cabinetof Ministers and subject to such conditions as may be imposedby them in this regard, have the right to transfer or assign hisparticipating interest in a Development License.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200310

Licensing ofservice sub-contractors.

(2)The Cabinet of Ministers shall grant approval for thetransfer or assignment of a participating interest of acontractor, provided that :

(a)the assignee or transferee is of good standing, hasfinancial capability to meet his obligations and iswilling to provide an unconditional undertaking tothe PRDC to perform its obligations and to providethe guarantees as provided in the relevant PetroleumResource Agreement ;

(b)the assignee or transferee is not a companyincorporated in a country with which the State hasrestricted trade or business ;

(c)the assignor or transferor and assignee or transfereerespectively, are willing to comply with anyreasonable conditions as may be imposed by theCabinet of Ministers, to ensure effective performanceof the Agreement ; and

(d)the assignment or transfer will not adversely affectthe performance of obligations under the Agreementor in any manner whatsoever be construed to becontrary to the interests of the State.

(3)A contractor aggrieved by the decision of the Cabinetof Minister,

(a)withholding approval for a transfer or assignment;or

(b)imposing conditions subject to which the approvalfor the transfer or assignment is given,

may have recourse to the procedure specified in the relevantPetroleum Resources Agreement for resolution of the matter.

16.(1) No person shall carry on business as a petroleumoperations service sub-contractor except under the authorityof a license issued in that behalf by the PRDC.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200311

(2)Every person seeking to carry on business as apetroleum operations service sub-contracto, may apply to thePRDC, in the prescribed form, for a license in that behalf.

(3)The PRDC shall, on receipt of an application in termsof subsection (2) issue a license authorizing the applicant tocarry on the business specified in the license, if the PRDC issatisfied that the applicant is technically qualified to carry onsuch business and is of good financial standing.

17.Notwithstanding the terms of a Petroleum ResourcesAgreement, all persons with a participating interest in aDevelopment License shall be responsible

(a)for ensuring compliance with the terms of thePetroleum Resources Agreement ;

(b)for ensuring that the conditions of a DevelopmentLicense and regulations made under this Act arecomplied with; and

(c)to third parties, for injury and damage resulting frompetroleum operations conducted in the area describedin the Development License :

Provided, that any person with a participating interestordered to pay damages for any such injury or damage, maypay such damages on a contributory basis with the otherpersons who have participating interests in the DevelopmentLicense.

18.(1) Where a portion of a reservoir of petroleumresources is situated in another exploration block over whichanother Contractor has an interest and the entire reservoir ofpetroleum resources can together with such portion ; be moveefficiently developed on a commercial basis, the PRDC may,for securing the more effective exploration or recovery ofpetroleum resources from such reservoir, by notice in writingto such other Contractor, require him to enter into an UnitDevelopment Agreement with such other parties for the jointdevelopment of the reservoir of petroleum resources.

UnitDevelopment.

Liability ofpersons withparticipatinginterest indevelopmentlicense.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200312

(2)Where

(a)two or more contractors enter into an UnitDevelopment Agreement, with the approval of thePRDC, to conduct joint petroleum operations; or

(b)it is a condition of the Development License issuedto each of such Contractors, that they conduct jointpetroleum operations in respect of a commonpetroleum reservoir situated within the boundariesof their several exploration blocks or the areascovered by their several Development Licenses,

the PRDC may direct such Contractors to participate in UnitDevelopment of such reservoir.

19.(1) Where a Contractor requires any movable orimmovable property for petroleum operations conducted, orproposed to be conducted, by him under a PetroleumResources Agreement or a Development License as the casemay be and he notifies the PRDC of such requirement, suchmovable or immovable property shall be deemed to beproperty required for the purposes of the business of thePRDC, and may be acquired by the Government and madeavailable to the Contractor, provided the PRDC considers suchacquisition essential, having regard to the circumstances ofthe case.

(2) Any sum payable by the PRDC for acquisition of anyproperty referred to in subsection (1) shall be paid by theContractor and such sum shall be calculated in such manneras may be prescribed.

PART IV

FUNCTIONS OF THE SECRETARIAT

20.(1) There shall be a Secretariat headed by theDirector-General of Petroleum Resources. The SecretariatThe Secretariat.

Acquisition ofproperty forcontractors.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200313

shall discharge such functions as are to be assigned to it fromtime to time, by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Secretariat shallact for and on behalf of the State for all purposes related toPetroleum Resources Agreements entered into with the State,and shall have the right to

(a)approve annual work programmes and budgetssubmitted by the Contractors under suchAgreements ;

(b)recover and arrange for the sale, storage and transportof the States share of petroleum resources, undersuch Agreement;

(c)discharge such other functions regarding thecontractual and operational interests of the Sate inconnection with the Petroleum ResourcesAgreements ;

(2)The PRDC may delegate to the Director-General ofPetroleum Resources, all or any of the powers and functionsassigned to, or conferred on it by paragraphs (a), (c), (d), (e),(f), (g), (h) and (l) of section 6.

21.(1) At the request of the Secretariat, any officer inthe public service may with the consent of that officer andthe Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Secretariat for such period as may bedetermined by the Secretariat or with like consent bepermanently appointed to the staff of the Secretariat.

(2)Where any officer is temporarily appointed to the staffof the Secretariat, the provisions of subsection (2) of section13 of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991,shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to, him.

(3)Where any officer is permanently appointed to thestaff of the Secretariat, the provisions of subsection (3) ofsection 13 of the National Transport Commission Act, No.37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relationto him.

Secondment ofofficers in thepublic service&c,.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200314

(4)Any person who is employed by the Corporation onthe date of the coming into operation of this Act, may withthe consent of that officer and of the Corporation, be eithertemporarily or permanently appointed to the staff of theSecretariat.

(5)Where the Secretariat employs any person who hasentered into a contract with he Government by which he hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service with the Secretariat by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government, for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

PART V

FISCAL PROVISIONS

22.(1) Every Petroleum Resources Agreement shall setout the respective shares of the petroleum resources, that arerecovered from petroleum operations conducted under suchAgreement, to which the Contractor and the State are entitledto.

(2)The Petroleum Resources Agreement shall providefor the following fiscal matters :

(a)the contractors recovery of costs for petroleumoperations conducted under the Agreement ;

(b)any increase in the States entitlement to a share ofpetroleum resources recovered. Such increases to bein proportion to the profitability of the petroleumoperations to the Contractor;

(c)the payment of a petroleum resource Royalty, on thetotality of the petroleum resources recovered, inaccordance with the provisions of this Part of thisAct; and

Terms as toproduction,sharing &c.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200315

(d)bonuses if any, that may be paid by the Contractorto the State.

23.Every Petroleum Resources Agreements shall includeterms that provide for an adjustment in the Contractorsentitlement to a share of the petroleum resource recovered inthe event of any law or regulation being enacted orpromulgated, as the case may be, imposing taxes, fees or levieson a Contractor's income from any petroleum operation orthe share of petroleum resources that the Contractor is entitledto under the Agreement, in addition to the taxes fees or leviesthat were in force on the date the Petroleum ResourcesAgreement was entered into.

24.The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of2000 shall be applicable to the contractors profits and incomefrom any operations relating to the exploration or exploitationof petroleum resources.

25. (1) The Contractor shall pay to the State a PetroleumResources Royalty on the value of all petroleum resources asare recovered under a Development Licence and the Statewill have the option to obtain the Royalty in cash or kind asprescribed in the relevant Petrolaum Resources Agreement.

(2) The methods for measuring the petroleum resourcesrecovered, and the periods for payment of the Royalty, shallbe as prescribed in the relevant Petroleum ResourcesAgreement.

26.(1) The Contractor's share of petroleum resourcesrecovered shall be exempt from all customs and export duties.

(2)A Contractor shall be exempt from the payment ofcustoms duty payable on any machinery or equipmentimported by him for the conduct of petroleum operations undera the terms of a Petroleum Resources Agreement and noexport duty shall, be payable on the re-export of suchmachinery or equipment.

Adjustments ofterms in case ofincreases in taxesetc.

Determination ofprofits andincome.

PetroleumResourcesRoyalty.

Exemptions fromcustoms dutiesetc.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200316

Offences.

PART VI

GENERAL

27.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurposes of carrying out or giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act, and in respect of matters that are bythis Act required to be prescribed.

(2)Every regulation made under subsection (1), shallbe published in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3)Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, bebrought before Parliament for approval. Any such regulationthat is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescind as fromthe date of disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4)Notification of the date on which a regulation isdeemed to be rescind shall be published in the Gazette.

28.Any person authorised in writing by the PRDC mayat any time enter into, and inspect, any site where petroleumoperations are being conducted and carry out suchinvestigations or surveys thereon as may be necessary toascertain whether the terms of a Petroleum ResourcesAgreement or the conditions imposed in relation to aDevelopment License or any provision of this Act or anyregulation made thereunder are being complied with.

29. (1) Any person who

(a)conducts petroleum operations in contravention ofthe provisions of section 7;

(b)resists or obstructs a person authorized under section29 in the exercise by such person or officer of anypowers conferred on him by or under this Act;

Regulations.

Powers ofentry.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200317

(c)fails without reasonable cause, to comply with therequirements of a notice issued under paragraph (n)of section 6;

(d)knowingly makes any false statement in any returnor information furnished by him under section 6 orin any application to enter into a PetroleumResources Agreement in respect of an explorationblock;

(e)willfully omits any material fact from any return orinformation furnished by him under section 6 or inany application to enter into a Petroleum ResourcesAgreement in respect of an exploration block;

(f)willfully damages or sabotages any petroleumoperations;

(g)fraudulently or negligently deprives the State of itsshare of petroleum resources or Petroleum ResourcesRoyalty;

(h)contravenes any regulation made under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liableon condition after summary trial before a Magistrate, to afine of not less than four million rupees and not exceedingone hundred million rupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding one year or to both such fine and imprisonment,and if the offence of which he is convicted is continued afterthe conviction, he shall be guilty of a further offence and shallbe liable in respect hereof to a fine not exceeding fiftythousand rupees for each day on which the offence is socontinued.

(2) Where a person is convicted of an offence underparagraph (g) of subsection (1), the Magistrate may order theoffender to pay to the State, compensation in such sum as isequivalent to the value of the petroleum resources or thePetroleum Resources Royalty, which the State has beendeprived of, as a result of the act constituting the offence.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200318

Offences bybodies ofpersons.

Amendment ofAct No. 28 of1961

This Act toprevail overother law.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency

Interpretation.

30.When an offence under this Act is committed by abody corporate, every person who at the time of thecommission of the offence was a director, manager, secretaryor other similar officer of that body corporate shall be deemedto be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offencewas committed without his consent or connivance and thathe exercised all such diligence to prevent the commission ofthat offence as he ought to have exercised having regard tothe nature of his functions and in all the circumstances.

31.Section 5D, 5F, 5G and 34A of the Ceylon PetroleumCorporation Act, No. 28 of 1961 are hereby repealed.

32.The provisions of this Act shall have effectnotwithstanding anything contained in any other written law,and accordingly, in the event of any inconsistency betweenthe provisions of this Act and such other law, the provisionsof this Act shall prevail.

33.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act the Sinhlala text shall prevail.

34.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

contiguous zone means the zone declared to be thecontiguous zone of Sri Lanka by Proclamationmade under section 4 of the Maritime Zones Law,No. 22 of 1976;

continental margin means the sea bed and subsoildefined in Article 76 of the United NationsConvention on the Law of the Sea, 1982;

Contractor means any person or body corporate, localor foreign, authorized to conduct petroleumoperations under a Petroleum ResourcesAgreement, and shall include joint ventureoperations ;

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200319

Corporation means the Ceylon PetroleumCorporation, established by the Ceylon PetroleumCorporation Act, No. 28 of 1961;

Development License means the authority to recoverand save commercial quantities of petroleumresources in a designated area of an explorationblock issued in terms of section 10;

Director-General Petroleum Resources (DPR) meansthe head of the Secretariat to be established to carryout the functions assigned to it by the Cabinet ofMinisters as the agent of the Government;

exclusive economic zone means zone declared byProclamation made under section 5 of the MaritimeZones Law, No of 1976;

exploration block means an exploration block set outin the relevant Petroleum Resources Agreement;

historic waters mean the limits of the historic watersdeclared by Proclamation made under section 9 ofthe Maritime Zones Law, No 22 of 1976;

investor may include private sector investors, publicsector investors, and any state agency or publiccorporation ;

Minister means the Minister in charge of the subjectof Petroleum Resources Development ;

participating interest means an interest expressed byright to a percentage in the share of petroleumresources recovered and saved under aDevelopment License, and set out in the PetroleumResources Agreement ;

petroleum operations mean activities in exploration,development and recovery of petroleum resourcesincluding but not limited to geological surveys,interpretation of seismic data, well drilling,production testing, separation, processing, storage,recovery, transportation and marketing ;

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200320

petroleum reservoir means a naturally occurringdiscrete accumulation of petroleum resources;

petroleum resources means crude oil, natural gas andhydrocarbons whether in natural liquid, gaseous,solid or semisolid state hydrates of oil and gas,sulfur and other similar substances associated withhydrocarbons that are in situ or recovered bypetroleum operations;

Petroleum Resources Agreement means a contract forproduction sharing entered into in terms of section9 of this Act, between the State and one or moreContractors ;

Petroleum Resources Development Committee(PRDC) means the Committee to be establishedto implement the provisions of the PetroleumResources Act ;

Petroleum Resources Royalty means the royalty thatis payable by a Contractor on the market value ofall petroleum resources that are recovered by himfrom the area covered by a Development License;

service sub-contractor means a person who providesgoods or services to a Contractor for petroleumoperations for, or on behalf of, a Contractor;

territorial sea means the limits of the sea declared tobe the territorial sea of Sri Lanka by proclamationmade under section 2 of Maritime Zones Law, No.22 of 1976 and includes the internal waters of SriLanka;

unit development means the development of acommon reservoir that is situated within theboundaries of two or more exploration blocks orthe area covered by two or more developmentlicenses;

Unit Development Agreement means an arrangementbetween two or more Contractors for jointlyconducting petroleum operations in respect of acommon reservoir of petroleum resources.

Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 200321

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.