PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
“Bh Ist Session 1956-57

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 1957

Date of Assent: March 28, 1957

Printed on the Orders of Government
* »

5

Printed at» the GoveRNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 15 cents. Postage: 10 cents.

“


Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act, 3
No. 14 of 1957

L. D.—O. 24/56.
An Act TO AMEND THE INDUSTRIAL DispuTEs ACT,
No. 43 oF 1950.

[Date of Assent: March 28, 1957]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the

same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Industrial Disputes
(Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 1957:

2. Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act,
No. 43 of 1950, is hereby amended as follows : —

(1) by the repeal of sub-sections (1) and (2) of
that section and the substitution therefor
of the following sub-sections : —

‘* (1) Where the parties to a collective
i _ agreement that is in force are one or more
Ps trade unions consisting of employers in any
industry and one or more trade unions
consisting of workmen in such industry,
then, if the Minister considers that those

parties are sufficiently representative—

(2) of the employers and the workmen,
or

(b) of a class of employers and a class
of workmen, or

(c) of the employers and a class of
workmen, or

(d) of a class of employers and the
workmen,

in such industry in such district, or in such
industry in Ceylon, he may make an Order
under sub-section (2) in respect of every
employer, or of every employer of such class
of employers, in such industry in such dis-

r trict or in such industry in Ceylon, on
whom such agreement is not binding as
provided in section 8.

(2) In accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (1), the Minister may, in respect
of any industry to which any such collec-
tive agreement as is referred to in sub-
section (1) relates. make an Order that

Short title.

Amendment of
section 10 of
Act No. 48 of
1950.


4 Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act,
No. 14 of 1957

every employer, or every employer of any
class, in such industry in any district or
in Ceylon, on whom that agreement is not
_ binding as provided in section 8, shall
observe either the terms and conditions set
out in that agreement (hereinafter referred
to as the ‘‘ recognised terms and condi-
tions ’’) or terms and conditions which are
not less favourable than the recognised
terms and conditions.’’;

_ (2) by the renumbering of sub-section (8) of that
section as sub-section (9);

_(3) by the insertion, immediately after sub-section
(2) of that section, of-the following new -
sub-sections : —

e¢

. “* (8) Every Order under sub-section (2)
shall be published in the Gazette and in one
Sinhala newspaper, one Tamil newspaper

as and one English newspaper, and shall,
upon such publication, have the force of
aw. -

(4) Before an Order under sub-section (2)
is made—

(a) the Commissioner shall cause a
notice of the intention of the
Minister to make such Order to
be published in the Gazette and
in one Sinhala newspaper, one
Tamil newspaper and one Eng-
lish newspaper, and such notice
shall specify a date on or before
which objections to the pro-
posed Order may be made in
writing to the Commissioner,
and

(b) the objections received by the Com-
. missioner shall be submitted by
him with his observations there-
on to the Minister for con- —
sideration.

(5) The Minister shall consider all
objections to the proposed Order and may
either not make the Order, or make the
Order with or without any limitation as to
its applicability. .

~


-)

Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act, 4)
No. 14 of 1957

(6) A party to. any such collective agree-
ment as is referred to in sub-section (1) may
make an application in writing to the Com-
missioner for the making of an Order under
sub-section (2) in respect of that agreement.

(7) An Order made under sub-section (2)
may be rescinded if the Minister considers
it necessary.

(8) An Order made under sub-section (2)
shall cease to be in force when the collec-
tive agreement to which it relates ceases
to be in force as provided in section 7.’’;

(4) in renumbered sub-section (9) of that section—

(i) by the substitution, for the words ‘‘ in
any district ’’, of the words ‘in
any district or in Ceylon ’’; and

(ii) by the substitution, for all the words
from ‘‘ shall be final,’’ to the end of
that sub-section, of the words
‘* shall be final.’’;

(5) by the addition, at the end of that section, of
the following new sub-section : —

(10) An extract from the Gazette con-
taining an Order made under sub-section
(2) or a notice of the intention to make an
Order under that sub-section and purport-
ing to have been printed by the Govern-
ment Printer, or a copy of such Order or
notice purporting to have been certified to
be a true copy by the Commissioner may be
produced in any court in proof of such
Order or notice.’’; and

(6) by the substitution, for the marginal note to
that section, of the following marginal
note :—

‘* Orders in respect of employers on whom
certain collective agreements are not
binding as provided in section 8.’’.
