PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 9.50 Postage : Rs. 4.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of August 22, 2003

[Certified on 20th August, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

FINANCEACT, No. 25 OF 2003

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20031

[Certified on 20th August, 2003]

L. D.O. 21/2003.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF A LEVY ON THE

ISSUE OF AIRLINE TICKETS AND TICKETS IN RESPECT OF A VOYAGE BY

SHIP ; TO REPEAL THE EMBARKATION TAX ACT, NO. 19 OF 1961

AND TO AMEND THE AIR NAVIGATION ACT (CHAPTER 365) ; TO

PROVIDE FOR A LEVY ON THE TURNOVER OF INSTITUTIONS LICENSED

UNDER THE TOURIST DEVELOPMENT ACT, NO. 14 OF 1968 ; AND

TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No. 25 of2003 and shall come into operation on September 1, 2003.

PART I

EMBARKATION LEVY

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, there shall be charged and levied a levy to be called theEmbarkation Levy calculated in United States Dollars ofsuch amount as the Minister may determine by Orderpublished in the Gazette, in respect of

(a)every airline ticket issued outside Sri Lanka topassengers who will embark on a flight leaving SriLanka or in respect of every airline ticket issued inSri Lanka to persons leaving Sri Lanka, theequivalent thereof in Sri Lanka rupees, calculatedat such rate of exchange as may be determined bythe Competent Authority with the approval of theSecretary to the Treasury :

Provided however, no embarkation levy shall becharged and levied in respect of an airline ticketissued outside Sri Lanka to a transit passenger ofthat aircraft ; and

2H 018545 5,650 (2003/06)

Short title.

EmbarkationLevy.

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20032

(b)every ticket issued in respect of a passengerembarking a ship leaving Sri Lanka.

For the purposes of this subsection transit passengermeans a passenger who departs from Sri Lanka on aconnecting flight within twenty-four hours of arrival.

(2)The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply inthe case of

(a)children who are less than two years of age ;

(b)officers and members of the crew of that aircraft orship ;

(c)such other persons as may be prescribed.

(3) An Order made by the Minister in terms of subsection(1) may be amended, altered or varied by a subsequent Orderwhich shall be published in the Gazette.

3.The operator of every aircraft or ship shall collectthe embarkation levy and pay such levy to the Governmentof Sri Lanka in such manner as may be determined by theCompetent Authority. It shall be the duty of every operatorto comply with such determination.

4.(1) The embarkation levy collected in respect of ahalf-month period by the operator of an aircraft or ship froma person leaving Sri Lanka by that aircraft or ship as thecase may be, shall be paid to the Competent Authority inthe manner determined by the Competent Authority withthe approval of the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury. Anydispute which may arise in respect of such payment asbetween the Competent Authority and the operator, shall besettled according to the applicable law.

(2)In case of a dispute between the CompetentAuthority and the operator on the number of passengers liableto pay the embarkation levy, the operator shall pay theembarkation levy in accordance with the figures forwardedby the Competent Authority, subject to his right to forwardto the Competent Authority any other documentary evidencein his possession to substantiate his claim.

Operator to collectembarkation levy.

Embarkation levyto be paid toCompetentAuthority by theoperator.

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20033

Records.

(3)Where the embarkation levy due for any half-monthperiod is not paid to the Competent Authority by the operatorof the aircraft in question in accordance with the precedingprovisions of this section, it shall be deemed to be in defaultand an interest calculated on the average rated prime lendingrate in any given month, plus two per centum, shall be addedto that amount, so however, that for each month of default,interest at the above rate shall be charged and recovered onthe total amount in default.

5.(1) The Competent Authority shall disburse themoney collected under this Part in accordance with suchinstructions as may, be issued from time to time by theDeputy Secretary to the Treasury.

(2)The Competent Authority shall furnish a monthlyreturn of the amount collected as Embarkation Levy with allother relevant details to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury may, where he considersit necessary, call for such other information or clarification inrespect of any matter arising out of such return.

6.The operator of any aircraft or ship shall, whenrequested to do so by the Competent Authority, furnish to theCompetent Authority such information as is within theknowledge of that operator in regard to the passengerstransported from Sri Lanka by that aircraft or ship as theCompetent Authority may require for the purposes of this Act.

7.(1) An operator shall maintain proper records ofpassengers embarking on an aircraft or ship, as the case maybe, under the control of an operator, and of the embarkationlevy collected by the operator.

(2)Records relating to the payment and collection ofthe embarkation levy shall be maintained separately fromany records relating to other payments made to the operator.

(3)The records required to be maintained undersubsection (1), may be destroyed by the operator after a periodof two years with the consent of the Competent Authority.

CompetentAuthority to creditthe ConsolidatedFund.

Operator tofurnish requiredinformation.

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20034

8.(1) An operator shall furnish returns in the formspecified by the Competent Authority, giving details ofpassengers of any aircraft or ship, under the control of theoperator and departures of such aircraft or ship and suchother information relating to the embarkation levy or thecollection of the embarkation levy as the CompetentAuthority may require. Every such return shall be filled intriplicate and one copy thereof forwarded by the operator.to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.

(2)Nothing in subsection (1) shall derogate from oraffect the obligation of an operator, under any other law forthe time being in force to furnish information on aircraftoperations or operations in relation to a ship designated undersuch law.

(3)Where an operator fails to provide proper returns asrequired by the Competent Authority, the CompetentAuthority may require the operator to pay as embarkationlevy such amount as is calculated on the total number ofpassengers in the passenger manifest of the aircraft or ship.

(4)Where a flight or passage is totally omitted fromthe information provided, the embarkation levy will becomputed and the operator shall be charged on the totalseating capacity of such flight or voyage.

9.(1) For the purposes of verifying the correctness ofany information furnished by an operator of an aircraft orship in pursuance of this Act, or for the purpose of securingcompliance with the provisions of this Act or of anyregulation made thereunder, the Competent Authority may

(a)enter any premises in Sri Lanka used by suchoperator for the purposes of his business as a carrierof passengers by aircraft or ship ; and

(b)inspect and take copies of any record of the

(i)passengers transported from Sri Lanka by anyaircraft or ship of that operator ; and

Verification ofcorrectness ofinformation by theCompetentAuthority

Returns.

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20035

Interpretation.

(ii)embarkation levy collected by such operatoras is kept by that operator (whether inpursuance of this Act or otherwise) in relationto his business.

(2)The Competent Authority or any person authorisedby him in writing may, for the purpose of securingcompliance with the provisions of this Act or of anyregulations made thereunder, enter on board any aircraft orship arriving in or departing from Sri Lanka and require thecaptain of that aircraft or ship to produce for inspection bythe Competent Authority any document which containsinformation regarding the passengers to be transported bythat aircraft or ship, as the case may be.

10.In this Part unless the context otherwise requires

Captain in relation to an aircraft or ship means theperson for the time being in charge, command orcontrol of that aircraft or ship ;

Competent Authority with reference to all mattersin relation to the charging of the embarkation levyfrom persons leaving Sri Lanka

(a)by aircraft, means the Director-General ofthe Civil Aviation Authority appointed undersection 11 of the Civil Aviation Authorityof Sri Lanka Act, No. 34 of 2002;

(b)by ship means the Director of MerchantShipping appointed under the MerchantShipping Act, No. 52 of 1971 ;

operator in relation to

(a)an aircraft, means the owner, a person actingon behalf of the owner or Captain of thataircraft ; and

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20036

(b)a ship, means the owner, a person acting onbehalf of the owner and in possession of alicense under the Licensing of ShippingAgents Act, No. 10 of 1972, or the Captainof that ship ;

passenger manifest means a list of passengersauthenticated by the operator and carried on boardan aircraft during flight or a ship during a voyage,from one destination to another.

PART II

TOURISM DEVELOPMENT LEVY

11.From and after the date of commencement of thisPart of this Act, there shall be levied from every institutionlicensed under the Tourist Development Act, No. 14 of 1968,a levy of one percentum on the turnover of such institutionsin any year, to be called the Tourism Development Levy.

12.(1) The levy imposed under section 11 shall be paidin such manner as may be prescribed by the relevant Ministerin consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance and collected by the Director-General of the CeylonTourist Board established by the Ceylon Tourist Board Act,No. 10 of 1966.

(2)The Director-General of the Ceylon Tourist Boardshall retain the entirety of the Levy collected under subsection(1). He shall also furnish such returns in such manner as maybe prescribed in that behalf to the Deputy Secretary to theTreasury, within thirty days of the date on which such amountis collected.

Method ofpayment ofTourismDevelopmentLevy.

Imposition of levyon institutionslicensed under theTouristDevelopment Act.

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20037

13.For the purposes of this Part, turnover in relationto

(a)a tourist hotel, means the amount received orreceivable from the total sales excluding the servicecharge upto ten per centum of such sales and thevalue added tax charged on such sales in terms ofthe Value Added Tax Act, No.14 of 2002;

(b)a travel agent, means the total receipts from servicesprovided in relation to the tourist industry excludingpayments made by him in respect of servicesprovided to him by other local service providers andthe value added tax charged on such services in termsof the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002;

(c)a tourist shop, means the amount received orreceivable from the total sales of products from anysuch shop excluding the value added tax chargedon such sales in terms of the Value Added Tax Act,No. 14 of 2002.

PART III

REPEAL OF THE EMBARKATION TAX ACT, NO. 19 OF 1961 AND

AMENDMENT OF AIR NAVIGATION ACT

14.The Embarkation Tax Act, No. 19 of 1961 is herebyrepealed.

15.(1) All persons in possession of airline tickets ortickets in relation to passage by ship, purchased prior toSeptember 1, 2003, where the travel on such ticket takesplace after September 1, 2003, and on which the embarkationlevy specified under section 2 had not been collected shallbe required to pay the amount due as embarkation levy underthis Act, to an officer authorised in writing by the CompetentAuthority at the airport or port of departure as the case maybe. An endorsement that the embarkation levy has been dulypaid shall be made on the ticket by an officer authorised inwriting by the Competent Authority.

Repeal of Act,No. 19 of 1961

Transitionalprovisions.

Definition ofTurnover.

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20038

(2)Any person who refuses to pay the embarkation levywhen requested to do so in terms of subsection (1), shall notbe permitted to board the aircraft or ship, as the case may be.

(3)An officer authorised in writing by the CompetentAuthority who fails to collect the embarkation levy in termsof subsection (1) shall be liable to a fine of rupees fivehundred in respect of each ticket in relation to which thelevy had not been collected.

(4)The amount collected as embarkation levy underthis section, shall be paid to the Competent Authority daily,by the officer authorised in writing by the CompetentAuthority. The Competent Authority shall credit such amountto the Consolidated Fund. A return containing the informationin relation to such levy shall be sent weekly to the DeputySecretary to the Treasury.

16.Section 23 of the Air Navigation Act (Chapter 365),is hereby amended as follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsection (2A) of that section ;and

(2)in subsection (3) of that section by the omission ofthe words, (including the embarkation taxescollected by him under section (2A) :.

PART IV

GENERAL

17. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are required to be prescribed or for whichregulations are authorized to be made under this Act.

(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing,the Minister may by regulation provide for

(a)the mode and manner of the payment and collectionof the embarkation levy by the operator ;

Amendment ofsection 23 ofChapter 365.

Regulations.

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20039

(b)the amount of any deposit or bank guarantee forsuch duration not exceeding one year to be madeor given to the Competent Authority by the operator;

(c)the procedure to be followed in the disbursment ofthe levies collected under this Act ;

(d)the making of returns for the purposes of this Actand the form of such returns ;

(e)the mode and manner of payment and collection ofthe Levy from institutions licensed under the TouristDevelopment Act, No. 14 of 1968.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Finance Act, No. 25 of 200310

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNM ENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.