PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 15 OF 1998

[Certified on 08th April , 1998]

‘ Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of April 09, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

if
TQ BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 2.50


Institute of Chartered Accountants (Amendment)
Act No. 15 of 1998

. [Certified on O8th April , 1998]
L. D.—O. 59/95.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Act, No. 23 oF 1959

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1, This Act may be cited as the Institute of Chartered
Accountants (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1998.

2. The long title of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
Act, No. 23 of 1959 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the deletion of the words
“for the management of its affairs and” and the substitution
therefor, of the words “for the management of its affairs, for
the issue of Sri Lanka Accounting and Sri Lanka Auditing
Standards and”.

3. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 3 and shall have effect as section
3a of the principal enactment :—

“Objects of 3a. The objects of the Institute shall be—
the Institute.

(i) to promote, in general the theory and

practice of accountancy and in particular,
auditing, financial management and
taxation;

(ii) toenrol, educate and train members who
are desirous of learning or improving
their skills and knowledge, in disciplines
such as auditing, financial management
and taxation;

(ili) to preserve the _ professional
independence of accountants and to
ensure the maintenance of high standards
of professional work and conduct, by its
members;

2—D 047313—8,550 (02/98)

Short title.

Amendment of
long title of Act
No. 23 of 1959,

Insertion of new
section. 3a in the
principai
enactment.


Amendment of
section 6 of the
principal

* enactment.

2 Institute of Chartered Accountants (Amendment)

(iv)

(v)

Act No. 15 of 1998

to make donations and contributions for
national, public, educational or charitable

purposes;

to make grants to Universities or to other
educational Institutions;

(vi) to award scholarships, and to hold

(vii)

(vill)

(ix)

exhibitions, with a view to promoting the
interests of the members of the Institute;

to organise, finance and maintain
schemes for the granting, of diplomas,
certificates and other awards to members
of the Institute and of other professional
bodies and to other persons who fulfill
the prescribed conditions;

to make grants or contributions to any
other society having similar objects as
those of the Institute;

to do all such acts and things as are
incidental or conducive, to the attainment
of the above objects.”.

4. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amended |

as follows :—

(1) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section, and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :—

“(3) A member of the Institute who is not eligible
for registration by the Council as a Fellow of the
Institute under subsection (2), shall be eligible for
registration as a Fellow of the Institute by the Council,
on completion of five years after admission to
membership of the Institute and on fulfilling such
requirements as may be prescribed by the Council


Institute of Chartered Accountants (Amendment) 3
Act No. 15 of 1998

for the advancement to Fellowship of the Institute,
and upon an application being made to the Council
and on payment to the Council of the prescribed fee.
Such member shall upon registration by the Council
as a Fellow of the Institute be entitled to use the
addition “F.C. A.” after his name to indicate that he
is a Fellow.”.

5. section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amended Amendment of

as follows :—~ _ section 7 of the
: principal

(1) by the repeal of that subsection (2) thereof, and the tment.

substitution therefor of the following subsection :-—

“(2) The Council shall consist of a President, a
Vice-President and fourteen other members appointed
or elected as hereinafter provided.”

(2) In subsection (4) of that section— *

(a) by the repeal of paragraphs (a) and (5) of that
subsection and the substitution therefor, of the
following paragraphs :—

“(a)_ eight members appointed by the Minister
of whom one shall be the Auditor-
General if he is a member of the Institute
and another shall be the immediate past
President of the Council;

(b) six members elected by the members of
the Institute, from among its members;

(c) a member appointed by the Minister, in
a case where the Auditor-General is not
a member of the Institute or the
immediate past President declines to
accept appointment to the Council”; and

(6) by the substitution, for the words “paragraph
(a) of this subsection”, in paragraph (ii) thereof,
of the words “paragraph («) or (c) of this
subsection.”,


Insertion of new
section 7A in the
principal
enactment,

4 __ Institute of Chartered Accountants (Amendment)
Act No. 15 of 1998

_6. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 7 and shall have effect as section
7a of the principal enactment :—

“Special 7a. (1) A member of the Institute shall not
provision —_e eligible for election as President of the Council

relating to

President and for more than one term of office.

Vice-

President. (2) A member of the Institute shall not be

qualified to be elected as Vice-President of the
Council unless he—

(a) isa Fellow of the Institute; and

(b) has served in at least three Committees
appointed by the Council; and

(c) has been a member of the Council for at
‘least one term during the period of five
years immediately preceding the date of
closing of nominations for the post of
Vice-President.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in this Act, the Member of the Institute holding
office as Vice-President of the Council, shall be
deemed, to be elected as President of the Council,
for the next term of office of the Council, by the
members of the Institute, unless the Council
resolves to the contrary, by secret ballot, at a
meeting held at least six months prior to the date
of commencement of the next term of office of
the Council and by a majority of not less than
three fourths of the members of the Council
(including those not present) voting in its favour.
In the event of the Council so resolving or in the
event of the member of the Institute holding office
as Vice-President of the Council being unable or
unwilling to accept office as President of the
Council for the next term of office of the Council,


Institute of Chartered Accountants (Amendment) 5

Act No. 15 of 1998

the members‘of the Institute shall elect a President
from among themselves, so however, that the
member so elected shall be a member who has
the qualifications set out in paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) of subsection (2) and is not the member
holding office as President of the Council”. -

7. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the insertion, immediately after subsection (3) of that
section, of the following subsection :—

(3a) A member of the Council who fails, without being

excused by the Council, to attend three consecutive
meetings of the Council shall be deemed to have
vacated office, with effect from the date of the last
of such meetings.”.

8. Section 9 of the principal enactment is amended by
the addition, immediately after paragraph (k) of that section,
of the following new paragraphs :—

“2D

(m)
(n)

{o)

(p)

(9)

(r)

to issue Sri Lanka Accounting and Sri Lanka Auditing
standards;

to borrow or raise monies with or without security;

to purchase, lease, rent or otherwise acquire any
movable or immovable property and to sell, mortgage,
lease or otherwise dispose of any such property;

to construct, alter, maintain and equip any buildings
necessary for the use of the Institute;

to pay remuneration, allowances, pensions and
gratuities to officers and servants of the Institute, and
to their dependants;

to pay expenses to members of the Council and to
any other persons who render any services to the
Institute; and

todo all such other acts or things as may be necessary
for carrying out the objects of the Institute”

Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.


Amendment of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 18 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 24 of the
prittcipal
enactment.

6 Institute of Chartered Accountants ( Amendment)
Act No. 15 of 1998

9. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution, of the following subsection therefor :—

“(2) (a) Where the Council has reasonable cause to
believe, whether on complaint made to it or otherwise,
that any person who is a member of the Institute has been
guilty of professional misconduct, the Council may
appoint an investigating Committee to inquire into and
report to the Council, whether a prima facie case of
professional misconduct, has been made against such
member.

(b) Where an investigating Committee appointed
under paragraph (a) reports to the Council that a prima
facie case of professional misconduct has been made out
against a member, the Council shall appoint a disciplinary
Committee for the purpose of inquiring into the conduct
of such member.”.

10. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “in lieu of
exercising that power, suspend the person”, of words “in lieu
of exercising that power, warn or reprimand that person or
suspend that person.”.

11. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “in partnership with any other person,
he—” of the words “in partnership with any other
person or as a director of a company, he—.”.

(2) in paragraph (c) of that subsection, by the substitution
for the words “accounting procedure or” of the words
“accounting procedures or company taxation or
businegs matters or”. so


Institute of Chartered Accountants (Amendment) 7
Act No. 15 of 1998

12. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended in sub-paragraph (10) of paragraph 4 of that
Schedule by the substitution, for the words “which the inquiry
was held”, of the words “which the inquiry was held, and
shall cause a copy of such report to be sent to the person
whose conduct was the subject of the inquiry”.

13. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment of
First Schedute te
the principal
enactment.

Sinhala Text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


al), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).
2, Transworks House,
he year following.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Loc
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, No. 3
Lotus Roap, CoLomso 01 before 1th December each year in respect of t
