PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
3rd Session 1958-59

Tamil Language (Special Provisions )

Act, No. 28 of 1958

Date of Assent: September 4, 1958

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoOvERNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrick Box 500. Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 10 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


‘N

Tamil Language (Special Provisions) -' 3
Act, No. 28 of 1958.

L. D.—O. 28/57.

“AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE USE OF THE TAMIL
LANGUAGE AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent : September 4, 1958 |

WHEREAS the Sinhala language has been declared
by the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956, to be
the one official language of Ceylon :

And whereas it is expedient to make provision for
the use of the Tamil language without conflicting with
_ the provisions of the aforesaid Act :

Be it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the

authority of the same, as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Tami! Language
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 28 of 1958.

2. (1) A Tamil pupil in a Government school or
an Assisted school shall be entitled to be instructed
through the medium of the Tamil language in
accordance with such regulations under the Education
Ordinance, No. 3] of 1939, relating to the medium of
instruction as are in force or may hereafter be brought
into force.

(2) When the Sinhala language is made a medium
of instruction in the University of Ceylon, the Tamil
language shall, in accordance with the provisions of
the Ceylon University Ordinance, No. 20 of 1942,
and of the Statutes, Acts and Regulations made
thereunder, be made a medium of instruction’ in such
University for students who, prior to their admission
to such University, have been educated through the
medium of the Tamil language. |

i

3. A person.educated through the mediunh of the
Tamil language shall be entitled to be examined
through such. medium at any examination for the
admission of persons to the Public Service,-subject to
the condition that he shall, according as regulations

made under this Act in that behalf may require,—-
(a7) have a sufficient knowledge of the official

language of Ceylon, or

(b) acquire such knowledge within a specified
time after admission to the Public Service :

' J.N. R 26008, 3084 (7/58)

Short title.

Tamil language
as a medium
of instruction.

Tamil funguage
as 2 medium
of examination
for admission
to the Public
Service,


Use of the
Tamil language
for correspon-
dence.

Use of the
Tamil language
for prescribed
administrative
purposcs in the
Northern and
Eastern
Provinces. °

Regulations.

This Act to be
subject to
measures

adopted or to be

adopted under
the proviso to,
section 2 of
Act No. 33 of
1956.

Interpretation.

4 Tamil Language (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 28 of 1958.

Provided that, when the Government is satisfieg
that there are sufficient facilities for the teaching of
the Sinhala language in schools in which the Tamj
language is a medium of instruction and that the
annulment of clause (b) of the preceding provisions of
this section will not cause undue hardship, provision
may be made by regulation made under this Act that .
such clause shall cease to be in force. u

4. Correspondence between persons, other than _
officials in their official capacity, educated through -
the medium of the Tamil language and any official in
his official capacity or between any local authority in
the Northern or Eastern Province and any official in .
his official capacity may, as prescribed, be in the Tamil
language.

5. In the Northern and Eastern Provinces the
Tamil language may be used for prescribed adminis-
trative purposes, in addition to the purposes for which
that Janguage may be used in accordance with the
other provisions of this Act, without prejudice to the
use of the official language of Ceylon in respect of
those prescribed administrative purposes.

6. (1) The Minister may make regulations to give
effect to the principles and provisions of this Act.

(2) No regulation made under sub-section (1) shall
have effect until it is approved by the Senate and the
House of Representatives and notification of such
approval is published in the Gazerte. .

7. This Act shall have effect subject to such
measures as may have been or may be adopted under
the proviso to section 2 of the Official Language Act,
No. 33 of 1956, during the period ending on the thirty-
first day of December, 1960.

8. In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires—

“ Assisted school “land * Government school ”
shall have the same meaning as in the
Education Ordinance, No. 31 of 1939 ;

* local authority ” means any Municipal Council,
Urban Council, Town Council or Village
Committee ;

**.officia] * means the Governor-General, or any
Minister, Parliamentary Secretary or
officer of the Public Service ; and

* prescribed *” means prescribed by regulation
made under this Act.
