PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE (SPECIALPROVISIONS) ACT, No. 2 OF 2013

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 06th February, 2013]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.50Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 08, 2013

1Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 2013

Short title.

2PL 0069314,090 (01/2013)

[Certified on 06th February, 2013]

L.D.O. 51/2011.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXTENSION OF THE PERIOD OF DETENTION OF

PERSONS ARRESTED WITHOUT A WARRANT IN ORDER TO FACILITATE THE

CONDUCT OF INVESTIGATIONS; FOR DISPENSING WITH THE CONDUCT OF

THE NON-SUMMARY INQUIRY IN CERTAIN CASES; TO PROVIDE FOR THE

TAKING OF DEPOSITIONS OF WITNESSES FOR THE PROSECUTION; AND TO

MAKE PROVISION FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Code of CriminalProcedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 2 of 2013.

2.Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 other than theprovisions of section 43 A of that Act, any peace officer shallnot detain in custody or otherwise confine a person arrestedwithout a warrant for a longer period than under all thecircumstances of the case is reasonable and such period shallnot exeed twenty-four hours exclusive of the time necessaryfor the journey from the place of arrest to the presence of theMagistrate:

Provided that, where the arrest is in relation to an offenceas is specified in the Schedule to this Act, such period ofdetention in police custody may, on production before himof the person arrested and on a certificate filed by a policeofficer not below the rank of the Assistant Superintendent ofPolice submitted prior to the expiration of the said period of

Period ofdetention ofpersons arrestednot to be morethan twenty-fourhours or forty-eight hours.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 20132

twenty-four hours, to the effect that it is necessary to detainsuch person for the purpose of further investigations, beextended upon an Order made in that behalf by the Magistratefor a further period not exceeding twenty-four hours, sohowever that the aggregate period of detention shall notexceed forty-eight hours:

Provided further, that any person arrested and detained fora further period shall be afforded an opportunity to consultan Attorney-at-Law of his choice and to communicate withany relative or friend of his choice during the period of suchdetention.

3.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, where there areaggravating circumstances or circumstances that give rise topublic disquiet inconnection with the commission of anoffence, specified in the Second Schedule to the JudicatureAct, No. 2 of 1978, it shall be lawful for the Attorney-Generalto forward indictment directly to the High Court.

(2) The Attorney-General may in forwarding indictmentdirectly in terms of subsection (1) proceed to do so ex meromotu or upon receipt of the relevant record from theMagistrate.

4.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, where there areaggravating circumstances or circumstances that give rise topublic disquiet inconnection with the commission of anoffence, specified in the Second Schedule to the JudicatureAct, No. 2 of 1978, the Magistrate shall not hold a preliminaryinquiry in terms of Chapter XV of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 and shall forthwith forwardthe record of the proceedings to the Attorney-General andthereafter abide by the instructions of the Attorney-General.

Directindictment incase of offencecommitted inaggravatingcircumstances.

Magistrate toforward recordto Attorney-General.

3Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 2013

Proceedings tobe terminatedwithin ninetydays.

(2) Upon receipt of the record of the procedings by theMagistrate in terms of subsection (1), the Attorney-Generalshall

(a)where he is of the opinion that there areaggravating circumstances or circumstancesthat give rise to public disquiet in connectionwith the commission of the aforesaid offence,forward indictment directly to the High Court;

(b)where he is of the opinion that thecircumstances do not warrant the forwardingof direct indictment to the High Court, returnthe record to the Magistrate within thirty daysof the receipt of the same and direct that apreliminary inquiry be held in terms of ChapterXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979.

(3) If the Magistrate proceeds to hold a preliminary inquiryin terms of Chapter XV of the aforesaid Code, the Attorney-General shall, call for the record of the proceedings, for thepurpose of considering the forwarding of indictment directlyto the High Court. In such an event the Magistrate shallforthwith suspend proceedings and forward the record of theproceedings to the Attorney-General and shall thereafter abideby the instructions of the Attorney-General.

5.Any proceedings in terms of the provisions of this Actshall be concluded within a period of ninety days from thedate of the commencement of proceedings under ChapterXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

6.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in ChapterXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, inthe course of holding of an inquiry under the aforesaidChapter, the following provisions shall apply to the takingof statements of persons who know the facts and circumstancesof the case.

Depositions.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 20134

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (ii), theMagistrate shall read out, or cause to be read out to everywitness produced against the accused, in the presence andhearing of the accused, the statement made by the witness inthe course of the investigation conducted in terms of ChapterXI of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 andshall ask the witness whether the statement is an accuraterecord of what he had stated to the police.

(3) (a) If the witness states, in response to an inquiry madeof him under subsection (1), that the statement is an accuraterecord of what he had stated to the police, the Magistrateshall record that fact. The Magistrate shall permit the witness,if the witness so desires, to make such additions or alterationsto his original statement. Every such addition or alterationshall be recorded.

(b) The Magistrate shall not permit any cross-examinationof the witness by the accused or his pleader, but the Magistratemay put to the witness, any clarification required by theaccused or his pleader of any matter arising from the statementmade by the witness in the course of the investigation or anyadditions or alterations to his original statement if any, andmay put to the witness any clarification which the Magistratehimself may require of any such matter. Every clarificationso made shall be recorded:

Provided that, having considered the nature of the materialcontained in the statement of a witness made to the police,the prosecution may tender the witness for cross-examinationby the accused or his pleader.

(4) The Magistrate shall thereafter read out or cause to beread out to the witness, the statement made by the witness toCourt affirming the accuracy of the statement made by himin the course of the investigation and the clarifications if anymade by him under subsection (2), and additions or alterationsto his original statement if any, made by him under subsection(3), and shall require the witness to swear or affirm to thetruth of the matters recorded.

5Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 2013

(5) (a) If on the other hand, the witness states in responseto an inquiry made of him under subsection (1), that thestatement is not, in its entirety or in part, an accurate recordof what he had stated to the police, the Magistrate shall permitthe witness to give an account of the circumstances relatingto the offence, or as the case may be, to make such additionsor alterations to his original statement as the witness maywish to make.

(b) The Magistrate shall not permit any cross-examinationof the witness by the accused or his pleader but the Magistratemay put to the witness, any clarification required by theaccused or his pleader of any matter arising from the accountgiven, or additions or alterations made by the witness or mayput to the witness any clarification that the Magistrate himselfmay rquire of any such matter:

Provided that, having considered the nature of the materialcontained in the statement of a witness made to the police,the prosecution may tender the witness for cross-examinationby the accused or his pleader.

(c) The Magistrate shall record the account given, or theadditions or alterations made by the witness under paragraph(a) and any clarifiactions made by the witness under paragraph(b) and read out the same or cause the same to be read out tothe witness and shall require the witness to swear or affirm tothe truth of the matter so recorded.

(6) Before a witness is produced against the accused, theMagistrate shall permit the accused or his pleader to perusein open court, the statement made by that witness to thePolice in the course of the investigation.

(7) The Magistrate shall sign, and shall cause the witnessto sign a certified copy of the statement made by the witnessto the Police in the course of the investigation and cause thesame to be filed of record. The copy so filed shall for allpuposes form part of the record of the inquiry.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 20136

(8) The Magistrate shall not summon an expert witnessor a police officer but shall cause the report of such expertwitness or the affidavit of such police officer, as the case maybe, to be produced and filed of record:

Provided that, the Magistrate may, for reasons to berecorded and in the case of an expert witness, with the priorsanction of the Attornery-General summon an expert witnessor police officer to be present in Court for examination.

(9) Where an expert witness or a police officer appears inCourt in response to summons issued on him under subsection(8) the Magistrate shall not permit any cross-examination ofsuch expert witness or police officer by the accused or hispleader but may put to such expert witness or police officer,any clarifications that the accused or his pleader may require,of any matter arising from the report of the expert witness orthe affidavit of the police officer, as the case may be, or fromthe examination of such expert witness or police officer, asthe case may be and the Magistrate may himself put to thewitness any clarification that he may require of any suchmatter. Every clarification so made shall be recorded.

(10) A statement made by an expert witness or policeofficer and the deposition made by a witness tendered forcross-examination under this section, shall be deemed to beadmissible in evidence in terms of section 33 of the EvidenceOrdinance (Chapter 14).

(11) (a) Where the accused

(i) is absconding or has left the island; or

(ii) is unable to attend or remain in Court byreason of illness and has consented eitherto the commencement or continuance ofthe inquiry in his absence, such inquirymay commence or continue withoutprejudice to him; or

7Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 2013

(iii) by reason of his conduct in Court isobstructing or impeding the progress of theinquiry,

the Magistrate may, if satisfied of these facts, commence andproceed or continue with the inquiry in the absence of theaccused.

(b) An Attorney-at-Law may appear for such absentaccused.

(c) The inquiry shall proceed as far as is practicablein accordance with the provisions of this Actexcept that the provisions of section 416 of theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979shall not apply to the depositions recordedwhere there is a trial on indictment in the HighCourt whether the accused is present in the HighCourt or not.

(12) The statement made by a witness to the police in thecourse of the investigation together with, his statement andclarifications, if any, recorded under subsection (3) or theadditions, alterations and clarifications made and recordedunder subsection (4) or the account given and recordedunder subsection (5), shall be regarded for the purposes ofthis Act, as the deposition of that witness.

(13) Every witness produced against the accused at theinquiry shall be entitled to be represented by an Attorney-at-Law.

(14) If after the conclusion of the procedure set out above,the Magistrate does not consider that the case should bedealt with in accordance with the provisions of section 153of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, theMagistrate shall read the charge to the accused and explainthe nature thereof in ordinary language and inform him thathe has a right to call witnesses and, if he so desires to giveevidence on his own behalf.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 20138

(15) The provisions of Chapter XV of the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall mutatismutandis apply to any preliminary inquiry held under theprovisions of this Act.

7. (1) The provisions of this Act shall be in operation fora period of two years commencing from the date of cominginto operation of this Act.

(2) The Minister may, at any time within one month priorto the expiration of the period of operation of this Act, byOrder published in the Gazette, extend for a further periodthe operation of the Act, so however that the aggregate periodof any one extension shall not exceed two years from thedate of the extension so granted.

(3) The Order made under subsection (2) shall beoperative when the signature of the Minister is affixed theretoand every such Order shall be published in the Gazette.

(4) Every Order made under subsection (3) shall be placedbefore Parliament within three months from the date ofpublication of such Order in the Gazette.

(5) A notification specifying of the date on whichParliament has approved the Order shall be published in theGazette.

8.Where during the period commencing on May 31,2009 and ending on the date of the coming into operation ofthis Act, any power, duty or function was exercised,performed or discharged by any person to whom suchpower, duty or function was assigned by or under CriminalProcedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 2007, suchpower, duty or function which was so exercised, performedor discharged, shall, notwithstanding that the provisions ofthe said Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act, No. 42of 2007 was not in operation during the that period, bedeemed to have been validly exercised, performed ordischarged, as if the said Act was in operation during suchperiod:

Validation.

Duration of theAct.

9Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 2013

Provided that, the aforesaid provisions of this sectionshall not affect any decision or Order made by any Court inrespect of any detention made during the period within whichthe said Act is so deemed to have been in operation.

9.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Schedule(Section 2)

Column IColumn II

1.Abetment of an offence set out inthe Schedule, if the act abetted iscommitted.Section 102-Penal Code

2.Conspiracy for the abetment orcommission of any offence set outin the Schedule. Section 113B-Penal Code

3.Murder.Section 296-Penal Code

4.Culpable Homicide not amountingto murder.Section 297-Penal Code

5.Attempt to commit murder.Section 300-Penal Code

6.Kidnapping or abduction to commitmurder.Section 355-Penal Code

7.Kidnapping or abduction withintent to wrongfully confine aperson.Section 356-Penal Code

8.Kidnapping or abduction withintent to wrongfully subjectperson to grievous hurt.Section 358-Penal Code

9.Concealing or keeping inconfinementa kidnapped person.Section 359-Penal Code

10. Rape.Section 364-Penal Code

11. Theft, preparation having beingmade to cause death &c.Section 371-Penal Code

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 201310

12. Robbery with attempt to causedeath or grievous hurt.Section 383-Penal Code

13. Attempt to commit robbery whenarmed with deadly weapon.Section 384-Penal Code

14. Attempt to commit any of theabove offences.Section 490-Penal Code

15. An offence committed with theExplosive as defined in the use of explosives, anExplosives Act (Chapteroffensive weapon or a gun.183); offensive weaponas defined in theOffensive WeaponsAct, No. 18 of 1966 anda Gun as defined in theFirearms Ordinance(Chapter 182)

11Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 2 of 2013

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.