~ La

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

TOWN AND COUNTRY PLANNING
(AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 49 OF 2000

[Certified on 18th August, 2000]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 18, 2000

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 12.50 Postage : Rs. 5.25


Town and Country Planning (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 2000

(Certified on 18th August, 2000]
L. D. — O. 26/99.

Aw ACT TO AMEND THE TOWN AND COUNTRY PLANNING
OrpbInance, No. 13 oF 1946

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Town and Country
Planning (Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 2000.

2. The Town and Country Planning Ordinance, No. 13
of 1946, (hereinafter referred to as “the principal enactment’)
is hereby amended by the substitution for the long title thereof
of the following :—

“An Ordinance to authorize the formulation and
implementation of a national physical planning policy; the
making and implementation of a national physical plan
with the object of promoting and regulating integrated
planning of economic, social, physical and environmental
aspects of tand in Sri Lanka; to provide for the protection
of natural amenities, the conservation of natura!
environment, buildings of architectural and historic interest
and places of natural beauty; to facilitate the acquisition
of land for the purpose of giving effect to such plan and to
provide for matters incidental to or connected with the
matters aforesaid.”.

3. Sections 2, 3 and 4 of the principal enactment are
hereby repealed and the following new sections substituted
therefor :—

“Scope of 2. A national physical plan may be prepared
national under this Ordinance in conformity with the
physical

national physical planning policy, with respect
to land, whether there are or are not buildings
thereon, with the general object of promoting and
regulating the development of the land, of

plan.

2—H 008061—5,550 (2000/07)

Short title.

Replacement of
long title to
Ordinance No. [3
of 1946.

Replacement of
sections 2, 3 and 4
of the principal
enactment.


2 Town and Country Planning (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 2000

securing proper infrastructure, amenities and
conveniences, of conserving the natural and built
environment of architectural, historic of aesthetic
interest and of natural beauty.

Constitution of 3. (1) There shall be established a National
the National Physical Planning Council (hereinafter referred
physical Planning “ “ye . oe
Council . to as “the Council”) consisting of —
(a) the Head of the Government, who shall be
the Chairman ;

(b) the Minister in charge of the subject of
National Physical Planning, who shall be the
Vice Chairman ;

(c) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Economic Planning ;

(d) the Minister in charge of the subject of
; Finance ;

(e) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Land ;

(f) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Agriculture ;

(g) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Industry ;

(h) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Housing ;

(i) the Minister in charge of the subject of Urban
Development ;

(the Minister in charge of the subject of
Transport ;

(k) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Highways ;

(!) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Ports ;

(m) the Minister in charge of the subject of Civil
Aviation ;

(n) the Minister in charge of the subject of Coast
Conservation ;


Town and Country Planning (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 49 of 2000

(0) the Minister in charge of the subject of the
Environment ;

(p) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Forestry ;

(q) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Tourism ;

(r) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Irrigation ;

(s) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Power ;

(ft) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Culture ;

(u) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Provincial Councils ;

(v) the Minister in charge of the subject of Plan
Implementation ;

(w) the Minister in charge of the subject of
Health.

(x) Chief Ministers of all Provinces.

(2) The Chairman may, if the Chairman is
satisfied that the proposed national physical plan
or other matter which is being or is about to be
considered by the Council affects or is likely to
affect the interest of any Ministry which is not
represented in the Council, request the Minister
in charge of that Ministry to be present and to
vote at meetings of the Council at which such
national physical plan or matter is considered, and
any Minister so requested, shall, whenever such
national physical plan or matter is considered at
a meeting of the Council, be deemed to be a
member of the.Council.


Powers and
functions of the
Council.

Town and Country Planning (Amendment)

Act, No. 49 of 2000

(3) The Chairman, shall preside at all meetings
of the Council. In the absence of the Chairman
from any meeting of the Council, the Vice
Chairman shall preside at such meeting.

(4) The Minister in charge of the subject of
Physical Planning shall, in consultation with the
Chairman, be the convener of meetings of the
Council.

(5) The Secretary of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of National
Physical Planning shall be the Secretary of the
Council.

(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of this
section the Council may regulate the procedure
in regard to the meetings of the Council and the
transaction of business at such meetings.

4. The Council shall have power —

(a) to consider and approve, with or without
modification, the national physical planning
policy and the draft national physical plan
submitted by the Inter-Ministerial Co-
ordinating Committee ;

. (b) to direct the Inter Ministerial Co-ordinating

Committee to re-submit the national
physical planning policy or any draft
national physical plan modified or amended
as instructed by the Council ;

(c) to consider any draft regional physical plan
as may be submitted to it by the Inter-
Ministerial Co-ordinating Committee as to
its conformity with the national physical
plan or national physical planning policy and
approve such plan ;


Town and Country Planning (Amendment) 5

(d)

(e)

Act, No. 49 of 2000

to refer back to the Inter-Ministerial Co-
ordinating Committee any such draft
regional physical plan with directions that
it be resubmitted with amendment or
modification, as may be specified,
effected ;

to require the National Physical Planning
Department to ensure funds, from its annual
budget for the implementation of the plan
approved by the Council ;

to give the Inter-Ministerial Co-ordinating
Committee such directions including a
time-frame for the implementation of the
plan as may reasonably be necessary to
ensure the achievement of the objectives of
the Ordinance.”.

4. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 4 and shall have effect as sections
4a and 48 respectively of the principal enactment :-—

“Constitution
of an Inter-
Ministerial
Co-
ordinating
Committee
on National
Physical
Planning.

4a. (1) There shall be established an inter-

Ministerial Co-ordinating Committee on National
Physical Planning (hereinafter referred to as “Co-
ordinating Committee”)’

(2) The Co-ordinating Committee shall

consist of the following members who shall be
appointed by the Minister, appointed under
Article 44 of the Constitution to be in charge of
the subject of Physical Planning :-—

(a) The Secretaries of the Ministries of the

Ministers appointed under Article 44 of the
Constitution in charge respectively of the
subjects of —

(i) Physical Planning ;

(ii) Economic Planning ;

Insertion of new
sections 44, and
4p inthe
principal
enactment.


Town and Country Planning (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 2000

(iii) Finance ;
(iv) Land;
(v) Agriculture
(vi) Industry ;
(vii) Housing ;
(viii) Transport ;
(ix) Highways ;
{x) Ports ;
(xi) Civil Aviation ;
(xii) Coast Conservation ;
(xiii) Environment ;
(xiv) Forestry
(xv) Tourism ;
(xvi) Irrigation ;
(xvil) Power ;
(xviii) Home Affairs ;
(xix) Provincial Councils ;
(xx) Plan Implementation ;
(xxi) Culture ;
(xxii) Fisheries ;
(xxiii) Mahaweli Development ;
(xxiv) Plantation ;
(xxv) Construction.

(b) the Chief Secretaires of all Provinces ;

(c) the Director-General, National Physical
Planning ;

(d) the Director-General of National Planning ;

(e) the Director-General of Urban Development
Authority appointed under the Urban
Development Authority Law No. 41 of
1978 ; and


tw

Town and Country Planning (Amendment) 7

Act, No. 49 of 2000

(f) the Director-General of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka appointed under the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law
No. 4 of 1978.

(3) The Secretary of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of National
Physical Planning shall be the Chairman of the
Co-ordinating Committee.

(4) The Chairman of the Co-ordinating
Committee may if he is satisfied that the proposed
national physical plan or other matter which is
being or is about to be considered by the Co-
ordinating Committee affects or is likely to affect
the interest of any Ministry which is not
represented in the Co-ordinating Committee,
request the Secretary to that Ministry to be present
and vote at mectings of the Co-ordinating
Committee at which such national physical plan
or matter is considered, and any Secretary so
requested shall, whenever such national physical
plan or matter is considered at a meeting of the
Co-ordinating Committee be deemed to be a
member of the Committee.

(5) The Chairman or in his absence, a member
elected by the members present, shall preside at
meetings of the Co-ordinating Committee.

(6) All questions for decisions at meetings of
the Co-ordinating Committee shall be decided by
the vote of a majority of the members present. In
the case of an equality of votes, the member
presiding shall have a casting vote.

(7) The quorum for any meeting of the Co-
ordinating Committee shall be ten members and
subject to the provisions of this‘section, the Co-
ordinating Committee may regulate its own
procedure.


Reference to
Central Planning
Commission is
construed to be a
reference to the
Co-ordinating
Committee.

8g Town and Country Planning (Amendment)

Powers and
duties of
the Co-
ordinating
Committee.

Act, No. 49 of 2000

4s. It shall be the duty of the Co-ordinating

Committee —

(a)

(6)

(c)

(d)

(e)

f)

to cause a draft policy on national physical
planning and a draft national physical plan
to be prepared by the Director-General,
National Physical Planning ;

to cause any approved policy on national
physical planning and any approved national
physical plan to be reviewed, revised and
updated from time to time as may be
necessary ;

to examine any draft or revised policy on
national physical planning or any draft or
revised national physical plan submitted to
it, to cause any amendment or modification
which the Co-ordinating Committee
considered necessary to be made thereto and
to make recommendations thereon to the
Council ;

to examine any draft or revised regional
physical plan submitted to it and make
recommendations thereon to the Council ;

to advise the Council with regard to the
declaration of any strategic development
area in a regional physical plan and of the
formulation of a development plan for such
area ;

to implement any directions received from
the Council.”.

5. Every reference to the “Central Planning Commission”

in the principal enactment shall be read and construed as a
reference to the Co-ordinating Committee established under
section 4a.


Town and Country Planning (Amendment) 9
Act, No. 49 of 2000

6. Wherever the words “Director, Town and Country
Planning” or “Director”, denoting the Director, Town and
Country Planning appear in the principal enactment there shalt
be substituted therefor the words “Director-General, National
Physical Planning” and “Director-General” respectively.

7, The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 5, and shal} have effect as section
5a. 58. 5c, 5p and Se respectively of the principal
enactment :—

“Duties and Sa. The duties and functions of the Director-

functions of Gencral of the Nnational Physical Planning shall
the Director- be —

General of

National (a) to formulate a national physical planning
Physical olic .

Planning. policy 5

(b) to prepare a national physical plan ;

{c) to prepare physical planning guide lines to
be adopted by the regional or local physical
planning authorities ;

(d) to prepare any regional or local plan where
the regional or local planning authority fails
in, or requests, the preparation of such
plan ;

(e) to assist Provincial Councils in the
preparation and development of regional
physical plans ;

(f} to make recommendations to the Co-
ordinating Committee on plans in
accordance with the national physical
planning policy, for submission to the
Council ;

(g} to review and examine, periodically the
national physical planning policy, the
national physical plan and the national

‘physical planning strategy in operation and

General
amendment to the
principal
enactment.

Insertion of new
sections 5A, 5p 5c,
Sp and 55 in the
principal
enactment.


10 Town and Country Planning (Amendment)

Powers of

(A)

(i)

Act, No. 49 of 2000

where necessary, to recommend to the Co-
ordinating Committee, change in such
policy, plan and strategies ;

to monitor the implementation of the
national physical plan sanctioned by the
Council ; and

to assist the Council and the Co-ordinating
Committee in all activities including
performing functions of a secretariat which
it may be called upon to do by the Council
and the Co-ordinating Committee.

Ss. (1) The Director-General of the National

the Director. Physical Planning shall have the power to do all
such acts as may be necessary for the discharge
of all or any of his functions under the Ordinance.

General of
the National
Physical
Planning.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the
powers conferred on him by subsection (1), he
shall have power—

(a)

(d)

{c)

to carry oul such surveys, investigations,
studies and research as may be necessary for
the discharge of his functions relating to the
national physical planning and national
physical plans ;

to conduct hearing with a view to
ascertaining the opinions of experts,
professionals or the general public on
matters relating to national physical plan ;

to establish and maintain liasion with
international institutions and organisations
outside Sri Lanka discharging functions
similar to those discharged by the National
Physical Planning Department;


Town and Country Planning (Amendment) il

Technical
Advisory
Committee.

(4)

(e)

(g)

(A)

Act, No. 49 of 2000

to establish and maintain an information
data bank of national physical plan and
regional physical plans ;

to engage consultants and take such steps
as may be necessary to advance the skills
of his officers with the view to developing a
pool of expertise in all aspects of national
and regional physical planning ;

to call for and obtain such information as
the national physical planning would
require including statistics and data from
Ministries, Government Departments,
Public Corporations Statutory Boards,
Provincial Councils, Local Authorities and
private sector establishments ;

to ensure through the Ministry of the
Minister, funding, either from the local or
foreign sources to bridge any shortfall in
the budget allocation for the implementation
of the plan ; and

to adopt all measure which in the opinion
of the Director-General are considered
necessary for, conducive or incidental to, the
discharge, exercise and performance, of the
functions, powers and duties related to the
national physical planning,

Sc. There shall be established a Technical

Advisory Committee (hereinaficr referred to as
the “the Advisory Committee”) consisting of the
following members :-—

(a)

@ representative of the Institute of Town
Planners of Sri Lanka established under the
Institute of Town Planners, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1986 ;


12

Town and Country Planning (Amendment)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(g)

(h)

()

()

(k)

Act, No. 49 of 2000

a representative of the Sri Lanka Institute of
Architects established under the Sri Lanka
Institute of Architects Law, No. 1 of 1976;

arepresentative of the Institute of Engineers,
Ceylon established under the Institute of
Engineers, Ceylon, Act, No. 17 of 1968 ;

a representative of the Surveyors Institute
of Sri Lanka established under the Surveyors
Institute of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act,
No. 22 of 1982;

a representative from the Road Development
Authority to be nominated by the Minister
in charge of the subject of Transport ;

a representative from the Land Use Policy
Planning Division of the Ministry of Lands
to be nominated by the Minister in charge
of the subject of Lands ;

a representative from the Ceylon Electricity
Board to be nominated by the Minister in
charge of the subject of Power ;

a representative from the Ministry of Finance
to be nominated by the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance ;

a representative from the Ministry of
Planning to be nominated by the Minister in
charge of the subject of Planning :

one member from among persons who have
had experience and qualifications in the field
of physical planning ;

one member from among persons who have
had experience and qualifications in the field
of water resources.


Town and Country Planning (Amendment) 13

Functions of
the Advisory
Committee.

Term of
office of
the
members of
the
Advisory
Committee.

Act, No. 49 of 2000

Sp. The functions of the Advisory
Committee shall be to—

(a) advise the Director-General of the National
Physical Planning in the formulation of
national physical planning policy and on the
preparation of the national physical plan ;

(6) advise the Director-General on the national
physical planning strategy ; and

(c) advise the Director-General on any other
matter relating to national and regional
physical planning that may be referred to
the Advisory Committee by the Director-
General.

Se. (1) Every member of the Advisory
Committee shall be appointed by the Minister and
shall, unless he earlier vacates office by death,
resignation or removal, hold office for a period
of three years from the date of appointment and
shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(2) The Minister may, if he considers it
expedient to do so, by Order published in the
Gazette, remove from office any member of the
Advisory Committee for reason assigned therefor.

(3) A member of the Advisory Committee may
at any time resign from his office by letter to that
effect addressed to the Minister.

(4) If any member of the Advisory Committee
dies, resigns or is removed from office, the
Minister may appoint any other person to be a
member in place of the member who dies, resigns
or is removed from office.


14

Town and Country Planning (Amendment)

Act, No. 49 of 2000

(5) A member who has been appointed under
subsection (4) shall, unless he earlier vacates his
office by death, resignation or removal, hold office
for the unexpired period of the term of office of
his predecessor.

(6) The Advisory Committee may discharge
its functions notwithstanding any vacancy among
its members.

(7) Three members of the Advisory
Committee shall constitute a quorum for any
meeting of the Advisory Committee.

(8) Subject to the provisions of this Ordinance
the Committee may regulate the procedure in
regard to its meeting and the transaction of
business at the meeting.

(9) The members of the Advisory Committee
may be paid such remuneration as may be
determined by the Minister in consultation with
the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.”.

8. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended—

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (a), (5), (c), (d), (e) and

(f) of subsection (1) of that section and the
substitution of the following paragraphs
therefor :—

“(a) the Chief Secretary of the Provincial
Council, who shall be the Chairman ;

(b) arepresentative from each local authority
in the province recommended by the locat
authority ;

(c) the District Secretaries of the Province ;


Town and Country Planning (Amendment) 15
Act, No, 49 of 2000
(d) a representative of the Urban
Development Authority ;

(e) an officer not below the rank of Assistant
Superintendent of Surveys of the Survey
Department ;

(f) a representative of Road Development
Authority ; and

(g) not more than three persons nominated
by the Minister from among the persons
who have distinguished themselves in the
field of economics or physical planning,
administration, environment or any other
field related to physical planning”,

(2) by the repeal of subsections (3) and (4) of that section.

9. The principal enactment is hereby amended by the
substitution—

(1) for the expression “regional planning scheme” or
“regional scheme” wherever it occurs, of the
expression “regional physical plan” ;

(2) for the expression “outline planning scheme” or
“outline scheme” wherever it occurs, of the
expression “outline physical plan” ;

(3) for the expression “detail planning scheme” or “detail
scheme”, of the expression “detail plan” ; and

(4) for the expression “planning scheme” or “scheme” of
the word “plan”.

10. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the addition at the end of subsection (1) of that
section of the following :—

“in conformity with the national physical planning policy.”.

Replacement of
regional planning
scheme, planning
scheme, Outline
Planning Scheme,
detail planning
scheme &c.

Amendment of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment.


Amendment of
section 24 of the
principal
enactment.

Reference to the
Minister in
sections 28 and
30 of the principal
enactment to
include a
reference to the
Council.

Amendment of
the section 38 of
the principal
enactment.

16 Town and Country Planning (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 2000

11. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended—

(1) in subsection (1) thereof by the repeal of ali the words
from “in accordance with the Order” to the end of that
subsection and the substitution therefor of the
following :—

“to invite, before it prepares a draft plan for that area
or land, the general public to participate in its
deliberations and formulation of such plan in such
manner as the planning authority may consider
appropriate and to prepare such plan in accordance with
the Order and on or before such date as may be specified
therein :”,

(2) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution for
the words “has failed or refused to” of the words “has
failed to invite the participation of the general public
or has failed or refused to”.

(3) by the addition, by the end of that section, of the
following new subsection :—

“(3) the planning authority shall, in preparing any
plan for any development area, have regard to the
national physical planning policy.”.

12. Every reference to the “Minister” in sections 28 and
30 of the principal enactment shall, insofar as it relates to a
regional physical plan, be read and construed as a reference
to the Council.

13. Section 38 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “Subject to the
provisions”, of the words “Subject to the national physical
planning policy and the provisions.”.


Town and Country Planning (Amendment) 17
Act, No. 49 of 2000

14. Section 46 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “The Minister shall
make”, of the words “Subject to the national physical planning
policy the Minister shall make.”.

15. The following new section is hereby instered
immediately after section 87 of the principal enactment—

“This Act to 88. The provisions of this Act shal] have effect

prevail over notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any

other laws. other law and accordingly in the event of any
conflict or inconsistency between the provisions
of this Act and such other law, the provisions of
this Act shall prevail over such other law.”.

16. The Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of
1978 (in this section referred to as the “Law”) is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in section 8,—

(i) by the substitution for the words, “within any
development area shall be—”, of the words
“within any development area shall, subject to
any guidelines formulated in that behalf by the
National Physical Planning Department, be—” ;
and

(ii) by the substitution for paragraph (p) of the
following new paragraph :—

“(p) to co-ordinate, regulate or control any
development scheme or project or any
development activity of any person in such
areas ;”.

(2) In subsection (1) of 8J by the substitution for the words,
“Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, no
Government agency or any other person shall”, of the words,
“No person shall.”.

Amendment of
the section 46 of
the principal
enactment,

Insertion of new
section 88 in the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of the
Urban
Development '
Authority Law,
No. 41 of 1978.


Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
any
inconsistency.

18 Town and Country Planning (Amendment)
Act, No. 49 of 2000

(3) In section 28c—

(i) by the substitution for the words, “Where an
offence under this Law is committed—

(a) by a body of persons, then—”,

of the words, “where an offence under this Law is committed
by a body of persons, then—” ;

(ii) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (iv) for the
words, “officer ; or”, of the words, “officer,” ; and

(iii) by the repeal of paragraph (8) of that section.

17. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail,


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SuPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PusLicaTions Bureau, No. 32, TRaNsworks House,
Lotus Roap, Cotomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.

need _

De ame wer 2 ee
