PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 96.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 02, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 01st of February, 2024]

ONLINE SAFETY ACT, No. 9 OF 2024

1Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

L.D.-O. 34/2021

AN ACT TO ESTABLISH THE ONLINE SAFETY COMMISSION; TO PROVIDE

SAFETY FROM PROHIBITED STATEMENTS MADE ONLINE; TO PREVENT

THE USE OF ONLINE ACCOUNTS AND INAUTHENTIC ONLINE ACCOUNTS

FOR PROHIBITED PURPOSES; TO MAKE PROVISIONS TO IDENTIFY AND

DECLARE ONLINE LOCATIONS USED FOR PROHIBITED PURPOSES IN SRILANKA; TO SUPPRESS THE FINANCING AND OTHER SUPPORT OF

COMMUNICATION OF PROHIBITED STATEMENTS AND FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Online Safety Act,No. 9 of 2024.

2. The provisions of this Act shall apply where

(a)a person commits an offence under this Act inrespect of a citizen of Sri Lanka, while being presentin Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka;

(b)a loss, damage or harm is caused within or outsideSri Lanka by the commission of an offence underthis Act, to the State or to a person resident inSri Lanka; or

(c)an offence under this Act, wherever committed, iscommitted by a person who is a citizen of Sri Lanka.

3. The objectives of this Act shall be-

(a)to protect persons against harm caused bycommunication of prohibited statements, by wayof an online account or through an online location;

Short title

Application ofthe Act

Objectives of theAct

[Certified on 01st of February, 2024]

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 20242

(b)to ensure protection from communication ofstatements in contempt of court or prejudicial tothe maintenance of the authority and impartialityof the judiciary, by way of an online account orthrough an online location;

(c)to introduce measures to detect, prevent andsafeguard against the misuses of online accountsand bots to commit offences under this Act; and

(d)to prevent the financing, promotion and othersupport of online locations which repeatedlycommunicate prohibited statements in Sri Lanka,by way of online account or through an onlinelocation.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ONLINE SAFETY COMMISSION

4. (1) There shall be established a Commission, whichshall be called the Online Safety Commission (hereinafterreferred to as the Commission).

(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal, and may sue and be sued in such name.

(3) The Commission shall exercise and perform the powersand functions assigned to it under this Act for the purpose ofachieving the objectives of this Act.

5. (1) The Commission shall consist of five membersappointed by the President, subject to the approval of theConstitutional Council, from among the persons having

Establishment ofthe OnlineSafetyCommission

Appointment ofthe members ofthe Commission

3Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

qualifications and experience in one or more of the fields ofinformation technology, law, governance, social services,journalism, science and technology or management.

(2) Subject to the provisions of section 6, the Presidentshall recommend the names of five persons to be appointedas members of the Commission under subsection (1), to theConstitutional Council for approval.

(3) The President shall, within a period of fourteen daysof receiving the approval of the Constitutional Council,appoint the persons approved by the Constitutional Councilunder subsection (2) as members of the Commission.

(4) Where the Constitutional Council refuses to approvethe name of a person referred to in subsection (2), thePresident shall make a fresh nomination, and the provisionsof subsections (1), (2), and (3) shall apply to such nominationaccordingly.

(5) In the event of the President failing to make thenecessary appointments within the period of fourteen daysas specified in subsection (3), the persons approved by theConstitutional Council shall be deemed to have beenappointed as the members of the Commission, with effctfrom the date of the expiry of such period.

6. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Commission, if such person-

(a)is elected or appointed as a Member of Parliament,a Member of a Provincial Council or a Member of alocal authority;

Disqualificationfor beingappointed as amember

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 20244

(b)is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)directly or indirectly holds or enjoys an entitlementor benefit under an agreement entered by or onbehalf of the Commission;

(d)has any financial or other interest that may adverselyimpact the implementation of the functions as amember of the Commission;

(e)absents himself from attending three consecutivemeetings of the Commission, without a valid reason;

(f)has been discovered or declared as a person ofunsound mind under any law effective in Sri Lankaor in any other country;

(g)a person who, having been declared an insolvent ora bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or in anyother country, is an undischarged insolvent orbankrupt; or

(h)has been sentenced or received an order for a termof imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lankaor in any other country.

7. (1) A member of the Commission may resign from officeby letter in that behalf addressed to the President, and suchresignation shall take effect from the date on which theresignation is accepted in writing by the President.

(2) A member of the Commission may be removed fromhis office by the President, subject to the approval of theConstitutional Council following a hearing of the relevantmember where such person

Resignation,removal andterm of office ofmembers of theCommission

5Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(a)is unable to exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, duties and functions of such office becauseof an infirmity of body or mind that has lasted formore than a period of three months;

(b)has failed to exercise, perform and discharge thepowers, duties and functions of such office for acosecutive period of more than three months withoutthe approval of the Commission; or

(c)is disqualified in terms of the provisions ofsection 6.

(3) Any hearing under subsection (2) shall be concludedwithin three months from the date of commencement of suchhearing.

(4) Upon the receipt of the approval of the ConstitutionalCouncil, the President shall, in writing, remove such memberof the Commission, and shall state in the letter of removal-

(a)the date on which the removal shall take effectwhich shall not be a date earlier than the date onwhich the letter of removal is received; and

(b)the reasons for the removal.

(5) Any member of the Commission may be suspendedfrom the office by the President prior to the commencementof the hearing or during the course of the hearing undersubsection (2).

(6) The term of office of a member of the Commissionshall be three years from the date of appointment.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 20246

(7) Where a member of the Commission vacates officeby death, resignation or other cause, the President shallappoint, having regard to the provisions of sections 5 and 6,another eligible person in such members place, and theperson so appointed shall hold office for the unexpired periodof the term of office of the member whom such personsucceeds.

(8) A member of the Commission whose term of office isdue to end otherwise than by removal, shall be eligible forreappointment for not more than one further term of office,whether consecutive or otherwise.

(9) Members of the Commission shall be paid suchremuneration as may be determined by a resolution ofParliament and such remuneration shall be charged to theFund of the Commission.

8. (1) The President shall appoint one of the members ofthe Commission to be the Chairman of the Commission(hereinafter referred to as the Chairman).

(2) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairmanby letter in that behalf addressed to the President and theresignation shall take effect from the date on which it isaccepted, in writing, by the President.

(3) The Chairman shall cease to be the Chairman, ifdisqualified to be a member of the Commission in terms ofsection 6.

(4) The term of office of the Chairman shall be three years.

(5) The Chairman shall not, on vacation of the office ofChairman, be eligible for reappointment as Chairman.

Chairman of theCommission

7Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(6) Without prejudice to the provisions of this section,the Chairman shall, within one month of being appointed asthe Chairman, nominate a member in writing, to be theDeputy Chairman to discharge the functions of the Chairmanduring his absence from office due to illness or any othercause.

9. (1) The Chairman shall summon all meetings of theCommission. Any member of the Commission may, bywritten notice, request the Chairman to call a meeting of theCommission and the Chairman shall not otherwise than forgood reason, refuse to do so.

(2) The Commission may decide any matter, which isdetermined by the Chairman to be urgent with the agreementof the majority of the members.

(3) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of theCommission and in the absence of the Chairman at anymeeting, the Deputy Chairman shall preside at such meeting.

(4) The quorum for a meeting of the Commission shall bethree members including the Chairman. In the absence ofthe Chairman, the quorum shall be three members includingthe Deputy Chairman.

(5) All matters for decision by the Commission shall bedecided by a majority of the votes of the members of theCommission present and voting at the meeting at which thedecision is taken. The decision so supported by the votes ofa majority of the members of the Commission on any mattershall be deemed to be the decision of the Commission onthat matter.

Meetings of theCommission

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 20248

(6) All decisions of the Commission, supported byreasons, shall be in writing and the seal of the Commissionaffixed thereto in accordance with paragraph (c) ofsection 10.

(7) In case there is an equality of votes on any matter tobe decided by the Commission, the Chairman shall have acasting vote.

(8) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Commission may regulate the procedure in regard to themeetings of the Commission and the transaction of businessat such meetings.

(9) No act, decision or proceeding of the Commissionshall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existenceof any vacancy in its membership or defect in theappointment of any member thereof.

10. The Seal of the Commission-

(a)shall be determined by the Commission and maybe altered in such manner as may be determined bythe Commission;

(b)shall be in the custody of such person as theCommission may determine from time to time; and

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument or documentexcept with the sanction of the Commission and in

the presence of two members of the Commission

who shall sign the instrument or document in token

of their presence.

Seal of theCommission

9Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

PART II

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION

11. The Commission shall have the following powersand functions: -

(a)to issue directives to persons, internet serviceproviders or internet intermediaries, who havepublished or communicated or whose service hasbeen used to communicate any prohibitedstatement, requiring them to provide to persons whohave been adversely affected by any prohibitedstatement, an opportunity of responding to suchprohibited statement;

(b)to issue notices to persons who communicateprohibited statements, to stop the communicationof such statements;

(c)to issue notices to any internet service provider orinternet intermediary to disable access to an onlinelocation which contains a prohibited statement bythe end users in Sri Lanka or to remove suchprohibited statement from such online location;

(d)to refer to the appropriate court as provided for inparagraph (3) of Article 105 of the Constitution orany other relevant written law for its considerationany communications that may be in contempt ofcourt or prejudicial to the maintenance of theauthority and impartiality of the judiciary, and toprovide such assistance as may be required fromany court in respect of any matter so referred tosuch court;

Powers andfunctions of theCommission

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202410

(e)to make recommendations to internet serviceproviders and internet intermediaries to removeprohibited statements;

(f)to maintain an online portal containing informationto enlighten the public of the falsity of anystatement;

(g)to specify declared online locations in terms of theprovisions of this Act, and make recommendationsto disable access to the information disseminatedthrough such online location;

(h)to carry out such investigations as may be necessaryto exercise and perform the powers and functionsof the Commission;

(i)to issue codes of practice by way of rules for internetservice providers and internet intermediaries whoprovide internet based communication services tothe end users in Sri Lanka;

(j)to register, in such manner as may be specifiedby rules made under this Act, the websitesproviding social media platforms to the end usersin Sri Lanka;

(k)to consult, to the extent the Commission considersappropriate, any person or group of persons who orwhich may be affected, or likely to be affected, inthe discharge of its powers and functions;

(l)to advise the Government, as the Commissiondeems appropriate, on all matters concerning onlinesafety in Sri Lanka, within the purview of thisAct;

11Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(m)to acquire and hold property movable andimmovable, and to sell, lease, mortgage, exchange,or otherwise dispose of the same;

(n)to enter into such contracts as may be necessary forthe exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions;

(o)to obtain the assistance of the police in the conductof any investigation undertaken by theCommission;

(p)to appoint, employ and dismiss members of the staffof the Commission and to exercise disciplinarycontrol over such staff; and

(q)generally, to do all such other acts and things as areincidental to or consequential in the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions under this Act.

PART III

PROHIBITION OF ONLINE COMMUNICATION OF FALSE

STATEMENTS

12. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka, whoposes a threat to national security, public health or publicorder or promotes feelings of ill-will and hostility betweendifferent classes of people, by communicating a falsestatement, commits an offence and shall on conviction beliable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years orto a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or toboth such imprisonment and fine.

Prohibition ofcommunicationof falsestatements in SriLanka

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202412

13. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka whocommunicates a false statement by way of an online accountor through an online location which amounts to contemptof court, in the opinion of any court which exercises thespecial jurisdiction to punish the offence of contempt ofcourt, in terms of paragraph (3) of Article 105 of theConstitution or any other relevant written law, commits anoffence and the provisions of that Article and relevant writtenlaw shall, mutatis mutandis, apply in sentencing such person.

14. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka whomaliciously or wantonly, by way of an online account orthrough an online location, by communicating a falsestatement, gives provocation to any person or incites anyperson intending or knowing it to be likely that suchprovocation or incitement, will cause the offence of riotingto be committed, shall-

(a)if the offence of rioting be committed inconsequence of such provocation, be liable toimprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding five years, or to a fine not exceedingfive hundred thousand rupees or to both suchimprisonment and fine; and

(b) if the offence of rioting be not committed, be liableto imprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding three years, or to a fine not exceedingthree hundred thousand rupees, or to both suchimprisonment and fine.

15. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka who bycommunicating a false statement, voluntarily causesdisturbance to any assembly lawfully engaged in theperformance of religious worship or religious ceremonies,

Wantonly givingprovocation byfalse statementto cause riot

Disturbing areligiousassembly by afalse statement

Communicationof falsestatementamounting tocontempt

13Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingthree years, or to a fine not exceeding three hundredthousand rupees, or to both such imprisonment and fine.

16. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka whowith the deliberate and malicious intention of outragingthe religious feelings of any class of persons by way of anonline account or through an online location by words, eitherspoken or written, or by visible representations, insults orattempts to insult the religion or the religious beliefs of thatclass by communicating a false statement, commits anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonmentof either description for a term not exceeding three years, orto a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand rupees or toboth such imprisonment and fine.

17. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka whodeceives any person by communicating a false statement,by way of an online account or through an online location-

(a)fraudulently or dishonestly induces the person sodeceived to deliver any property to any person, orto consent that any person shall retain any property;or

(b)intentionally induces the person so deceived to door omit to do anything which he would not do oromit, if he was not so deceived, and which act oromission causes or is likely to cause harm to thatperson in body, mind, reputation, or property, ordamage or loss to the Government,

commits the offence of online cheating and shall onconviction be liable to imprisonment for a term which mayextend to seven years or to a fine not exceeding sevenhundred thousand rupees, or to both such imprisonment andfine.

Deliberate andmaliciouscommunication offalse statement tooutrage religiousfeelings

Online cheating

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202414

18. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka who, bymeans of an online account, cheats by -

(a)pretending to be some other person;

(b)knowingly substituting one person for another; or

(c)representing that such person or any other person isa person other than the person really is,

commits the offence of online cheating by personationand shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term which may extend to three years or toa fine not exceeding three hundred thousand rupees, or toboth such imprisonment and fine.

19. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka whocommunicates any false statement, with intent to cause anyofficer, sailor, soldier, or airman in the navy, army or airforce of Sri Lanka to mutiny, or with intent to cause fear oralarm to the public, induces any other person to commit anoffence against the State or against the public tranquillity,commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingseven years, or to a fine not exceeding seven hundredthousand rupees, or to both such imprisonment and fine.

20. (1) Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka whowilfully makes or communicates a statement, with intentionto cause harassment to another person (in this section referredto as the target person), by publishing any privateinformation of the target person or a related person of thetarget person, and as a result causes the target person or anyother person harassment, commits an offence and shall onconviction be liable to imprisonment for a term notexceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding five hundred

Online cheatingby personation

Circulating falsereport withintent to causemutiny or anoffence againstthe State, & c.

Communicatingstatements tocause harassment& c.

15Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

thousand rupees and in the event of a second or subsequentconviction, such term of imprisonment or fine or both suchimprisonment and fine may be doubled.

(2) For the purpose of this section-

(a)private information means personal information,including any image, audio or video details, thatany person may reasonably expect to remain private,but does not include any information that may beevidence of the commission of any other offence;and

(b)harassment means an act or behaviour which hasthe effect of threatening, alarming or distressing aperson or violating a persons dignity or creatingan intimidating, degrading, hostile, humiliating oroffensive environment or, which has all such effects.

Illustrations-

(a) X and Y were formerly in a relationship which has since ended.

X writes a post on a social media platform including Ys

photographs and personal mobile number, intending to cause

harassment to Y by facilitating the identification or enabling

others to contact Y. Y did not see the post, but receives and is

harassed by telephone calls and short messages via short message

service from strangers (who have read the post) propositioning

Y for sex. X is guilty of an offence under this section in relation

to such post.

(b) X and Y were formerly in a relationship which has since ended.

X posts a photograph of Y in the possession of X which Y could

reasonably have expected to remain private. X is guilty of an

offence under this section in relation to such post.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202416

21. (1) Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka, who,by way of an online account or through an online locationcommits or aids and abets an act upon a child, whichconstitutes an offence within the meaning of section 286A,288, 288A, 288B, 308A, 360A, 360B, 360C, 363, 364A, 365,365A or 365B of the Penal Code commits an offence andshall on conviction be liable to the punishment for eachsuch offence as specified in the Schedule hereto:

Provided however, in the case of aiding and abetting tocommit an offence under section 363 of the Penal Code inrespect of a child, every reference to a woman in subsection(2) of section 364 of the Penal Code shall be read andconstrued as a reference to a child for the purpose of thissection.

(2) Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka, who, byway of an online account or through an online location,publishes any photograph, audio or video of abusive orpornographic nature relating to a child, commits an offenceand shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for a termnot less than two years and not exceeding twenty years or toa fine not exceeding one million rupees, or to both suchimprisonment and fine.

(3) Where any person is convicted for an offence undersubsection (1), such person shall, in addition to the penaltyspecified therein, be liable to pay such compensation asmay be ordered by court, to the child or group of children inrespect of whom such offence was committed.

22. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka, whomakes or alters a bot with the intention of communicating orenabling any other person to communicate, by means of a

Child abuse & c.

Making oraltering bots tocommit anoffence

17Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

bot, a statement which constitutes an offence under this Act,commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable toimprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a finenot exceeding five hundred thousand rupees, or to both suchimprisonment and fine.

PART IV

MEASURES AGAINST ONLINE COMMUNICATION OF PROHIBITED

STATEMENTS IN SRI LANKA

23. (1) A person aggrieved by the communication of aprohibited statement which is seen, heard or otherwiseperceived by the users of internet based communicationservices (in this Act referred to as the end users) inSri Lanka, by any other person, may either in writing or inelectronic form, make a complaint providing informationpertaining to such communication to the Commission.

(2) The Commission shall designate such number ofinformation officers from among the staff of the Commissionas the Commission may deem necessary, from time to time,to receive information in relation to communication of aprohibited statement for the purpose of subsection (1).

(3) (a) Every complaint shall set out all available detailsof the person or persons responsible for the making orcommunicating the prohibited statement, including, whereavailable, details pertaining to the Universal ResourceLocator (hereinafter referred to as the URL) or otheridentifying features of the location or number from whichthe prohibited statement was communicated or published,and such other details as may be prescribed.

(b) Where it is possible to do so, the complainant shallserve a copy of the complaint to the person or personsmaking or communicating the prohibited statement and anyinternet service provider or internet intermediary.

Providinginformation tothe Commissiononcommunicationof prohibitedstatement

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202418

(c) In the event, the information necessary to give suchnotice as aforesaid is not available, the complainant shallspecify the absence of such information in the complaint.

(4) A written acknowledgement of the receipt, includinga receipt in electronic form, of such information shall beimmediately issued by the information officer on behalf ofthe Commission.

(5) Where the Commission is of the opinion that sufficientmaterial exists that a prohibited statement has beencommunicated, the Commission shall carry outinvestigations through the officers of the Commission.During such investigations, an opportunity to be heard shallbe given to the person alleged to have communicated suchprohibited statement.

(6) (a) If the Commission is satisfied, that sufficientmaterial exists that a prohibited statement has beencommunicated, it may, taking into consideration theseriousness of the matter and the likelihood of damage orharm caused by such prohibited statement, issue notice tothe person who communicated such prohibited statement,to take measures to prevent the circulation of such prohibitedstatement.

(b) A person to whom a notice has been issued underparagraph (a) shall comply with such notice immediatelybut not later than twenty four hours from such notice.

(c) Notice referred to in paragraph (a), shall be deemedto be served, where it is served by personal service, sent bypost to the last known address of the person whocommunicated such prohibited statement, or served byelectronic means to such person, or served by such otherappropriate method adopted by the Commission dependingon the nature of the case.

19Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(d) Notice referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed tobe served by electronic means where such notice is sent tosuch persons email address or social media account, orinternet service provider or internet intermediary on whoseonline location such prohibited statement has beencommunicated.

(7) Where any person fails to comply with a notice issuedunder subsection (6) within twenty four hours of such notice,the Commission shall issue a notice to the internet serviceprovider or internet intermediary on whose online locationsuch prohibited statement has been communicated-

(a)to disable access by the end users in Sri Lanka tosuch prohibited statement; or

(b)to remove such prohibited statement from suchonline location,

as the case may be, for the period specified in such notice.

(8) The internet service provider or internet intermediaryto whom a notice has been issued under subsection (7) shallcomply with such notice within twenty four hours from theissuance of such notice.

(9) Where-

(a)a person fails to act in accordance with theprovisions of paragraph (b) of subsection (6); or

(b)an internet service provider or internet intermediaryfails to act in accordance with the provisions ofsubsection (8),

the Commission may apply to the Magistrates Court byway of petition and affidavit to obtain an order directingsuch person or internet service provider or internet

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202420

intermediary, as the case may be, to comply with suchprovisions and the provisions of section 24, shall mutatismutandis, apply in relation to such application.

24. (1) Any person affected by the communication of anyprohibited statement may apply to the Magistrates Courtby way of petition and affidavit to obtain an order to preventthe circulation of such information.

(2) Upon considering such application, the Magistratemay issue a conditional order to such person or the internetservice provider or internet intermediary on whose onlinelocation such prohibited statement has been communicated.

(3) The order made under subsection (2) may contain,inter alia-

(a)the name of the person who is required to stopcommunication of the prohibited statement withimmediate effect; and

(b)any other order as the Magistrate deems fit.

(4) (a) The order made under subsection (2) shall bedeemed to be served, where it is served by personal service,sent by post to the last known address of such person, orserved by electronic means to such person, or by such otherappropriate method ordered by the Magistrate dependingon the nature of the case.

(b) The order made under subsection (2) shall be deemedto be served by electronic means where such order is sent tosuch persons email address or social media account, orinternet service provider or internet intermediary on whoseonline location such prohibited statement has beencommunicated.

Applying for acourt order topreventcirculation ofprohibitedstatements

21Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(5) The person against whom a conditional order is madeunder subsection (2) shall either comply with such order orappear before the Magistrate as specified in subsection (6)to show cause as to why the order shall not be made absolute.

(6) Where the person against whom a conditional order ismade under subsection (2) intends to show cause, such personshall appear before the Magistrate making that order withina period of two weeks of making such order and move tohave the order set aside or modified in the manner hereinafterprovided.

(7) If the person against whom an order is made undersubsection (2) neither complies with the order nor appearsbefore the Magistrate under subsection (6), such person shallbe liable to the penalty specified in subsection (9) and theorder shall be made absolute.

(8) (a) Where such person appears before the Magistratein terms of subsection (6), to show cause by way of petitionand affidavit, the Magistrate shall hold an inquiry whichshall be concluded within two weeks of the date ofcommencement of the inquiry.

(b) The Magistrate may, having regard to the facts statedby the person against whom the conditional order is madeunder subsection (2), either move to have the order set asideor modified, if the Magistrate is satisfied that the order madeunder this section is not reasonable and proper, and make anappropriate order subject to the provisions of this Act.

(c) If the Magistrate is not so satisfied, the order madeunder subsection (2) shall be made absolute.

(d) Where the order under subsection (2) is modified underparagraph (b), such order shall be made absolute.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202422

(9) Where the person against whom any order is madeunder this section fails to comply with such order within theperiod and in the manner ordered by the Magistrate, suchperson commits an offence and shall on conviction be liableto imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to afine not exceeding two million rupees and the Magistratemay order the Commission to take steps to -

(a)disable access by end users in Sri Lanka to the onlinelocation containing such communication of theprohibited statement in Sri Lanka; or

(b)remove the relevant communication of theprohibited statement in Sri Lanka from the onlinelocation containing such communication.

25. (1) Where any person is aggrieved by thecommunication of a prohibited statement and theinformation necessary to serve a copy of the complaint undersubsection (3) of section 23 is not available, such personshall specify the absence of such information in the complaintmade under subsection (1) of section 23.

(2) In the event of the receipt of a complaint referred to insubsection (1), the Commission shall make an applicationto the Magistrates Court by way of petition and affidavitseeking a conditional order directing the internetintermediary on whose online location such prohibitedstatement was communicated, to disclose the informationregarding the identity of the person who communicated theprohibited statement.

(3) The Magistrate may upon being satisfied that

Disclosure ofidentityinformation

23Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(a)the statement was a prohibited statement;

(b)the order is sought for the sole purpose ofidentifying the person who communicated suchprohibited statement; and

(c)the order is a proportionate and necessary responsein all of the circumstances of the matter before theCourt, taking into consideration whether thepetitioners right to disclosure of the information isoutweighed by any countervailing right or interestof the person sought to be identified,

issue the order sought by the Commission.

(4) The order made under subsection (3) may contain,inter alia-

(a)the name of the internet intermediary which isrequired to disclose the information sought; and

(b)any other order as the Magistrate deems fit.

(5) (a) The order made under subsection (3) shall bedeemed to be served, where it is served by personal service,sent by post to the last known address of the internetintermediary, or served by electronic means to such internetintermediary, or by such other appropriate method orderedby the Magistrate depending on the nature of the case.

(b) The order made under subsection (3) shall be deemedto be served by electronic means where such order is sent tothe email address or social media account, of the internetintermediary on whose online location such prohibitedstatement has been communicated.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202424

(6) The internet intermediary against whom a conditionalorder is made under subsection (3) shall either comply withsuch order or appear before the Magistrate as specified insubsection (7) to show cause as to why the order shall not bemade absolute.

(7) Where the internet intermediary against whom aconditional order is made under subsection (3) intends toshow cause, it shall appear before the Magistrate makingthat order within a period of two weeks of making such orderand move to have the order set aside or modified in themanner hereinafter provided.

(8) If the internet intermediary against whom an order ismade under subsection (3) neither complies with the ordernor appears before the Magistrate under subsection (7), itshall be liable to the fine specified in subsection (10) andthe order shall be made absolute.

(9) (a) Where such internet intermediary appears beforethe court in terms of subsection (7) to show cause by way ofpetition and affidavit, the Magistrate shall hold an inquirywhich shall be concluded within two weeks of the date ofcommencement of the inquiry.

(b) The Magistrate may, having regard to the facts statedby the internet intermediary against whom the conditionalorder is made under subsection (3), either move to have theorder set aside or modified, if the Magistrate is satisfied thatthe order under this section is not reasonable and proper,make an appropriate order subject to the provisions of thisAct.

(c) If the Magistrate is not so satisfied, the order madeunder subsection (3) shall be made absolute.

25Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(d) Where the order under subsection (3) is modified

under paragraph (b), such order shall be made absolute.

(10) Where the internet intermediary against whom any

order is made under this section fails to comply with such

order within the period and in the manner ordered by the

Magistrate, such person shall be liable to a fine not

exceeding ten million rupees.

26. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by the

communication of a prohibited statement may, by way of a

civil action instituted in the District Court within the

jurisdiction of which such aggrieved person resides, apply

for an order directing the internet intermediary of the online

location on which such prohibited statement communicated

to disclose any information regarding the identity or the

location of the person who used such online location to

communicate such statement using the inauthentic online

account or bot.

(2) Upon the receipt of an application under subsection

(1), the court may, if-

(a)the prohibited statement was communicated by a

person whose identity cannot be traced by the

person who is aggrieved by such statement;

(b)the internet intermediary against whom the order is

sought was involved in the communication of such

statement whether innocently or not;

Aggrievedperson to seekdisclosure ofidentityinformation

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202426

(c)the information sought is necessary for theaggrieved person to initiate legal proceedings toseek redress in relation to the damage or harm causedby the communication of such statement; and

(d)the aggrieved persons right to get such informationdisclosed is outweighed by any countervailingright or interest of the person sought to be identified,

order an internet intermediary to disclose the information asrequested by the aggrieved person.

27. (1) Subject to the provisions of any other written lawand the provisions of subsection (2), a person who engagesin providing the following services shall have no liabilityin relation to the communication of a prohibited statementcirculated through the online location owned, operated orcontrolled by such person, or for making available to theend users through such online location a communicationlink which contains any prohibited statement by any otherparty, which amounts to an offence under this Act or for anycompensation payable for any wrongful loss caused to anyperson by such communication:-

(a)an internet intermediary service;

(b)a telecommunication service;

(c)a service of giving public access to the internet;

(d)a computing resource service;

(e)an email service, if emails are the only user-generated content enabled by such service;

(f)a short message service or multimedia messagingservice -

Exemption fromliability ofinternet serviceproviders incertain cases

27Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(i) if such short messages are the onlyuser-generated content enabled by suchservice;

(ii) if such multimedia messages are the onlyuser-generated content enabled by suchservice; or

(iii) if such short messages and multimediamessages are the only user-generated contentenabled by such service; or

(g)one-to-one live aural communication service, if suchone-to-one live aural communications are the onlyuser-generated content enabled by such service.

(2) Where-

(a) a false statement, prohibited statement ormaterial communicated on any servicereferred to in subsection (1) has been removedwithin six months from the date of coming into operation of this Act; or

(b) any material has been uploaded or interferedwith by third parties,

the owner of an online account or the internet serviceprovider shall have no liability in relation to the statementor the material referred to in paragraph (a) or (b).

(3) The exemption from liability granted under subsection(1) shall not apply, if such person

(a)has initiated the communication;

(b)has selected the end user of the communication;

(c)has selected or modified the content of thecommunication; or

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202428

(d)has not complied with the provisions of this Act,any regulation or rule made thereunder or any codeof practice issued by the Commission by way ofrules made under this Act, in providing such service.

(4) Any person who fails to adhere to the relevant code ofpractice issued by the Commission by way of rules madeunder this Act, and thereby causes wrongful loss to any otherperson, shall be liable to pay damages by way ofcompensation to the person who suffered such loss.

(5) For the purpose of this section-

computing resource service includes any internet serviceprovided by a person to the public using any meansexcept by the use of an internet intermediary service,a telecommunications service or a service of givingpublic access to the internet;

telecommunication service shall have the samemeaning assigned to such term in the Sri LankaTelecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991.

PART V

DECLARED ONLINE LOCATIONS

28. (1) The Commission may declare an online locationas a declared online location, if-

(a)three or more different prohibited statements havebeen communicated to the end users in Sri Lankaon such online location in respect of whichconditional orders were made absolute by theMagistrate under section 24; and

Declared onlinelocations

29Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(b)at least three of such statements had first beencommunicated to the end users in Sri Lanka onsuch online location within six months prior to thedate of a declaration under this section is made.

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of subsection (1), astatement is different from another if it is different in a materialparticular from that other statement.

(3) A declaration made under this section shall contain-

(a)the URL, domain name, or any other uniqueidentifier of the online location;

(b)the relevant orders made by the Magistrates Court;

(c)the date on which the declaration comes into effect;

(d)the date on which the declaration expires whichmust not be later than two years after the date referredto in paragraph (c);

(e)a notice for the owner or operator of the onlinelocation whether in or outside Sri Lanka tocommunicate in such manner as may be specifiedin the declaration, to any end user in Sri Lanka whoaccesses the online location, a notice in such formas may be specified in such declaration, that theonline location is the subject of a declaration; and

(f)such other particulars as may be prescribed.

(4) A declaration made under this section may expire-

(a)on the date specified therein, in accordance withparagraph (d) of subsection (3); or

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202430

(b)on the date it is cancelled or set aside by theCommission,

whichever is earlier.

(5) As soon as possible after a declaration is made andbefore the date it comes into effect, the Commission shallpublish, in such form and manner as may be prescribed, anotice in the Gazette -

(a)stating that a declaration has been issued underthis section; and

(b)setting out the URL, domain name, or any otherunique identifier of the online location, to whichthe declaration relates.

(6) (a) The declaration shall be deemed to be served, ifthe declaration is served by personal service, sent by post tothe last known address of such owner or operator of theonline location, or served by electronic means to suchperson, or by such other appropriate method adopted by theCommission, depending on the nature of the case.

(b) The declaration shall be deemed to be served byelectronic means where such declaration is sent to the emailaddress or social media account of the owner or operator ofthe online location through which such prohibited statementhas been communicated.

(7) Where any owner or operator of a declared onlinelocation fails to comply with the notice to communicate anotice as referred to in paragraph (e) of subsection (3), theCommission or any person authorised by the Commissionmay apply to the Magistrate for an order directing owner oroperator to-

31Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(a)disable access by the end users in Sri Lanka to suchdeclared online location;

(b)to communicate to all end users in Sri Lanka whoaccess such declared online location, a noticedeclaring that the online location is the subject of adeclaration; and

(c)any other order as the Magistrate deems fit.

(8) Upon considering such application, the Magistratemay make a conditional order on the owner or operator of adeclared online location containing the directions appliedby the Commission under subsection (7).

(9) The order made under subsection (8) may contain,inter alia-

(a)the name of the owner or operator of a declaredonline location who is required to disable accessby the end users in Sri Lanka to the declared onlinelocation;

(b)the manner of communicating the notice referredto in paragraph (e) of subsection (3); and

(c)the period within which such notice shall bepublished after the service of the order.

(10) The order made under subsection (8) shall be deemedto be served on the owner or operator of a declared onlinelocation against whom the order is made, if the order is servedby personal service, sent by registered post to the last knownaddress of such person, or served by electronic means tosuch person, or by any other method deemed proper by theMagistrate depending on the nature of the case and inaccordance with the provisions of this Act.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202432

(11) The owner or operator of a declared online locationagainst whom a conditional order is made under subsection(8) shall either comply with such order or appear before theMagistrate as specified in subsection (12) to show cause asto why the order shall not be made absolute.

(12) Where the owner or operator of a declared onlinelocation against whom a conditional order is made undersubsection (8) intends to show cause, such person shall appearbefore the Magistrate making that order within a period oftwo weeks of making such order and move to have the orderset aside or modified in the manner hereinafter provided:

Provided however, any owner or operator of a declaredonline location against whom a conditional order is madeunder subsection (8) shall be bound to comply with the orderwith effect from the date of making such order until suchorder is set aside or modified by the Magistrate in terms ofthe provisions of this section.

(13) If the owner or operator of a declared online locationagainst whom an order is made under subsection (8) neithercomplies with the order nor appears before the Magistrateunder subsection (12) such person shall be liable to thepenalty specified in subsection (15) and the order shall bemade absolute.

(14) (a) Where such owner or operator of a declared onlinelocation appears before the Magistrate in terms of subsection(12) to show cause by way of petition and affidavit, theMagistrate shall hold an inquiry which shall be concludedwithin two weeks of the date of commencement of theinquiry.

33Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(b) The Magistrate may, having regard to the facts statedby the owner or operator of a declared online location againstwhom the conditional order is made under subsection (8),either move to have the order set aside or modified, if theMagistrate is satisfied that the order under this section is notreasonable and proper, and make an appropriate order, subjectto the provisions of this Act.

(c) If the Magistrate is not so satisfied, the order madeunder subsection (8) shall be made absolute.

(d) Where the order under subsection (8) is modified underparagraph (b), such order shall be made absolute.

(15) Where the owner or operator of a declared onlinelocation against whom the order is made under this sectionfails to comply with such order within the period and in themanner ordered by the Magistrates Court, such owner oroperator of a declared online location commits an offenceand shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for a termnot exceeding six years or to a fine not exceeding ten millionrupees and Magistrates Court may make an order directingthe Commission to take steps to disable access by the endusers in Sri Lanka to the declared online location.

(16) The Commission may at any time suspend, vary orcancel a declaration made under subsection (1) for suchperiod as the Commission may determine-

(a)on its own initiative; or

(b)on an application by-

(i) the owner or operator of the declaredonline location; or

(ii) any person with editorial control over theonline location.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202434

(17) For the purpose of subsection (16), a person haseditorial control over an online location if the person isable to decide-

(a)whether any statement may be included or excludedon the online location; or

(b)where to place any statement on the online location.

(18) Upon a declaration being suspended, varied orcancelled under subsection (16), the Commission shall-

(a)publish, in such form and manner as may beprescribed, a notice of the suspension, variation orcancellation in the Gazette; and

(b)make reasonable efforts to give a copy of such noticeto the owner or operator of the declared onlinelocation.

29. (1) An internet service provider must take reasonablesteps (both in and outside Sri Lanka) to ensure that, after aprescribed period commencing on the date a declarationmade under section 28 comes into effect, any paid contentthat it includes or causes to be included on a declared onlinelocation, is not communicated in Sri Lanka on the declaredonline location.

(2) An internet intermediary must take reasonable steps(both in and outside Sri Lanka) to ensure that, after aprescribed period commencing on the date a declarationmade under section 28 comes into effect, any paid contentthat it includes or causes to be included on a declared onlinelocation is not communicated in Sri Lanka on the declaredonline location.

Certain personsnot tocommunicate inSri Lanka, paidcontent ondeclared onlinelocations, & c.

35Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(3) An internet intermediary must take reasonable steps(both in and outside Sri Lanka) to ensure that, after aprescribed period commencing on the date on the declarationmade under section 28 comes into effect, it does not, whenacting as an internet intermediary, facilitate thecommunication in Sri Lanka of any paid content that givespublicity to, or otherwise promotes, a declared onlinelocation.

(4) An internet service provider or internet intermediaryshall be treated for the purposes of subsection (1) or (2), asthe case may be, as having taken reasonable steps to ensurethat any paid content that it includes or causes to be includedon a declared online location is not communicated in SriLanka on the declared online location, if it has taken suchsteps as may be prescribed.

(5) An internet intermediary is treated for the purposes ofsubsection (3), as having taken reasonable steps to ensurethat it does not facilitate the communication in Sri Lanka ofany paid content mentioned in that subsection if it has takensuch steps as may be prescribed.

(6) A person who fails to comply with the provisions ofsubsection (1), (2) or (3) commits an offence and shall onconviction be liable to imprisonment for a term notexceeding seven years or to a fine not exceeding ten millionrupees and in the event of a second or subsequent conviction,such term of imprisonment or fine or both such imprisonmentand fine may be doubled.

30. (1) Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka, whosolicits, receives or agrees to receive any financial or othermaterial benefit as an inducement or reward for operating adeclared online location commits an offence and shall onconviction be liable to imprisonment for a term notexceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding five millionrupees and in the event of a second or subsequent conviction,such term of imprisonment or fine or both such imprisonmentand fine may be doubled.

Prohibition onderiving benefitsfrom operating adeclared onlinelocation

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202436

(2) Where a court convicts any person of an offence underthis section, the court shall order, in addition to imposingon that person the punishment in subsection (1), theforfeiture of any assets acquired through the commission ofan offence under this section.

31. (1) A person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka, whoexpends or applies any property knowing or having reasonto believe that the expenditure or application supports, helpsor promotes the communication of prohibited statements tothe end users in Sri Lanka on a declared online locationcommits an offence and shall on conviction be liable toimprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a finenot exceeding five million rupees and in the event of a secondor subsequent conviction, such term of imprisonment or fineor both such imprisonment and fine may be doubled.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to aninternet service provider or an internet intermediary whichgives any consideration for the purpose of communicatingany paid content in Sri Lanka on the declared onlinelocation.

(3) Where a court convicts any person of an offence underthis section, the court shall order, in addition to imposingon that person the punishment in subsection (1), theforfeiture of any property acquired through expending orapplying any property by the commission of an offence underthis section.

(4) For the purpose of this section, property meansmoney and all other property, movable or immovable,including things in action and other intangible orincorporeal property.

Prohibition onprovidingfinancial supportto declaredonline locations

37Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

PART VI

COUNTERACTING INAUTHENTIC ONLINE ACCOUNTS AND

COORDINATED INAUTHENTIC BEHAVIOUR

32. (1) If the conditions in subsection (2) are satisfied, theCommission may issue a notice in writing to an internetintermediary, requiring it to do one or both of the following,for the period specified in such notice: -

(a)to refrain from permitting its services from beingused to communicate any prohibited statement inSri Lanka through one or more specified onlineaccounts; or

(b)to refrain from permitting any person from usingone or more specified online accounts to interactwith any end user of its internet intermediary servicein Sri Lanka.

(2) The conditions referred to in subsection (1) shall be,as follows:-

(a)such online account or accounts shall have beencreated with the internet intermediary in respect ofwhich the notice under subsection (1) is issued;

(b)either a prohibited statement has beencommunicated in Sri Lanka using the specifiedonline account or coordinated inauthenticbehaviour has been carried out in Sri Lanka usingthe specified online account; and

(c)the Commission has determined that the onlineaccount is an inauthentic online account or iscontrolled by a bot.

Counteractinginauthenticonline accountsand coordinatedinauthenticbehaviour

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202438

(3) The notice shall be deemed to be served on the internetintermediary, if it is served by personal service, sent by postto the last known address of such internet intermediary, orserved by electronic means to such person, or by any othermethod deemed proper by the Commission depending onthe nature of the case.

(4) Where a notice issued under subsection (1) has notbeen complied with, the Commission shall submit anapplication to the Magistrates Court. Upon considering suchapplication the Magistrate may issue a conditional order onthe internet intermediary containing the directions appliedfor by the Commission under subsection (1).

(5) An Order made under subsection (4) shall specify thatit has effect-

(a)indefinitely; or

(b)for a specified period not exceeding three months.

(6) The order made under subsection (4) shall be deemedto be served on the internet intermediary against whom theorder is made, if the order is served by personal service, sentby registered post to the last known address of such person,or served by electronic means to such person, or by anyother method deemed proper by the Magistrate dependingon the nature of the case and in accordance with theprovisions of this Act.

(7) The internet intermediary against whom a conditionalorder is made under subsection (4) shall either comply withsuch order or appear before the Magistrate as specified insubsection (8) to show cause as to why the order shall not bemade absolute.

39Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(8) Where the internet intermediary against whom aconditional order is made under subsection (4) intends toshow cause, it shall appear before the Magistrate makingthat order, within a period of two weeks of making suchorder and move to have the order set aside or modified in themanner hereinafter provided:

Provided however, any internet intermediary againstwhom a conditional order is made under subsection (4) shallbe bound to comply with the order with effect from the dateof making such order until such order is set aside or modifiedby the Magistrate in terms of the provisions of this section.

(9) If the internet intermediary against whom an order ismade under subsection (4) neither complies with the ordernor appears before the Magistrate under subsection (8) heshall be liable to the penalty specified in subsection (11)and the order shall be made absolute.

(10) (a) Where such internet intermediary appears beforethe Magistrate in terms of subsection (8) to show cause byway of petition and affidavit, the Magistrate shall hold aninquiry which shall be concluded within two weeks of thedate of commencement of the inquiry.

(b) The Magistrate may having regard to the facts statedby the internet intermediary against whom the conditionalorder is made under subsection (4), either move to have theorder set aside or modified, if the Magistrate is satisfied thatthe order under this section is not reasonable and proper,make an appropriate order subject to the provisions of thisAct.

(c) If the Magistrate is not so satisfied, the order madeunder subsection (4) shall be made absolute.

(d) Where the order under subsection (4) is modified underparagraph (b), such order shall be made absolute.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202440

(11) Where the internet intermediary against whom theorder is made under this section fails to comply with suchorder within the period and in the manner ordered by theMagistrate, such person commits an offence and shall onconviction be liable to imprisonment for a term notexceeding seven years or to a fine not exceeding ten millionrupees, and the Magistrate may make an order directing theCommission to take steps to enforce such order by preventingaccess to the prohibited statement within Sri Lanka,notwithstanding anything contrary in any other law.

PART VII

APPOINTMENT OF EXPERTS TO ASSIST INVESTIGATIONS AND

THEIR POWERS

33. (1) The Minister may, in consultation with theMinister assigned the subject of Justice, appoint, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, any public officer or an employeeof a Government department, public corporation or aGovernment company, having the required qualification andexperience in electronic engineering or software technology(hereinafter referred to as an expert) to assist theCommission in the investigation of an offence under thisAct.

(2) For the purposes of this section-

expert includes-

(a)any member of the staff of any university whopossesses the prescribed qualification and, whois nominated by the Vice-Chancellor of therelevant university;

Appointment ofexperts to assistinvestigations

41Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(b)any public institution which in the opinion ofthe relevant university possesses the prescribedqualification and is nominated by theVice-Chancellor of such university:

Provided that where an expert cannot beidentified in terms of paragraph (a) or (b) abovethe Minister may, in consultation with theVice-Chancellor of the relevant universityappoint any other institution which satisfies theprescribed qualification;

Government company means a companyregistered or deemed to be registered under theCompanies Act, No. 07 of 2007 in which theGovernment or a public corporation or localauthority holds fifty per centum or more of theshares of that company;

university means any university establishedunder the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978.

(3) The qualification and experience (having regard tothe specific areas of expertise) required to be fulfilled by anofficer appointed under subsection (1) and the manner andmode of appointment and the conditions of appointment ofsuch officer shall be as prescribed.

(4) For the purpose of an investigation under this Act, anexpert called upon to assist the Commission shall, have thepower to-

(a)enter upon any premises along with a policeofficer not below the rank of a sub-inspector;

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202442

(b)access any information system, computer orcomputer system or any programme, data orinformation held in such computer to performany function or to do any such other thing;

(c)require any person to disclose any traffic data;

(d)orally examine any person; and

(e)do such other things as may be reasonablyrequired, for the purposes of this Act.

(5) An expert shall be paid such remuneration as may bedetermined by the Minister in consultation with the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance.

(6) An expert may be called upon to assist the Commissionor any police officer in the investigation of an offence underthis Act and it shall be duty of the expert to render all suchassistance as may be required for the purposes of suchinvestigation. Where any proceedings have beencommenced consequent to the findings of an investigation,it shall be the duty of the expert to make available for thepurposes of such proceedings, any information, data.material or other matter that may be obtained by him in thecourse of such investigation.

34. Any person who is required by an expert, under theauthority of a police officer, to make any disclosure or toassist in an investigation in respect of an offence under thisAct shall comply with such requirement.

35. (1) An expert who assists a police officer, for aninvestigation in respect of an offence under this Act, underthe authority of a warrant issued in that behalf by aMagistrate, on application made for such purpose by thepolice officer, may -

Duty to assistinvestigations

Powers of searchand seizure withwarrant

43Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(a)obtain any information including subscriberinformation and traffic data in the possession ofany internet service provider; or

(b)intercept any wire or electronic communicationincluding subscriber information and traffic data,at any stage of such communication.

(2) The Minister may, by regulations prescribe the mannerin which, and the procedures required to be followed inrespect of, the retention and interception of data andinformation including traffic data, for the purposes of anyinvestigation in respect of an offence under this Act.

PART VIII

FINANCE

36. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund of the Commissionall such sums of money as may be voted from time to time byParliament for the use of the Commission.

(3) All sums of money required to defray expenditureincurred by the Commission in the exercise and performanceof its duties and functions under this Act, shall be paid outof the Fund of the Commission, and such other expenditureto be charged on the Fund in terms of this Act.

(4) The Commission shall cause proper accounts to bekept of the receipts and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Commission.

(5) The financial year of the Commission shall be thecalendar year.

Fund of theCommission

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202444

37. The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to and in relation to the audit of the accounts ofthe Fund of the Commission.

PART IX

GENERAL

38. (1) Save as expressly provided in this Act, theprovisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of1979, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to investigations,institution of proceedings, the trial of offences and to appealsfrom judgments, sentences and orders pronounced at anysuch trial under this Act.

(2) Where the Commission, on consideration of materialcollected in the course of investigations conducted underthis Act, is satisfied that any person has committed an offenceunder the provisions of this Act, it may take steps to institutecriminal proceedings in terms of section 136 of the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

39. (1) The jurisdiction to hear, try and determine alloffences under this Act shall be vested with the MagistratesCourt.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection(1), where there are aggravating circumstances orcircumstances that give rise to public disquiet in connectionwith the commission of an offence, it shall be lawful for theAttorney-General to forward indictment directly to the HighCourt.

Audit ofaccounts

Provisions of theCode ofCriminalProcedure Act toapply

Jurisdiction

45Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

40. Any person who attempts to commit an offence underthis Act or to cause such an offence to be committed, commitsan offence and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonmentof either description for a term not exceeding one half of themaximum term provided for each of such offences or to afine not exceeding one half of the maximum fine providedfor each of such offences or to both such imprisonment andfine.

41. A person who abets an offence under this Act commitsan offence and shall be tried in the same manner, and shallon conviction be liable to the same punishment, providedfor in this Act for the first-mentioned offence. In thissubsection the expression abet shall have the samemeaning as in sections 100 and 101 of the Penal Code.

42. A person who conspires with any other person tocommit an offence under this Act commits an offence andshall be tried in the same manner and shall on conviction beliable to the same punishment provided for in this Act forthe first-mentioned offence. In this section, the expressionconspire shall have the same meaning as in section 113Aof the Penal Code.

43. Every offence under this Act shall be

(a)a non-cognizable offence within the meaning ofand for the purposes of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979; and

(b)a bailable offence within the meaning of the BailAct, No. 30 of 1997.

44. Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then, if that body of persons is-

Attempt tocommit anoffence

Abetment of anoffence

Conspiring tocommit anoffence

Offences underthis Act to benon-cognizableand bailable

Offences bybody of persons

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202446

(a)a body corporate, every director, or other principalofficer of that body corporate;

(b)a firm, every partner of that firm; and

(c)an unincorporated body, every individual who is acontrolling member of such body and everyprincipal officer of that body responsible for itsmanagement and control,

commits an offence:

Provided however, that no such person shall be deemedto have commited an offence if he proves that the offencewas committed without his knowledge or that he exercisedall due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.

45. (1) A suit or prosecution shall not lie against-

(a)the Commission for any act which in good faith isdone or omitted to be done, by the Commissionunder this Act; or

(b)any member, staff of the Commission or an expertappointed under section 33 for any act which ingood faith is done or omitted to be done, by suchperson under this Act or any other Act.

(2) Any expenses incurred by the Commission in any suitor prosecution brought by, or against, the Commission beforeany court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commissionand any costs paid to, or recovered by, the Commission inany such suit or prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund ofthe Commission.

Protection fromaction

47Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(3) Any expenses incurred by any member, staff of theCommission or an expert assisting the Commission, in anysuit or prosecution brought against such person in any courtin respect of any act which is done, or purported to be done,by such person under this Act or on the direction of theCommission shall, if the court holds that the act was done ingood faith, be paid out of the Fund of the Commission, unlesssuch expense is recovered by such person in such suit orprosecution.

46. (1) The Commission shall within three months of theend of each financial year, prepare a report of its activitiesduring that year and its proposed activities in the followingyear, and shall transmit a copy of such report together with acopy of the audited accounts of the Commission for thatyear, to the Minister.

(2) The Minister on receipt of a report prepared undersubsection (1)-

(a)shall cause a copy of such report to be placed beforeParliament;

(b)may require the members of the Commission toclarify any matter arising from such report toParliament or a Committee of Parliament; and

(c)may require the Commission to publish such reportand accounts in such manner as the Commissionconsiders appropriate to bring them to the attentionof the public.

(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),every annual report shall contain-

(a)a general survey of developments during the yearto which the report relates in respect of mattersfalling within the scope of the Commissionsfunction and in particular, ensuring online safety;and

Annual reportsof theCommission

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202448

(b)details of the measures taken by the Commissionto ensure online safety during that year.

47. All members and staff of the Commission shall bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning and forthe purposes of the Penal Code.

48. The Commission shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Anti-CorruptionAct, No. 9 of 2023, and the provisions of that Act shall beconstrued accordingly.

49. (1) The Commission shall make rules for the purposeof the following matters:-

(a)to issue the codes of practice applicable for internetservice providers and internet intermediaries whoprovide internet based communication services,specifying security practices and proceduresrequired to be followed by them; and

(b)to specify the manner in which the websitesproviding social media platforms to the end usersin Sri Lanka shall be registered under this Act.

(2) The Commission shall make the first rules undersubsection (1), within twenty four months from the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3) The Commission shall, prior to making rules undersubsection (1), hold public consultations for a period of notless than two weeks.

(4) The period of public consultation referred to insubsection (3) may be extended for a further period as maybe specified by the Commission.

Members andstaff of theCommissiondeemed to bepublic servants

Commissiondeemed to be ascheduledinstitution forthe purpose ofthe Anti-Corruption Act

Commission tomake rules

49Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(5) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(6) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall, withinthree months from the date of its publication in the Gazette,be placed before Parliament for approval and any rule, whichis not so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded witheffect from the date of such disapproval, but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

50. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed orin respect of which regulations are required or authorized tobe made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall,within three months from the date of its publication in theGazette, be placed before Parliament for approval. Everyregulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to berescinded as from the date of disapproval, but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulationis deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in theGazette.

51. In the event of any inconsistency or conflict betweenthe provisions of this Act and any other written law, theprovisions of this Act shall prevail.

Regulations

This Act toprevail overother written law

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202450

52. (1) In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

bot means a computer program made or altered forthe purpose of running automated tasks;

Chairman includes the Deputy Chairman appointedunder subsection (6) of section 8;

child means a person under the age of eighteen years;

coordinated inauthentic behaviour means anycoordinated activity carried out using two or moreonline accounts, in order to mislead the end usersin Sri Lanka of any internet intermediary service asto any matter, but excludes any activity carried outusing online accounts-

(a) that are controlled by the same person; and

(b) none of which is an inauthentic onlineaccount or is controlled by a bot;

communicate means communicating to one or moreend users in Sri Lanka on or through the internet, afalse statement or private information and includestransmitting, distributing, sharing, generating,propagating, publishing or tagging and the termcommunication shall be construed accordingly;

computer means an electronic or similar devicehaving information processing capabilities;

computer system means a computer or group of inter-connected computers, including the internet;

declared online location means an online locationdeclared under section 28;

Interpretation

51Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

false statement means a statement that is known orbelieved by its maker to be incorrect or untrue andis made especially with intent to deceive or misleadbut does not include a caution, an opinion orimputation made in good faith;

inauthentic online account means an online accountthat is controlled by a person other than the personrepresented (whether by its user, unique identifieror other information) as its holder, and therepresentation is made for the purpose of misleadingthe end users in Sri Lanka of any internetintermediary service as to the holders identity;

internet service provider means an entity offeringthe transmission, routing, or providing ofconnections for digital online communications,between or among points specified by a user, ofmaterial of the users choosing, withoutmodification to the content of the material as sentor received, including those offeringtelecommunication services under theTelecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991;

internet intermediary means a person who providesany internet intermediary service;

internet intermediary service means-

(a) a service that allows end users to accessmaterials originating from third parties on orthrough the internet;

(b) a service of transmitting such materials to endusers on or through the internet;

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202452

(c) a service of displaying, to an end user whouses the service to make an online search, anindex of search results, each of which linksthat end user to content hosted or stored at alocation which is separate from the locationof the index of search results; or

(d) a service which facilities the communicationof paid content in any place by acting as thelink or part of the link between the owners oroperators of online locations and advertisersand internet service providers, through themeans of an internet based service,

but excludes any act done for the purpose of, orthat is incidental to, the provision of a service ofgiving the public access to the internet or acomputing resource service;

material means anything that consists of or containsa statement;

Minister means the Minister to whom the functionof administering the provisions of this Act isassigned in terms of Article 44 or 45 of theConstitution;

online account means an account created with aninternet intermediary for the use of an internetintermediary service;

online location means any website, webpage,chatroom or forum, or any other thing that is hostedon a computer and can be seen, heard or otherwiseperceived by means of the internet;

paid content means any statement that iscommunicated in any place upon payment of aconsideration;

Penal Code means the Penal Code (Chapter 19);

53Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

person means a natural or legal person;

prescribe means prescribe by regulations;

prohibited statement means a statement specified insection 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19 or 20;

publish means making available to the public on orthrough the internet;

social media platform means a service provided byan internet intermediary-

(a) solely for the purpose of enabling onlinesocial interaction between two or more endusers in Sri Lanka;

(b) which allows end users in Sri Lanka to linkto some or all of the other end users; or

(c) which allows the end users in Sri Lanka topost material on the service,

but does not include any such service of which anyinformation communicated through the service isnot accessible by the end users in Sri Lanka;

statement means any word including abbreviationand initial, number, image (moving or otherwise),sound, symbol or other representation, or acombination of any of these.

(2) Any word or expression used in this Act and definedin the Penal Code but not defined in this Act shall have thesame meaning assigned to such word or expression in thePenal Code.

53. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202454

Imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term notless than two years andnot exceeding ten yearsand may also bepunished with fine

Imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term notexceeding five years andmay also be liable to afine

Imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term notless than two years andnot exceeding five yearsand may also be liable toa fine

Imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term notless than five years andnot exceeding sevenyears and may also beliable to a fine

Imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term notless than two years andnot exceeding ten yearsand may also bepunished with fine and beordered to paycompensation of anamount determined bycourt to the person inrespect of whom theoffence was committedfor the injuries caused tosuch person

SCHEDULE(section 21(1))

SectionPunishmentOffence under thePenal Code

286A

288

288A

288B

308A

Obscene publication& c. relating toChildren

Causing or procuringchildren to beg

Hiring or employingchildren to act asprocurers for sexualintercourse

Hiring or employingchildren to traffic inrestricted articles

Cruelty to children

of the Penal Code

55Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

Imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term notless than two years andnot exceeding ten yearsand may also be punishedwith fine

Imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term notless than five years andnot exceeding twentyyears and may also bepunished with fine

Imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term notless than three years andnot exceeding twentyyears and may also bepunished with fine

Rigorous imprisonmentfor a term not less thanseven years and notexceeding twenty yearsand fine and shall inaddition be ordered topay compensation of anamount determined bycourt to the person inrespect of whom theoffence was committedfor the injuries caused tosuch person and furtherterm of imprisonmentwhich may extend up totwo years in caseof failure to paycompensation

Procuration

Sexual exploitationof children

Trafficking

Rape

360A

360B

360C

363

SectionPunishmentOffence under thePenal Codeof the Penal Code

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202456

Rigorous imprisonmentfor a term not less thanten years and notexceeding twenty yearsand fine and shall inaddition be ordered topay compensation of anamount determined bycourt to the person inrespect of whom theoffence was committedfor the injuries caused tosuch person and furtherterm of imprisonmentwhich may extend up totwo years in case offailure to paycompensation

Rigorous imprisonmentfor a term not less thanfifteen years and notexceeding twenty yearsand fine

SectionPunishmentOffence under thePenal Code

Rape

(a) by a publicofficer on awoman in hiscustody

(b) by a personbeing on themanagement orstaff of a remandhome, womensor childrensinstitution & c.on any womaninmate

(c) by a personbeing on themanagement orstaff of a hospitalon a woman inthat hospital

(d) on a pregnantwoman

(e) on a womanunder eighteenyears

(f) on a mentally orphysicallydisabled woman

(g) by a gang ofpersons

Rape on awoman undersixteen years ofage and wheresuch womanstands

of the Penal Code

57Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

364A

365

365A

towards the man inany of the degrees ofrelationshipenumerated in section364A

Incest

Unnatural offence

Acts of grossindecency betweenpersons

Rigorous imprisonmentfor a term not less thanseven years and notexceeding twenty yearsand fine

Rigorous imprisonmentfor a term not less thanten years and notexceeding twenty yearsand fine and shall beordered to paycompensation of anamount determined bycourt to the person inrespect of whom theoffence was committedfor the injuries caused tosuch person

Rigorous imprisonmentfor a term not less thanten years and notexceeding twenty yearsand fine and shallalso be ordered to paycompensation of anamount determined bycourt to the person inrespect of whom theoffence was committedfor the injuries caused tosuch person

SectionPunishmentOffence under thePenal Codeof the Penal Code

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 202458

SectionPunishmentOffence under thePenal Code

365BGrave sexual abuseRigorous imprisonmentfor a term not less thanseven years and notexceeding twenty yearsand fine and shall also beordered to paycompensation of anamount determined bycourt to the person inrespect of whom theoffence was committedfor the injuries caused tosuch person.

of the Penal Code

59Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.