PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

THE RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT OFINTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTSRESULTING FROM MEDIATIONACT, No. 5 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st of January, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 02, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

L.D.-O. 42/2022

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE UNITED NATIONS CONVENTION ONINTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS RESULTING FROMMEDIATION KNOWN AS THE SINGAPORE CONVENTION ONMEDIATION; TO MAKE PROVISIONS FOR THE RECOGNITION ANDENFORCEMENT OF INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS;

AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Convention on International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation (hereinafter referredto as the Convention) was adopted by the United NationsGeneral Assembly on the Twentieth day of December TwoThousand and Eighteen, and subsequently came into forceon the Twelfth day of September Two Thousand and Twenty:

AND WHEREAS having recognised the value of mediationas a method for settling commercial disputes amicably andnoting the increase of the use of mediation internationallyand nationally, the Government of Sri Lanka signed theConvention on the Seventh day of August Two Thousandand Nineteen:

AND WHEREAS establishing a legal framework oninternational mediation settlements under the Conventionwould reduce the instances where disputes result intermination of commercial relationships and contribute to thedevelopment of harmonious international economic relations:

AND WHEREAS it is necessary for the Government of SriLanka to enact legislative provisions to give effect to SriLankas obligations under the Convention:

Preamble

[Certified on 31st of January, 2024]

2The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Recognition andEnforcement of International Settlement AgreementsResulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operationon such date as the Minister may, by Order published in theGazette certify as the date on which the Convention entersinto force in respect of Sri Lanka.

2. (1) The provisions of this Act shall, subject to theprovisions of section 3, apply to a written settlement agreementwhich is international by nature at the time of its conclusion,and which has resulted from mediation and has beenconcluded by parties to resolve a commercial dispute(hereinafter referred to as the international settlementagreement).

(2) The application of the provisions of this Act to anyinternational settlement agreement shall be subject to thesame extent specified in such reservations as may be declaredunder Article 8 of the Convention by the Government of SriLanka.

3. The provisions of this Act shall not apply to-

(a)settlement agreements that have been enteredinto, to resolve a dispute in relation to

(i)a transaction engaged in by one of theparties who is a consumer, for personal,family or household purposes;

Short titleand the date ofoperation

Application ofthe Act

Settlementsexcludedfrom thescope ofthis Act

3The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

(ii)family matters, inheritance, or employment

matters; or

(b)settlement agreements

(i)that have been concluded or recorded as a

judgement of a court, in the course of judicial

proceedings and are enforceable as a judgement

of a court; or

(ii)that are enforceable as an arbitral award.

4. A settlement agreement shall be international by nature

at the time of its conclusion where -

(a)at least two of the parties to the settlement agreement

have their places of business in different States; or

(b) the State in which the parties to the settlement

agreement have their places of business is different

from either

(i)the State in which a substantial part of the

obligations under the settlement agreement is

performed; or

(ii)the State with which the subject matter of the

settlement agreement is most closely connected.

5. Every international settlement agreement shall be valid

and enforceable unless a decree of the High Court is refused

upon application made under section 6, and the obligations

assumed thereunder by the parties shall be honoured by the

parties as in the case of any other contractual agreement.

Internationalsettlementagreement

Validity ofinternationalsettlementagreement

4The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

6. (1) A party to an international settlement agreement may

make an application to the High Court to have the internationalsettlement agreement entered as a decree of the High Courtfor the purpose of enforcing such international settlementagreement.

(2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), ifthe High Court is satisfied that no grounds have been adducedto adjourn the proceedings or to refuse the grant of the reliefprayed for, under the provisions of this Act, the High Courtshall, on a day of which notice shall be given to the parties,proceed to enter judgement according to the internationalsettlement agreement whereupon a decree shall be entered.

(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, an internationalsettlement agreement that is recorded by the High Court as adecree of the High Court may be-

(a)enforced in the same manner as a judgement given,or an order made, by the High Court; and

(b)relied upon by the parties to the internationalsettlement agreement as a defence, set-off orotherwise in any court proceedings.

(4) The High Court shall have cognizance of and full powerto hear and determine all actions specified in this Act.

7. Where a dispute arises in any action in relation to amatter which a party claims to have been resolved by aninternational settlement agreement, such internationalsettlement agreement shall be admissible as evidence toestablish that such matter has already been resolved.

Admissibilityofinternationalsettlementagreement incourt asevidence

Applicationto the HighCourt

5The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

8. (1) A party who makes an application to the High Court

under section 6 or who intends to rely on an internationalsettlement agreement which is admissible as evidence underthe provisions of section 7 in any court proceeding shall submitthe following documents to the High Court or court, as thecase may be -

(a)the original or a duly certified copy of theinternational settlement agreement signed bythe parties; and

(b) evidence that the international settlementagreement resulted from mediation, such as

(i)the signatures of the mediator or mediatorson the international settlement agreement;

(ii)a document signed by the mediator ormediators certifying that the internationalsettlement agreement was entered into asa result of mediation facilitated by suchmediator or mediators, as the case may be;

(iii)an attestation by the institution thatadministered the mediation; or

(iv) in the absence of (i), (ii) or (iii), any otherevidence acceptable to Court.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), signature shallinclude an electronic signature.

(3) The High Court or any other court may require theproduction before it of any document necessary to verify thatthe requirements specified in subsection (1) have beencomplied with.

Requireumentsforreliance oninternationalsettlementagreements

6The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

(4) Where the international settlement agreement is not inthe language of the court, the court may require theinternational settlement agreement to be accompanied by acertified translation in the language of the court.

(5) For the purposes of subsection (4), the translation shallbe certified by an official or a sworn translator or by adiplomatic or a consular agent in Sri Lanka of the country inwhich the international settlement agreement was enteredinto or otherwise to the satisfaction of the court.

9. (1) The High Court to which an application is made interms of section 6, or any other court in which an internationalsettlement agreement is sought to be admitted as evidence interms of section 7 may refuse to grant the relief, if any partyto the international settlement agreement furnishes proof toestablish that

(a)a party to the international settlement agreementwas under some incapacity;

(b) the international settlement agreement-

(i) is null and void, inoperative or incapable ofbeing performed under the applicable law;

(ii) is not binding, or is not final, according to itsterms; or

(iii)has been subsequently modified;

(c)the obligations in the international settlement agreement

(i) have been duly performed; or

(ii) are not clear or comprehensible;

Grounds forrefusing anapplicationto the HighCourt oradmissibilityof evidence

7The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

(d)granting relief would be contrary to the terms of theinternational settlement agreement;

(e) there was a serious breach by the mediator of thestandards applicable to the mediator, or themediation, without which breach that party wouldnot have entered into the international settlementagreement; or

(f)there was a failure by the mediator to disclose tothe parties the circumstances that raise justifiabledoubts as to the mediators impartiality orindependence and the failure to disclose had amaterial impact or undue influence on a party,without which failure that party would not haveentered into the international settlement agreement.

(2) The court may also refuse to grant relief if it findsthat

(a)granting relief would be contrary to the publicpolicy of Sri Lanka; or

(b)the subject matter of the dispute is not capable ofsettlement by mediation under the laws of Sri Lanka.

10. Where an international settlement agreement has beenrecorded as a decree of the High Court under subsection(2)of section 6 in the absence of a party to the internationalsettlement agreement, the High Court may, upon theapplication of that party, set aside the decree of court on anyground on which the High Court may refuse to grant theapplication to record the international settlement agreementas a decree of court.

Setting asideofdecree ofcourt

8The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

11. Where an application has been made in terms of section6 and is pending, and an application or a claim relating tosuch international settlement agreement (hereinafter referredto as a parallel application) has been made and is pendingin any other court, in an arbitral tribunal or in any otherinstitution having jurisdiction in Sri Lanka or in any otherState, and the High Court is of the opinion that theproceedings of the parallel application may or are likely toaffect the relief sought in terms of section 6, the High Courtmay -

(a)adjourn the determination of the application beforeit until the proceedings of the parallel applicationare concluded; and

(b)on the request of a party, order the other party togive suitable security.

12. (1) Every application to the High Court under section6 of this Act, shall be made by way of petition and affidavit,and all parties to the mediation other than the petitioner orpetitioners shall be named as respondents to such petitionand shall be given notice of the same.

(2) Upon the petition and affidavit being presented, theHigh Court shall appoint a day within two weeks of suchpresentation for the determination of the matters set out inthe petition, and grant the respondents a date to state theirobjections, if any, in writing supported by affidavit, and makeavailable copies thereof to the petitioner.

(3) Evidence shall be given by way of affidavit inproceedings before the High Court:

Provided however, where the High Court deems fit, it maytake evidence viva voce in addition to evidence given byaffidavit.

(4) Where an international settlement agreement has beenrecorded as a decree of the High Court, it may be enforced in

Proceedingsbefore theHigh Court

Parallelapplicationsor claims

9The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

the same manner as a decree entered under the provisions ofthe Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101) and accordingly theprovisions of Chapter XXII of that Code relating to theexecution of decrees shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to suchenforcement.

(5) The High Court shall hear and finally dispose of thecase within three months of the making of the applicationunder section 6.

13. Where notices and summons are required to be servedon any person under this Act, such notices and summonsshall be served in or out of Sri Lanka in accordance withChapter VIII of the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101).

14. The provisions of the Mutual Assistance in Civil andCommercial Matters Act, No. 39 of 2000 shall apply in respectof providing assistance to any country as declared undersection 4 of that Act for service of summons and otherdocuments in a proceeding relating to a civil and commercialmatter.

15. Where an application is made in terms of section 6,and no grounds are submitted to refuse such application interms of section 9 or to adjourn the proceedings in terms ofsection 11, the High Court shall proceed to make a judgmentaccording to the said agreement and enter the final decree onthe final date for notice returnable.

16. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

electronic shall have the same meaning as in the Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006;

electronic signature shall have the same meaning as in the Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006;

Assistance toa country

Final decreeon the finaldate fornoticereturnable

Notices andsummons

Interpretation

10The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

High Court means the High Court established for theProvince by Article 154P of the Constitution andexercising civil jurisdiction under the High Court ofthe Provinces (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of1996;

mediation means a process, irrespective of theexpression used to the basis upon which theprocess is carried out, whereby parties attempt toreach an amicable settlement of their dispute withthe assistance of one or more third parties (themediator) lacking the authority to impose a solutionupon the parties to the dispute;

parties means the parties to the international settlementagreement in relation to the mediation, and doesnot include the mediator or mediators conductingthe mediation;

place of business means

(a)the principal place at which that partyconducts business of such party;

(b)if a party has more than one place ofbusiness, the place of business which hasthe closest relationship to the disputeresolved by the international settlementagreement, having regard to thecircumstances known to, or contemplatedby, the parties at the time of the conclusionof the international settlement agreement;

(c)if a party does not have a place of business,it means the habitual residence of the party;and

written includes an electronic communication if theinformation contained therein is accessible so asto be useable for subsequent reference.

17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala textto prevail in caseofinconsistency

11The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

12The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

13The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

14The Recognition and Enforcement of International SettlementAgreements Resulting from Mediation Act, No. 5 of 2024

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING