PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

STAMP DUTY (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, No. 12 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st March, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 29.75Postage : Rs.10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 31, 2006

1Stamp Duty (Special Provisions)Act, No. 12 of 2006

Short title.

[Certified on 31st March, 2006]

L.D.O. 12/2006.

AN ACT TO PTOVIDE FOR THE RE-IMPOSITION OF STAMP DUTY ; TO

PROVIDE FOR THE REPEAL OR PART III OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF2002 ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Stamp Duty (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 12 of 2006.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operationwith effect from April 1, 2006.

2.The Commissioner General shall, be charged withthe proper implementation and administration of this Act.

CHAPTER 1

IMPOSITION OF STAMP DUTY AND EXEMPTIONS ANDAPPLICABLE PROCEDURE

3.(1) From and after the date of the coming intooperation of this Act, there shall be charged a duty (hereinafterto be called stamp duty) at such rate as the Minister maydetermine by Order published in the Gazette on everyspecified instrument-

(a)executed, drawn or presented in Sri Lanka; or ;

(b)executed outside Sri Lanka being an instrumentwhich relates to property situated in Sri Lanka,at the time such instrument was presented inSri Lanka.

(2) Different rates may be determined in respect of differentclasses or categories of instruments.

Commissioner General chargedwith theresponsibility ofimplementingthis Act.

Charging ofstamp duty oninstruments anddocuments.

2Stamp Duty (Special Provisions)Act, No. 12 of 2006

(3) Every Order made under this section shall come intooperation on the date of it publication in the Gazette or onsuch later date as may be specified therein. Every such Ordershall within three months of the making thereof, be placedbefore Parliament for approval. If no meeting of Parliament isheld within such period, such Order shall be so placed at thefirst meeting of Parliament held immediately thereafter forapproval.

(4) Any Order not so approved by Parliament shall witheffect from the date of such disapproval be deemed to berescinded but without prejudice to anything previously donethereunder. Notification of the date on which the Order wasso rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

4.For the purposes of section 3, specified instrumentmeans-

(a)an affidavit;

(b)a policy of insurance;

(c)a warrant to act as Notary Public;

(d)a licence issued for a specified period under anywritten law for the time being in force, being a licencewhich authorizes the holder thereof to carry on anytrade, business, profession or vocation;

(e)a claim, demand or request made by a serviceprovider from the holder of a credit card, for thepayment of a stated sum of money, due in respect ofa transaction entered into using such credit card;

(f)a share certificate on new or additional issue or ontransfer or assignment;

(g)a bond or mortgage for any definite and certain sumof money and affecting any property;

Specifiedinstruments.

3Stamp Duty (Special Provisions)Act, No. 12 of 2006

(h)a promissory note;

(i)a lease or hire of any property;

(j)a receipt or discharge given for any money or otherproperty;

(k)any other instrument which the Minister may in theinterest of the economic progress of Sri Lanka,specify by Order published in the Gazette.

5. From and after the date of the coming into operationof this Act, the Minister may from time to time by Orderpublished in the Gazette specify the instruments, which shallbe exempt from the payment of stamp duty.

6.Otherwise than in cases where there is an agreementto the contrary, stamp duty shall be payable:-

(a)in the case of a policy of insurance, by the personeffecting the insurance;

(b)in the case of a transfer or assignment of any share,by the transferee or assignee of such share;

(c)in the case of a lease, by the lessee;

(d)in the case of a claim, demand or request by a serviceprovider from the holder of a credit card, by thecredit card holder ; and

(e)in all other cases, by the person drawing, making orexecuting such instrument.

7.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 6, -

(a)any person issuing insurance policies;

(b)any authority issuing licences;

Exemptions.

By whom stampduty is payable.

Compounding ofstamp duty.

4Stamp Duty (Special Provisions)Act, No. 12 of 2006

(c)any service provider, on the presentation of a claim,demand or request for the payment of any money onthe use of a credit card;

(d)any employer employing more than one hundredpersons accepting receipts for payments made tothe employees; and

(e)any other person issuing any other instrument of acategory, having regard to the impracticability orinexpediency of stamping instruments of suchcategory, at the time and in the manner prescribed,

shall if permitted in writing by the Commissioner General,compound the amount of stamp duty in respect of suchinsurance policies, license, claim, instrument, receipt or otherinstrument respectively, and unless otherwise directed shallremit quarterly, such amount to the Commissioner Generalwithin fifteen days from the end of the relevant quarter endingon March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, ofevery year:

Provided that any person compounding the amount dueas stamp duty in terms of this Act, shall register with theCommissioner-General and enter into a Bond in such form asis specified by the Commissioner General.

(2) Where any stamp duty which has been compounded interms of subsection (1) is paid, the person authorized tocompound such duty (other than an employer referred to inparagraph (d) of subsection (1), shall issue to the person liableto pay stamp duty a Certificate substantially in the form setout below:-

It is hereby Certified that a sum of Rs..payable as stamp duty in respect of (specify type ofinstrument)..has beencollected and remitted in terms of section 7 of the StampDuty (Special Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 2006..

5Stamp Duty (Special Provisions)Act, No. 12 of 2006

8.(1) Otherwise than when stamp duty is compoundedin terms of section 7, stamp duty shall be paid by means ofaffixing adhesive stamps to the required value, at the time ofexecution of the instrument; the person liable to pay theduty shall cancel the stamp or stamps so affixed therebypreventing the stamps from being used again:

Provided that share transfers executed in Sri Lanka shouldbe stamped within one month from the execution of the same.

(2) Where the duty payable on an instrument is paid in themanner specified in subsection (1), the instrument shall bedeemed to have been properly stamped.

9.All stamp duty payable to a Provincial Council inrespect of documents and instruments referred to in List I ofthe Ninth Schedule to the Constitution, shall be paid to therespective Provincial Council within whose limits theinstrument was executed or the property situated as the casemay be :

Provided that in the case of any document executed withinthe limits of a Provincial Council established for any Provinceas set out in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution, thestamp duty chargeable thereon, shall, in the event of thedissolution of any such Provincial Council, be paid to a Bankprescribed by the Commissioner - General for such purpose,until such time as a Provincial Council is established in respectof such Province.

10.Where an Assessor is of the opinion that aninstrument liable to stamp duty has not been duly stamped,he shall assess the value of the stamp duty payable in respectof such instrument, by the person liable to pay such duty andforward a Notice to such person requiring him to pay theamount due thereon, within the time specified in the Notice.

Where stampduty is to bepaid.

Manner ofpayment ofstamp duty.

Procedure wheredocument isinsufficientlystamped.

6Stamp Duty (Special Provisions)Act, No. 12 of 2006

Regulations.

11.The provisions of Chapters XVIII to XXIV of theInland Revenue Act relating to Assessment, Appeals,Determination of Appeals and Finality of Assessments andthe Recovery or Refund of Income Tax, shall mutatis mutandisapply to Assessment, Appeals, Determination of Appeals andFinality of Assessments and the Recovery or Refund of StampDuty under this Act.

CHAPTER II

GENERAL

12. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed orin respect of which regulations are required or authorized tobe made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication, or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, beplaced before Parliament for approval. Every regulation whichis not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as fromthe date of disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

13.From and after the date of the coming into operationof this Act, the provisions of the Stamp Duty Act, No. 43 of1982, relating to the Imposition of Stamp Duty (other thanany instrument relating to the transfer of immovable property,the transfer of motor vehicles or documents filed in Court),Exemptions and any other provision in the aforesaid

The provisionsof the InlandRevenue Act toapply.

Operation of Act,No. 43 of 1982.

7Stamp Duty (Special Provisions)Act, No. 12 of 2006

Act, shall, in so far as the same are inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act, have no operation and the provisionsof this Act shall prevail.

14.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Assessor and Commissioner General shall have thesame meaning as in the Inland Revenue Act;

Inland Revenue Act means the Inland Revenue Act, No.38 of 2000.

CHAPTER III

REPEAL OF PART III OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF 2002.

15.Without prejudice to anything done thereunderduring the period commencing May 1, 2002 ending on thedate of the coming into operation of this Act, Part III of theFinance Act, No.11 of 2002 (sections 15 to 18) is herebyrepealed.

16.Where there is any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Interpretation.

Repeal of Part IIIof Act, No. 11 of2002.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.