PLANT PROTECTION ACT, No. 35 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 7th October, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 08, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 9.00Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

1Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

Appointment ofDirector-Generalof Agriculture.

Short title.

H - 022545

[Certified on 7 th October, 1999]

L.D.O.31/97.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION AGAINST THE INTRODUCTION INTOSRI LANKA AND THE SPREADING THEREIN, OF ANY ORGANISM

HARMFUL TO, OR INJURIOUS TO, OR DESTRUCTIVE OF PLANTS, AND

FOR THE SANITATION OF PLANTS IN SRI LANKA; FOR THE REPEAL

OF THE PLANT PROTECTION ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 447); AND FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Plant Protection Act,No. 35 of 1999.

PART I

ADMINISTRATION OF THE ACT

2. The Director-General of Agriculture (hereinafter in thisAct referred to as the Director-General) shall be in charge ofgeneral administration of this Act by performing the functionsassigned or transferred to him by this Act.

3. The Director-General shall nominate such number ofofficers as may be necessary for the purposes of assistinghim in carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of thisAct, who shall be known as authorised officers

PART II

PROCEDURE

4. (1) It shall be lawful for the Director-General or authorisedofficer having reasonable grounds therefor to enter with orwithout assistants, at all reasonable times, upon any

Authorisedofficers.

Entry on premisesfor purpose ofinspection.

2Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

Director-Generalor authorisedofficer or personassisting them notto be deemedtrespasser byreason of entry&c.

premises suspected to harbour a pest or pests for the purposeof inspecting and examining whether a pest or pests existtherein, and the importer of such pest or pests or the owner orthe occupier of such premises, as the case may be, shall affordall reasonable facilities for such inspection and examination.The identity of the authorised officer shall be shown to theowner or occupier of the premises, before entry into thepremises.

(2) After inspection and examination referred to in sub-section (1), if the Director-General or the authorised officer issatisfied that a pest or pests exist in any premises, and havingregard to the nature of the pest or pests and the likelihood ofits of their spread, the Director-General or the authorised officershall communicate his decision, in writing with the reasonstherefor, to the importer of such pest or pests or owner oroccupier such premises directing such importer or owner oroccupier of such premises, as the case may be, to carry outsuch measures or execute such work for the prevention ofspreading of such pest or pests, as may be specified in suchdirection.

(3) It shall be the duty of the importer of such pest orpests, owner or occupier of such premises, as the case maybe, to comply with any direction made by Director-General orthe authorised officer under sub section (2), unless suchimporter, owner or occupier prefers an appeal against suchdirection under section 9.

5. Neither the Director- General, nor any authorisedofficer, or any person assisting them, shall be deemed atrespasser by reason of any entry into any premises ordestruction of plant and plant products or action taken orthing done under this Act or any regulation made thereunder,or be liable to any damages or prosecution by reason ofanything done or omitted to be done in carrying outany of the provisions of this Act or of any regulationmade thereunder, unless the same was done or omitted to bedone mala fide and without reasonable and probable cause.

3Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

Power of theDirector-Generalor authorisedofficer to carryout measurs orexecute work andrecover theexpensesthereof.

6. (1) Where any importer of any pest or pests, or owner oroccupier of any premises is required or directed under section4, to carry out any measures or to execute any work in or uponany premises and if such person fails, neglects, or refuses tocomply with such requirement or direction, the Director-General or an authorised officer with or without assistantsmay enter such premises for the purpose of carrying out suchmeasures or executing such work.

(2) The Director-General or and authorised officerentering any premises under sub-section (1), may take withhim such equipment, machinery and vehicles as is or arenecessary for the purpose of facilitating the exercise of hispowers under sub-section (1).

(3) All reasonable expenses incurred by the Director-General or any authorised officer for the purpose of carryingout any measures or executing any work in or upon anypremises under sub section (1), and any expenses incurred bythe State shall be payable by the person who was required ordirected under section 4 to carry out such measures or executesuch work, and may be recovered from that person in themanner hereafter provided.

(4) Any reasonable expenses payable by any personunder sub-section (3) may be recovered, upon applicationmade, by the Director-General or any authorised officerauthorised in that behalf by the Director-General to theMagistrates Court within whose jurisdiction such person isresident or the measures were carried out or the work wasexecuted, in like manner as a fine imposed by that court,notwithstanding that the amount of such expenses referredto in sub-section (3) may exceed the amount of the fine whichsuch court may in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction impose.

(5) The imposition of a fine under sub-section (4) shallnot relieve such person from any prosecution for any offenceto which he may be liable by reason of his failure, neglect orrefusal to comply with the requirement or the direction madeunder section 4.

4Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

PART IIIQUARANTINE PESTS

7. (1) The Minister may, from time to time by Notificationin the Gazette, declare the quarantine pests which shall not beimported into Sri Lanka as themselves or as infestations onany plant or plant product unless imported under theprovisions of sub-section (6) of this section.

(2) If any persons has proof of the presence of aquarantine pest or pests declared by the Minister under sub-section (1) of this section, within any area in Sri Lanka he shallforthwith inform in writing the presence of such pest or peststo the Director-General.

(3) No person shall knowingly keep, sell, plant, release,deliver, or otherwise dispose of, or knowingly cause or permitto be kept, sold, planted, released, delivered, or otherwisedisposed of, any plant or plant product infested with anyquarantine pest declared by the Minister under sub-section(1) of this section, unless such person has specific writteninstructions from the Director -General to do so.

(4) Nothing in sub-section (3),of this section shallprohibit the destruction, or the delivery to the Director-Generalor to an authorised officer, of any plant or plant product referredto in sub-section (3) of this section.

(5) If the Director-General receives any informationregarding the presence of any quarantine pest or pests in anyarea within Sri Lanka, he shall forthwith take such action asmay be deemed necessary to control such pest or pests.

(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, anyquarantine pest or pests declared by the Minister under sub-section (1), or any plant or plant product infested by suchpest or pests may be imported into Sri Lanka strictly forscientific studies by the Government of Sri Lanka after givingnotice to the Director-General, under the authority of an imports

Quarantinepests.

5Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

Permit issued by the Director-General, and in accordance withsuch conditions including conditions as to the facilities andtrained personnel for the proper quarantine of the materialimported, as may be specified by the Director-General.

(7) The importation of quarantine pest or pests, or plantor plants or plant products infested by such pests undersub-section (6) shall be done only for the use of a governmentdepartment or a public corporation engaged in scientificresearch and only if proper facilities including the trainedpersonnel specified by the Director-General are available insuch department or corporation for the containment andquarantine of such pest or pests or such plants or such plantproducts.

PART IV

APPEALS

8. (1) There shall be established an Appeals Panel for thepurposes of this Act.

(2) The Appeals Panel shall consist of three membersappointed from a panel of fifteen persons consisting ofscientists who are qualified in the fields of Entomology, PlantPathology, Microbiology, Mycology, Virology or Nematologywho shall be appointed by the Secretary.

(3) The Secretary shall appoint one of the appointedmembers to be the Chairman of such Appeals Panel.

9. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of theDirector-General or an authorised officer under sub-section(2) of section 4, may within seventy-two hours of thecommunication of such decision to him, appeal in writingagainst such decision to the Secretary giving grounds forsuch appeal.

(2) The appeal shall be accompanied by a monetarydeposit of such sum as may be specified by the Secretary inthe form of a bank draft or money order in favour of theDirector-General. The deposit shall be refunded only if the

Constitutionof the AppealsPanel.

Appeals.

6Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

appeal overrules the decision of the Director-General orauthorised officer as the case may be.

(3) The Appeals Panel established under section 8, shallbe appointed within two days and shall deliver its decisionwithin seven days after the receipt of the appeal by theSecretary. The decision of the Appeal Panel shall be final andconclusive and shall be communicated immediately by theSecretary to the appellant and the Director-General or theauthorised officer.

(4) The members of the Appeals Panel may be paid suchremuneration as the Minister may determine in consultationwith the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

PART V

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

10. (1) Every person who, without lawful authority orexcuse contravenes any provision of this Act or any regulationmade thereunder, or does or omits to do anything which underthe provisions of this Act or of any regulation made thereunderhe ought not to do, or omit, to do or if he resists or obstructs,or assists in resisting or obstructing, or if he incites any personto resist or obstruct, the Director-General or any authorisedofficer, or any person assisting them, in the implementation ofany provisions of this Act or any regulation made thereunder,shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Any person who is guilty of an offence under thisAct shall be liable on conviction before a Magistrate toimprisonment of either description to a term not less than onemonth and not exceeding six months, or to a fine not less thanten thousand rupees and not exceeding one hundred thousandrupees, or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(3) It shall be lawful for a Magistrate to summarily tryany offence against this Act or any regulation madethereunder, notwithstanding that the punishment specifiedfor such offence is in excess of the ordinary Jurisdiction ofsuch Magistrate.

Offences.

7Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

(4) Any vehicle or carrier or other instrument,contrivance, appliance, or thing used in, or in connection withthe commission of any offence against this Act shall by reasonof that conviction be forfeited to the State.

(5) Every person who, under pretence of performing anyact under the authority of this Act or of any regulation madethereunder commits any unnecessary violence or causes, anyunnecessary loss or unnecessary annoyance to any personshall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

11. Where an offence against this Act has been committedby a body of person then-

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector, manager, secretary, or officer of that bodycorporate; or

(b) if that body is a firm, every partner and everymanager of that firm,

shall be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offencewas committed without his consent or concurrence and thathe exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission ofsuch offence.

PART VI

GENERAL

12. (1) The Minister may make regulations with respect toany matter required by this Act, to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are required or authorised to be made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister maymake regulations:

(a) for the prevention of introduction into Sri Lanka, orfor the eradication, or for the prevention ofspreading therein of, pests, and for the export ofplants, plant products or organisms from Sri Lanka;

Offencescommitted by abody of persons.

Regulations.

8Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

(b) for restricting or prohibiting the importation intoSri Lanka of any plants, plants products andorganisms and for restricting or prohibiting theentry points at which they may be landed;

(c) for restricting or prohibiting the landing in Sri Lankaof plants, plant products and organisms, eitherabsolutely or conditionally;

(d) for providing for the importation of organisms underspecial licence and conditions;

(e) for inspecting and or testing plants, plant productsand organisms at, before, or after, the time oflanding;

(f) for testing, cleaning, fumigating, or disinfecting, atthe expense of the importer and or the owner and ifexpedient, destroying at, before, or after, landingand without compensation, all plants, plantproducts and organisms, or the packages, cases,pots, or coverings in which they may be packed,and which are found to be infected with any pest orpests and for the recovery of prescribed fees forsuch destruction from the importer and or owner;

(g) for requiring the quarantine of plants, plantproducts and organisms imported or to be imported,in special areas, and for fixing the conditions ofsuch quarantine and the fees to be charged therefor;

(h) for preventing the outbreak or dissemination of anypest within Sri Lanka;

(i) for declaring any area to be an infested area, andfor the proper quarantine of an specified areadeclared as being infested with any pest;

(i) for testing, treatment, destruction and properdisposal, of plants or plant products affected orlikely to be affected with any pest;

9Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

(k) for restricting or prohibiting the cultivation of anyplant or plants for a specified period or periodswithin any specified area or areas in Sri Lanka;

(l) for regulating the transfer of plants, plant productsor organisms from one locality in Sri Lanka toanother;

(m) for the constitution of committees to advise theDirector-General and the authorised officers, andto take such other action as may be necessary toensure the effective administration of the provisionsof this Act;

(n) for ensuring the phytosanitary status of the plants,plant products or organisms exported from SriLanka; and

(o) for charging fees for implementing the provisionsof this Act and the regulations made thereunder.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on thedate of publication or on such later date, as may be specifiedin the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made under this Act shall have thesame force and effect as if they were contained in this Act.

(5) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any such regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of its disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(6) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be publishedin the Gazette.

13. (1) The Plant Protection Ordinance (Chapter 447) ishereby repealed.

Repeal ofChapter 447and savings.

10Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaidOrdinance every regulation made under the repealed Ordinanceas is in force on the date of commencement of this Act ,shall inso far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Actbe deemed to be a regulation made under this Act and may beamended or rescinded by regulation made under this Act.

14. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

PART VII

INTERPRETATION

15. (1) In this Act unless the context otherwise requires-

genetically modified means an organism derived from anyactivity which has involved or resulted in theformation or derivation of new combinations ofheritable material by the insertion of nucleic acidmolecules, produced by whatever means outside thecell, into any virus, bacterial plasmid, or other vectorsystem so as to allow their incorporation into a hostorganism in which they do not naturally occur but inwhich they are capable of continued propagation;

Importer means-

(a) any person who, whether as consignor,consignee, agent, broker, or otherwise, is inpossession of, or in any way entitled to, thecustody or control of any plant, plant productor organism;

(b) any person by whose act any plant, plantproduct or organism has been landed in orentered into Sri Lanka;

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

11Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

living modified means an organism derived or producedby altering or modifying the genetic material of anorganism through the use of biological techniquessuch as recombinant DNA technology, molecularbiology, cell or tissue culture, cell fusion, artificialmutagenesis, or through the use of a vector systemsuch as virus, phage, plasmid but not through theways that occur naturally by mating, mutation orrecombination processes;

Minister means the minister in charge of the subject ofAgriculture;

Occupier in relation to any premises includes theproprietor, lessee, superintendent, manager, captainof a ship or vessel or other person in actual charge ofsuch premises;

Organism included any active, infective, or dormantstage of life form of an entity characterised as living,including plants, bacteria, algae, fungi, phytoplasma,mycoplasms, mycoplasma-like entities, protozoa,vertebrate and invertebrate animals, as well as entitiessuch as viruses, viroids, plasmids, phages or anyliving entity, related thereto, whether natural,genetically modified, living modified, or otherwise;

Owner means the holder or possessor of any plant,plant product or organism;

pest means any biotic agent capable of causing injuryor damage or loss to plants or plant products andshall include weeds;

plant means all members of the plant Kingdom, whetherliving or dead, or any part or parts thereof andincludes seeds;

plant product means all unprocessed material of plantorigin including grain and include those processedproducts of plant origin that by their nature or byreason of their processing, may create a risk for thespread of pests;

12Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999

premises includes any land, water reservior, building,establishment, stores, freight, container, vehicle,vessel, aircraft, or conveyance wholly or partly usedfor keeping, storing, transporting, or growing plantsor for keeping, storing, or transporting plantproducts;

quarantine pest means a pest of potential economic orenvironmental importance to any area within SriLanka and not yet present there, or present but notwidely distributed and being officially controlled;

Secretary means the Secretary of the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject of Agriculture; and

weed means a plant which is competitive, persistent,pernicious and interfering with man and his activities.

(2) Any reference in this Act or regulations madethereunder to a scientific name of any organism shall beconstrued as a reference to all synonyms used for thatparticular organism.

(3) Any reference in this Act and regulations madethereunder to a particular pest shall be construed as a referenceto that pest in any stage of its existence.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.