PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

Ist Session 1956-57

School Teachers Pension (Amendment)

Act, No. 23 of 1957

Date of Assent : April 13, 1957 spats
Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoverNMENT PrEss, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
_ advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo }

Price: 15 cents Postage: 10 cents


School Teachers Pension (Amendment) Act, 3
No. 23 of 1957

L. D.—O. 47/56.

An Act TO AMEND THE ScHOOL TEACHERS PENSION
Act, No. 44 or 1953, AND TO ENABLE A PENSION
TO BE GRANTED TO ANY RETIRED TEACHER WHOSE
NAME IS INADVERTENTLY OMITTED FROM THE
REGISTER OF PENSIONABLE TEACHERS.

[Date of Assent: April 13, 1957]

BE it enacted by the’ Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon in
this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows: —

4. This Act-may be cited as the School Teachers Short title.
Pension (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 1957.

2. The long title of the School Teachers Pension meine.
Act, No. 44 of 1953, (hereinafter referred to as the Act No. 44 of
‘principal Act ’’), is hereby amended, by the substi- *°*
tution, for the words ‘‘ AND TO PROVIDE ”’, ofthe
words ‘TO ENABLE THE AGE OF COMPUL-

! SORY RETIREMENT OF TEACHERS WHO ARE
NOT EMPLOYED IN GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS
TO BE PRESCRIBED BY REGULATION, AND
TO PROVIDE ’’. ,
2 8. (1) The following new section is hereby  jusertion of
“inserted immediately after section 8, and shall have 84 in the
‘’ effect-.as section 8A, of the principal Act:— principal Acts

"Ae ony 8a. The age of compulsory retirement
| Setimmentot of teachers who are not employed in

_ teachers who Government schools shall be prescribed by

‘ employed in Tegulation made under this Act,

: Government

; Schools. . . 7 ”
In this section, ‘‘ Government school

has the same meaning as in the Education
Ordinance, No. 31 of 1939.”’’.

(2) The rule prescribing the age of compulsory
retirement of teachers made under the School
" Teachers Pension Ordinance and in force when the
principal Act by which that Ordinance was repealed
came into operation shall, in so far as it relates to
teachers who are not employed in Government schools,
_ be deemed to have been valid and to have had the
force of law and to have been and to be valid regu-
lation made under the principal Act notwithstanding
J. N. B 9668—3,076 (2'%7)

ct


Insertion of
new section
9a in the
principal Act.

4 School Teachers Pension (Amendment) Act,

No. 23 of 1957

that there was no power under that Ordinance to
make that rule and there was no power under the
principal Act to make a regulation similar to that

rule.

‘ 4. The following new section is hereby inserted
unmediately after section 9, and shall have effect as
section 9A, of the principal. Act :—’

‘* Director of
Education to

- decide certain
questions and
his decision
to be subject
to appeal to
the Minister.

9A. (1) Any question which arises as to
the interpretation of any regulation
made, or deemed to have been made,
under this Act, or as to the application
of any such regulation to any person or
as to the amount of any pension, gra-
tuity or other allowance, payable under
any such regulation or as to the grant,
refusal, suspension or.cessation of any
such pension, gratuity or allowance
shall be decided by the Director of
Education.

(2) Any person affected by a decision
of the Director of Education under sub-~ °,
section (1) may make a written appeal
from that decision to the Minister within
one month after the date of the communi-
cation of that decision to him. Where
such an appeal is made, the Minister
may confirm the decision of the Director
of Education or may annul such decision
and decide the question to which the
decision of the Director of Education
relates. The decision of the Minister
upon any such appeal shall be final and
conclusive. |

(3) Where a decision of the Director
of Education under sub-section (1) is in

-force, such Director may revoke or alter

such decision 1f—

(a) such decision is incorrect or has
been made on insufficient information
furnished to such Director, and

(b) the revocation or alteration of
such decision will be to the advantage
of the teacher affected by such
decision.’’.


School Teachers Pension (Amendment) Act, 5
No. 28 of 1957

5. (1) Where the name of a teacher who has retired
before the coming into operation of this Act or retires
thereafter is not in the Register of Pensionable
Teachers, then, if prior to his retirement he was
entitled to have his name entered in such Register,
his name may be entered in such Register and a pension
may be granted to him and such contributions as he
would have been liable to make in respect of his pension
. 1f his name had been in such Register shall be deducted
from his pension in such manner as may be deter-
mined by the Director of Education and shall be paid
to the Consolidated Fund.

(2) In sub-section (1), ‘‘ Register of Pensionable
Teachers ’’’ means the Register of Pensionable
Teachers maintained by the Director of Education
. under the regulations relating to the pensions of
teachers and made or deemed to have been made under
the principal Act.

Provisions
relating to
teachers whose
nameg have
been or are
inadvertently
omitted
from the
Register of
Pensionable
Teachers.
